
                               2 of 181 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             June 1, 2006 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Corporate America warms to fight against global warming;
Corporations see prospect of fat profits from new products friendly to
environment

BYLINE: David J. Lynch

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 2293 words


WASHINGTON -- Corporate leaders don't normally invite the federal government to
raise their taxes. But that's exactly what Paul Anderson is doing.

Anderson, the chairman of Charlotte-based Duke Energy, wants the federal
government to fight global warming by taxing companies based on the "greenhouse
gases" they pump into the atmosphere -- just the sort of big-government remedy
the Bush administration says would hobble the economy.

For his efforts, Anderson has been excoriated by conservative talk radio host
Rush Limbaugh and threatened with an "exorcism" by an industry peer.

But Anderson, 61, is no closet left-winger. He's a registered Republican, Bush
backer and member of the president's Council of Advisors on Science and
Technology. That such a Big Business stalwart is demanding federal action on
climate change illustrates an unmistakable evolution in corporate thinking,
motivated both by evidence that global warming already is affecting the economy
and by the prospect of fat profits from new environment-friendly products.

"If we approach this rationally, it will not be disruptive to the economy and
will not turn the world upside down and will, at the same time, address the
problem," says Anderson.

Corporate America, which once regarded cries of "global warming" about as
favorably as The Communist Manifesto, increasingly is embracing the need for
reducing human contributions to the planet's rising temperatures. Forty
companies -- including Boeing, IBM, John Hancock and Whirlpool -- have publicly
endorsed the notion that climate change is real by joining a business council
organized by the Pew Center on Global Climate Change.

Electric power companies are the single largest industrial emitter of carbon
dioxide, the chief chemical culprit in "global warming." But Duke Energy on the
East Coast, California's PG&E on the West Coast, and other utilities see
mandatory federal emission caps as preferable to the current patchwork of state
regulations they confront. A uniform national standard would eliminate costly
uncertainties hanging over investment decisions on new multibillion-dollar power
plants, they say.

It's not just power companies that are agitating for action. Institutional
investors are demanding that companies disclose their financial exposure to
future climate changes. Insurers are abandoning underwriting in coastal areas
threatened by costly Hurricane Katrina clones, and companies such as General
Electric and DuPont are gearing up to prosper from the transition to a
carbon-constrained world. Last year, Goldman Sachs Chairman Henry Paulson, now
Treasury secretary-designate, warned that the time needed to address climate
change was running out.

"There's a sea change underway in American business," says Al Gore, the former
vice president. "What's different in business audiences in the past year or so
is a new and widespread receptivity, a keen awareness, an eagerness on the part
of large numbers to find out how they can take a leadership position. And a
recognition, too, that there are profits to be made."

Insurers may prove to be the canaries in the coal mine of climate change. As
global temperatures rise, instances of severe weather -- hurricanes, tornadoes,
even hailstorms -- are expected to become more intense and more damaging. Though
no single event can be definitively linked to long-term warming of the
atmosphere, Mother Nature is getting  more costly for insurers.

Annual weather-related insured losses rose from $1 billion in the 1970s to an
inflation-adjusted average $15 billion in the past decade, according to Ceres, a
coalition of institutional investors and environmental groups. The group said
soaring weather-related insurance claims, which it linked to the warming climate
, are leading to higher premiums and greater coverage restrictions for
policyholders. As private insurers flee vulnerable areas, state and local
government "insurers of last resort" are being left with the bill, Ceres said.

After being battered by losses from four Florida hurricanes in 2004, Allstate
last year refused to renew policies with 95,000 homeowners and 16,000 commercial
property owners in the state.

"We are girding for the onslaught of the next hurricane season," Allstate CEO Ed
Liddy said last month. "What's new is the intensity of this (storm) cycle could
be a lot worse than things that we've seen before."

Well before climate change turns Iowa into oceanfront property, its financial
impact on insurers could affect everything from building codes to land-use
policy, says Tim Wagner, director of the Nebraska Department of Insurance, who
chairs a National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC) climate-change
task force.

The panel was scheduled to kick off its deliberations last year at a September
conference in New Orleans, which was washed out by Hurricane Katrina.

In Nebraska, several years of unusually severe hailstorms have prompted insurers
to raise deductibles and encourage a shift to hail-resistant roofing -- which
costs about twice as much as a conventional asphalt roof.

The potential financial impact on insurers is so great that it threatens to
paralyze policy-writing in the most vulnerable geographic areas. To ensure the
industry has the financial resources to weather repeated catastrophic events, a
federal reserve fund financed by a new tax on all insurance policies might be
needed, Wagner says.

"Climate change is so big, it's very hard for the man-on-the-street to
understand what's taking place. The plain truth of the matter is it's here and
it's going to be costly," Wagner says.

Search for answers

A clear sign that climate concerns have moved into the financial mainstream is
the growing activism of institutional shareholders. Over the past few years,
investors have become increasingly worried about insufficient disclosure about
the risks companies face from global warming. Under existing regulations,
publicly traded companies are required to disclose to investors any information
that could have a "material" impact on their financial results. There are no
additional requirements governing climate-change issues.

A changing climate threatens companies throughout the economy with costs from
future regulations, the physical effects of a changing landscape, even the
danger of massive lawsuits, such as the claims filed against tobacco companies.
In 2004, eight states and New York City sued five power companies seeking to
force them to cut carbon dioxide emissions. (Last year, a federal district judge
dismissed the lawsuit, saying Congress, not the courts, should set environmental
policy. The plaintiffs are appealing that decision.)

A recent Mercer Investment Consulting survey of 183 institutional investors
found that 44% thought climate change was "very" or "somewhat important" in
economic terms. An additional 14% said it would become important within five
years.

In February, a London-based investor coalition called the Carbon Disclosure
Project sent its fourth annual request for information on greenhouse-gas
emissions to 1,800 of the largest publicly traded companies in the world. A
total of 211 institutional investors with a collective $31 trillion under
management signed the letter -- up from the 35 investors representing $4.5
trillion worth of capital who signed the first report.

Among the U.S. signatories: Merrill Lynch, Franklin Templeton, Dreyfus, State
Street Global Advisors, New York state and city employee pension funds, and the
state treasurers of Maine, Vermont and Oregon.

The nation's largest public pension fund, the $182 billion California Public
Employees' Retirement System (Calpers), also signed and has backed shareholder
resolutions at Ford Motor and General Motors. "Our focus is to get companies to
expand and to improve the disclosure and transparency of environmental data,"
says Dennis Johnson, Calpers' senior portfolio manager for corporate governance.

Johnson says the pension fund doesn't plan to sell any of its holdings to force
greater disclosure, preferring instead to work with the companies in which it
owns shares.

Each year, about 30 corporations confront shareholder resolutions seeking
greater disclosure of the potential impact of climate change, according to Mindy
Lubbers of Ceres. The past two years, climate change has been the leading source
of non-financial shareholder resolutions, according to Gary Guzy of Marsh &
McClennan.

In April, a Ceres-backed shareholder resolution requiring Dominion Resources, a
Richmond, Va.-based utility, to report on its exposure to climate change was
defeated with 22.5% of the votes. But that was almost three times the 8% support
a similar measure garnered at last year's annual meeting.

Dominion's management opposed the resolutions, arguing that its environmental
officer regularly updated its board and that information on its policies was
available to shareholders on the company website. The past two years, more than
one dozen electric power companies have issued such reports, according to Ceres.

A very good thing

The Bush administration stirred global controversy by refusing in 2001 to sign
the 1997 Kyoto treaty, which would have required the U.S. to sharply reduce
carbon dioxide emissions by 2010.

President Bush has repeatedly insisted that mandatory emissions curbs like those
contained in the treaty would cost the U.S. economy too much. "I walked away
from Kyoto because it would have damaged the American economy, it would have
destroyed the American economy, it was a lousy deal for the American economy,"
he said in a July interview with British TV network ITV.

Government and private estimates of the annual cost to the $13 trillion U.S.
economy of implementing the Kyoto restrictions range from $125 billion to $400
billion.

Yet, the leaders of major U.S. corporations such as General Electric and DuPont
say addressing climate change offers the technology-rich USA a chance to make --
not lose -- big money.

One year ago, Jeff Immelt, GE's chief executive, unveiled a plan to cut his
company's greenhouse-gas emissions by more than 40% by 2012. At the same time,
Immelt said GE would double its annual revenue from a broad portfolio of
environmentally sound products to $20 billion by 2010.

GE identified an opportunity to boost profit by concentrating on environmental
technologies after customers in many industries and many countries began
demanding help meeting tougher regulations, says Lorraine Bolsinger, the
executive in charge of GE's Ecomagination  initiative. "I don't see the
downside. I know folks say there will be some kind of economic tax. ... I'm not
sure anyone who worries about that has done the full analysis," adds Bolsinger.

At DuPont, a previous brush with environmental controversy shaped an early
embrace of the climate-change issue. In the late 1980s, the company came under
pressure to stop producing chemicals called chlorofluorocarbons, which were
blamed for depleting the ozone layer. In 1988, DuPont agreed to do so. That
experience helped shape DuPont's response to calls for action to combat climate
change, says Linda Fisher, the company's vice president of environment, health
and safety. DuPont set its first goal for reducing greenhouse gases in 1991. By
2003, it had trimmed its emissions by 72%.

Along the way, it racked up savings of $3 billion through energy conservation.
Example: In plants in Alabama, Tennessee and Missouri, DuPont is replacing
natural gas with methane from landfills in its industrial boilers. Elsewhere,
the company redesigned scores of industrial processes to squeeze efficiencies
from every step of chemicals manufacturing.

"What started as an effort to address our carbon footprint has turned out to be
financially a very good thing," says Fisher.

This fall, DuPont expects to start using corn to produce a chemical called PDO,
which is used to make clothing. The Loudon, Tenn., plant will use 40% less
energy than traditional oil-based processes, the company says. The resulting
reduction in greenhouse-gas emissions is equivalent to removing 22,000 cars from
the roads.

The inevitable

Executives say such examples are representative of the environmental gains that
could be achieved throughout the economy -- if there were federal action. With
Europe and Japan having embraced Kyoto, many business leaders in the United
States say it is inevitable that the U.S. will eventually adopt similar emission
limits. The Senate last year approved a non-binding resolution that called for
such action.

The choice for business, they say, is between trying to block the inevitable or
trying to shape whatever climate-change policy the government ultimately adopts.
The financial stakes are enormous: The wrong policy, no matter how
well-intentioned, could cripple the economy in a quest for environmental
improvement.

"If we get out and shape it, we can craft a result that works for us and
moderates the (economic) impact," says Peter Darbee, CEO of PG&E. "One can
always say, 'We won't do it until everybody does it.' But leadership isn't about
waiting for everybody to agree. ... Leadership is about doing the right thing
and doing it early."

On the environmental council

Companies part of the Pew Center on Global Climate Change's Business
Environmental Leadership Council:

*ABB

*Air Products

*Alcan

*Alcoa

*American Electric

Power

*Baxter International

*Boeing

*BP

*Calif. Portland Cement

*CH2M HILL

*Cummins

*Deutsche Telekom

*DTE Energy

*Duke Energy

*DuPont

*Entergy

*Exelon

*GE

*Georgia-Pacific

*Hewlett-Packard

*Holcim (USA)

*IBM

*Intel

*Interface

*John Hancock Financial Services

*Lockheed Martin

*Novartis

*Ontario Power

Generation

*PG&E

*Rio Tinto

*Rohm and Haas

*Royal Dutch/Shell

*SC Johnson

*Sunoco

*Toyota

*TransAlta

*United Technologies

*Weyerhaeuser

*Whirlpool

*Wisconsin Energy

Source: Pew Center on Global Climate Change

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Color, GE Ecomagination
PHOTO, Color, Duont
PHOTO, Color, Duke Energy
PHOTO, B/W, Justin Sullivan, Getty Images
PHOTO, B/W, Ross Taylor, AP

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COVER STORY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               4 of 181 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              May 30, 2006 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Alaska the 'poster state' for climate concerns;
What could global warming mean to you? This week, USA TODAY examines how it may
affect our future and what's being done to slow it. Today, a look at how what
happens in the 49th state could signal change to the south.

BYLINE: Elizabeth Weise

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1779 words


FAIRBANKS, Alaska -- To the untrained eye, Bonanza Creek forest is breathtaking,
a vibrant place alive with butterflies and birds, with evidence of moose and
bear at every turn.

But look through forest ecologist Glenn Juday's eyes, and you see a dying
landscape.

Since the 1970s, climate change has doubled the growing season in some places
and raised state temperatures 6 degrees in the winter and 3.5 on average
annually since 1950, says Juday, a professor at the University of
Alaska-Fairbanks. Drought is stressing and killing spruce, aspen and birch
trees.

Alaska has emerged as the poster state for global warming, the worldwide climate
effect that many scientists attribute to higher concentrations of "greenhouse"
gases -- mostly carbon dioxide created by burning fossil fuels -- that capture
the sun's heat in the atmosphere.

Global warming is a hot topic, especially now. Former vice president Al Gore is
back in the news with the release of his acclaimed documentary on warming, An
Inconvenient Truth. And President Bush -- who has been criticized by
environmental groups that say he has been slow to acknowledge the dangers posed
by warming -- said last week that "people in our country are rightly concerned
about greenhouse gases and the environment."

Alaska is important in measuring the effect of global warming on the USA because
what happens here soon will be felt in the Lower 48 states, say experts such as
Robert Corell, a senior fellow at the American Meteorological Society.

The spruce budworm, aspen leaf miner and the spruce bark beetle, pests once kept
in check by winter cold, are flourishing here. Statewide, insect outbreaks have
killed more than 4 million acres of forest in a decade and a half, says John
Morton, a biologist at the Kenai National Wildlife Refuge in Soldotna.

Fires, long an integral part of the forest ecology here, are burning millions of
acres as summers get longer and hotter, says Scott Rupp, a University of
Alaska-Fairbanks professor of forestry. And with each wave of fires, trees have
a harder time coming back in the increasingly warm and dry landscape.

This great northern forest may end up a grassland. "Soon, people will be coming
to the great plains of Alaska," Juday says.

Alaska is ahead of the climate-change curve because polar regions warm the
fastest. They had long been kept frigid by vast regions of snow and ice that
reflect 70% of the sun's energy back out to space.

But higher temperatures are shrinking that snow and ice cover. In the Arctic,
summer sea ice has shrunk 15% to 20% in the past 30 years, according to 2005's
Arctic Climate Impact Assessment report.

And as the snow and ice recede, the sun's rays are hitting more dark ground and
water, which absorb most of the heat, reflecting just 20% of the energy away,
says Matthew Sturm, a research scientist with the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers'
Cold Regions Research and Engineering Laboratory in Fairbanks.

Lakes and ponds are disappearing as the permafrost, permanently frozen ground
that underlies much of Alaska north of Fairbanks, melts.

"It's like pulling the plug in a bathtub," says Peter Schweitzer, an
anthropologist who works with the Arctic peoples in Alaska and Russia.

In some areas, as much as 40% of surface water has disappeared, taking with it
vital habitat for ducks and other waterfowl, says Juday.

The permafrost that underlies much of the central and north of the state is a
relic from the last Ice Age. Some of the frozen ground under Fairbanks is
100,000 years old, says Vladimir Romanovsky, a permafrost expert at Fairbanks.
And now, he says, it's starting to get "slushy."

For Ruth Macchione, that meant a more expensive design to her new home after the
cabin her husband built in the 1950s sank into the ground. The permafrost under
the cabin thawed because the structure wasn't built to keep the ground cold -- a
key trick in building in frigid regions.

Her new home incorporates piers to allow cold air to circulate underneath it.

"Local engineers are getting worried about higher ground temperatures, so
they're specifying more pilings to combat that," says Billy Connor,  director of
the Alaska University Transportation Center. That will mean higher construction
costs across the state, Sturm says.

Long summers, early spring

More heat means longer summers. The growing season in Fairbanks has gone from 80
to 120 days since records were first kept in the 1900s, says John Walsh,
director of the Center for Global Change and Arctic System Research at the
University of Alaska-Fairbanks.

But those summer days haven't come with any more rain, so plants and trees
adapted to short, cool summers grow quickly but then dry out while it's still
warm. That's one reason forest fires have become such a problem, he says.

Hotter summers aren't just a problem here. In the Midwest and East, a few extra
degrees can bring on higher milk prices. That's because cows don't like it hot.
When the mercury gets over 80 degrees, milk production drops.

"Last year, we had herds that were down 5 to 15 pounds of milk per cow, and
they'll usually be making 65 to 75 pounds" a day, says Larry Chase, a professor
of animal science at Cornell University in Ithaca, N.Y.

In the Midwest, the corn belt is shrinking, says S. Elwynn Taylor, a professor
of agricultural meteorology at Iowa State University in Ames. Especially at the
western edges in Nebraska and the Dakotas, areas that were marginal for corn and
soybeans are now unable to economically grow them.

David Lobell, an environmental scientist at Lawrence Livermore National
Laboratory in Livermore, Calif., says that for every 2-degree increase in
growing-season temperature, farmers can expect a 17% decline in yield for both
corn and soybeans.

Taylor isn't convinced that the warming isn't simply part of a larger climate
pattern that has been seen in the Midwest since about 1850.

He is not alone. Other scientists see warming as part of a cyclical climate
change, but they are outnumbered by colleagues who say the planet is warming
steadily because human activity is adding to the greenhouse gases.

A landmark 2001 report by the United Nations' Intergovernmental Panel on Climate
Change forecast that the average global surface temperature will increase 2.5 to
10 degrees above 1990 levels by 2100.

In White Mountain, a village of 200 on the western coast of Alaska near Nome,
stocking up the larder is harder now for Rita Buck, a native Alaska Inupiaq and
health practitioner at the town clinic.

Buck's year used to be a steady flow of work. First came salmon fishing, then
harvesting berries. Salmonberries, a type of raspberry, would arrive first, then
blueberries, blackberries and finally cranberries. Berries make up an important
part of the subsistence diet.

But now, she says, the berries are blooming too early, when frost is still a
danger. "It freezes all the berry blossoms and stops them growing," she says.

Cherry growers in Michigan, the nation's primary grower of tart cherries for
pies, are having much the same problem. Spring now arrives seven to 10 days
earlier there than in the 1970s, but cold snaps still come when they always
have.

The commonly grown cherry variety isn't cold-hardy, so once it comes out of
dormancy, it has no resistance to freezing, says Jeffrey Andresen, an
agricultural meteorologist with Michigan State University in East Lansing.

"In 2002, early warming brought the tart cherry crop out of dormancy, and then a
two-day freeze in April resulted in an almost complete loss for the year," he
says.

Growers may have to plant new, more cold-hardy varieties, which won't be cheap,
Andresen says. "You can't just pick up the trees and move them somewhere else."

Milder winters a problem

In Alaska, the sea ice that armors the coastline against winter storms is
forming a week later than it used to, says David Atkinson, a Fairbanks professor
of atmospheric science.

The state accounting office, worried about the cost of moving at-risk
communities, estimates that more than 100 coastal villages potentially face
danger as winter storms erode their once-protected shorelines. The open water
makes for stronger storms. Some areas have lost 30 to 40 feet of beach in a
single storm, Atkinson says.

Warmer winters also are creating problems for California farmers of high-value
crops such as peaches, plums, nectarines, almonds, pistachios and walnuts, which
need a period of cold in the winter to bloom properly.

A series of warm winters has played havoc with fruit production, says Theodore
DeJong, a professor of plant science at the University of California-Davis.
Farmers may have to switch out their current trees with low-chill varieties,
expensive but at least a solution.

But for the trees that grow plums for prunes, that's simply not an option. It
would take 10 to 20 years to develop low-chill varieties of these trees, DeJong
says.

Packers already are moving some production to Chile. There could soon come a day
when California, which grows 95% to 98% of all plums in the USA, is out of the
business entirely.

The health element

The huge fires that have hit Alaska in the past few summers filled the air with
so much smoke and ash that people in Fairbanks at times wore dust masks and
doctors told asthmatic patients to leave town until the fires were out.

But it doesn't take a fire to make air unhealthy, says Paul Epstein, associate
director of the Center for Health and the Global Environment at Harvard Medical
School.

U.S. asthma and allergy rates are increasing in part because more carbon dioxide
in the atmosphere is supercharging the production of pollen that can trigger
them, he says. When carbon dioxide is doubled, ragweed stems grow 10% more but
pollen increases by 60%.

"Pollen counts of 120 used to be cause for alert. We're seeing counts like 6,000
now," Epstein says.

Warmer winters also mean insects can survive and thrive in places where the cold
used to keep them in check. Lyme disease is spreading beyond the former winter
confines of the tick that carries it. And West Nile virus is spreading farther
because spring drought amplifies the cycle of the bird-biting mosquito, Epstein
says.

Looking forward

Ten years of change in the Arctic region is a preview of 25 years of change in
the rest of the world, says Corell of the American Meteorological Society.

But that's not to say that path is cast in stone. Even researchers such as
University of New Hampshire earth science professor Cameron Wake, who tracks
phenomena such as the earlier arrival of spring, see a silver lining in this
cloud.

"This country is at its best when it has a grand challenge, whether it's World
War II or going to the moon," Wake says. "This is the next grand challenge."

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Color, Gilles Mingasson, Getty Images
PHOTO, B/W, Peter Essick, Aurora/Getty Images
PHOTO, B/W
PHOTOS, B/W, Steve Elfers, USA TODAY (2)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COVER STORY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               6 of 181 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             May 31, 2006 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Animals scramble as the climate warms;
Shrinking habitats have species on the run or on path to extinction

BYLINE: Patrick O'Driscoll

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 7D

LENGTH: 1071 words


Alarming anecdotes -- such as polar bears drowning as they swim farther in
search of scarce Arctic sea ice "dramatize climate change. But a flurry of
scientific reports, field observations and official actions suggests nature's
struggle with rising temperatures is well underway:

As Earth and its atmosphere grow warmer, the planet's wild inhabitants take
cover where they can: cooler waters, deeper forests and canyons, higher slopes
or nearer the poles, north and south.

But climate scientists say that if global warming continues unabated, the
scramble for habitat will grow much harder for millions of species of mammals,
birds, amphibians, fish, insects and more. Recent studies say that as many as
one-quarter of them could begin to disappear this century and that warming has
wiped out some already.

"Nature is sending us a warning signal," says Patty Glick, a climate-change
specialist at the National Wildlife Federation. "These species aren't just going
extinct because they're weak. The ecosystem in which they live is changing."

For as long as humans have tried to protect wild species, a key strategy has
been to preserve habitat and bar encroachment by development, excessive hunting
or fishing, and other threats. The USA has a 150,000-square-mile system of
federal sanctuaries, with 535 refuges in all 50 states, plus 3,000 other
resource sites.

But rising temperatures put animals in motion, seeking new homes when they can't
tolerate the old. For waterfowl, that could mean more birds in smaller spaces
with less food. That can spark disease outbreaks, greater loss to predators, and
cause birds to skip nesting altogether.

Warming also disrupts seasonal migration, emergence from winter sleep and the
foods that animals seek out then. Pollinators may not reach flowers in time.
Caribou in the Arctic or marmots in the Rockies may miss plants at peak
nutritional value. In Colorado, robins sometimes return two weeks earlier to
areas still covered with snow,  denying them access to food.

Those who monitor wildlife aren't unanimous about the disruption. "The
predictions are sort of all over the board on what might or could happen where,"
says Dale Hall, head of the U.S. Fish & Wildlife Service, which manages the
nation's refuges. Hall says his agency has detected "minor staging shifts" in
waterfowl migrations, but "subtle, not major." He says it is not yet clear
whether the dry-up of northern habitat is climate change or just a periodic
shift in rain and temperature.

Lara Hansen of the World Wildlife Fund predicts that new petitions to list
species as threatened or endangered "will be a growth activity" as the planet
warms.

Biodiversity

A study last month in Conservation Biology builds on a 2004 paper in Nature that
said one-fourth of Earth's species could be bound for extinction by 2050 if
warming isn't curbed. The new report backs the earlier finding by examining 34
"biodiversity hot spots," unique areas with 44% of the world's ground vertebrate
species and 35% of plant species. The study says 25 places are at significant
risk. A co-author of both reports, Lee Hannah of Conservation International,
calls the areas "refugee camps."

Birds

The National Wildlife Federation reports that at the present warming rate,
several "state birds" could be flying away from those that claim them:
Maryland's Baltimore oriole, Iowa and Washington's goldfinch, Georgia's brown
thrasher, Massachusetts' black-capped chickadee, New Hampshire's purple finch
and the California quail. Noah Matson of Defenders of Wildlife says a 2001 study
by federal climate researchers predicts a 5-degree to 12-degree temperature rise
by 2060 in the "prairie pothole" lands of the northern states and Canada, an
essential breeding ground for waterfowl. Predicted result: Half the region's 1.3
million remote ponds dry up, and more than half the 5 million ducks that nest
there are lost.

Sea life

This month, the National Marine Fisheries Service added two coral species to the
USA's threatened list. Rising water temperatures and more intense hurricanes,
both of which have been attributed by some scientists to climate change, are
major factors in the loss of 97% of staghorn and elkhorn coral in southern
Florida and the Caribbean. Lara Hansen of the World Wildlife Fund says coral
reefs are the second-richest biological communities after rain forests. They
draw vast varieties of fish -- and hordes of tourists who pay to snorkel and
dive among them. Due for release next month: A National Wildlife Federation
report on the harm that warming could do to Florida's $3.3-billion-a-year
tourism business in saltwater fishing.

Mammals

This month, the World Conservation Union added the polar bear to its "Red List"
of threatened species. In February, the U.S. Fish & Wildlife Service agreed to
review whether to put the bear on the USA's own list after conservationists
petitioned in court. In December, a University of Washington scientist reported
in Journal of Biogeography that several Great Basin populations of the American
pika, a small, high-altitude relative of the rabbit, have been wiped out in
recent decades, in part by climate change.

Amphibians

A federally financed study published in January in Nature suggests global
warming has wiped out dozens of species of harlequin frogs in Central and South
America. The killer was a fungus that thrived because of changing temperatures.
"Disease is the bullet ... but climate change is pulling the trigger," says
co-author J. Alan Pounds of the Tropical Science Center in Costa Rica.

Insects

Although warmer temperatures may boost pests such as bark beetles in the West
and fire ants in the South, researchers are watching butterflies closely.
Researchers reported in Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences in 2003
that key populations of monarch butterflies could lose their winter habitat in
Mexico by midcentury to climate change there.

These species face the most danger

The National Wildlife Federation's list of 10 of the most climate-stressed
species and associated ecosystems.

Associated ecosystems
Mammals
Polar bear Arctic ice
Moose Spruce/fir forest
Florida panther Southeast coastal forest
Canada lynx Spruce/fir forest
Fish
Brook/Cutthroat trout Cold-water streams
Salmon Ocean/cold-water streams
Birds
Mallard duck Prairie wetlands
American goldfinch Backyard habitats
Sage grouse Sagebrush ecosystems
Marine species
Coral Coral reef ecosystems

Source: National Wildlife Federation

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Adrienne Lewis, USA TODAY, Source: Conservation
International (MAP)
PHOTO, B/W, 1999 photo by Greenpeace via AFP
PHOTO, B/W, U.S. Fish & Wildlife Service
PHOTO, B/W, Robert Puschendorf
PHOTO, B/W, U.S. Geological Survey via AP
PHOTO, B/W, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               7 of 181 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 19, 2006 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Concern grows over pollution from jets;
Aviation emissions will take off along with worldwide air travel

BYLINE: Gary Stoller

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 2279 words


Aviation and the environment are on a collision course. The number of airline
flights worldwide is growing and expected to skyrocket over the coming decades.
Aircraft emissions pollute the air and threaten by 2050 to become one of the
largest contributors to global warming, British scientists have concluded.

Much remains unknown about climate change and the role aviation plays, though
climate scientists express particular concern about jet emissions in the upper
atmosphere, where the warming effect from some pollutants is amplified.

Now, aviation is believed to be less a factor in the Earth's warming than power
plants or vehicular traffic. But its emissions are considerable. On a New
York-to-Denver flight, a commercial jet would generate 840 to 1,660 pounds of
carbon dioxide per passenger.  That's about what a typical driver generates with
an SUV in a month.

With the projected explosion in worldwide travel, air pollution from aviation is
a growing concern among scientists, and it's drawing increased scrutiny from
governments, particularly in Europe.

"It's an issue that has to be addressed," says Brenda Ekwurzel, a climate
scientist for the Union of Concerned Scientists, an environmental advocacy
group.

David Travis, a climate science professor at the University of
Wisconsin-Whitewater, says aircraft emissions "are currently one of the
fastest-growing contributors to global warming."

The European Union is considering strict controls on aircraft emissions, an
action strongly opposed by the White House because of its potential effect on
U.S. airlines.

Some members of the British Parliament favor limiting the growth rate in the
number of air passengers to the rate at which aviation improves its fuel
efficiency. Last month, a local government council rejected a plan to increase
flights at London's Stansted airport because of concerns about the environment
and global warming.

In the USA, a panel of scientists brought together by NASA and the Federal
Aviation Administration agreed in August that the effects of aircraft emissions
on the climate "may be the most serious long-term environmental issue facing the
aviation industry."

The FAA projects that the number of U.S. airline passengers will nearly double
from 739 million last year to 1.4 billion in 2025. Air traffic controllers are
expected to handle 95 million flights by all types of aircraft in 2025, compared
with 63 million last year. Worldwide, a growing middle class with the means to
travel is spawning new airlines and big orders for new planes. China plans more
than 40 new airports to accommodate the growth.

By 2050, emissions from planes are expected to become one of the largest
contributors to global warming, according to the Royal Commission on
Environmental Pollution, an independent group of scientists that advises the
British government.

Although the USA is the largest emitter of carbon dioxide -- a pollutant that
scientists believe is a major contributor to global warming -- the Bush
administration refuses to ratify the Kyoto Protocol. That 1997 agreement is
limiting emissions from such big polluters as power plants and automobiles in
more than 160 countries. President Bush says the agreement would hurt the
economy. He also says it's unfair because it exempts China, another major
polluter.

Aviation emissions are not part of the Kyoto Protocol. Emissions from planes
were considered a minor problem when the agreement was negotiated, but several
scientific studies have since shown otherwise, says European Commission
spokeswoman Barbara Helfferich.

In the USA, aircraft emission standards set by the Environmental Protection
Agency mirror those of the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO), the
group that sets worldwide standards. The FAA enforces the EPA's standards.

Environmentalists and many state and local air pollution officials argue that
the standards are too weak. The EPA says limits now in place will slow the
growth of aircraft emissions, but more stringent standards "will likely be
necessary and appropriate in the future," says Margo Oge, director of the
agency's Office of Transportation and Air Quality.

Proposed changes

Last month, FAA Administrator Marion Blakey proposed changes in air traffic
control procedures and expansion of U.S. airports to accommodate the projected
increase in commercial flights, a strategy widely decried by critics.

"The FAA protects its customers: the airports and the industry," says Jack
Saporito, executive director of the Alliance of Residents Concerning O'Hare, a
Chicago group that opposes plans to expand O'Hare airport. "It does not protect
the public, their families' health or our environment, though it pretends to."

In written answers to questions from USA TODAY, the FAA says aircraft emissions
"are not expected to be the fastest-growing contributor to global warming."

Don Wuebbles, a University of Illinois professor of atmospheric science who
chaired the panel of scientists brought together by NASA and the FAA, says the
projected growth in aviation could make aircraft emissions one of the
fastest-growing contributors. But he acknowledges many uncertainties, including
aviation's role in global warming and the growth of other pollution sources
abroad.

What is known, he says, is that it's "much harder" to reduce carbon dioxide
emissions from aviation. Jet engines are already energy efficient, and
technology to significantly reduce carbon dioxide from them isn't as far along
as it is for land-based pollution sources.

Besides carbon dioxide, jet engines emit many pollutants into the atmosphere,
including nitrogen oxides, sulfur oxides, soot and even water vapor. Carbon
dioxide and water vapor are called greenhouse gases, because they trap heat and
contribute to global warming.

Though planes contribute to air pollution while on the ground, scientists
studying global warming are most concerned about pollutants emitted when a plane
is airborne. Jets are the major source of emissions deposited into the upper
atmosphere, where some pollutants have a greater warming effect than when they
are released in the same amount from the ground, according to a 1999 scientific
report sponsored by the United Nations.

Some pollutants emitted from engines during flight warm the Earth by adding to
the heat-trapping gases, both natural and man-made, already in the atmosphere.
Also, jet contrails -- the vapor trails they leave in the sky -- add to  cloud
cover and may contribute to the warming of the planet. A contrail forms when
water vapor from the engine cools and mixes with air and the humidity becomes
high enough for condensation.

NASA scientist Patrick Minnis has studied contrails and believes they may have a
prominent role in global warming. A 2002 report by the British scientific
commission agrees, concluding that "aviation-induced cirrus clouds will be a
significant contributor to warming." But Minnis says another NASA study
concludes that the contrails have little effect on global warming. Further
research is being done.

Carbon dioxide is a heat-trapping gas that can remain in the atmosphere about
100 years. Scientists say planes' engines emit up to 3% of all carbon dioxide
that contributes to global warming, but the figure appears to be on the rise.

'Significant uncertainties'

University of Washington scientist Richard Gammon says carbon dioxide emissions
from aircraft are rising more rapidly than those from any other source.

Nitrogen oxides emitted from aircraft engines react with other gases in the air
to form another heat-trapping gas, ozone. Their effect on global warming is
unclear because nitrogen oxides have another effect that may be beneficial: They
remove methane, which can cool the air.

Except for carbon dioxide's contribution to global warming, "There remain
significant uncertainties on almost all aspects of aircraft environmental
effects on climate," according to the report this year by Wuebbles and other
scientists.

Though uncertainties about global warming abound, there's no doubt that jet
engines must have stricter emission standards, says the National Association of
Clean Air Agencies, which represents pollution control officials in 49 states
and 165 metropolitan areas. The group is suing the EPA.

The EPA has failed "to put stringent controls on aircraft emissions," says
William Becker, the group's executive director. In its court filing, the EPA
says it meets international law by adopting standards that "are at least as
stringent" as ICAO's.

Unlike European governments, the FAA doesn't see an immediate threat. "Compared
to other sources of emissions, aviation represents a relatively small source" of
air pollutants and greenhouse gases, the FAA said in response to USA TODAY
questions. "Cars and trucks generate seven times the amount of emissions that
aviation produces."

American Airlines, the world's No. 1 carrier, would not comment, referring all
questions about its planes' emissions to the Air Transport Association, the main
trade group representing U.S. carriers. The ATA says U.S. airlines reduced
greenhouse gas emissions by improving fuel efficiency 23% since 2000 and 70% in
the past 30 years.

"Our record demonstrates that we are committed to managing our growth
responsibly," says John Meenan, executive vice president.

But those gains don't offset the effect of more travel, scientists say.

More-efficient engines and fuel savings from improved flow of air traffic "will
not fully offset the effects of the increased emissions resulting from the
projected growth of aviation," the 1999 scientific report by the U.N. concluded.

Jet manufacturer Boeing says it's working with engine manufacturers to develop
more environmentally friendly engines. Technological advances, says Bill Glover,
Boeing's director of environmental performance, could reduce the amount of
carbon dioxide and other pollutants emitted from jet engines.

Whether climate concerns will require limits on the growth in aviation is not
for his company to decide, he says. "There's great economic value in aviation,"
says Glover. "Society has to decide where to cut emissions and how to retain the
lifestyle we enjoy."

Nobody sees easy solutions for reducing aircraft emissions. Wuebbles, the
Illinois professor, says more money for research is part of the answer.

Piers Forster, a professor at the University of Leeds in England, suggests
putting additional taxes on jet fuel, using alternative fuels and redesigning
aircraft. Britain's Royal Commission on Environmental Pollution says high-speed
rail could  replace short-haul flights.

Boeing is studying new fuel-cell technology that can power an aircraft and
reduce emissions by combining hydrogen and oxygen to produce electricity. Such
technology may be 10 years away, says Glover. Until then, "Our role is to keep
building the most efficient, best airplanes on the planet."

Other possible solutions

Some other areas where solutions may lie:

*Jet engines. The most modern engines on new jets have reduced carbon dioxide
emissions, but they've increased nitrogen oxide emissions. A 2003 report by the
Government Accountability Office estimates that some new engines emit at least
40% more nitrogen oxides than older engines they're replacing. NASA is
developing technology that would permit Boeing 737 and Airbus A320 jets, in
2018, to burn 25% less fuel and reduce nitrogen oxide emissions by 80%.

*Airports. Environmentalists and some European lawmakers and government agencies
say airports should not be allowed to expand to accommodate more flights. The
FAA disagrees. "Providing sufficient airfield capacity increases the efficiency
of operations and tends to reduce, rather than increase, emissions," the FAA
said.

U.S. airports are not going to lose business and halt runway or terminal
expansion plans because planes are emitting pollutants, says Dick Marchi, senior
vice president of Airport Council International-North America. Instead, the
federal government "needs to adopt more aggressive standards on emissions," he
says.

Virgin Atlantic Chairman Richard Branson, an activist for moving aggressively
against global warming, favors constructing jet parking bays closer to runways
and using tugs to tow them.

University of North Carolina professor John Kasarda, who consulted in the design
of airports in Detroit, Bangkok, Brazil and the Philippines, says a new approach
to airport design could reduce emissions.

He said he sees merit in an untried design by Illinois inventor Jim Starry, who
conceived the design while flying back to the USA from England in the early
1980s.

Starry envisions parallel runways -- on an upward slant for landing and a
downward slant for takeoff -- leading jets directly onto, or off, the roof of a
circular passenger terminal and parking garage. The design, which was first
proposed by Starry to the FAA in the mid-1980s, reduces a jet's taxi time,
cutting emissions and saving fuel.

"I see brilliance in the ideas," says Kasarda, who plans to work with Starry to
refine his design and make it commercially viable.

*Individual action. Some European environmentalists are pushing programs that
enable passengers to pay a fee to mitigate their share of the damage from the
carbon dioxide emitted during each flight. A Welsh company, Treeflights.com,
uses the money to plant trees, which remove carbon dioxide from the air. British
Airways has an "emissions calculator" on its website that determines how much
carbon dioxide is emitted and how much each passenger can pay to another
company, Climate Care, to offset it.

But Forster, the professor from Leeds, says there is one foolproof way to reduce
aircraft emissions.

"The best answer, of course, is to fly around less," he says.

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC,b/w,Karl Gelles,USA TODAY,Source:USA TODAY
research(Illustration)
PHOTO, Color, AirTeamImages.com
PHOTO, B/W, Robert Hanashiro, USA TODAY

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COVER STORY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               8 of 181 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             May 31, 2006 Wednesday
                              Correction Appended
                                 FINAL EDITION

Worry flows from Arctic ice to tropical waters;
Rising temperatures already having effect on Inuit fishermen and Pacific
villagers, polar bear populations and coral reefs, Scandinavian forests and
island resorts

BYLINE: Paul Wiseman and Cesar G. Soriano

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 1031 words


HONG KONG -- When a tsunami rolled over the Maldives on Dec. 26, 2004, the tiny
island nation didn't just experience a freak, one-time event; it got a glimpse
of the future.

"The Indian Ocean tsunami is a preview of what will happen if we continue
business as usual," says Ahmed Jameel, environmental assessment director for the
Maldives government. "The waves only lasted for five minutes (and) washed away
20 years of development."

Global warming is a direct threat to the survival of the Maldives, 80% of which
sits less than 3 feet above sea level and is vulnerable to rising waters as
polar ice melts. "A catastrophe in the making," the Maldives government said in
a 2003 report on the impact of climate change.

David King, the British government's chief scientific adviser, raised eyebrows
two years ago when he warned that climate change posed a bigger global threat
than terrorism. But there's no question that rising temperatures are poised to
change life as we know it.

In less than 100 years, the Arctic could be ice-free in the summer, which would
allow ships to take the polar route from Europe to Asia, say the Canadian Ice
Service and the U.S. Navy. At current rates, 75% of glaciers in the Swiss Alps
and two-thirds of those in China will melt by 2050, according to separate
studies by the European Environment Agency and the Chinese Academy of Sciences.

The changes have already begun, according to the United Nations Environment
Program (UNEP):

*Glaciers in the Himalayas are retreating, leaving behind swollen lakes that
threaten to flood mountain villages.

*Rising sea levels are eroding beaches in the South Pacific.

*Tundra in Siberia is thawing.

The European Environment Agency, based in Copenhagen, Denmark, says fish in the
North Sea are migrating farther north than ever before.

"In Europe, we are absolutely seeing the signs of climate change," Jacqueline
McGlade, executive director of the agency. In Scandinavia, for instance, loggers
are changing the trees they grow and cut to make sure they will survive in a
warmer environment.

Even Mount Everest, the tallest mountain in the world, is shrinking under global
warming: The glacier where a team led by Sir Edmund Hillary embarked on the
historic climb to the summit in 1953 has retreated by 3miles, the UNEP reports.

Evidence of global warming is most dramatic in the Arctic.

"You can call the Arctic a barometer of global warming," says Svein Tveitdal, an
adviser to the UNEP on polar issues. According to the intergovernmental Arctic
Climate Impact Assessment, every year the world is losing enough sea ice to
cover Texas and Arizona combined. Some models show the "near-complete
disappearance of summer sea ice" by the end of the century.

Greenland's massive ice sheet could disappear over the next millennium, which
would raise worldwide sea levels by 23 feet and inundate low-lying places such
as Bangladesh, according to a 2004 report in the journal Nature.

Polar bears, dependent on ice floes to pursue seals and other prey, are going
hungry, losing weight and having trouble reproducing as their hunting grounds
disappear, Tveitdal says. The World Conservation Union predicted this month that
the world's polar bear population will drop by 30% over the next 45 years. The
Gland -- a Swiss-based  coalition of government agencies, environmental
activists and scientists -- called the animals "one of the most notable
casualties of global warming."

And then there are the 150,000 Inuit, traditional hunters and fishermen
scattered across an Arctic belt that spans the USA, Russia, Greenland and
Canada. "Our hunting culture is based on the cold. It's based on having a lot of
snow and ice. The ice and snow represent mobility for us," says Sheila
Watt-Cloutier, chairman of the Inuit Circumpolar Conference, which works to
preserve Inuit heritage and protect the Arctic environment. "But changes are
coming fast."

Inuits no longer can rely on information passed down through the generations
about safe places to hunt or fish. Watt-Cloutier tells of a fishing party in
Canada's Cumberland Sound that almost died when the ice broke beneath them early
last spring; they lost nearly $30,000 in fishing equipment.

Others haven't been so lucky. "We have had incidents of drownings from falling
through thin ice, more so in the last five years or so. The ice now forms
differently than before, and what you see on the surface is deceiving,"
Watt-Cloutier says. "I have a neighbor who lives across the street from me, a
seasoned hunter in his late 60s. A few years ago, he fell through the ice,
managed to get out, but walked with soaked clothing for a distance then covered
himself in snow. When they found him, he was alive but his legs were frozen. He
has since lost both legs."

Climate change has forged a connection between the ice fishermen of the Arctic
and the villagers of tropical islands half a world away: The melting polar ice
is elevating sea levels and imperiling communities in the South Pacific and the
Indian Ocean.

For instance, in the tourism-dependent Maldives, a collection of atolls
southeast of India, the beaches at 45% of resorts are eroding. Reefs that
protect marine life are under attack from rising water temperatures, a process
called "coral bleaching," says Jameel, the environmental official.

Few communities have been hit as hard as Lateu, a low-lying village in the
Pacific island chain of Vanuatu. Over the past two decades, rising sea levels
have repeatedly flooded the village and spoiled its water supplies. "Skin
infections, a result of using contaminated water, are common among children,"
says Brian Phillips, Vanuatu's climate-change adviser.

Last August, a regional organization, the Secretariat of the Pacific Regional
Environment Program, relocated more than 100 Lateu villagers to a new community
half a mile inland. The United Nations Environment Program  believes they may be
just the first of a new class of "climate change refugees."

Wiseman reported from Hong Kong, Soriano from London

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: June 1, 2006



CORRECTION: A story Wednesday on the impact of climate change should have said
the total area  that has lost sea ice over the past 30 years is as big as Texas
and Arizona combined.

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Adrienne Lewis, USA TODAY, Source: Permanent Service for
Mean Sea Level, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration and United
Nations Environment Program (Line graph, map)
PHOTO, B/W, Peter Dejong, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              15 of 181 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           February 28, 2006 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

The West takes lead on climate change;
States aren't waiting for federal action on 'warming' solutions

BYLINE: Patrick O'Driscoll

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 401 words


DENVER -- Half a dozen Western governors impatient for more federal action on
global warming are mounting state campaigns to deal with climate change on their
own.

Driving their efforts are signs that harmful effects may be occurring in the
West: record dry spells, millions of acres of dead forests, warmer winters,
dwindling water and catastrophic wildfires.

"Under the Bush administration, the United States is ignoring the world's best
scientists on climate change," says New Mexico Gov. Bill Richardson, a Democrat
named in polls as a possible presidential candidate. "The real action ... is at
the state and local level."

Politics is part of this debate: Five of the six governors are Democrats who
have criticized the administration on this issue. The lone Republican is
California Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger. California also is the world's
18th-largest producer of "greenhouse gases," which trap heat in the atmosphere.

Schwarzenegger directed a "climate action team" in June to find ways to cut
emissions by 2010, with further reductions by 2020. California's climate team is
to release its plan in early March. Strategies may include a gasoline surcharge
for research on alternative fuels and mandatory emissions reports by industries
that generate carbon dioxide.

President Bush has emphasized voluntary measures and rejected the Kyoto
Protocol, a treaty on global warming, saying mandatory cuts in emissions would
hurt the economy.

Latest to join the effort is Montana, where a U.S. Geological Survey computer
model says glaciers in Glacier National Park could disappear in 25 years if
temperatures increase at the current rate. They could disappear by 2100 with no
additional warming, the survey says.

Oregon and Washington plan to adopt California's limits on auto tailpipe
emissions, the strictest in the nation. Arizona established a climate change
panel to come up with an action plan by June 30.

Seven states in the Northeast pledged in December to limit emissions from power
plants. This month, the California Public Utilities Commission announced plans
to cap such emissions as well. Mayors in 202 cities nationwide, led by Seattle's
Greg Nickels, have pledged to meet emission goals spelled out in the Kyoto
Protocol.

"Everything helps," says Steve Owens of Arizona's Department of Environmental
Quality. "It took us a long time to get into this fix. It will take a long time
to get out of it."

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              19 of 181 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              July 7, 2006 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Study says global warming helps extend wildfire seasons

BYLINE: Patrick O'Driscoll

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 429 words


DENVER -- The number and size of large forest fires in the West have grown
"suddenly and dramatically" in the past two decades in part because of global
warming, a study released Thursday says.

The scientific paper, posted online by the journal Science, says wildfire season
in Western states has grown up to 2 1/2 months longer since 1987 because of
warmer spring temperatures and earlier, faster melting of mountain snow. The
timing of that annual snowmelt, a key source of the West's water, also helps
gauge the severity of wildfire season.

The study by scientists at the University of California-San Diego and the
University of Arizona does not address the cause of climate warming, only the
effect it has had on forest fires here. Climate change is caused by gases that
trap heat in the Earth's atmosphere. Scientists and politicians debate how much
of that heating is made worse by humans and the burning of fossil fuels.

"We didn't set out to make a climate-change argument," says co-author Anthony
Westerling, a researcher at UC-San Diego's Scripps Institution of Oceanography.
"But it's easier to see how a further (rise) in temperature under climate change
would result in more frequent (wildfires) in these severe years. You get early
snowmelt, the soil and vegetation dry out sooner, and you get a lot more fires,
burning longer and getting bigger."

The paper analyzes 1,166 large forest fires (at least 1,000 acres each) from
1970 to 2004 on national forest and park land in the West. In the second half of
that period, 1987-2004, there were four times as many forest fires, and 61/2
times as much land burned.

Co-author Tom Swetnam of Arizona's Laboratory of Tree-Ring Research says the key
shift was after 1987. Infrequent large fires that lasted a week or so gave way
to more frequent infernos that averaged five weeks. One of the worst years was
1988, when almost one-third of Yellowstone National Park burned until autumn.
The climate effect is most dramatic in the northern Rockies, which includes
Yellowstone. The number of large fires in Idaho, Montana and Wyoming has risen
60% since 1987.

Climate is the principal reason, Swetnam says. Forests in the northern Rockies
have not been as heavily managed to stop fires as most other places in the West.
Putting out more fires can lead to worse fires by leaving unburned debris and
unthinned groves. So human intervention is a factor, along with warming, in the
worsening of wildfires in many areas. But the rising temperatures and dryness
due to warming are the main factor in the northern Rockies, Swetnam says.

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Sammy Dallal, (Boulder, Colo.) Daily Camera, via AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              23 of 181 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              June 2, 2006 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Celebs get the word out;
Global warming is 'about as urgent an issue as there is'

BYLINE: Dan Vergano

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 4E

LENGTH: 533 words


WASHINGTON -- Perched on a metal chair in a coffee shop two blocks from the
Capitol, in between meetings with senators, Laurie David considers the
difference between finding fresh comedians for David Letterman and finding fresh
ways to enlist people in the fight against global warming.

"Dealing with politicians, that's a little different. But government doesn't
change until people demand it," says David, 47, a producer of former vice
president Al Gore's documentary An Inconvenient Truth and April's HBO climate
special, Too Hot Not to Handle. Elle magazine, which she co-edited in May, calls
David, wife of Curb Your Enthusiasm's Larry David, "one of the most powerful
environmentalists in America."

The critical acclaim for Gore's big-screen warning about the dangers of warming
seems likely to only increase David's influence and that of other celebrities
mobilizing to get the word out.

"We're talking about the climate of the planet," David says. "This is about as
urgent an issue as there is." Even her famously curmudgeonly husband has signed
on, first buying a hybrid Toyota Prius, seen in his show, then giving it away
for the cause.

Gore's movie has turned the spotlight on climate change, but scientists have
long been concerned about rising temperatures fueled by increased concentrations
of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere, which capture energy from the sun. Feared
effects include rising seas, extreme weather and drought. Activists often focus
on the need to cut emissions of carbon dioxide, one of the greenhouse gases, by
burning less fossil fuel.

Celebrities often get knocked for speaking out, acknowledges David,  who worked
not only for The Late Show but also as a talent manager and comedy-special
producer before turning to global warming full-time a decade ago. "Everyone has
a right to speak out," she says. "I couldn't live with myself, with the
opportunity I have, if I didn't try to do everything I could."

Other celebrities who are talking about global warming:

*Brad Pitt will narrate Design: e2, a series about environmentally friendly
architecture. The series is scheduled to air in June on PBS.

*Keanu Reeves and singer Alanis Morrissette narrate The Great Warming, a climate
documentary that had its U.S. premiere in April.

*On his website, Leonardo DiCaprio narrates a short global-warming primer. The
actor is working on his own environmental documentary, called 11th Hour,
according to the site.

*Oscar winner Joanne Woodward, a longtime supporter of The Nature Conservancy,
spoke out on Earth Day, calling for action.

And Gore has blended Hollywood with Washington in a high-profile way that has
some pundits, such as The Washington Post's Richard Cohen, saying the effort
could pave the way for a second Gore campaign for the White House.

David's most ambitious effort may be "The Stop Global Warming Virtual March," an
effort to build an Internet coalition. She says more than 360,000 people have
joined.

"It's not that different from being a producer; everything I've done in my
career comes into play," David says. "Environmental communicators are too
cautious. I throw caution to the wind. Once people learn what global warming
means, they start to pay attention."

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Eric Lee, Paramount Classics
PHOTO, B/W, Matthew Simmons, Getty Images

DOCUMENT-TYPE: PEOPLE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              26 of 181 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 11, 2006 Monday
                              Correction Appended
                                 FINAL EDITION

Great Lakes compact at the center of great debate;
Agreement seeks to stem water use outside region

BYLINE: Dennis Cauchon

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 1275 words


The Milwaukee suburb of New Berlin gets half its water from the Great Lakes and
half from underground wells that are tainted with radium, a radioactive element.

The city of 38,500 has a simple solution to its water problem: draw more water
from Lake Michigan, 10 miles away. That probably won't happen.

New Berlin may look like a typical Midwestern suburb, but it's really a border
town -- on the edge of the Great Lakes watershed -- and the west side of town is
on the wrong side of the water slope.

A new multistate agreement working its way through state legislatures builds a
legal wall around the largest source of fresh water in the world. The deal would
ensure that no Great Lakes water is ever shipped outside the region -- not in
pipes to Arizona, not in ships to Asia, not even to Madison, Wis., or Columbus,
Ohio.

The Great Lakes Water Resources Compact was signed last December by the
governors of the eight states that border the lakes -- Minnesota, Wisconsin,
Illinois, Indiana, Ohio, Michigan, Pennsylvania and New York -- and the premiers
of the Canadian provinces of Quebec and Ontario. The agreement requires approval
of state legislatures before it is sent to Congress for final approval.  Ohio's
Legislature is expected this week to become the first to approve the pact. New
York's may approve it later this month.

"This is not a water grab," says Sam Speck, director of the Ohio Department of
Natural Resources. "It's a commitment to protect a resource in the face of
climate change and other challenges."

The Great Lakes contain nine-tenths of the nation's fresh water and supply
drinking water to 30 million people in Chicago, Toronto, Buffalo and elsewhere.
The lakes are an economic engine and the cultural centerpiece for much of the
upper Midwest. But the fragile ecology of the lakes has suffered from pollution,
invasive species of fish and the diversion of water to support Chicago and other
cities.

The new agreement would control who can use the water and how much.

The eight states started work on the compact in 1999 when a Canadian company
proposed shipping water in tankers from Lake Ontario to Asia. Other proposals
had been floated over the years about piping Great Lakes water to Arizona,
western Canada or elsewhere.

"We realized there was nothing legally to prohibit that kind of project or
something similar," says David Naftzger, executive director of the non-partisan
Council of Great Lakes Governors, which supports environmentally responsible
economic growth.

The states and provinces reached a voluntary water deal in 2001, then spent four
years trying to agree on language that could be put into law.

The compromise agreement lets "border communities" such as New Berlin apply to
use Great Lakes water if they meet tough standards.

Limiting who gets the water

Sunny Slope Road is the dividing line in New Berlin. One side of the road has
access to all the Great Lakes water it needs. The other side can't get a drop
without approval from the state and probably every other state, too. Michigan
and environmental groups already have objected.

"It's such a political thing, I doubt it can happen," New Berlin utilities
supervisor Rick Jackson says.

His city is under a federal order to reduce the radium in its west side water.
The city will probably spend $4 million on a treatment plant to reduce the
radium -- a naturally occurring substance found in the area's deep well--
instead of getting more water from Milwaukee, which supplies the east side of
town.

The water agreement was possible because environmentalists, business groups and
political leaders agreed on one thing: Nobody outside the region should get
Great Lakes water.

"If we want sunshine, we'll move to Arizona," says George Kuper, president of
the Council of Great Lakes Industries. "If they want water, let them move to
Michigan."

Water rights advocate Terry Anderson, director of the Property and Environment
Research Center in Bozeman, Mont., says it's a mistake to lock up Great Lakes
water inside the watershed.

He says water rights should be allocated and traded in the marketplace, even if
that means shipping water to Asia at the right price. "It's no different than
shipping out cars or iron ore," he says.

Great Lakes water is a powerful economic development tool for industry and
tourism in a region that is suffering economically from the decline in the auto
industry and other manufacturing businesses.

"Fresh water is our ace in the hole," says Tim Eder, executive director of the
Great Lakes Commission, a multistate agency that organizes policy among the
states. "If it got to be a humanitarian crisis, I personally might look at
letting some water leave the region. But short of that, the water stays here."

Business groups, environmentalists and regulators have practical reasons for
locking up the water. Levels in Lake Superior, Lake Michigan and Lake Huron are
near historic lows.

The Great Lakes' depths have fluctuated by 4 to 6 feet for the past 4,500 years
and the three largest lakes are near the bottom of that range, says Roger
Gauthier, a hydrologist at the Great Lakes Commission. Lake Superior entered a
drought in 1998 and is at its lowest level in 80 years.

This hurts fishing, hydropower electricity generation, tourism and shipping.
Freighters can't carry as much cargo in shallow water. Some islands no longer
are surrounded by water.

The big concern: Is the low water level caused by global warming? Warmer winters
spur evaporation because the lakes are covered less often with protective ice
and snow. "I haven't heard anyone say yet that it's climate change, but we're
near record lows, so it makes you wonder," Gauthier says.

An imperfect deal

Not everyone is thrilled by the water agreement.

"The idea of the compact makes a lot of sense, but it got screwed up a little at
the end," says Linda Woggon, a lawyer for the Ohio of Chamber of Commerce. "The
last draft had a tiny word change that will make it nearly impossible for any
major new development to occur."

The last-minute change says new water withdrawals can't cause a significant
change to the quantity or quality of Great Lakes water or any of the rivers or
streams feeding into it, Woggon says.

She says the result would mean automatic rejection of a steel plant that wanted
to open in the Great Lakes watershed, employ 500 people and use 1 million
gallons of water a day.

The business community wanted a balancing test that weighed the value of the new
factory or housing development against the environmental impact on the lakes.

Despite these misgivings, the Ohio Chamber of Commerce and other business groups
support the deal. They are asking state legislatures to add separate language
when approving the compact that interprets the agreement in a less restrictive
way. The Ohio bill under consideration has these changes.

Some environmentalists are unhappy, too. Michigan Citizens for Water
Conservation opposes the agreement because it puts no limit on the amount of
bottled water for consumers that can be withdrawn from the lakes and streams.

"If you fill a truck with water, you have to follow the rules. But if you put
the water into bottles less than 5.2 gallons, you can take as much as you want.
That makes no sense," says Terry Swier, president of the group, which has sued
Nestle's Ice Mountain water-bottling operation in Stanwood, Mich., for taking
water from Sanctuary Springs in the watershed.

But most environmental groups signed on to the compact.

"This sets up a decision-making process and standards," says Cheryl Mendoza,
manager of water conservation at the Alliance for the Great Lakes, "so we can
take care of water in a responsible way."

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: January 29, 2007



CORRECTION: A map accompanying a Dec. 11 story on water rights in the Great
Lakes region should have said Ontario is the only Canadian province bordering
the lakes. Quebec borders the St. Lawrence River, which is included in the Great
Lakes Commission area.

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC,COLOR,Dave Merrill,USA TODAYSources:Great Lakes Information
Network, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, U.S. Transportation Department and
WorldAtlas.com(Map,Pie chart)
PHOTO,color,Mark R. Rummel,The (Port Huron) Times Herald
PHOTO,b/w,Mark R. Rummel,The (Port Huron) Times Herald
PHOTO,b/w,Carlos Osorio,AP
PHOTO,b/w

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              27 of 181 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           September 25, 2006 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Wal-Mart grows 'green' strategies;
No. 1 retailer embraces environment, but some say it's just 'green-washing'

BYLINE: Mindy Fetterman

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 2062 words


BENTONVILLE, Ark. -- Andrew Ruben, vice president of strategic planning for the
world's biggest retailer, leans across the table and pleads passionately for
consumers to embrace the compact fluorescent light bulb. Though a CFL bulb costs
more, it uses 75% less energy and lasts 10 times longer than a regular bulb.

"Tell everyone to buy this light bulb!" he says, his voice trembling a bit. "If
we could get every American to change a single light bulb, we'd be doing the
world a world of good."

What's sparking Ruben's fervor is a new mission at Wal-Mart: Embrace the Earth.

The $312.4 billion retailing giant has launched an aggressive program to
encourage "sustainability" of the world's fisheries, forests and farmlands, to
slash energy use and reduce waste, to push its 60,000 suppliers to produce goods
that don't harm the environment, and to urge consumers to buy green. Last
Monday,  for the first time, Wal-Mart reported on its carbon dioxide emissions
-- the "greenhouse gases" that cause global warming. It said it emits 20.8
million tons worldwide, an amount greater than what's released by an auto
company  but much less than that released by a major utility company.

"We asked ourselves: If we had known 10 years ago what challenges we would face
today, what would we have done different?" says CEO Lee Scott. "What struck us
was: This world is much more fragile than any of us would have thought years
ago."

Already, Wal-Mart has become the world's largest buyer of organic cotton. It
introduced "fair trade" coffee at its Sam's Clubs. It began selling some organic
foods in the spring and will introduce others this fall. And it is pushing
suppliers to use smaller packages to cut waste.

Critics such as WakeUpWalMart call the efforts "green-washing." They say the
efforts are an attempt to polish a corporate image tarnished by controversies
over low pay and limited health care benefits for its employees and
"anti-big-box" feelings in some towns.

But many environmentalists are ecstatic. Wal-Mart is a very big rock to throw
into the pro-environment pond, and its ripples, they say, will be felt across
the globe.

"Wal-Mart is a huge player, and they have enormous clout," says Scott Burns of
the World Wildlife Fund, which has 10 employees working with Wal-Mart on several
projects, including sustainability of fisheries. "They're sending a very
powerful signal that already is having effects on the way people produce
products for them."

Wal-Mart says it will:

*Slash gasoline use by its trucking fleet, one of the largest in the USA, and
use more hybrid trucks to increase efficiency by 25% over the next three years
and double it within 10 years. That will save $310 million a year by 2015, the
company says.

*Buy 100% of its wild-caught salmon and frozen fish for the North American
market only from fisheries that are certified as "sustainable" by the non-profit
Marine Stewardship Council within three to five years. That designation means
areas of the ocean aren't fished in ways that destroy fish populations.

*Cut energy use at its more than 7,000 stores worldwide by 30% and cut
greenhouse-gas emissions at existing stores by 20% in seven years. Wal-Mart is
the largest private electricity user in the USA.

*Reduce solid waste from U.S. stores by 25% within three years.

The company, second-largest in revenue in the world behind  ExxonMobil, has
vowed to invest $500 million a year in energy-saving technologies.

It has built test lab stores in Aurora, Colo., and McKinney, Texas, where it is
experimenting with everything from wind power to permeable asphalt that lets
rainwater seep through parking lots to help refill groundwater aquifers. It
wants to build stores that produce 30% fewer greenhouse emissions in the next
four years.

And it has reached out to environmental groups, many of which were once highly
critical of the company; Wal-Mart has made them part of its in-house planning.

On Climate Change Day in mid-July, it hosted former vice president Al Gore at
its corporate headquarters here. "We know that Wal-Mart is not necessarily an
easy place to come to," CEO Scott admits. Yet after Gore showed his
global-warming film, An Inconvenient Truth, he got a standing ovation from a
crowded Wal-Mart auditorium.

"A lot of organizations in that room had campaigned against Wal-Mart. We were
kind of skeptical," says Paul Rice, founding president and CEO of TransFair USA.
The group is the only one in the USA that certifies products such as coffee as
"fair trade," meaning they are bought from groups that pay growers fair wages.
"But no one is anymore," he says.

Sustainability and self-interest

Wal-Mart isn't pushing sustainability solely out of the goodness of its heart.
It has realized that it can make money by selling products that are
environmentally friendly. It can make millions selling recycled trash and save
hundreds of millions by cutting transportation costs.

It even is actively supporting the idea of a system for companies to "trade"
carbon dioxide credits. Wal-Mart believes it can earn lots of credits by saving
energy, and it can sell them for millions of dollars to companies that can't.
All of those savings will go into keeping prices on its products low, it says.

Wal-Mart also says it is worried about having enough products, primarily fish
and other foods, to sell to consumers in the future. "We set out to do
(sustainability) as an obligation, a good-works effort," says Scott. "But we
discovered the truth: The real reason to do this is for the business itself."

Wal-Mart has formed 14 sustainable value networks made up of employees,
suppliers and environmentalists.  The groups get together regularly in person or
on conference calls to brainstorm how products that don't hurt the environment
can be made or bought.

The networks work with Wal-Mart's buyers and suppliers, and the suppliers of its
suppliers, to push change all the way down the business chain. "We've never
worked this way before," says Matt Kistler, vice president of product and
packaging innovation.

The company is mapping whole product lines to find out where the environment is
hurt along the way  and how to stop that. "When you hear your words coming out
of their mouths, it's amazing," says Suzanne Apple of the World Wildlife Fund.
"These are issues we've been working on for years."

Manish Kumar supplies frozen fish to Wal-Mart.  As with many of the company's
60,000 suppliers across the globe, he says Wal-Mart is his biggest customer. In
the four years since he landed the business, he's become the retailer's largest
supplier of frozen fish in the USA. That's tens of millions of pounds of fish a
year.

The way he does business today is radically different than  just eight months
ago, when he and other fish suppliers were called to Bentonville for a meeting
on buying fish only from sustainable fisheries.

"We didn't even know what the Marine Stewardship Council was. Now, it's all we
do. The speed with which things are happening is incredible," says Kumar, CEO of
The Fishin' Co., based in Pittsburgh. Now, he works with 18 fish-processing
plants that use only fish accredited by the MSC.

Wal-Mart, the world's largest buyer of fish depending on the species, now sells
10 fish products with the blue MSC label, including wild salmon and pollock.

When you buy strawberries from a Wal-Mart today, they come in packages made not
from plastic but from biodegradable corn. Same with Paul Newman's organic salad
dressing. And this holiday season, those Sam's Club gift cards you may put in
your family's stockings will be made from corn-based PLA (poly lactic acid),
too.

If you're selling to Wal-Mart, you'd better be thinking about smaller packaging,
less packaging and recyclable packaging. Wal-Mart said Friday that it will start
"grading" suppliers on how well they do. Less, in this case, is more.

When it cut excess packaging on its private-label line of toys, Kid Connection,
the company estimates it saved $2.4 million a year in shipping costs, 3,800
trees and 1 million barrels of oil.

"A 2% reduction in a package's size is worth millions and millions of dollars,"
says Kistler, vice president of packaging innovation. "You can get more in a
container, more in a boat, more in a truck. The numbers are just amazing."

Downsizing a product's package is tricky, though. Products are sold on store
shelves by volume. Bigger packages get more shelf space and can catch consumers'
eyes better.

That was the problem when Wal-Mart started pushing Unilever to downsize its
laundry detergents. It was reluctant to lose shelf space.

To compensate, Wal-Mart made All Small & Mighty, Unilever's concentrated
detergent that comes in a bottle two-thirds the size of a regular jug of
detergent, a "VPI." That's  in-house code for a "volume-producing item." It got
heavy promotion and top space on the end of aisles with lots of signs. It's been
a huge success, Wal-Mart says.

Saving energy at its stores

The single biggest energy success that Wal-Mart has discovered so far is inside
a newly designed refrigerator case. It's LED lights. "Fluorescent lights don't
like the cold. LED loves the cold," says Don Mosley, senior engineering manager
of special projects who helped design the energy-efficient mechanical systems
Wal-Mart is testing at the lab stores in  Colorado and Texas.

Wal-Mart spent about $30 million to develop the refrigerator LED lighting system
with General Electric and Royal Philips Electronics. LED (light-emitting diode)
lights use semiconductor chips to create energy and emit light. LEDs have been
used on digital clocks and cellphone screens but never for such a big item.

"This application will change the grocery industry," says Charles Zimmerman,
vice president of new format development. "One-third of our energy costs come
from lighting, and the LED cuts 50% of the cost of lighting."

Wal-Mart began using LED lights in its giant, red Wal-Mart signs about two years
ago. The life of the lights is much longer, even though they cost more. "It's
important that our signs say Wal-Mart and not al-Mart," laughs Mosley.

The compact fluorescent light bulbs from GE that Wal-Mart is pushing for
consumers to buy are beginning to catch on, says Michael Petras, vice president
of lighting for GE. "The cost is good, it comes on quicker, the colors are
better."

GE sold $75 million of the energy-saving bulbs in 2005. Sales across the
industry are up 20%, while sales of traditional incandescent bulbs have fallen
7%.

Wal-Mart has been doing "sunlight harvesting" through skylights at 2,000 of its
stores for about 10 years. For much of the day, the only electric lights used in
a store are along the inside outer walls. The rest of the floor is lit by
skylights.

Now it's testing wind power in the Colorado store. So far, it's been a failure.
"It might be our familiarity with the equipment," admits Mosley. "When they
break, they break pretty good before we realize it." The company hasn't
abandoned wind power yet but isn't blown away by it, either.

A 'Machiavellian' strategy?

WakeUpWalMart, a union-funded group that criticizes Wal-Mart's wages and health
care benefits, doesn't believe Wal-Mart is sincere. It says Wal-Mart is just
trying to get some good public relations in light of all the lawsuits against
the company, including claims of discrimination against female employees and
forcing employees to work "off the clock." Wal-Mart also is being investigated
for problems with hazardous waste disposal.

"We don't know whether Wal-Mart's environmental changes are real or a
Machiavellian attempt to green-wash a declining public image," says Chris
Kofinis, communications director. "But its long record of irresponsible behavior
forces one to be skeptical."

The charges don't bother Wal-Mart. "I don't respond to that criticism," says CEO
Scott. "We know what our goals are. We think we can have an extraordinary impact
on the environment."

Some environmentalists who are in the company's corner are reserving judgment.
Fred Krupp, president of Environmental Defense, says Wal-Mart is "off to a
promising start" but will be judged by "the results of its efforts."

Still, Environmental Defense in July opened its first satellite office near a
U.S. corporate headquarters -- in Bentonville.

"Wal-Mart has as much or more potential than any other company to change the way
the world does business," says Krupp. "And we intend to be right there."

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC,Color,Web Bryant(Illustration)
GRAPHIC,b/w,Source:Fortune(Chart)
PHOTO,b/w,Matthew Staver for USA TODAY

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COVER STORY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              28 of 181 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              June 2, 2006 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Downhill slide ahead?;
Climate change a big concern for ski resorts

BYLINE: Tom Kenworthy

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 4D

LENGTH: 549 words


DENVER -- Like most Colorado mountain resorts, the Aspen Skiing Co. had a
memorable winter this year: 21% more snow than average and ringing cash
registers from late fall to spring.

"Financially we'll probably have our all-time record this year," says chief
executive Pat O'Donnell, whose company runs four winter sports destinations:
Aspen Mountain, Snowmass, Aspen Highlands and Buttermilk.

But O'Donnell is worried about the future of the ski industry. The reason:
climate change.

Spring snowpack levels in most of Colorado's ski counties could decrease by
about 50% by 2085, according to a study in April by Colorado College's "State of
the Rockies" report. O'Donnell says the study "is scaring the pants off us."

Warmer temperatures could have a big effect on resorts' ability to make snow in
the fall, when temperatures drop and the snow foundation is laid for a long
season that extends into April.

Snowmaking is temperature-sensitive, O'Donnell says. Once the mercury rises
above the mid-20s, "you're playing with fire," he says, and snowmaking boosts
power costs in warmer weather. "If the temperature changes by a degree or two,
it can really affect our ability to lay down (snow) early on."

The rub, O'Donnell says, is that his resort doesn't start to make a profit until
March. "It takes us 100 days of the 140 we're open to break even. ... If we have
a good March, we have a good year." Poor snowmaking can mean "you lose that base
in March, particularly on the bottom third of the mountain."

Ski industry officials across the USA are lobbying for federal action to reduce
greenhouse gas levels. And many are working to cut their own carbon emissions.

"We think winter is short enough as it is," says Scott Kaden, president of the
Pacific Northwest Ski Areas Association.

For the past three years, seven Northwest ski resorts have been buying
"renewable energy certificates," also known as green tags. Simply put, they are
payments to producers of wind and solar power that allow them to compete when
selling their more expensive renewable energy to utilities. It's a type of
consumer subsidy that helps create demand for renewable energy and spurs
development of wind and solar farms.

Working through the Bonneville Environmental Foundation, which acts as a
middleman, Northwest resorts have financed 1,500 megawatt-hours of "green"
electricity. As part of the program, skiers can pay an extra $2 on their lift
tickets for a mini green tag that can offset the carbon emissions they use
driving to the resorts.

Aspen Skiing Co. spends as much in renewable-energy certificates as it does in
electricity costs. Ski areas from other parts of the country are also using
renewable energy and stimulating its growth:

*At Jiminy Peak in western Massachusetts, chief executive Brian Fairbank has
commissioned a 1.5-megawatt wind turbine  that will be operational in 2007. The
turbine, the first at a U.S. ski resort, eventually will produce half the
resort's electricity, or enough to power 350 homes. "It's the ultimate
commitment to fossil fuel avoidance," Fairbank says.

*The Buck Hill ski area outside Minneapolis is purchasing 80% of its power from
a wind-energy producer. It costs an extra $15,000 a year, but "we think it's a
good example to set," says vice president and general manager Don McClure.

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Adrienne Lewis, USA TODAY, Source: 2006 Colorado College
State of the Rockies Report Card (MAP)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              31 of 181 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            February 17, 2006 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Greenland glacier runoff doubled over past decade

BYLINE: Dan Vergano

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 417 words


Greenland's glaciers are dumping ice into the ocean twice as fast as they did 10
years ago, most likely because of global warming, researchers said Thursday.

Melting glaciers raise the level of the world's oceans, and the finding raises
fears about the impact of climate change on coastal areas.

"Greenland is probably contributing more and faster to sea level rise than
predicted," says glacier expert Eric Rignot of NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory.
He presented the satellite survey results at the American Association for the
Advancement of Science meeting in St. Louis. The study appears in today's
Science journal.

The researchers cataloged changes in 28 major glaciers, based on satellite
images and radar data. The slow-moving glaciers are the main route for ice to
move from the region's frozen interior to the sea. (The ice sheet feeds the
glaciers, which melt into the sea.)

The researchers found that in 2005, the glaciers discharged more than twice as
much ice as they did in 1996 -- enough fresh water to supply Los Angeles for 220
years.

The sea level along U.S. coasts is expected to rise at least 2 feet by 2100,
according to the Environmental Protection Agency. Greenland's glacial
contributions to sea level are now slight, adding only about 1 inch of depth to
seas every 45 years at the present rate. However, increasing runoff raises fears
of a steeper rise in coming decades, says geoscientist Richard Alley of
Pennsylvania State University.

A United Nations climate panel suggested in 2001 that temperatures worldwide
would rise  2 to 10 degrees over the next century, driven in part by emissions
of man-made greenhouse gases, chemical compounds that trap heat in the
atmosphere.

The world's largest island, Greenland sits frozen atop the North Atlantic, with
an ice sheet roughly the size of Mexico covering more than 80% of its surface.
Only about 50,000 people live there, according to the CIA's World Factbook.

The ice sheet, which NASA says is more than a mile thick, would raise sea levels
about 23 feet worldwide if it melted completely, polar researcher Julian
Dowdeswell of the United Kingdom's University of Cambridge says in a commentary
accompanying the study.

Studies last year indicated that the ice sheet is shrinking. Past estimates had
suggested that the ice-sheet loss would be partly offset by increased snowfall.
But Rignot says those estimates failed to account for the accelerated rate at
which glaciers are pulling away from the sheet, taking ice with them as they
melt.

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, J.A. Dowdeswell, Science, via AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              34 of 181 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              May 22, 2006 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Al Gore's coming back -- but how far?;
He describes goal as a better world, not elective office

BYLINE: Anthony Breznican and Bill Nichols

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 1037 words


WASHINGTON -- In a parallel universe, President Al Gore reports that his
administration has stopped global warming. Gas costs 19 cents a gallon, and oil
companies warrant a federal bailout. "If it were the other way around, you know
the oil companies would help us," Gore deadpans.

OK, so that was on NBC's Saturday Night Live on May 13, and Gore isn't
president. But the reality is, Gore is back and he's hot.

Six years after his agonizing election loss to George W. Bush, the former vice
president is basking in the limelight generated by the national release this
week of An Inconvenient Truth, an independent film that documents his crusade
against global warming.

Gore says he's trying to get people to lead their leaders. A groundswell of
political will from regular citizens, he says, will pressure politicians and
automobile, fuel and chemical corporations to embrace green technology.

"There are a few irresponsible companies, making billions of dollars by dumping
massive qualities of global warming pollution into the Earth's atmosphere,"
Gore, 58, told USA TODAY. "When 50.1% of the American people are passionate and
committed and feel the sense of urgency that's appropriate here, then the
political system will flip. I think we're close to a tipping point."

Gore's re-emergence has fueled speculation that he still wants to be one of
those leaders. He has fun with the idea even as he bats it away. Asked where
he'd like to be in 21/2 years, he strokes his chin, stares ahead and says
dreamily, "Standing on the steps of the Capitol -- " before buckling with
laughter.

Seriously, Gore says, "I've been in elected politics for more than a
quarter-century. I've run four national campaigns. I've been there, done that.
I've found there are other ways to serve, and I'm enjoying them."

An Inconvenient Truth, based on a slide show Gore developed and has given for
years, is part documentary, part dark comedy and part horror thriller. As
narrator, Gore makes jokes at his own expense, presents a cartoon clip from
Fox's cartoon Futurama about cooling the ocean with ice cubes and shows footage
of storms, floodwaters and scorching drought that would be thrilling if they
were fiction instead of fact.

He presents scientific data and news footage to illustrate havoc in weather
patterns caused by pollution. He says greenhouse gases are increasingly raising
ocean temperatures, leading to superstorms like Katrina; disrupting the
wilderness food chain, leading to more tree-killing beetles and more wildfires;
and contributing to droughts and floods.

While there is a consensus among scientists that the planet is warming,
politicians and others disagree over the pace of climate change, how much damage
it's doing, what causes it and what to do about it. Some groups -- many of them
funded by fuel and chemical companies -- are skeptical.

The Washington-based Competitive Enterprise Institute (CEI), one such group, has
created ads in response to Gore's film. One shows a person riding a bicycle in
the snow while a woman intones: "'Let's force people to cut back,' they say."

Myron Ebell, CEI's director of energy and global warming policy, acknowledged
that the group gets funding from companies such as ExxonMobil but says that
doesn't compromise him. His group says global warming is not a crisis, and oil
use shouldn't be curtailed.

Ebell says deforestation, not pollution from fossil fuels, is to blame for some
climate problems. He also says "niche technologies" such as solar, wind and
ethanol "can only provide small amounts of the energy we need."

Instead of giving up on such alternatives, Gore says, the country can adapt to
make energy both plentiful and less environmentally toxic. And he wants the push
to come from both parties. "I think this is a moral issue, not a political
issue," Gore says.

Gore is a longtime environmental advocate whose best-selling 1992 book, Earth in
the Balance, made the case that human activity threatens the planet. In his new
role as film star, as well as recent speeches ripping into Bush policies on
secrecy and the Iraq war, he's a prominent voice for liberals.

Some Democrats say Gore should not rule out running for president. "He would
bring stature, good name, name ID, money and a rallying cause -- the
environment," says Donna Brazile, Gore's 2000 campaign manager.

Joe Trippi, who ran former Vermont governor Howard Dean's bid for the White
House in 2004, says Gore is well-positioned to run as an outsider whose stands
are much sharper than most leading Democrats. "He's a guy who doesn't have to
worry about who he offends," Trippi says. "He has the unique ability to say that
he's worked within the system and the system's broken and he can lead the way."

Bruce Cain, head of the Institute of Governmental Studies at the University of
California, Berkeley, says a Gore candidacy would be problematic for several
reasons, including New York Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton's head start on
fundraising and lingering perceptions of Gore as a bad candidate.

"He was regarded as wooden and prone to artificial makeovers," Cain says. "Even
if you believe he's found his true voice out of office, the question is whether
the old consultant-managed wooden image would reappear once he got back into the
limelight."

Gore says he is a changed man since 2000: "I have been through a lot, and the
old cliche about 'whatever doesn't kill you makes you stronger' does have some
validity to it."

And he still has impact in the political world. A recent e-mail campaign he
agreed to do for the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee raised more
than $200,000. That made it the most successful e-mail campaign the committee
has done.

But Gore is far more involved in civic and private-sector pursuits than in
politics. A longtime technophile, he is a board member at Apple Computer, a
senior adviser to Google and a founder of Current, an interactive cable TV
network. He is also helping launch a new bipartisan education group, the
Alliance for Climate Protection.

It's the next phase of the crusade now immortalized in An Inconvenient Truth. As
he puts it, mocking both his environmental and high-tech preoccupations, "Saving
the planet, one slide at a time."

Contributing: Jill Lawrence

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Pascal Le Segretain, Getty Images

DOCUMENT-TYPE: WASHINGTON

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              42 of 181 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             July 6, 2006 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

High acidity infiltrates the oceans;
And too much acidity doesn't bode well for coral, other sea 'calcifiers'

BYLINE: Dan Vergano

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 6D

LENGTH: 853 words


Corals and shelled sea creatures face an uncertain future in oceans made
increasingly corrosive by the industrial emissions that fuel global warming, a
government report warned Wednesday.

Human activities, chiefly the burning of fossil fuels, have upset a natural
balance in ocean acidity, concludes the report called Impacts of Ocean
Acidification on Coral Reefs and Other Marine Calcifiers: A Guide for Future
Research.

From corals to sea snails to microscopic plankton, the creatures affected
underpin many ocean food chains, say the authors of the report, a document
reflecting the views of 50 top experts in ocean chemistry. The research was
sponsored by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) and
other federal agencies.

"We have very clear evidence, and there is no doubt this is occurring," says
report co-author Richard Feely of the NOAA Pacific Marine Environmental
Laboratory in Seattle.

Natural process overwhelmed

Oceans naturally absorb carbon dioxide from the air. For nearly three decades,
scientists have detected a steady increase in this absorption, corresponding to
an increase in the "greenhouse gases" that hold heat in the atmosphere. One of
those gases, carbon dioxide, produces carbonic acid in seawater. Under natural
conditions, calcium concentrations in seawater buffer this acid. But the added
impact from industrial emissions has overwhelmed this balance, the report
concludes.

Scientists measure acidity by the "pH" scale familiar to every high school
chemistry student. Since 1800, ice core measures show the ocean's average pH
level has dropped from 8.2 to 8.1, making it 30% more corrosive, Feely says.
Expected emissions will likely drop it to a pH of 7.9 this century, a 150%
increase in acidity since 1800, he says.

All indications are that this higher acidity is bad news for sea creatures that
rely on calcium in seawater to build shells, says ocean chemist Peter Brewer of
the Monterey Bay Aquarium Research Institute in Moss Landing, Calif., who was
not a report author. "Could animals adapt to changes? Some could and some
couldn't," he says.

Brewer first published a report finding a fossil-fuel "signature" in ocean acid
measures in 1978. At first controversial, the finding has been duplicated with
greater sensitivity since then, culminating in a 2004 report by NOAA colleagues
Feely and Christopher Sabine that showed Pacific waters becoming increasingly
acidic at depths that threatened deep water corals.

Coral reefs are living things, built of the calcium-carbonate skeletons of
microscopic sea creatures. They serve as home to a diverse array of fish species
and as nurseries to many others. Increasingly acidic waters slow the ability of
sea creatures to secrete calcium carbonate. And at high enough concentrations,
acid actually eats away at their shells, posing an obvious threat to beings such
as sea snails that rely on shells for protection from predators, says report
co-author Victoria Fabry of California State University in San Marcos.

Specific effects unclear

But while researchers understand the threat that increasingly corrosive waters
represent, they don't know how this will specifically affect each creature, says
report co-author Joan Kleypas of the Institute for the Study of Society and
Environment in Boulder, Colo., part of the National Center for Atmospheric
Research. As a result, the report lays out suggestions for experiments to be
conducted over the next five to 10 years that will reveal the specific effects
of ocean acidification:

*Tracking changes in the calcification of corals, microscopic plankton and other
shelled creatures.

*Determining how seasonal and water-temperature changes affect acidification.

*Examining the changes to ocean ecology triggered by big drops in the number of
shelled sea creatures.

Researchers have conducted many of these experiments in closed aquarium
conditions, says Brewer. But now he says the challenge is to move those
experiments "into the open oceans" to provide more reliable answers.

Ice core measurements show that oceans have not been as acidic as they now are
for at least 650,000 years, and probably millions of years beyond that, the
study says. That means that today's ocean creatures have evolved for a great
deal of time under balanced ocean conditions, which Kleypas says increases the
likelihood that they will adapt poorly to more corrosive waters.

How carbon dioxide makes oceans more acidic

1. Seawater absorbs atmospheric carbon dioxide at the surface.

2. The carbon dioxide mixes with seawater to form carbonic acid.

3. The carbonic acid is buffered by calcium in seawater to form calcium
carbonate, a chalky substance that sea creatures use to make their shells.

4. At high carbon-dioxide concentrations, the process creates more carbonic acid
than the ocean can buffer with calcium, increasing the acidity of seawater.

5. With higher acidity, it is harder for sea creatures to use calcium carbonate
to make their shells.

Source: Impacts of Ocean Acidification on Coral Reefs and Other Marine
Calcifiers: A Guide for Future Research, National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Color, Florida Keys National Marine Sanctuary
PHOTO, Color, Victoria Fabry, California State University-San Marcos

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              53 of 181 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            June 28, 2006 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Treasury nominee Paulson sounds a lot like outgoing Snow

BYLINE: David J. Lynch

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 439 words


WASHINGTON -- If Treasury Secretary-designate Henry Paulson is going to differ
dramatically from outgoing John Snow, there wasn't much evidence of it Tuesday
during his Senate confirmation hearing.

President Bush nominated Paulson to become Treasury secretary as part of a
second-term shake-up aimed at reinvigorating the president's sagging public
approval ratings. The chairman and chief executive of investment banking
powerhouse Goldman Sachs brings to the post a reputation for financial acumen as
well as deeply held views on issues such as global warming that differ from
administration policy.

But under generally friendly questioning by lawmakers, the prospective Treasury
boss sounded a lot like the old boss. On issues from taxes to trade with China,
Paulson echoed Snow's stance, telling members of the Senate Finance Committee:

*Federal tax cuts slated to expire in coming years should be extended and
efforts to cut the deficit limited to spending reductions. "I feel very strongly
we should not be increasing taxes," Paulson said.

*China is moving toward a market-based currency, but the U.S. should urge
Beijing to go faster.

*Continued economic growth, which has boosted corporate profits, eventually will
pay off for middle-income workers with fatter paychecks.

Paulson also said the current government deficit is "manageable," but he called
for early action on a looming crisis over Medicare and Social Security costs as
millions of baby boomers retire.

Lawmakers hope to confirm Paulson before leaving for the July Fourth holiday.
The nomination faces no major obstacles, with even committee Democrats praising
Paulson as a welcome addition to the administration.

With many members of Congress chafing over administration efforts to strengthen
executive power, several lawmakers urged Paulson to keep them better informed.
Sen. Max Baucus, D-Mont., complained that Treasury officials had not briefed the
committee on the government's use of international bank records to combat
terrorism, which was disclosed by The New York Times.

Paulson promised to personally review the program, which he said he had not yet
been briefed on.

Paulson, 60, long has been active in environmental matters and has warned
publicly that the time needed to address climate change is running out. But
replying to a question from Sen. Ron Wyden, D-Ore., Paulson played down
suggestions his views could modify administration policy.

"The president of the United States has nominated me to be secretary of the
Treasury. He hasn't nominated me to be secretary of the Interior. He hasn't
nominated me to be head of the Environmental Protection Agency."

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Chip Somodevilla, Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              54 of 181 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            July 19, 2006 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Europeans seek to keep cool in brutal heat;
Officials move to protect people at risk as temps soar past 90-degree mark

BYLINE: Cesar G. Soriano

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 475 words


LONDON -- European countries grappling with a heat wave this week are taking
urgent steps to prevent a recurrence of the August 2003 catastrophe that killed
tens of thousands of people across the continent.

London's daytime temperature hit 93 degrees Fahrenheit on Tuesday, well above
the 71-degree average high for the month. Temperatures in southeast England are
forecast to be even hotter today. The Met Office, Great Britain's national
weather service, said the temperatures could break the country's highest
recorded: 101.3, set in 2003.

The heat wave also is affecting parts of France, Italy, Spain and Portugal.
Paris, where the average high temperature is 75 for July, hit 94 on Tuesday, the
Met Office said. In Seville, Spain, six of the past seven days have seen
temperatures of 102 or above. The average high for the month is 97.

Unusually high temperatures in August 2003 caused about 27,000 heat-related
deaths in northwestern Europe. Nearly 15,000 people, mostly elderly, died in
France. Many European countries have since implemented plans for dealing with
heat emergencies.

*French authorities on Sunday declared an orange "dangerous weather phenomenon"
alert -- one step below the highest level on the color-coded heat scale. The
alert prompted a nationwide bulletin urging vigilance of at-risk people,
especially the elderly, children and the handicapped.

*In Italy, air-conditioned shelters opened in Milan and Rome, where temperatures
hovered near 90.

*Britain's Met Office on Monday declared a Level 3 heat wave, one step below the
highest level. The alert requires doctors and local authorities to maintain
daily contact with at-risk people who live alone.

The heat is exacerbated by the fact that most homes and public transportation in
Europe do not have air conditioning. Commuters on London's subway sweltered
Monday on trains in which temperatures reached 117 degrees, according to
readings taken by the Evening Standard newspaper.

Some tourists welcomed the weather. Soaking their legs in London's Trafalgar
Square fountains, Mike and Nonie Lawrence of Rochester, N.Y., said they are
happy to have their stereotype of London weather shattered. Instead of the cool
and rainy days they expected, "we've had nothing but sunshine for eight straight
days," Mike Lawrence, 53, said under a cloudless sky.

Europe's heat wave is the result of hot weather moving north from Africa, said
Sancha Lancaster, a spokeswoman for the Met Office.

Thunderstorms predicted to roll across London on Thursday should cool things
off, but temperatures will remain above normal through July, the Met Office
said. The scorching heat is likely to be a recurring event, Lancaster said.

"Under climate change, the current temperatures in the UK could become the norm
over the next 40 or 50 years," she said. "It's something people are going to
have to get used to."

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              57 of 181 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            November 24, 2006 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Growing number of states requiring alternative energy;
Plans mandate wind, solar, other renewable sources

BYLINE: Tom Kenworthy

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 620 words


DENVER -- Renewable energy is gathering steam in several states as voters and
governors push electric utilities to generate a set percentage of electricity
from clean sources such as wind and solar power.

In Washington state, voters approved a measure Nov. 7 mandating that 15% of
electrical power come from renewable sources by 2020.

That makes 20 states and the District of Columbia with such requirements,
according to the Department of Energy. Iowa has had such a program since 1997.
Two other states -- Illinois and Vermont -- have non-binding goals on using
renewable energy sources.

More states are forcing utilities toward wind, solar and other renewable energy
sources, such as geothermal and biomass, to cut the use of coal and natural gas
and spur greater U.S. energy independence. Burning coal produces greenhouse
gases such as carbon dioxide that contribute to climate change. Power plants
fueled by natural gas pollute the air with sulfur dioxide.

Opponents, including some utilities and industries, say the switch will be
costly for consumers and businesses. In Senate testimony last year, the National
Association of Manufacturers opposed a proposed federal requirement to use
renewable energy because it would reduce the flexibility of utilities in
choosing fuels and harm businesses trying to remain competitive by containing
costs.

Other states taking action:

*California Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger signed a law in September that
accelerates the timetable for 20% of electricity to come from solar, wind and
other clean power sources. The compliance date is now 2010, seven years earlier
than previously required by state law.

*New Mexico Gov. Bill Richardson proposed last month that the state increase its
current requirement that 10% of electricity come from renewable sources by 2011.
He wants utilities to produce 15% of their power from renewable sources by 2015
and 25% by 2020.

*Oregon Gov. Ted Kulongoski is developing a legislative package calling for 25%
of electrical power from renewable energy by 2025.

In Colorado, Gov.-elect Bill Ritter made renewable energy a centerpiece of his
campaign.

"We're going to move aggressively" on increasing the use of solar and wind
power, says state House Speaker Andrew Romanoff. "Colorado ought to be a leader
in this field, and it's been lapped by more aggressive states."

Colorado voters in 2004 approved a referendum requiring that the state draw 10%
of its electricity from renewable sources. In October, the state's largest
utility, Xcel Energy, announced it will meet the 10% target by next year. Xcel's
quick success reflects, in part, the abundance of solar power and wind in
Colorado, which is not the case everywhere.

Xcel, which serves 1.3 million customers in Colorado, is studying how it could
attain a higher percentage, spokesman Tom Henley says. That's "something we're
looking at. ... The only question is whether it would be prudent." He points to
the intermittent reliability of wind and solar power.

Xcel was moving toward large-scale purchases of renewable electricity before the
2004 vote, Henley says. It has contracts with four large wind-electricity
producers, is awaiting regulatory approval to build a large solar plant in
southern Colorado and pays credits and rebates to homeowners and businesses that
install solar panels.

Progress in the states could spur Congress to enact a federal standard, predicts
Anna Aurelio, director of the Washington office of U.S. PIRG, an environmental
group. The Senate in 2005 approved a 10% mandate that failed in the House, and
Sen. Jeff Bingaman, D-N.M., incoming chairman of the Energy and Natural
Resources Committee, has said he will try again.

"This is a huge opportunity right now," Aurelio says.

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Robert W. Ahrens, USA TODAY, Source: U.S. Dept. of Energy
(Map)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              64 of 181 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              July 24, 2006 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Thanks to its CEO, UPS doesn't just deliver;
Up-through-ranks Eskew oversees new directions

BYLINE: David J. Lynch

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 1717 words


LANDOVER, Md. -- A few things have changed since Mike Eskew first worked at the
UPS package-sorting facility here in the late 1970s. Most of his former
co-workers are long gone. Nobody wears leisure suits anymore. And there are a
lot more computers spread around this utilitarian structure, including handheld
tablets that would have been unimaginable back during the Carter administration.

Oh, and one other thing: Eskew, 57, who was a garden-variety industrial engineer
during a four-year stint here that ended in 1982, is now the company's CEO. That
up-through-the-ranks progression may be unusual in an era where superstar chief
executives come and go faster than American Idol hopefuls, but it's typical for
UPS, a 99-year-old company that prides itself on cultivating homegrown talent.

If Eskew cut himself shaving, he'd probably bleed UPS brown. A lover of history
-- Doris Kearns Goodwin's study of Abraham Lincoln's management style, Team of
Rivals, is a recent favorite -- he prefers dinner at home with his wife, Molly,
(served before 8 p.m.) to an evening of black-tie socializing.

The Indiana native last year hauled in a salary and bonus of $1.2 million for
helming a company with $43 billion in annual revenue, but he chafes at the
attention that comes with the job. He'd rather highlight the people and
processes that have transformed this once-staid delivery service into a
technology-rich mainstay of global commerce.

"Our ambition is not just to get things from here to there, but to enable
commerce" he says. "And enabling commerce can encompass an awful lot."

Along with carting boxes and envelopes around the world, UPS employees today
repair Toshiba laptops, run warehouses full of spare parts for Bentley autos and
pull Nike athletic shoes off the shelves. It all falls under the prosaic heading
of "supply chain management," a fast-growing business that has UPS reshaping the
production and distribution of products throughout the economy.

It's essential work but often invisible to consumers.  Likewise, Eskew's
low-wattage ego means his role as a globalization choreographer often goes
overlooked. But it's on his watch that UPS aggressively moved beyond its
traditional delivery role into deeper operational partnerships with its business
customers. And pulling that off required a subtle evolution in the corporate
culture.

From its founding in 1907 as a Seattle-based messenger service, UPS was a
company that prided itself on executing carefully prepared plans with results
that generally led the industry. But the downside of that well-defined corporate
modus operandi was an inward-looking insularity.

Like many corporations during the rise of the mass market after World War II,
UPS offered customers one-size-fits-all services. "Nobody got (exactly) what
they wanted. We did things the way we wanted to do it. We were a 'one-way'
company," a shirt-sleeved Eskew tells about 30 managers clustered around a
U-shaped conference table.

Now, Eskew promotes a customized approach to customer needs that reflects a
strikingly different economic model. Instead of an environment where companies
"push" their products and services into the marketplace, customers (including
other businesses) now "pull" what they want, when they want it. "We have to
think about customers differently ... treat every package like it's the only one
we have," he said.

Part of that reorientation involves spreading the word during periodic visits to
company facilities such as this one a few miles east of the nation's capital.
UPS has 400,000 employees, including 65,000 outside the USA. Only 70 of the
workers abroad  are American expatriates. So whether in Shanghai or Seattle,
employees need to imbibe the same corporate culture. "They need to understand:
'This is the vision and this is how I fit,'" says Eskew.

Bringing order to chaos

On this early summer day, which happens to be Eskew's 57th birthday, bad weather
in the nation's midsection is playing havoc with delivery schedules. As always,
workers have been here since 4:15 a.m., getting packages ready to be loaded
aboard the brown trucks that UPS calls "package cars." But on one conveyor,
yellow envelopes and cardboard boxes are backing up, reflecting the
weather-related disruption.

As he moves along the line, Eskew quizzes a local manager about the "data ack"
-- a measure of how often bar-code readers are failing to read automated
delivery information. When that happens, workers must manually enter the
addresses, which takes longer, costs more and introduces the chance of human
error. Told the  devices are coming up empty on 7.5% of the packages, his
eyebrows rise: "Really? That's high."

Elsewhere, he touches boxes with a proprietary pat, noting that the torrential
rain in the Midwest has caused several envelope seals to loosen.

This is no CEO drive-by grip-and-grin. As he ducks under conduits and peers into
delivery vehicles, Eskew, an industrial engineer by training, is vacuuming up
details and dispensing attaboys with the practiced air of a motivational
speaker. Addressing a group of drivers as they prepare to hit the road, he
elevates their work-a-day routine into a sacred cause: "What you do is noble.
... You make business better. You make communities better. You bring order to
chaos."

Moments later, meeting with district managers in the conference room upstairs,
Eskew reviews the changes that have remade the company. The past several years,
UPS acquired six logistics companies, a brokerage, specialists in so-called
less-than-truckload shipments, freight forwarders, even a small bank in
Connecticut. Three years ago, Eskew redrew the company's venerable logo. (This
morning, he notices that not every package car is sporting the new look.)

Eskew, who spent two years in Germany before transferring here, also presided
over a major move abroad. In 1982, when he left his job here, UPS outside the
USA had only a toehold in Canada and what was then West Germany. Now, it's in
200 countries, and operating margins on its international package business are
higher than on its core domestic franchise.

"We did have to change a lot," he says later over lunch at a downtown Washington
hotel. "We had to add a lot of capability and technology. ... But an awful lot
of it is basic execution."

Financial results have been impressive. In April, UPS reported first-quarter
earnings of $975 million, up 10.5% from  the same period a year earlier.
Quarterly revenue of $11.5 billion rose 16.5%. But Wall Street has yawned. Since
Eskew assumed the top job, the company's share price is up 44% vs. a 109% gain
for faster-growing rival FedEx.

Being a virtual partner

Consumers see globalization as the chance to buy inexpensive T-shirts, furniture
or appliances made in faraway factories. For companies, the phenomenon means the
ability to divide both the production and distribution of their products into
discrete tasks,  many of which can be outsourced to companies such as UPS.
Economywide, such just-in-time strategies liposuctioned $4.6 trillion worth of
excess out of inventory over the past 20 years.

Such an intimate relationship goes far beyond picking up boxes and carrying them
somewhere else. In 2003, sandal-maker Birkenstock, for example, handed UPS
responsibility for managing the shipping of its products from German factories
directly to retail stores in the USA. The move allows Birkenstock to focus on
what it does best -- make trendy footwear -- while leaving the boring but
indispensable work of shipping, customs and freight to UPS.

Thanks to information technology, UPS can eliminate interim warehouse stops and
inform retailers such as Birkenstock exactly where each product shipment is and
when it will arrive at specific locations. That helps streamline inventory
stockpiles, which cuts costs.

Don Broughton, an analyst at A.G. Edwards, says that by assuming the functions
of a wholesale distributor, UPS can eliminate 15% to 20% of a manufacturer's
typical costs. That savings then can be divided between UPS and its customer.

By making UPS a virtual partner, Birkenstock also gains enormous flexibility in
meeting shifting consumer demand. That makes it more likely that customers will
find what they want on a specific store's shelves. "This sounds very mundane,"
says Yossi Sheffi, director of the MIT Center for Transportation and Logistics.
"But now Birkenstock doesn't have to decide which model goes to which store
until the shipment reaches U.S. shores. Now they can make the decision much
closer to the selling point."

The supply chain business is growing fast, but such jobs historically have
generated far thinner profit margins than the rest of UPS business. Such de
facto alliances, however, benefit both UPS and its customers, Sheffi says.

Taking on additional customers allows UPS to capitalize on economies of scale
from its existing global network of planes, trucks, computers and warehouses,
while customers can offload their distribution headaches onto a more
knowledgeable -- and thus more efficient -- specialist. That's especially
important for small businesses that want to sell or source globally.

Few companies are better advertisements for globalization than UPS. So Eskew
frets over shaky political support for free trade and evangelizes for Americans
to do better preparing their kids for an interconnected world.

He's also busy expanding service in China, doubling capacity at UPS' European
base and writing a $1 billion check to increase his Louisville air hub 60% by
2010. But most of all, in this hypercompetitive environment, he worries about
keeping the corporate edge and striking the right balance between change and
continuity.

"I try to create a climate where people understand where we're going," Eskew
says. "That's what a leader does."

TEXT OF BIO BOX BEGINS HERE

About Michael Eskew
Title: Chairman and CEO

Hometown: Vincennes, Ind.

Education: B.S. in industrial engineering from Purdue University; advanced
management program at The Wharton School.

Career: Rose through UPS ranks after being hired in 1972; efficiency expert in
West Germany and several domestic locations before building the UPS airline
starting in 1984; member of the company's board since 1998; named vice chairman
in 2000; became CEO on Jan. 1, 2002.

Hobbies: Golf, history.

Family: Wife, Molly, and four children.

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Color, Tim Dillon, USA TODAY
PHOTO, B/W, Tim Dillon, USA TODAY

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COVER STORY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              70 of 181 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            January 20, 2006 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Tender loving care beats costly home repairs;
Skip maintenance at your wallet's peril

BYLINE: Noelle Knox

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 1310 words


For want of a nail, the saying goes, a kingdom was lost.

OK, so your home isn't exactly a castle. But it's probably the most valuable
asset you'll own. So when was the last time you changed the filter in your air
conditioner or put a battery in your fire alarm? Tested the pressure valve on
your water heater? Or are you thinking, "Uh ... there's a valve?"

"I can't tell you how many people who live in an expensive house, that they
spent a significant amount of money on, assume it doesn't require ongoing
maintenance," says Ron Phipps of Phipps Realty in Warwick, R.I. "They pay the
electric bill and get the grass cut, but they don't do maintenance."

The average homeowner should budget 1% to 3% of the home's value for annual
maintenance, depending on the age and size of the home and area climate. Some
years it might cost more, other years less.

But many of us are like Sarah Van Elderen, 23, who closed last month on her
first home, a condo in Grand Rapids, Mich. "I haven't done a lot of budgeting
for it, and I know I should," she admits.

All it takes is an unchecked leak under the upstairs bathroom sink, and instead
of replacing a $30 valve, you're spending your vacation fund on home repairs.

"It's not just the wood under the sink; the water can quickly spread into the
downstairs ceiling," explains Gil Engler of Master Home Inspectors in Bethesda,
Md. "And that's a $500 repair."

Even condo buyers should beware. Don't look just at the monthly association fee.
Ask about the cash reserves of the condo association and any maintenance that
must be done. Phipps learned the hard way, when he bought a condo in late 2004.

"Within four months, there was a $4,000 special assessment for re-shingling the
roof," he says. "This year, there was a $2,200 assessment because they want to
paint the building. The condo fees are $2,000 a year. Yet within two years, I've
spent another $6,200 on special assessments."

So if you've already broken your New Year's weight-loss resolution, consider
burning a few calories doing your own home maintenance. Remember: Every one to
three months, you should change the air filters in your heater/air conditioner
and check the smoke detector. Here's a month-by-month guide, based in part on
National Association of Realtors recommendations:

Month-by-month to-do list

January

*Dig out warranties and product manuals from under that stack of
restaurant-delivery menus and check on recommended maintenance for furnaces,
equipment, appliances and tools. Mark your calendar to track scheduled upkeep
and service.

*Make a room-by-room inventory of everything in your house. This will be
important, in case of fire, flood or any of the 10 Plagues covered by your
insurance policy, in filing an insurance claim. It's also a good excuse to use
the new camera you got for Christmas.

*Don't close vents to crawl spaces. If you live where pipes can freeze and the
floors become very cold, you should either move to San Diego or insulate pipes
under the floor. Double-check insulation around exterior pipes that are exposed
to freezing weather to be sure water can't seep under the insulation.

February

*Remove drain traps under sinks and clean them thoroughly. Inspect grout and
caulk around tubs, sinks and showers. Chip out cracked grout and replace.
Stained, discolored and mildewed caulk should be cleaned with household cleaner.

*Musty closet odors can be reduced or eliminated by removing the closet's
contents and washing walls with a diluted solution of chlorine bleach.

*To keep valves from sticking and to check for leaks, turn all water valves off
and on. That includes outdoor faucets and valves to toilets, bathroom and
kitchen sinks, laundry, bar, etc.

March

*After heavy rain, inspect your basement walls for signs of moisture or, worse,
swimming sharks. If you detect wetness, first try running a portable
dehumidifier. Check the downspouts and the grading around the foundation.

*Check to make sure your sump pump works properly by pouring water into the pump
silo to raise the float and activate the motor.

*Test the pressure and temperature relief valve on your water heater by opening
it and allowing some water to flow out. Bad valves can cause explosions.
Remember that office building in The Matrix Reloaded?

April

*Replace batteries in smoke detectors. Battery: $2. Your life: priceless.

*Inspect screens for tears and bent frames. Check outdoor structures for
deterioration -- especially signs of rot. Also inspect the crawl space or
basement after rain for water accumulation or excessive moisture. Look for signs
of water damage on the sub floor and joists beneath bathrooms, the kitchen and
laundry.

*Check fire extinguishers to make sure they're not outdated, have lost pressure
or are damaged.

*Check all weatherstripping around doors and windows for wear, damage or loss of
flexibility.

May

*Clean gutters. Make sure downspouts or splash backs direct water at least 6
feet from the foundation.

*Have central air-conditioning unit checked. Replace the filter in the
forced-air system. Clean debris from condenser or heat pump outside.

*Remove mineral deposits from faucet aerators and shower heads by soaking parts
in white vinegar and scrubbing with an old toothbrush.

*Have swimming pool cleaned. Inspect and service pool liners and filters.

June

*Clean and seal decks, using ultraviolet-resistant sealer.

*Hire a certified chimney sweep to inspect and clean chimneys and watch Mary
Poppins with the kids.

*Clean lint from the entire clothes dryer vent system, from the dryer to the
exterior vent cap.

July

*Check all exterior walls for peeling or cracked paint. Carefully inspect brick
or masonry siding for cracks or missing mortar.

*Inspect roofing material for cracks and loose or missing shingles and repair as
necessary.

*Prune trees and shrubs so branches do not come in contact with exterior siding.

*Clean and repair cracks in concrete driveways using epoxy patching material.
Repair asphalt driveways using asphalt patching material. Seal asphalt driveways
every other year.

*Inspect foundation walls for signs of termites -- tunnels or dirt bridges.

August

*Use a vacuum with a narrow nozzle to clean condenser coils on the back or
underneath your refrigerator -- for the first time in your life.

*Check faucets for leaks and replace washers or repair the faucet as necessary.

*Clean underneath range hood. Remove and clean or replace range hood filters.
Yes, they can be changed.

September

*Paint interior rooms while it's still warm enough to leave windows open.

*Check heating system, including filters, pilot lights and burners, and have the
system serviced by a qualified professional. Read: This is dangerous.

*Survey the outside of your house to make sure soil around the foundation is
properly graded. Soil should slope 3 to 6 inches for a distance of 3 feet out
from the foundation walls.

October

*Detach hoses in case of freezing temperatures. Ask yourself why you didn't move
to San Diego.

*Inspect weatherstripping around doors and windows and repair or replace if
necessary.

*Clean gutters after leaves have fallen. Make sure downspouts are in good
condition.

*Change batteries in smoke and carbon monoxide detectors. Check gauges on home
fire extinguishers to ensure a full charge.

November

*Inspect automatic garage-door opener and lubricate according to the
manufacturer's directions.

*Check for leaks around washing machine. Prime suspects for leaks are the water
supply hose washers.

December

*Check the operation of all circuit interrupters in your ground outlets by
pushing the "test" button. The "reset" button should pop out, indicating the
receptacle is operating properly. Press in the reset button.

*Check inside bathroom vanities and kitchen-sink cabinets for moisture and other
signs of leaks. Carefully inspect pipes for condensation or slow drips.

Now you can gloat.

Your home's value is rising faster than your neighbor's.

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Karl Gelles, USA TODAY, Reporting by Noelle Knox and
George Petras, Source: Master Home Inspectors (DIAGRAM)
PHOTOS, B/W, H. Darr Beiser, USA TODAY (4)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: MANAGING YOUR MONEY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              73 of 181 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             March 17, 2006 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Grand Vitara gets a lot right;
Small SUV has high-class looks and sporty handling

BYLINE: James R. Healey

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 10D

LENGTH: 1372 words


Suzuki remade its Grand Vitara small SUV for 2006 and must have done a lot
right. It's selling four times as fast as the previous model.

The appeal is obvious.

The '06 Grand Vitara is handsome, appearing more expensive than it is, which is
$20,000 to start, $25,000 luxed to the nines.

A V-6 engine is standard, as are abundant air bags, anti-lock brakes and
stability control. The optional automatic transmission has five speeds, not just
four. Rear seats recline as well as fold forward easily, and they provide enough
space for adults to sit in comfort. Materials look and feel rich, belying the
price tag. Leather, satellite radio, automatic four-wheel drive all are
available. Downsizing doesn't have to mean downgrading.

Two four-wheel-drive systems are available, in fact. One is a set-and-forget
full-time system and the other an engage-as-needed setup. Both have low-range
gears for demanding slogging at walking speed -- a feature not generally found
on small SUVs, Jeep Liberty being a notable exception. The full-time system also
has a neutral position that allows the vehicle to be safely towed with all four
wheels on the ground, a feature beloved by motor-home drivers who want to tug
along a runabout.

Grand Vitara's car-style unibody platform is welded atop a steel frame, giving
it extra ruggedness at the cost of extra weight -- about 200 pounds heavier than
the unibody-only Ford Escape SUV (though 300-plus pounds lighter than Liberty).

The ride is somewhat stiff, just so for truck fans, a bit much for tushes
expecting a true car-like ride.

Cornering is competent, even a bit sporty. Steering and brakes feel proper. All
told, the dynamics are high-class, especially for a low-price vehicle.

Ground clearance is listed as 7.9 inches, not enough for regularly clambering
over downed trees but sufficient for most excursions. A typical car has 4 or 5
inches of ground clearance. A full-size, off-road pickup has a foot or more.

Suzuki is a tiny presence in the U.S. new-vehicle market. Only Isuzu, Porsche,
Ferrari and Maserati sell fewer vehicles.

But Suzuki is growing explosively as it remakes and updates its model lineup.
Sales are up 36% the first two months this year in a market up 4%.

Suzuki is 10th of 36 brands sold in the USA in the latest predicted-reliability
ranking by influential Consumer Reports magazine. That's high enough that it
could allow shoppers to disregard quality concerns. Suzuki was No.10 last year,
too, according to CR's annual survey of owners.

Grand Vitara -- nothing called just Vitara has been sold here for about eight
years, Suzuki says -- has two rows of seats. If you want three rows, that's the
XL-7. But it's an old design to be replaced later this year. The replacement XL7
(the hyphen is being discontinued) will be more like the redone Grand Vitara. It
is to be unveiled at the New York auto show next month,  and is to go on sale
Sept. 5 with a 3.6-liter V-6 rated 250 horsepower. It will be bigger than the
current XL-7 and available with either front- or four-wheel drive.

Salients, based on a week in a high-end Grand Vitara, and another week in an
XSport, a version on sale only since January:

*Drivetrain. In the luxury version, the V-6 engine sounded coarse, unpleasant,
crude. Oddly, it did not in the XSport. Both were regular-production models.

Power is up from the previous model, but still not quite enough to comfortably
handle fast-merge and quick-pass requirements when the vehicle is laden.

The five-speed automatic transmission, though a nice touch of sophistication in
a low-price SUV, wasn't adept at picking the right gear to keep the engine
perking along at its best. It was worse in the luxury version, and barely an
annoyance in the XSport. Full-throttle downshifts involved a lag and lunge in
both testers.

*Fuel-economy gauge. It only supplies instant mileage readout, no average or
cumulative calculation. Seems silly. Who cares that you get 90-plus miles per
gallon coasting downhill? Even if you consider it a tool to teach fuel-efficient
driving, the gauge is far enough out of your peripheral vision that monitoring
it is dangerous. Suzuki says it will change the gauge on '07 models so you can
track average fuel economy, a more useful number.

*Details. Doors and tailgate on both test vehicles were unusually stiff and hard
to open. But that also kept them from bouncing too easily into the side of the
Ferrari parked next to you sporting an "insured by Smith & Wesson"  bumper
sticker and whose owner is walking this way right now.

Side panels in the rear cargo area of the luxury model were flimsy and loose but
somehow managed not to make noise or otherwise remind you of their apparent
cheapness. XSport had no loose panels.

Climate control in both testers had trouble finding a comfortable middle ground
for 50-degree days when you wanted just a touch of extra warmth. Too hot; down
one notch; oops, too chilly.

No flaw is a deal-breaker, especially considering the price. A more carefully
tuned automatic transmission and a bit more power is all that stands between the
'06 Grand Vitara and vigorous applause.
2006 Suzuki Grand Vitara
*What is it? Compact, four-door, five-passenger SUV, larger and more powerful
than the model it replaces. Available with rear-wheel drive (RWD), part-time or
full-time four-wheel drive (4x4). Manufactured in Japan.

*How soon? XSport on sale since January, others since fall.

*How much? Base model starts at $19,594 including $595 destination charge.
Premium model starts at $20,494. XSport starts at $21,694. Luxury model with all
options is $24,994.

*What's the drivetrain? 2.7-liter V-6 rated 185 horsepower at 6,000 rpm, 184
pounds-feet of torque at 4,500 rpm. Five-speed manual transmission is standard
on base and Premium models. Five-speed automatic is standard on XSport and
Luxury models, $960 option on base and Premium.

Part-time 4x4 system has high- and low-range gears and requires driver to shift
into and out of 4x4 mode as needed. Full-time system -- four-mode four-wheel
drive is Suzuki's term -- is similar but also has "set and forget" automatic
mode that keeps vehicle in RWD until rear wheels slip, then sends power to the
front wheels.

*What's the safety gear?  Front- and side-impact air bags for front-seat
occupants; front and rear head-curtain bags; stability control; anti-lock
brakes.

*What's the rest? Automatic climate control; AM/FM/CD/MP3/WMA stereo; power
steering, brakes, windows, locks, mirrors; cruise control; tilt-adjustable
steering column; rear-window wiper, defroster; automatic on/off headlights.
Other features vary by model. More details: www.suzuki.com.

*How big? Similar to Jeep Liberty, Ford Escape. Grand Vitara is 176 inches long,
71.3 inches wide, 66.7 inches tall on a 103.9-inch wheelbase. Weight ranges from
3,452 to 3,682 pounds depending on model and equipment. Rated to tow 3,000
pounds.

Cargo space is listed as 24.4 cubic feet (23.8 in Luxury model) behind the rear
seat, 68.9 cubic feet (67.3 cubic feet in Luxury) when rear seat's folded flat.

Rated to tow 3,000 pounds, carry up to 904 pounds of people, cargo and
accessories.

*How thirsty? Manual transmission models are rated 18 miles per gallon in town,
23   highway. Automatics are rated 19/24 with FWD, 19/23 with 4x4. Regular-grade
fuel (87 octane) is specified.

*Overall: Commendable.

Who has the best warranty?
Suzuki says it has "America's #1 Warranty." It covers the powertrain -- engine
and transmission -- seven years or 100,000 miles. The powertrain warranty
transfers to the next owner when you sell the vehicle. General coverage is three
years or 36,000 miles. Free roadside assistance is provided around the clock.

Rival Hyundai has what it calls "America's Best Warranty." It provides
powertrain coverage for 10 years or 100,000 miles, but it doesn't transfer to
subsequent owners. They get whatever is left of the general warranty, which is
five years or 60,000 miles -- similar to luxury brands. Round-the-clock free
roadside assistance is provided.

---
More online
*E-mail testdrive@usatoday.com.

*Go to cars.usatoday.com to hear James R. Healey's comments on the Suzuki Grand
Vitara, see more photos of the Grand Vitara, find previous Test Drive columns
and get information on pricing, incentives and more.

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS, B/W, Suzuki (2)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: TEST DRIVE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              78 of 181 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             May 18, 2006 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Are commercial real estate loans going to hurt banks?;
Regulators target loan standards to avoid bust

BYLINE: Sue Kirchhoff

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 1786 words


Collman & Karsky Architects of Tampa has increased its staff by nearly a third
since late 2004, trying to keep pace with surging demand for sleek new office,
condo and retail buildings.

"The vacancy rate for office space is in the 10% range (or lower). As that
approaches down to the 6% range, we're going to be seeing more speculative
office buildings," says Rodney Collman, a principal at the firm, discussing
local conditions. "We still have about 1,000 people a day moving into Florida.
We've got a lot of housing needs."

Commercial real estate has surged after several down years. That's good news for
the economy and firms like Collman's. But it's worrying federal officials, who
note many banks are carrying a heavier concentration of real estate loans today
than they did during a heady 1980s boom -- a boom that ended in a bust, forcing
many lenders out of business.

In Georgia, commercial real estate loan concentration (a definition that
includes housing activity) is at record levels, soaring from $7.5 billion and
40% of bank assets in 1996 to $34.5 billion and 61% in 2005,  the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp. says. In Florida, construction and development loans
grew 66% in 2005. In Wisconsin, 87% of lenders boosted commercial real estate
portfolios in the past year.

Nationally, in the mid-'90s, 15%-20% of federally insured banks had what
regulators consider a heavy load of commercial real estate loans. In 2005, it
was 40%, the FDIC says.

"For banks in the moderate-sized ranges and smaller, what we're seeing is that
the amount of capital committed to commercial real estate has basically more
than doubled from the year 2000 and that ... these loans today represent three
times capital," says Federal Reserve Gov. Susan Schmidt Bies, a former bank
official. "Back in the worst times of the '80s, it was one-and-a-half times
capital."

Capital generally refers to bank equity, loan loss reserves and certain forms of
debt.

Tightening loan standards

Determined to avoid a reprise of the 1980s, regulators are tightening standards
for commercial real estate lending. While such loans are generally performing
well and bank profits are healthy, Bies and other officials warn that the
industry is entering a time in which problems are most likely to crop up.
Interest rates are rising and a wave of just-completed office, condo and other
buildings are coming to market, which could affect rents and prices.

Lenders are fighting the efforts, particularly smaller banks that see real
estate as one of their best chances to compete effectively with huge, national
lenders. Industry representatives, who have filed hundreds of comments on the
plan, note that banks are better managed than during the '80s and that part of
the development during that period was fueled by ill-advised federal tax cuts,
later repealed.

"Community banks are saying, 'If you take this line of business from us, you're
running the risk of essentially putting us out of business,'" says Mark
Tenhundfeld, director of the American Bankers Association Office of Regulatory
Policy.

David H. Wells Jr., president and CEO of K Bank, a $650 million commercial bank
in Owings Mills, Md., says the federal effort has already affected his business.
He's decided to hold back a bit due to uncertainty about the regulatory climate
and signs of softening in housing.

"What they've done is to throw a bucket of cold water over the whole business,"
Wells says. "We're certainly not going to get any more concentrated."

Industry analysts agree that banks are more cautious than two decades ago. But
given the up-and-down nature of the real estate market, some say there's no
substitute for tighter regulation of portfolios.

"The concentration in real estate exposure in the industry has always been
fairly high, but right now it's at an all-time peak," says Khanh Vuong, a senior
financial analyst at AM Best, which rates the financial condition of insurers
and, increasingly, banks. It issued a report calling concentration a "powerful
risk" to bank earnings. "Market conditions are softening."

Construction picking up

Commercial real estate slowed several years ago but has been coming back. U.S.
office vacancy rates, now the lowest since the 2001 recession, will average 11%
by the end of 2006. That's down from more than 14% in 2005. An estimated 31,000
hotel rooms are expected to be added in 52 markets studied in 2006, up from
3,852 in 2005, the National Association of Realtors says.

Retail building is near a record high, according to Robert Murray of McGraw-Hill
Construction.

"There's been a sense that this has been a more disciplined real estate cycle,
compared with 10 to 15 years ago," Murray says, with a greater share of
buildings pre-leased or sold. He adds, however, that more office buildings are
under construction, which is "starting to generate some concern."

The American Institute of Architects' monthly index of billings shows activity
expanding. Architecture billings are a sort of leading indicator, with changes
in activity presaging by about nine months either a slowdown or speedup in
construction activity.

"We've seen no signs so far that acceleration (in commercial real estate) is
starting to wane," says Kermit Baker, AIA chief economist.

Michael Sullivan of OWP&P Architects in Chicago says conditions are healthy,
with some firms constructing new office buildings in the suburbs. "I certainly
have not heard that clients are having difficulty on the financing side,"
Sullivan says.

Rents for commercial real estate have been surging, according to Global Real
Analytics. Warehouse rates in Las Vegas rose 13.7% from the first quarter of
2005 to the same period in 2006. Retail rents in Honolulu were up 13.4% and
office rents in San Francisco's central business district were up 12.5%.

Still, Detroit and Cleveland were struggling, while some commercial real estate
properties in Atlanta, Dallas, Chicago and Norfolk had lagging rents, Global
Real Analytics says. Further, housing is slowing, and there are fears about a
glut of condos in Florida and other areas.

Commercial real estate has been a support to community banks, which have been
losing traditional business to big institutions.

In 1985, community banks had 33.6% of consumer and mortgage loans, midsize banks
had 49.8%, while the nation's biggest 25 banks had 16.6%. By 2003, the community
bank share was 11.6% and the midsize share 29%, while the big banks had 59.4%,
the FDIC says.

"I wouldn't describe it as alarming, I would describe it as a natural reaction"
to a good economy and record home market, says Steve Fritts, director of risk
management policy at the FDIC Supervision and Consumer Protection Division. But
he adds that "loans may be very good loans individually, but as (concentration)
has grown, banks haven't necessarily built up the management systems."

Taking account of risks

Overbuilding can force down rents. Rising interest rates may make it more
difficult to sell a property or complete a project. Foreign capital and pension
funds chasing investment properties, along with banks competing for business,
may push prices too high and erode lending standards in some areas.

The regulators' guidance is intended to ensure that banks consider a range of
factors as their real estate portfolios grow, taking account of the broader
risks.

The Fed, FDIC, Office of Thrift Supervision and Comptroller of the Currency want
banks to implement a range of risk management controls, including possibly
beefing up capital, if they have a significant number of commercial loans.
Commercial real estate is defined as loans secured by land, development and
construction (including commercial and residential) and loans on existing
properties like apartments, retail and offices.

They emphasize their focus is on the most volatile slice of the business: loans
whose repayment depends on rental income, proceeds of a sale, or permanent
financing or refinancing of the property.

The guidance for the first time has benchmarks for identifying whether a bank's
portfolio may be becoming overly heavy in real estate. Under one marker, banks
with construction and development loans totaling 100% or more of risk-based
capital would have what regulators call a potential concentration. Banks with
construction, multifamily housing and commercial real estate loans at 300% or
more of capital  also would be potentially concentrated.

Based on the potential risk, banks would be expected to have appropriate
controls such as clear risk standards, oversight by their bank board, strategic
and contingency planning for downturns, and adequate capital and reserves.

Regulators emphasize the benchmarks are not a cap. They also say most banks are
already well capitalized.

"In my opinion they're overreacting," says David Holmstrom, senior vice
president for commercial lending at Golf Saving Bank in Seattle. The bank,
initially a mortgage lender, is now active in residential and commercial real
estate.

According to AM Best, under the proposed federal definition, Golf Saving Bank
would have a construction lending concentration of more than 600% of capital.

Holmstrom says it's no surprise, given the nature of its business. He says the
bank already has many of the management controls regulators suggest, though it
would probably have to beef up its systems.

"Seattle is our primary market. The economy is in good shape; the prospects (for
real estate) are in good shape, too," Holmstrom says.

Robert Lavoie, attorney for Devine Millimet who chairs the real estate practice
group for the firm that is active in New England, says he has seen some
softening in the Massachusetts market in the past six months to a year,
particularly in the housing end.

"The bubble that burst in the 1980s was a shock for most of the lenders that
lived through that. There were deals in the '80s that were surprising then and
have not been repeated," Lavoie says.

The guidance could change after regulators weed through hundreds of comments.
Bank officials complain the new concentration formulas mix lower-risk loans for
housing with higher-risk speculative office or retail developments.

Joe Brannen, president of the Georgia Bankers Association, thinks current state
and federal inspections are adequate and wants federal regulators to pull the
guidelines and perform a study.

"We see no hint of overbuilding here," Brannen says.

Still, AM Best notes that more than 60% of banks in California had lending
concentrations above the 300% threshold, some with commercial loans at more than
1,000% of capital.

"Banks are much better equipped in terms of managing the risk. ... Having said
that, the cyclical effect of this asset class remains," says Vuong. "You can
mitigate a risk, but the risk is still there."

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, Color, Sam Ward, USA TODAY (illustration)
GRAPHIC, Color, Karl Gelles, USA TODAY (map and line graph)
GRAPHIC, B/W, Adrienne Lewis, USA TODAY (line graph and bar graph)
PHOTO, B/W, Mark Lannihan, AP

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COVER STORY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              79 of 181 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             May 24, 2006 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Gore's 'Truth' is highly watchable

BYLINE: Claudia Puig

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 5D

LENGTH: 394 words


Al Gore's 40-year-long passion on the subject of global warming shines through
powerfully and lights up An Inconvenient Truth (***1/2 out of four).

What could have been mired in political rhetoric or techno-speak is instead
illuminating, fascinating and sometimes frightening. A thought-provoking
cautionary tale that is also lively and entertaining, An Inconvenient Truth
showcases the dedication, warmth and, yes, charm of the former vice president.

By delving into Gore's personal tragedies and setbacks (the near-fatal accident
of his son, his sister's death from lung cancer and his oh-so-close loss of the
2000 presidential election), director Davis Guggenheim reveals an Al Gore who is
admirably resilient. After his loss to George W. Bush, Gore chose not to
retreat, instead hitting the road on a mission to inform the world about the
peril the planet is facing.

Gore's commitment to reversing global warming had its origins in his student
days at Harvard and continues as he takes his multimedia show (a blend of
scientific data, startling photographs, statistics, cartoons and humor) all over
the USA and abroad.

Gore's point is a simple one: We have a moral imperative, as individuals and as
a nation, to do something about global warming, the dramatic, precipitous rise
of world temperatures in the atmosphere, on land and in bodies of water, caused
by greenhouse gases.

Gore has a gift for making scientific data digestible, understandable and
intriguing. He is so consumed by the subject and impassioned in his efforts to
change minds that it is hard not to get caught up in his fervor.

Though there is a bit of quasi-deification in Guggenheim's rapturous directing
style, Gore deflates the attempt at hagiography. With his down-to-earth
communication style and darkly humorous asides, he takes a deadly serious
problem and makes it feel personal and, most important, fixable. Americans  may
be responsible for emitting 30% of the gases that cause global warming, but we
also can be part of the solution, he insists. He stresses that this
environmental condition is not a political issue, but a moral one.

Gore's exploration of "the collision between our civilization and the Earth"
comes alive in this resonant, haunting and inspiring film. (Opens today in New
York and Los Angeles. Running time: 1 hour, 40 minutes. Rating: PG for mild
thematic elements.)

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Color, Eric Lee, Paramount Classics

DOCUMENT-TYPE: MOVIE REVIEW

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              82 of 181 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             June 8, 2006 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Men value marriage

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 20A

LENGTH: 400 words


As a 42-year-old, never-married single man, I can attest that men truly want a
lasting marriage ("Not so afraid to commit after all," News, Thursday).

In an age when people often repeatedly marry and divorce, I find that most men
place a high value in finding that "eternal mate": someone who is emotionally
stable, would be faithful as a wife, caring toward any children, compatible with
self and world and someone who wouldn't take the guy to the cleaners
financially. I imagine most men want a relationship where prenups and private
detectives aren't needed. Most men are still looking for ladies who fit that
bill.

James A. Marples

Longview, Texas

Global warming war

USA TODAY's global warming report failed to recognize the positive role the
waste-to-energy (WTE) industry plays in combating global warming ("Making sense
of global warming," News and Life, May 30).

Independent studies of the solid waste industry have concluded that combustion
of trash in America's WTE plants avoids the release of about 30 million tons of
greenhouse gases per year. Today's modern WTE plants avoid greenhouse gases by
disposing of trash, generating renewable electricity and recycling metals far
more effectively than if that waste were sent to a landfill. The environmentally
progressive European Union has recognized the significant greenhouse-gas
benefits of waste-to-energy. It's time the USA caught up.

Ted Michaels, president

Integrated Waste Services Association

Washington

'We the people'

Although I do not necessarily agree with reader Patricia Green, who, responding
to reports that a lawmaker allegedly took a bribe, says it is time for a third
party, I do share her frustration ("What took so long?" Letters, May 31).

The current two-party system should provide the required checks and balances
needed for an effective government. But we see more of finger-pointing and
gridlock among our lawmakers.

The building that houses our congressional offices belongs to "we the people,"
and we are in a powerful position to exercise our right to oust incumbents.

We need to vote for the party or person who is running against the incumbents --
no matter what party the challenger comes from. That likely will send a strong
message to those who escape our wrath this time around that we are tired of
their "business as usual" way of life and that we demand a change for the good
of all.

Michael J. DeVillez

Rochester, N.H.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              84 of 181 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             August 4, 2006 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Volvo lets its top down again;
But issues show up involving top, space, radio, phantom noises

BYLINE: James R. Healey

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 1357 words


Volvo is back in the business of selling convertibles after being out since last
year.

The convertible, called C70, also serves as the coupe in Volvo's lineup,
replacing a coupe not sold here for about two years.

The previous coupe and convertible were launched in the USA in 1997. The
soft-top had some teething problems.

One model replaces two because the latest C70 has a retractable hardtop, rather
than  a folding soft-top. Top up, Volvo thinks it serves fine as a coupe, and
top down, it's definitely a convertible.

Volvo has it right. The C70, top up, is sleek enough to seem like a fixed-top
coupe. The rear of the top appears to sit a bit farther forward than your eye is
used to seeing, though. Not ugly, but something that takes a while to visually
reconcile.

The 2006 C70 is based on what Volvo calls its P1 platform, a smallish chassis
that in various iterations also underpins the company's 40- and 50-series small
cars, and Ford Motor's European-market Focus small car.

P1 is a newer design, and more sophisticated, Volvo says, than the company's
larger P2 chassis, which is the basis for other Volvos and Fords. Ford Motor
owns Volvo.

Driving the test vehicle generally was a ball, but one with flat spots put on it
by some details that could have been executed better.

Best thing about the C70, after the fact the top goes down, is the drivetrain.
The engine is a 2.5-liter five-cylinder with what Volvo calls a light-pressure
turbo setup. It is rated 218 horsepower, 236 pounds-feet of torque -- modest
numbers but more than sufficient, it turned out, for easygoing cruising as well
as delightful romps.

The test car had a six-speed, manual transmission derived from high-performance
Volvo "R" models. The throw between gears is short, and the shift pattern is
tight. No wasted motion. Very racy. But the gear slots are so close together, in
fact, that it took considerable familiarity to always hit the intended gear.

The clutch engagement was forgiving but not sloppy at all.

Those nicely matched components and the way they operated so well together made
the car easy to drive and great fun. It felt like the best engine-transmission
combination in the Volvo line if you'll accept a bit of torque steer under hard
throttle.

The tester had optional high-performance tires, which did the expected excellent
job in corners. But Volvo puts a warning sticker on the window  noting that the
tires, made to grip, can wear out much faster than normal tires and aren't
suitable for winter-slick roads.

Gripes:

*Top. Oh, it looked fine and worked OK. But it took 30 seconds, plus or minus a
couple, to cycle up or down. That's about twice as long as a soft-top takes.
Understandable because of all the hinges and movements needed to fold and
retract a solid top, but it seemed too long. If you're raising the top because
of rain, you'll get wet. If you're lowering it because of a wonderful day,
you'll lose the muse before the thing's stowed.

And, boy, does it dominate trunk space. There's a bit of room under the folded
top, but you have to mess with a button and a tray to reach it, raising the top
a small amount to provide access.

To its credit, the car had almost none of the shimmy and vibration that plague
some convertibles. Credit the stiff P1 chassis, Volvo says. And the top was
designed to stay low enough while raising or lowering that you can do it in the
garage or other low-ceiling spots.

*Cramped spots. The interior is roomy in front, just kid-size in back, but
that's not the problem. You notice the tightness elsewhere. At the hand brake,
which sits so close to the center console that you'll pinch your fingers
operating the brake lever. At the climate controls, which you'll whack with your
knuckles while shifting that inviting gear lever. In the back seat if you're
trying to squeeze in a modern child seat. And, of course, in the trunk when the
top's down.

*Noises. The test car made a creaking sound about where the front and back
windows met. That's always a risk when you remove the center roof post, called
the B pillar, and eliminate the structural rigidity of a solid top. But it's not
excusable and eats into your appreciation for the car.

A mysterious sound, somewhat like a modest-size dog barking far away, caused
near insanity. Volvo says that's fixed now. Programming for the vent motors and
levers was the fault.

If you bought an early one and it still has the noise, you're supposed to get it
fixed free, Volvo says. Check first; your dealer might not yet have the software
upgrade in stock.

Top-down airflow seemed to interfere with conversation, buffeting back-seaters
so they had to shout to be heard (or assumed they did) and preventing them from
hearing those in front unless the front folks shouted. To pedestrians, it must
have sounded like a car full of enraged people driving by. Figure everybody
within your ZIP code will hear what is said inside the C70 when the top's down
because of all the shouting.

*Radio. The radio dial provided information on the performer and the song but
kept displaying the last one until well into the current one. Once, it stuck and
displayed the same info for several songs. And the radio display flashed a few
times, suggesting the stereo in the test car was a warranty claim waiting to
happen.

Satellite radio is not available on the '06 but will be on the '07, Volvo says.

The driving fun apparently is outweighing the complaints. Volvo says dealers are
getting quite a few BMW 3 Series convertibles as trade-ins, and BMWs are
generally great fun to drive. The Swedish automaker acknowledges that might
change with the redesigned 3 Series convertible this year. Fresh sheet metal
does wonders for a car's sales.

What Volvo has created is a car that can be a delight to drive but annoying to
live with.

---
2006 Volvo C70

*What is it? Front-wheel-drive, retractable hardtop convertible, based on
Volvo's small-car platform. Manufactured at  Uddevalla, Sweden.

*How soon? On sale since spring. The '07, nearly identical, should be arriving
at dealers just now.

*How much? 2006 starts at $39,405, including a $695 destination charge; '07
starts at 39,785, a $380 increase. Options prices are unchanged.

*How many? About 6,000 a year in the USA, another 6,000 everywhere else.

*What's the drivetrain? 2.5-liter, five-cylinder, turbocharged engine rated 218
horsepower at 5,000 rpm, 236 pounds-feet of torque at 1,500 rpm; six-speed
manual transmission; traction control. Five-speed automatic transmission is
$1,250 option. All-wheel drive, offered on other Volvos, is not available.

*What's the safety gear? Expected bags and belts, plus pop-up roll-over
protection bars behind the rear seat; side-impact and head-protection air bags;
anti-lock brakes; anti-skid system.

*What's the rest? Standard features include dual-zone climate control;
AM/FM/6-CD stereo; power steering, brakes, seats, windows, mirrors, top, locks;
remote-control locks; cruise control; auto-dimming mirror; tilt-adjustable and
telescoping steering column; outside mirror and rear-window defrosters;
headlight washers; front, rear fog lights; 225/35VRx17 tires.

*How big? 180.4 inches long, 71.7 inches wide, 55.1 inches tall on a 103.9-inch
wheelbase. Weight is listed as 3,772 pounds.

Passenger space is listed as 84.1 cubic feet. Trunk space is listed as 12.8
cubic feet when the top's up, 6 cubic feet when top's down.

Rated to carry 838 pounds of people, accessories and cargo (or, as Volvo quips,
four 200-pound people and a medium-size beagle). Rated to tow a trailer without
brakes up to 1,653 pounds, one with brakes up to 2,000 pounds.

*How thirsty? Manual transmission is rated 20 mpg in town, 29 on the highway.
Automatic is 21/29. Premium fuel is recommended. Lower-octane fuel is OK, Volvo
says, but will reduce performance somewhat.

* Overall: Fun to drive, sometimes a pain to use.

---
More online

*Chat online with James R. Healey at 2 p.m. ET today at talk.usatoday.com.

*E-mail testdrive@usatoday.com.

*Go to cars.usatoday.com to hear James R. Healey's comments on the Volvo C70, to
see more photos of the C70, to find previous Test Drive columns and to get
information on pricing, incentives and more.

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Glen Percival, Volvo
PHOTO, B/W, Volvo

DOCUMENT-TYPE: TEST DRIVE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              95 of 181 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              June 23, 2006 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Celebrity activists put star power to good use;
They bring prestige, press to a myriad of causes, charities

BYLINE: Donna Freydkin

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1701 words


NEW YORK -- Where Bono goes, cameras follow.

The same applies to Angelina Jolie and Oprah Winfrey. And the three stars set
the gold standard when it comes to celebrity activism. Bono has been
instrumental in raising awareness of global poverty and the AIDS epidemic with
his ONE campaign, which has gotten stars such as George Clooney, Matt Damon and
Brad Pitt on board.

After initial skepticism, politicians from House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi,
D-Calif., to Sen. Rick Santorum, R-Pa., now wax poetic about the U2 singer,
lauding his understanding of the issues. His charity work earned him a spot as
one of Time's 2005 people of the year.

Thanks to her hands-on work with the United Nations High Commissioner for
Refugees as a goodwill ambassador, Jolie -- who pays her own way on U.N.
missions and says she donates one-third of her income to charity -- emerged
unscathed from her tabloid-ready romance with Pitt. And she sealed the deal by
announcing they would donate the millions in proceeds from the photos sold
globally of their newborn daughter, Shiloh, to various as-yet unnamed charities.

As for Winfrey, she gave $51.8million to charity last year, according to The
Chronicle of Philanthropy, and is the only celebrity in the journal's list of
top donors.

Increasingly, celebs of all stripes find themselves under pressure to use their
fame for a higher purpose. With the high-profile examples set by Jolie and Bono,
there may come a time, observers say, when a star's lack of charity work will be
a liability. The perception is that celebs should channel some of their
prosperity and prominence to making the world a better place.

"You almost expect celebrities to have a cause," says Alan Abramson, director of
non-profit studies and philanthropy for the Aspen Institute, a research and
advocacy organization. "More and more celebrities are doing this, so it almost
becomes an expectation, just like we expect corporations to be socially
conscious.

"We're not at the point we look down at those who don't, but we're moving in
that direction."

Stars, to some extent, really are like the rest of us. Some get involved for
personal reasons, such asMichael J. Fox, who started his foundation for
Parkinson's research after announcing eight years ago that he had the disease.
In other cases, it's the charity in need of a celebrity spokesperson that
approaches a VIP (and sometimes pays the luminary to turn up at dinners). Some
stars give cash. And others do nothing.

A 'win-win' situation

Celeb causes run the gamut (AIDS, Africa and the environment are the hottest
now), as does the level of commitment. Clooney and actress Ashley Judd are among
those who spend large amounts of time and money on their causes -- poverty
eradication and AIDS education, respectively. The environment has attracted the
likes of Woody Harrelson, Josh Lucas and Leonardo DiCaprio. Others known for
their charity work include Sarah Jessica Parker (UNICEF), Scarlett Johansson
(USA Harvest, which provides food to the needy) and Robin Williams (Doctors
Without Borders).

They follow the example set decades ago by the late Audrey Hepburn, who
campaigned for UNICEF; the late Bob Hope, who entertained the troops with the
USO; Jerry Lewis, whose Muscular Dystrophy Association telethon is in its 40th
year; and Elizabeth Taylor, one of the first stars to speak out about AIDS.

A little charity work can go a long way.

"It's a win-win for the celebrities and the charities," Abramson says. "The
charities are obviously getting attention and help with publicizing their
cause." And the famous "look more substantial and like good folks  giving their
time and money to good causes."

For Winfrey, action is obvious: "To whom much is given, much is expected," says
the media mogul, ranked No.235 on Forbes magazine's list of the 400 richest
Americans. "You can't live in the world, participate in all of the benefits of
the world, and not give back. It goes against the law of physics. If you don't
give back, then what you have will be diminished."

Being an activist provides a patina of class. Speaking to business leaders in
Davos, Switzerland, at the World Economic Forum, as Jolie does, "gives people a
new way of looking at you. It's a way to stand out and get attention from other
kinds of people who don't read entertainment magazines," says Stacy Palmer,
editor of The Chronicle of Philanthropy.

Some skeptics question stars' motives for jumping on the benevolence bandwagon.
"Are they putting their money where their mouth is?" asks Daniel Borochoff,
president of the American Institute of Philanthropy, a national charity
watchdog. "Sometimes they don't. They just want the benefits of the recognition.
People go to see movies based on how strongly they like the celebrity, and it
can help if they feel an actor has strong convictions."

Not always what it seems

And, says Abramson, money sometimes changes hands. "What's troublesome is when
some of these folks get paid for their charity work," he says. "There can be an
honorarium or a decent amount of money expended in getting them to attend
something, to cover their expenses. Not all these folks are putting in their own
money."

But, counters Robin Bronk of the Creative Coalition, a non-profit group that
matches actors with causes, most activism is for real. "This is hard work. It's
too much trouble to be an activist to do it for the publicity. You have to do
the homework, you have to take time out of your schedule and your personal life
to promote an issue. I can't imagine anyone is doing it for the glory of
themselves."

As for those who do their homework and stick by a program, Palmer says, "you can
count them on one hand. The attention span of a lot of celebrities is really
short. But look at George Clooney -- he goes to United Way board meetings, is
very involved, and it's one of the most staid charities there is."

Choosing something you can stay with is key, says Harrelson, a crusader for hemp
and environmental issues who drives a biodiesel-powered car, follows a vegan
diet and uses solar power in his home. "If you're constantly out there in the
media, talking about this, that or the other, at a certain point, people don't
put much value to it," he says.

Political issues can be dangerous territory.

"Being out there as a forceful liberal, in a bizarre way, can undercut you, your
career and your ideas. People automatically think it's Hollywood silliness,"
says Lucas, who promotes biodiesel as a clean-burning alternative to
petroleum-based fuels. "Biodiesel doesn't make anyone cringe, which is so common
with causes and putting your name and face with something."

Susan Sarandon, who has gotten flak for her anti-war statements, flashed the
peace sign at the 2003 Oscars, the same year Michael Moore received both cheers
and jeers for calling President Bush "fictitious" in his acceptance speech. Jane
Fonda has never truly recovered from her trip to Hanoi during the Vietnam War.
Sean Penn earned some ridicule for his visit to Iraq in 2003, which he wrote
about in the San Francisco Chronicle, and his one-man effort to help hurricane
victims last summer after Katrina struck.

And some causes, even if they aren't overtly political, can be difficult to
champion. Domestic violence is among those that are "a little tough," Abramson
says.

That hasn't deterred actress Salma Hayek, who has been speaking out about abuse
for years, even testifying before Congress last July.

"I don't come from a family with domestic violence. I've never experienced it
myself. But I'm very, very passionate about it," she says. "It's a very big
problem that no one talks about. It's work that needs to be done. I feel a lot
of frustration. It's very hard to make changes in culture, in social
consciousness."

Natalie Portman picked an even more difficult one: the Foundation for
International Community Assistance, a non-profit that, she says, "opens up
banking services to the poor" and enables women "to feed their kids, educate
their kids, medicate their kids. It's a great way to share opportunity." She
serves as the group's global ambassador.

If a cause is just too impenetrable or concrete results are difficult to come
by, Palmer says, stars can quickly lose interest. "Dealing with poverty, you
don't feel you have many successes, so it becomes frustrating after a certain
point. You spend a lot of time trying to do something."

Hurricane Katrina, not surprisingly, rallied many celebrities. Harry Connick Jr.
got involved in Habitat for Humanity's rebuilding efforts in New Orleans because
it's "my hometown. I was born and raised there. I felt compelled to do it."

So did Johansson. After Katrina hit, she wanted to help, and a friend referred
her to USA Harvest. Johansson read up on the charity and has been quietly
involved with the group for nine months, dishing out food herself in the
devastated Ninth Ward. "These are people who are working to rebuild their
homes," she says. "They don't have any means for a warm meal."

Hayek was influenced by the feminist playwright Eve Ensler after performing in
her play The Vagina Monologues. Harrelson was turned on to the man-made problems
facing oceans by his Cheers co-star Ted Danson, a longtime campaigner on behalf
of the environmental group Oceana.

Lucas was raised by environmentalist parents who were interested in sustainable
solutions years before they became trendy. "They've always said that the only
real value to fame at all is to be able to educate someone about something and
put your name out there," Lucas says.

In the world of A-list activism, most roads lead to Bono. Everyone from
Harrelson to Lucas cites him as  a celebrity who uses his fame to advance worthy
causes. Judd became the global ambassador for YouthAIDS in 2002, at Bono's
behest, and since then has hit Southeast Asia and Africa to educate young people
about the disease. She calls Bono "the godfather of the awareness of extreme
global poverty."

Judd says her charity work has "reorganized my priorities. When I go to bed at
night, I know I've done something of consequence, something that matters."

So if the personal and professional payoff of altruism is so great, why don't
more stars get involved?

"A lack of interest," Lucas says.

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Color, Brennan Linsley, AP
PHOTO, Color, AP
PHOTO, B/W, Jenny Mayfield for YouthAIDS
PHOTO, B/W, 1999 AP file photo

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COVER STORY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              99 of 181 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            January 13, 2006 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

$9 trillion;
What consumers spent to keep the economy rolling in 2005. But our spending
increases may slow this year.

BYLINE: Barbara Hagenbaugh

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 1759 words


WASHINGTON -- Business is back.

After letting consumers lead for much of this decade, businesses are taking
charge of the U.S. economy in 2006. Flush with cash and ready to spend, CEOs are
expected to invest heavily in everything from productivity-enhancing equipment
to new office buildings and retail space.

Consumers, meanwhile, will likely take a bit of a breather. Higher interest
rates, slower home price appreciation and rising energy bills are expected to
cause a slowdown -- but not a collapse -- in consumer spending growth.

The switch means the U.S. economy will be in a healthy position again in 2006,
just with a different driver behind the wheel.

"Consumers have hung in there and done better than people expected," Bear
Stearns senior economist Conrad DeQuadros says. Going forward, "It's really
going to be more about businesses."

For the economy, that's a plus. After being lopsided in its dependence on
consumers, the economy will be more balanced between consumers and businesses.
That may help the economic expansion, which is now more than 4 years old, last
longer.

"The leadership in the economy is going to shift from housing and consumers to
businesses," Wachovia economist Mark Vitner says. "There's nothing unusual about
that. It's healthy."

Businesses flush with cash

John Cassidy has a big year planned. The owner of commercial printing company
Duplicates INK in Conway, S.C., is planning to invest as much as $750,000 this
year, up from $100,000 in 2005. He's buying printing presses and mailing
equipment as well as a new building to house his expanding business.

"The business has just been going in the right direction," Cassidy says. "In
order to continue growing, we need to put the investment in."

In a survey of 117 CEOs of major companies taken Nov. 21-Dec. 8, 56% said they
expected to increase business investment in the next six months, according to
the Business Roundtable. That's the second-highest percentage in the survey's
three-year history and is up from 50% a year ago and 35% in December 2003.

Stanley Bergman, CEO of Henry Schein, a publicly traded medical-supply
distributor, expects business spending at his company will go up 20% this year,
primarily in technology.

Even manufacturers, who were the hardest hit in the most recent economic
slowdown, are getting in the game. Some 43% of manufacturers surveyed by the
Institute for Supply Management in December said they planned to increase their
investment in 2006. Of those who projected an increase, they expected an average
34.5% gain in spending.

Norbert Ore, head of the ISM manufacturing survey, says many factory owners are
investing money to reduce their energy consumption in addition to updating
information technology equipment.

Such plans are a significant change from just a few years ago. Stung by a
decline in the stock market, corporate ethics scandals and an uncertain business
climate following the Sept. 11 attacks and amid the wars in Iraq and
Afghanistan, businesses significantly retrenched.

One of the main reasons businesses are boosting spending now is that they are
sitting on a tremendous amount of cash. In the third quarter, U.S. companies had
a record $1.4 trillion in liquid assets, up 46% from the same period in 2001.

DeQuadros of Bear Stearns says he looks at the gap between what businesses are
spending and how much cash they have on hand. As a percentage of U.S. economic
activity, the gap is now the highest on record, he says.

Says Wachovia's Vitner, "(Businesses) have so much cash, they have deferred so
much upgrades on computer systems and equipment that it's now time to move
forward with their investment decisions."

Rising interest rates are expected to not have as much of an impact on
businesses as on consumers because many don't need to borrow in order to spend.
And even for those who are borrowing, rates are still relatively low.

"Long-term interest rates are still not high by historical standards," says
Sempra COO Neal Schmale, whose firm is expected to spend $1.6 billion next year
on investment, including on facilities to import natural gas. "Interest rates
are not to the point where they would affect our capital spending."

Companies are also enticed to invest because they are getting to the point where
they are using more of their available resources. The Federal Reserve said
industrial firms were using more than 80% of available capacity in November.
Hank McKinnell, chairman and CEO of Pfizer and chairman of the Business
Roundtable, calls 80% a "signal" to companies that it is time to increase
available capacity so they can produce more to meet demand.

Consumers slowing down

Unlike businesses, many consumers are slowing down. Take Joseph Frank. The
28-year-old product test technician for Ford bought a new, $40,000 F-150 truck
the day after Christmas after receiving a $6,000 cash-back offer in addition to
his employee discount. But between the truck payments and mortgage, "Disposable
cash is just not going to be there" this year.

So Frank plans fewer trips to the bar with his friends to watch the Detroit Red
Wings play and may not take his usual trip to Las Vegas this year.

Consumers like Frank have been the key drivers of the economy through turbulent
times in the past few years. Despite the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, a falling
stock market, the war in Iraq and massive hurricanes, consumers have continued
to spend. And spend.

That kept the overall economy humming. Although the economy sank into a
recession in 2001, it ended up being one of the mildest recessions in U.S.
history.

A number of issues are expected to slow -- but not stop -- consumer spending
growth this year. In fact, the slowdown probably already started. Spending
during the holiday shopping season at chain stores rose 3.5%, according to the
International Council of Shopping Centers, calling the gain "moderate." Retail
giant Wal-Mart reported its smallest gain in sales in December in five years.

Behind the slowing:

Housing. Homeowners have benefited from record home sales and appreciation in
recent years. Consumers have supported spending by extracting equity from their
homes in the form of large profits when they sell, by refinancing at higher
dollar values and cashing out the difference between the value of the old
mortgage and the new one or by taking out home-equity loans reflecting their
homes' higher values.

But economists expect that with rising interest rates, home sales and price
appreciation will slow in 2006. National Association of Home Builders chief
economist Dave Seiders predicts home price appreciation will be in the single,
rather than double, digits this year. The National Association of Realtors
expects sales of previously owned homes will fall 4.4% in 2006 from the previous
year.

With fewer sales and slower home price gains, consumers are unlikely to continue
to use their homes as piggy banks to fund trips to the mall.

"We expect that the adjustment in housing activity and prices, and the declines
in mortgage refinancing in response to rising interest rates, will contribute to
the moderation of consumption growth in 2006," Bank of America economists Mickey
Levy and Peter Kretzmer said in a note to clients this month.

Energy. Although some energy prices have retreated from the all-time highs hit
in 2005, energy bills are still higher than they were a year ago. For many
consumers, that means they have less money to spend in other parts of the
economy.

Winter heating costs will hit particularly hard.  Homeowners on average will see
a 25% increase in heating costs from a year ago, the government projects. That
would be the biggest gain in five years.

"That's going to be a shocker," says David Levin, CEO of Casual Male retail
group.

The increase in prices has already had an effect on Brent and Barbara Hessel.
After recently receiving a nearly $300 natural-gas bill for their three-bedroom,
Bethesda, Md., home, the couple, who are expecting their first child in
February, have decided to try to cut back on other expenses, such as dining out.

"We're trying to constantly be more aware of what our expenses are," Brent, 27,
says.

Cars. A large portion of the consumer spending gains in the past few years has
been in incentive-induced car sales. In 2005, sales at car dealers accounted for
about one-fifth of consumer spending, according to data through November, the
most recent statistics.

But with interest rates rising, the deals are expected to fade, leading to
slower car sales. George Pipas, sales analyst at Ford Motor, expects car sales
to be lower this year than in 2006, but says the drop will not be too large.

There are other areas that may see a softening in the rate of spending growth.
According to a Federal Reserve report analyzing mortgage refinancing in 2001 and
2002, consumers spent money they received from cash-out refinancings on
home-improvement projects, cars, vacations and investments. Also popular was
using the money to pay down debt.

Consumers still key players

But the picture is not at all gloom and doom. Consumers are hardly expected to
fall off the map.

If anything, consumers have shown in recent years that they like to spend money,
no matter what. With rising interest rates, interest-bearing savings accounts
and other investments will likely bring greater returns, giving them money to
spend.

Plus, many consumers who have tapped equity in their homes in the past few years
haven't spent the money yet. Lehman Bros. estimates that half of the $2trillion
in housing equity extracted since 2001 hasn't been spent. This may be the year
they pull the trigger.

The overall economy is expected to remain healthy, leading to additional job
creation, which will support spending.

"I don't think it's the case that we suddenly turn off the tap, and consumer
spending stops dead in its tracks," says Nigel Gault, U.S. research director at
economic consulting firm Global Insight. "It's more gradual."

Mark Zandi, chief economist at Moody's Economy.com, says the moderation in the
importance of the consumer will likely continue for years. Consumers 45 to 54
years old traditionally spend more than any other age group. The share of the
population in that age group is peaking as the baby boomers age. That soon will
put them into an age bracket in which consumers typically spend less than
others.

"The aging of the large baby boomer cohort has been a powerful tailwind behind
consumer spending during the past quarter century, and it is set to become an
equally powerful headwind," Zandi says.
---
Contributing: Del Jones, Sue Kirchhoff and James R. Healey

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, Color, Marcy E. Mullins, USA TODAY, Source: Federal Reserve
(LINE GRAPH)
GRAPHIC, Color, Marcy E. Mullins, USA TODAY, Source: Department of Commerce,
(BAR GRAPH)
GRAPHIC, B/W, Marcy E. Mullins, USA TODAY, Source: Energy Information
Administration (BAR GRAPH)
GRAPHIC, B/W, Marcy E. Mullins, USA TODAY, Sources: Federal Reserve, National
Association of Realtors (LINE GRAPH)
PHOTO, Color, Emile Wamsteker, Bloomberg News
PHOTO, Color, Mike Mooney via AP
PHOTO, B/W Paula Illingsworth for USA TODAY

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COVER STORY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              100 of 181 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            January 20, 2006 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Tender loving care beats costly home repairs;
Skip maintenance at your wallet's peril

BYLINE: Noelle Knox

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 379 words


For want of a nail, the saying goes, a kingdom was lost.

OK, so your home isn't exactly a castle. But it's probably the most valuable
asset you'll own. So when was the last time you changed the filter in your air
conditioner or put a battery in your fire alarm? Tested the pressure valve on
your water heater? Or are you thinking, "Uh ... there's a valve?"

"I can't tell you how many people who live in an expensive house, that they
spent a significant amount of money on, assume it doesn't require ongoing
maintenance," says Ron Phipps of Phipps Realty in Warwick, R.I. "They pay the
electric bill and get the grass cut, but they don't do maintenance."

The average homeowner should budget 1% to 3% of the home's value for annual
maintenance, depending on the age and size of the home and area climate. Some
years it might cost more, other years less.

But many of us are like Sarah Van Elderen, 23, who closed last month on her
first home, a condo in Grand Rapids, Mich. "I haven't done a lot of budgeting
for it, and I know I should," she admits.

All it takes is an unchecked leak under the upstairs bathroom sink, and instead
of replacing a $30 valve, you're spending your vacation fund on home repairs.

"It's not just the wood under the sink; the water can quickly spread into the
downstairs ceiling," explains Gil Engler of Master Home Inspectors in Bethesda,
Md. "And that's a $500 repair."

Even condo buyers should beware. Don't look just at the monthly association fee.
Ask about the cash reserves of the condo association and any maintenance that
must be done. Phipps learned the hard way, when he bought a condo in late 2004.

"Within four months, there was a $4,000 special assessment for re-shingling the
roof," he says. "This year, there was a $2,200 assessment because they want to
paint the building. The condo fees are $2,000 a year. Yet within two years, I've
spent another $6,200 on special assessments."

So if you've already broken your New Year's weight-loss resolution, consider
burning a few calories doing your own home maintenance. Remember: Every one to
three months, you should change the air filters in your heater/air conditioner
and check the smoke detector. Here's a month-by-month guide, based in part on
National Association of Realtors recommendations:

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              101 of 181 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            January 23, 2006 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Canada's PM candidates make final rounds;
Martin takes aim at Conservative Party's Harper as voters head to polls

BYLINE: Rebecca Cook Dube

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 508 words


TORONTO -- Canadians go to the polls today in an election that could unseat the
ruling Liberal Party and elect the first Conservative prime minister in 13
years.

The weekend before the election, Liberal Prime Minister Paul Martin accused
Conservative Party leader Stephen Harper of being too much like U.S.
Republicans. "We have a party (the Conservatives) that basically draws its
influences from the farthest right of the U.S. conservative movement," Martin
said Saturday at a campaign rally. "Let me tell you, Stephen Harper, we have our
own values in Canada."

Harper dismissed Martin's criticism and struck a confident note as he
campaigned.

"Only the Conservative Party can bring this country together," Harper, 46, told
supporters. He said Martin "has not provided a single compelling reason why his
government should be re-elected."

Harper has run as a moderate, promising to protect the social services that
Canadians hold dear, especially health care. Canada  has near-record-low
unemployment and several years of federal budget surpluses. Harper and Martin
have promised tax cuts.

Martin has quarreled with the Bush administration on such issues as Canada's
refusing to take part in the missile defense scheme, condemning the Iraq war and
criticizing the United States for rejecting the Kyoto Protocol on greenhouse gas
emissions.  Harper has distanced himself from Bush but is more in step with the
U.S. president. For example, Harper says he would reconsider Martin's refusal to
take part in the U.S. missile defense program.

The Liberals have struggled in the wake of two  corruption investigations.
Although Martin has been exonerated by an ongoing inquiry into a kickback scheme
in the 1990s involving public funds, the investigation has implicated some other
Liberals.

Harper hammered on that Sunday, saying, "When we are in office, we will do
everything in our powerto make sure the kinds of scandal and corruptionwe see
from this government is never allowed tooccur again in this country."

In the last election, in June 2004, the Liberals eked out a victory after
warning voters that Conservatives were too right-wing for Canada. "We won then,
and we're going to win this election," Martin, 67,  said ata campaign rally.

The poll projections over the weekend predicted the Conservatives would win a
minority government -- meaning they'd have a plurality but not a majority of
votes in Parliament and would have to ally with other parties to pass laws.

"The only issue is how many seats are the Liberals going to lose," said Nik
Nanos, president of SES Research in Ottawa, an independent polling firm.

The SES poll on Sunday showed the Conservatives maintaining a 6-percentage-point
lead. Thirty-six percent of respondents said they planned to vote Conservative;
30% said they would vote Liberal; 17% for the New Democratic Party; 11% for the
Bloc Quebecois; and 6% for the Green Party. The poll, conducted for the CPAC
public affairs cable channel, surveyed 1,200 Canadians Friday-Sunday and had a
margin of error of +/{ndash}3 percentage points.

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Andy Clark, Reuters

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              105 of 181 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            February 24, 2006 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Thomas, Piazza look for fresh start in West

BYLINE: Mel Antonen

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 279 words


PHOENIX -- Frank Thomas and Mike Piazza are hopeful that moving to teams in the
Golden State will offer golden opportunities.

Thomas, who spent 16 years in the Chicago White Sox organization, showed up for
his first day of work with the Oakland Athletics on Thursday and professed
optimism that escaping the early-season chill in the Windy City will do his bat
and his 37-year-old body good.

"I've always hit well in Oakland," says Thomas, a two-time MVP with the White
Sox who is trying to make a comeback as the A's DH. "There will be an extra
month of great weather to hit in, so I am all for that."

And Piazza, who played for the New York Mets from 1998-2005, is eager to feel
the Southern California climate as a member of the San Diego Padres.

"It's not as cold in April, not as humid in the summer,"  says Piazza, who began
his career with the Los Angeles Dodgers.

Thomas, limited to 108 games the last two seasons because of a broken bone in
his left ankle, stretched with his new teammates but hasn't been cleared  to
play. He had an MRI exam Wednesday on his ankle.

Thomas probably won't play in Cactus League games but says he can get enough
work in to be ready for  opening day.

"I put a lot of stress on the front foot when I hit," Thomas says. "If I'm
healthy, you're going to have a special player."

Piazza, 37, is learning about change, too. He hit .251 with 19 home runs in 113
games for the Mets last season but didn't get inundated with offers as a free
agent.

He says the negotiations with teams were like a job interview.

"I feel blessed, and everything now is sugar inside the icing on the cake,"
Piazza says. "I look at things differently, but I'm still serious."

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Color, Elaine Thompson, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              107 of 181 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             March 7, 2006 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

David Bloom's widow: 'If one life is saved...';
She launches an education campaign

BYLINE: Peter Johnson

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 10D

LENGTH: 731 words


During the 2003 Iraq invasion, NBC correspondent David Bloom called his wife,
Melanie, from the top of an Army tank that he had been riding in for several
days.

He was whispering.

"I asked why, and he said, 'Oh, we're on the border of Baghdad, and we have to
whisper because of the risk of ambush,'" Melanie Bloom says. "And I said, 'Then
why are you sleeping outside on top of the tank, not in the tank?' He said, 'My
legs have been cramping up, and I really have to stretch them out tonight.' It
sounded so innocuous."

Two days later, on April 6, Bloom, 39, died from a pulmonary embolism -- a blood
clot that moved from the leg to the lung -- caused by a condition called
deep-vein thrombosis. DVT can occur when people have certain risk factors
coupled with restricted mobility.

In Bloom's case, those factors included several long flights between New York
and Kuwait as war brewed, a genetic disposition to clots, and ultimately being
dehydrated and riding in a cramped tank for hours on end without being able to
move.

"The hardest thing I've ever had to do in my entire life was sit our three girls
down (twins Christine and Nicole, now 11, and Ava, now 6) and tell them they'll
never see their daddy again," Bloom says. "I had steeled myself against the
dangers of war, but to hear that he had passed away from these words that I had
never heard before and didn't know anything about, I just didn't understand how
this was possible."

It took about a year "to come out of the utter raw grief," Bloom says. But when
she did, she decided to devote time to educating the public about DVT. About
2million Americans each year develop DVT, and it kills 200,000 of them -- more
than breast cancer and AIDS combined.

Today, Bloom and the Coalition to Prevent Deep Vein Thrombosis (sponsored by
Sanofi-Aventis, which makes a blood-thinning drug called Lovenox) kick off
events in New York, Miami and Washington to call attention to DVT
(preventdvt.org).

"David's life was dedicated to informing the public, and so in a sense I am
trying to champion his legacy by doing just that and informing the American
people about that which took his life," Bloom says. "If one person hears this
and lives, if one life is saved, then David's death is not in vain."

Her daughters are doing well, Bloom says, and at a recent school science
symposium, Christine and Nicole devoted their project to DVT. "Parents who came
by their board would tear up, and they were standing there like little soldiers,
trying to comfort them."

The night Bloom learned of her husband's death came rushing back on Jan. 29,
when ABC News anchor Bob Woodruff was seriously wounded by a roadside bomb in
Iraq. "It was terrifying. I thought I was dreaming," Bloom says.

The Blooms and Woodruffs -- individually and as couples -- had been close
friends ever since they all met at a roast for CNN's Larry King years ago in
Washington.

When Woodruff was injured, ABC was unable to reach Woodruff's wife, Lee, and
Bloom was called to help find her. Bloom did, just as Woodruff had done the
night NBC News could not reach her because she had turned off the phone to get
some sleep.

Bloom accompanied Woodruff to the U.S. military hospital in Landstuhl, Germany,
and is in close touch with Lee Woodruff.

"It was my turn to help her," Bloom says. "Lee was a rock for me when I lost
David, and she was really by my side every minute."

Last week in an e-mail, Lee Woodruff told Bloom that her husband continues to
get better and that there is hope for a full recovery.

"We are so encouraged by all the things he is doing, from hugging and kissing to
communicating with us," Woodruff wrote. "His physical strength remains
impressive, and his doctors are so encouraged by the progress he has made."

Bloom says that her husband's death and Woodruff's injury are reminders that
"life is precious and fleeting and we all need to cherish the ones we love,
because life can change on a dime."

"It's not just Lee and it's not just me who are going through this," Bloom says.
"There are so many people going through this very thing, with the world climate
that it is today -- with terrorism, the war, with Katrina and other natural
disasters.

"It's a tough world that we live in right now. But I think we all need to count
our blessings and to tell our kids we love them every day. It sounds so trite
and so cliched, but it is so true."
---
E-mail pjohnson@usatoday.com

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Color, Todd Plitt, USA TODAY
PHOTO, Color, NBC News via AFP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              109 of 181 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             March 24, 2006 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Report: Global warming a threat to cities

BYLINE: John Bacon

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 130 words


Global warming could put low-lying communities such as New Orleans and Miami in
danger by the end of this century as melting polar ice raises the ocean to
levels not seen in thousands of years, according to research appearing in
today's issue of the journal Science. Arctic temperatures could reach as high as
they were 130,000 years ago, when the oceans were 13 to 20 feet higher than now,
reports a research group led by Jonathan Overpeck of the University of Arizona.

At the current rate, the Earth's temperature by 2100 will probably be at least 4
degrees warmer than now, the report says. Computer models indicate that warming
could speed melting of polar ice sheets, says a second paper by researchers led
by Bette Otto-Bliesner of the National Center for Atmospheric Research.

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: NATIONLINE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              115 of 181 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              May 12, 2006 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Versa pairs room with economy;
Classy new Nissan feels right inside

BYLINE: James R. Healey

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 1206 words


Nissan's Versa small car joins the parade of new subcompacts when it hits
showrooms in late July.

Compared with its most logical rivals, Toyota Yaris and Honda Fit, Versa is
bigger, more powerful, roomier, has the classiest presentation and probably is
the most car for the price.

On the other hand, Versa isn't quite as fuel efficient as the rivals and isn't
as sporty and fun to drive as Fit. Nor does Nissan quite have the reputation for
quality and reliability that Honda and Toyota do.

You might wonder what's up with all these small cars? Isn't the profit margin
thin on small cars?

Margins are a few hundred dollars vs. several thousand in potential profit on a
midsize car.

But automakers need starter cars. Better to make a few bucks on a cheap entry
car and have some hope of holding onto that buyer, than to make nothing on a
used car a buyer otherwise would purchase.

The Toyota Corolla, Honda Civic and Nissan Sentra, formerly entry cars, have
been sized and priced out of the entry market. The Great Categorizers consider
them "premium small cars." Entry buyers seldom have premium budgets.

Thus, the new small fry.

Toyota's Yaris (Test Drive Dec. 30), replacing the Echo, went on sale in March,
starting at $11,530 for a  two-door hatchback or $12,405 for a four-door sedan.

Honda's Fit (Test Drive, April 14), new to the U.S. lineup, went on sale last
month, starting at $14,400 for the base four-door hatchback.

And Nissan's Versa, also new in the U.S. line, will be in showrooms this summer,
probably late July, priced, Nissan's product boss Jack Collins says vaguely,
from the "low s$12" to $17,000 maxed out.

All three of the new subcompacts disappoint on two fronts:

*Prices are higher than hoped. At about $12,000 to start and $14,000 to $16,000
nicely equipped, they are far from the cheapest cars on the market. A bare-bones
Chevrolet Aveo subcompact, for instance, starts at about $10,000 and because of
discounts is selling for about $9,000. Kia's Rio starts at $11,000.

*Fuel economy is worse than expected. In-town mileage ratings range from
high-20s to mid-30s.  Corolla and a number of Volkswagen models do as well or
better and tend to be roomier and more refined.

But the cars will have their fans, and Versa has perhaps the most generally
appealing combination of attributes.

Two preproduction Versa hatchbacks were tested in ordinary daily driving. Both
were well-equipped. One had a six-speed manual transmission. The other was
fitted with a continuously variable automatic transmission (CVT). A four-speed
automatic is available on the base Versa S, but will be discontinued once enough
CVTs are available.

CVTs continually change engine speed to match conditions. They don't shift
through individual ratios as conventional automatics do, boosting fuel economy
8% to 10% vs. a four-speed automatic, Collins says. Indeed, the Versa S with
four-speed automatic gets the worst in-town fuel economy rating of any Versa --
28 mpg, vs. 30 mpg for the manual and CVT.

Versa's marquee feature probably will be space.

Nissan likes to say the designers started with the interior and then styled a
body around it, instead of cramming an interior into whatever shape the
designers came up with.

The seats, especially the rear, have good stretch-out room and don't ask
adult-size riders to compromise. Rear seat legroom is listed as 38 inches, which
is 3 to 4 inches more than rivals have, and more than many midsize cars offer.

The space gives you the illusion of driving a bigger car, and that feels more
secure. But there's a penalty. Versa is 300 to 400 pounds heavier than rivals,
and as a result, its in-town fuel economy is up to 7 mpg worse than Yaris' and
Fit's.

Versa is more powerful than the others. It has to be because it's heavier. But
even so, Versa's extra torque makes it a champ in stop-and-go circumstances.
Drivers of manual transmission models can relax. You needn't worry about killing
or over-revving the engine in bumper-to-bumper traffic. The easy-push clutch
pedal makes things even easier.

The CVT was a very good example of the breed. It helped the Versa tester shoot
away from a dead stop and promptly whiz up to merging and passing speeds. As do
all CVTs, it has the rev-happy personality of a manual-transmission car with a
worn and slipping clutch. But where other CVTs can be Shakespearean -- "All
sound and fury signifying nothing" -- Versa gives you something in return for
the extended commotion.

Also pleasing: rich interior materials and smooth-operating controls. The
climate-control knobs aren't up to the standard set by, say, the turn-signal
lever. But all-in-all, the insides look, feel and operate above-average.

Parents will be pleased that the back seat's hooks for attaching child seats are
easy to reach and make it easy to cinch the kid seat very tight.

Unpleasant surprises included cheap-sounding door locks -- a loud metallic
"clack" -- and a less-than-robust sound and feel when the doors were opened or
closed. No good ol' bank-vault "whump."

Also, the wiper motors were loud on the testers. And because the seat-adjustment
levers are on the inside edge of the seats, the folding center arm rest and the
handbrake can interfere with them.

Versa feels sloppy in corners compared with Fit, but it still can be whipped
smartly through "S" turns and around off-ramps.

Step back and take a hard look and what you see in Versa is a small car with the
space and power of the next-bigger size, well-equipped at the starting price,
and comfy as those weekend blue jeans.

2007 Nissan Versa
*What is it? Front-wheel-drive, four-door, subcompact hatchback that becomes
Nissan's entry model in the USA. Similar to Nissan Tiida  sold in other markets.
Manufactured at Aguascalientes,  Mexico.

*How soon? On sale late July. (A mechanically similar sedan model is due in
January.)

*How much? Prices aren't set, but expect them to range from $13,000 for a base S
model to $17,000 for a loaded SL.

*Who'll buy? People who can afford, or want, just one car and it must be able to
do many things.

*How many? Nissan won't forecast sales.

*What's the drivetrain? 1.8-liter, four-cylinder engine rated 122 horsepower at
5,200 rpm, 127 pounds-feet of torque at 4,800 rpm; six-speed manual
transmission. Four-speed automatic transmission is optional on S model;
continuously variable automatic transmission is optional on SL.

*What's the safety gear? Expected bags and belts, plus side-impact bags for
front occupants and head-curtain bags front and rear. Anti-lock brakes are
optional.

*What's the rest?  Standard features include air conditioning; AM/FM/CD stereo;
power steering, brakes, mirrors; tilt-adjustable steering column; rear-window
defroster.

*How big? 169.1 inches long, 66.7 inches wide, 60.4 inches tall on a 102.4-inch
wheelbase. Passenger volume is listed as 94.7 cubic feet. Cargo space is 17.8
cubic feet behind the rear seat, 50.4 cubic feet when the back seat is folded
down.

Weight is listed as 2,722 pounds for the manual, 2,751 pounds for the automatic
and 2,779 pounds for the CVT, loaded with accessories.

*How thirsty? CVT is rated 30 miles per gallon in town, 36 on the highway.
Four-speed automatic is 28/35. Manual is 30/34. Tank holds 13.2 gallons.

*Overall: Easy-driving, amenity-rich, roomy.

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS, B/W, Nissan (2)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: TEST DRIVE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              116 of 181 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             May 17, 2006 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Gas supplies, not just demand, are key to avert crisis

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 525 words


Carl Pope, longtime executive director of the Sierra Club, has some ideas about
how to consume less gasoline, which would then drive down prices. His position
is to concentrate on usage over supply ("Focus on cars, not gas type," Opposing
view, Energy policy debate, May 9).

Pope's ideas are directed at the automobile and place it at the center of the
problem. His ideas might affect demand from the American consumer, but they
won't influence demand from most other developed countries.

People in the rest of the world have had very high gas prices for years; they
already have much more fuel-efficient cars and drive far less. In the rest of
the world, then, vehicles are not much of a factor.

So, even if we in the USA do what Pope suggests, this would affect only our
demand. But demand is a worldwide problem -- and that is what is driving up the
prices.

Pope seems to take the usual Sierra Club position against further oil
exploration. We all are interested in saving the environment, but the Sierra
Club and others have to realize that if we do not increase supply, we will
always have a shortage, and it will get worse.

The United States wisely did not vote for the Kyoto treaty because it would have
severely hampered our economy.

We have had no major offshore oil-drilling platform failures in many years. We
have had no nuclear facility problems in decades. We have had no problems with
the Alaska pipeline. The United States needs to increase the supply of energy
products, and it can be done in a safe, environmentally friendly way.

Focusing solely on the demand side, as Pope suggests, sounds nice but will not
work.

Robert Bergstrom

Hidden Hills, Calif.

Applaud 'new attitude'

USA TODAY's article on the gas crisis talks about people carpooling to save gas.
Others are buying fuel-efficient cars. A mother talks about walking her daughter
to the park to play in the fresh air instead of driving to the overstimulating
buy, buy, buy mall ("Across USA, improvising as anxieties, prices soar," Cover
story, News, May 3).

It seems like the bigger crisis was when gas prices were lower and no one cared
how much gas he burned up or where it was coming from. I like the new attitude.

Terri Blazell

Olympia, Wash.

Undeserving of Yale

Once again, the oh-so-chic of the Ivy League schools (Yale) and the editorial
board of USA TODAY seek to instruct the rest of us, the great unwashed
("Ex-Taliban at Yale draws fire, invites thoughts about our values," Our view,
U.S. vs. Muslim world debate, May 11).

After only one year, USA TODAY argues, Yale has changed a 27-year-old man from a
radical Muslim mouthpiece for the Taliban into a reasonable Yalie and
"remarkable" student. The editorial argues for Sayed Rahmatullah Hashemi's
admission into a degree-granting program at Yale.

What absolute drivel.

With decent kids from all over the world dreaming of this sort of opportunity,
it is difficult to think that Hashemi, a smooth-talking, snake oil salesman,
makes the grade.

Naivete is occasionally endearing, but in this case, it's jaw droppingly stupid
and another example of the dreary mindset of the self-appointed cultural elite.

Toni Berkes

San Antonio, Texas

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              119 of 181 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             June 7, 2006 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

For Springsteen, 'Seeger Sessions' sends a message;
Today's fans can relate to folk music

BYLINE: Edna Gundersen

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 3D

LENGTH: 892 words


Explaining why he resurrected traditional folk tunes popularized by Pete Seeger,
Bruce Springsteen cracks: "I'm an old guy. I can do whatever I want whenever I
want, and I like doing it all."

The defiance that fueled 1975 breakthrough Born to Run also gave rise to We
Shall Overcome: The Seeger Sessions, perhaps Springsteen's most surprising album
yet. Few expected this plodding perfectionist, who labors over his handiwork for
years in solitude, to serve up a ramshackle batch of covers recorded in three
one-day sessions at a farmhouse with 13 players.

And those presuming the project was The Boss' spring break from his real job are
discovering the depth of his commitment in the Seeger ensemble's enthralling
live performances. After an emotional launch in New Orleans, the rambunctious
Americana hoedown drew raves across Europe. In the UK, The Independent dubbed
the concert "an astonishingly rich evening," while The Observer called it "an
inspiring triumph." The newly launched U.S. leg is similarly wowing critics; a
Washington Post reviewer  declared Springsteen's ragtime orchestra "the best
live show I've seen in at least five years."

The brief 18-date U.S. swing won't meet demand, so Springsteen is cherry-picking
one song from each show for AOL Music (aolmusic.com), along with photos, set
lists and recaps. Among on-demand videos so far are Erie Canal, Old Dan Tucker,
O Mary Don't You Weep and John Henry. A full 18-tune set will be available when
the tour ends June 25 in New Jersey.

Springsteen, 56, never set out to make an album of freewheeling folk music and
socially conscious messages that dovetail with the current political climate.

"It happened so spontaneously," he says. "As I've gotten older, I tend to be
more comfortable, and there's less second guessing. I'm always looking for
another road to go down. I knew a good deal about Pete's work, but I hadn't
steeped myself in it. In my late 20s, I went back to Hank Williams and Woody
Guthrie and some early blues. I've continued to look into different types of
music that gave birth to rock. In Pete's records, I found compelling music and
characters, and I thought I could find these voices inside of me. Also, it was a
release from my own writing. When you're released from your own style and sense
of structure or what you're trying to convey, it allows a real free musical
expression, which I hadn't had in a while."

The album, which entered Billboard at No. 3 and has sold 365,000 copies, scouts
beyond the familiar protest tunes and refutes the notion that folk is feeble.

"I wanted it to be really raucous," Springsteen says. "Folk, in its essential
element, is some of the rawest music ever made. I was interested in capturing
some of that. Pete's thing could be so directly political, but I tried to get a
balance of songs that had overt social implications, like Eyes on the Prize, a
big freedom song from the civil rights era, and character studies, like Jesse
James. It wasn't a conceptual project. It just happened and conceived itself
over time."

The trick, he says, was finding a modern context for revived traditions, antique
compositions and retro flavors of banjos, accordions, fiddles and washboards.

"I want to remember and yet forge ahead and find out what's over the next hill,"
he says. "A lot of this music was written so long ago, but I felt I could make
it feel essential right now. I've always got an eye toward the future and an eye
to the past. That's how you know where you've come from and where you want to
go. If you look at our recent history, it seems there's been so much disregard
of past experience in the way the country has conducted itself."

Though the album's politics are restrained, Springsteen has been increasingly
vocal in his criticism of the Bush administration since joining 2004's Vote for
Change tour. His solution to domestic ills?

"Obviously, get rid of the president," he says. "When you see the devastation
(in New Orleans) and realize the kind of support the city will need to get back
on its feet, there's no way to make sense of someone pushing for more tax cuts
for the 1% of the 1% of the population. It's insanity and a subversion of
everything America is supposed to be about. You can't travel around the city and
not wonder what in the world is going on."

With midterm elections looming, that's probably not his last word on the
subject. Nor will the Seeger tunes be his last whirl with history. He hopes to
explore other areas of American and international folk music. He also has a
roots-based solo project on the back burner.

And fret not, rock fans.

"I have a pretty good book of songs for the E Street Band," he says.

His longtime bandmates may discover their new Boss isn't the same as the old
Boss. The fast and loose Seeger process taught Springsteen valuable lessons.

"It's fascinating to record a song when musicians don't know it," he says. "It's
a powerful tool, especially with experienced musicians, in getting a certain
spontaneity that you lose with too much rehearsal. If people learn their parts
too well, they consciously perform rather than flat-out play. When you just
launch into it, it breaks down another barrier between you and the audience.
It's one less layer of formality. I like that a lot. I've done it with the E
Street Band at times over the years, but never an entire record. We may try it."

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: EAR PHOTO, Color, H. Darr Beiser, USA TODAY
PHOTO, B/W, H. Darr Beiser, USA TODAY

DOCUMENT-TYPE: MUSIC

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              125 of 181 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             June 29, 2006 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

The 'millennials' come of age;
Experts: Generation shows great potential

BYLINE: Sharon Jayson

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 1612 words


Chris Barnard's world is pretty typical for a 24-year-old single guy with a
college diploma, a job and no landline.

He earned a sociology degree two years ago and moved back in with his parents,
working as a temp as he tried to figure out his next step in life.

One of those temp jobs became permanent, and Barnard now works in Washington,
D.C., in the membership department of a trade association. He lives with two
roommates and keeps in frequent touch with friends and family.

"That's not to say I'm dependent upon them," he says of his parents, who live in
Rockville, Md. "They did all they could to foster my independence. It's of my
own accord that I keep in touch with them and let them know what's going on."

Except for technology, Barnard says his life is pretty similar to his parents'
when they started out. But he and his generation are getting increased attention
from researchers and  social scientists. Those who study generational behavior,
especially in young people, say this group is one to watch.

Demographers differ on just what ages they include in this next generation. Some
include those born since 1980; others start with 1982 and go to about 2000.
Most researchers have focused on the "first-wave" millennials -- those roughly
ages 16 to 25. Although there's no one set of traits that everyone shares,
research has suggested some commonalities in areas ranging from home life and
education to workplace behavior and leisure-time interests. An overview:

*At home: Everybody talks about the growing number of "boomerang" kids who move
back home,  but this generation is delaying other traditional measures of
adulthood as well.

Findings published in the American Sociological Association journal Contexts in
2004  contrasted young people growing up today with those  40 years earlier.
Researchers found that by age 30, a much smaller percentage today (46% of women
and 31% of men) have finished school, left home, gotten married, had a child or
reached financial independence. In 1960, 77% of women and 65% of men had reached
those standard markers of adulthood by age 30.

But even if they don't come home again, this generation appears to have closed
the generation gap: A survey of young adults last fall by Greenberg Quinlan
Rosner Research found more than 90% call their relationship with their mother
close; 65% described a close relationship with their father.

*Education. More students are enrolled in college, according to the National
Center for Education Statistics, which shows that the number of undergraduates
in 2004 (17.3 million)  was almost double that in 1970 (8.6 million). But costs
are rising. Average tuition and fees at four-year public universities rose 30%
from 2002-03 to 2005-06, says the College Board.

Students also are taking longer to graduate. A 2005 study by the non-profit
Education Trust found that only 37% of first-time freshmen at four-year schools
earned their bachelor's degrees in four years. Another 26% took up to six years.

*The workplace. Members of this next generation don't expect to stay forever in
one job, so they're not in a hurry  to launch careers just out of college. Many
travel and take jobs unrelated to their schooling. And researchers say they've
been raised in a climate that emphasized the importance of high self-esteem, so
they appear to challenge the boundaries of corporate behavior.

"When they have a problem in the workplace, they walk," says Neil Howe,
co-author of the book Generations and four other books about this group. Howe
and co-author William Strauss in 1991 dubbed this group "millennials."

"They don't waste time trying to change things," Howe says. "Our message for
employers is you want to organize them in groups and structure the work and give
them constant feedback."

*Leisure. Millennials have grown up with technology and use it constantly, not
just for work, like many of their elders, but to maintain relationships. This is
the group whose multitasking lifestyles rely on iPods, instant messaging,
cellphones and social networking sites such as MySpace and Facebook.

Young people of this generation, who grew up with "diversity" and
"multicultural" as buzzwords, are more tolerant and open-minded than previous
generations, suggests an analysis of studies  by the Center for Information and
Research on Civic Learning and Engagement, part of the University of Maryland's
School of Public Policy.

Six in 10 teens say their friends include members of diverse racial groups, a
study by Teenage Research Unlimited of Northbrook, Ill., finds. A Gallup Poll
last year says 60% of 18- to 29-year-olds have dated someone of a different
race.

*Civic engagement:  Millennials have a spirit of volunteerism and a hint of
interest in the world around them, but they're less inclined toward traditional
media to keep up with the news, research suggests. A study of more than 260,000
college freshmen released this year by UCLA's Higher Education Research
Institute found that 66.3% of freshmen surveyed last fall said it is "essential
or very important" to help others, the highest percentage to say so in 25 years.

Millennials have the potential to be a great generation, says Dave Verhaagen, a
child and adolescent psychologist in Charlotte and the author of Parenting the
Millennial Generation, published last year.

They will "rise to the occasion and show courage, character, determination,
innovation and vision in ways that really make the country a better place," he
predicts.

"What happens in every generation is that older people say kids are worse than
ever. 'They're so rude. Look at how they dress.' It's been going on forever. But
I don't think the data support that for the millennials."

This group also is more educated and has had fewer barriers in terms of gender
and ethnicity than their elders, says Jeffrey Jensen Arnett, who has studied
them in his work on "emerging adulthood."

This group  "has more opportunity than any generation in human history," he
says. But he warns against over-generalization. "For people who don't get much
education, the situation is worse than it was a half-century ago."

Linda Walter has studied the age group and has lots of hands-on experience
dealing with them in  family-orientation sessions for freshmen at Seton Hall
University in South Orange, N.J.

Despite all the positives she sees in the generation, Walter says she is worried
about what she believes is a decline in their face-to-face social skills in a
tech-dominated world.

"Even though they're with their peers, they're wrapped up in electronic
conversations, and they lose track of body language and those signals that are
around to what's happening," she says. "They sort of block them out."

Doing an about-face

Michael Rosen, 17, a high school senior from Manhattan, is truly a techno-buff
-- so much so that he says he sometimes instant-messages  family members when
he's "too lazy to get up and walk to the other side of the house."

But he resisted social networking websites such as MySpace and Facebook as
something he thought was a waste of time, a bit pretentious and an unnecessary
way to tally friends. That is, until this month, when he signed up for Facebook
to keep in touch with friends he doesn't see in school.

"I've become one of the masses," he says.  Last fall, Facebook expanded its site
from only college students to include high schoolers.

Rosen also is typical of many teenagers who volunteer for service projects,
including a community service project in which he collects lacrosse equipment
for poor schools.

Mixed indicators

Volunteering is rising, says Robert Putnam, author of the 2000 book Bowling
Alone, which is about the breakdown of social connections and the decline of
civic engagement. But he says civic involvement has been declining in every
generation.

"Everybody who has worked in this field has talked about this increasing youth
volunteering," says Putnam, a professor of public policy at Harvard.  "It's not
true of all other measures. It's not true for voting, interest in politics or
joining organizations."

Barnard, though, says he reads newspapers and magazines and is very interested
in politics and in voting.

Though he may be unusual in that respect, researchers would see much about his
life as pretty typical of a generation in motion.

In his 2004 book Emerging Adulthood, Arnett discusses how often these young
people move, based on a chart that shows rates of moving spike at 18, peak in
the mid-20s and then sharply decline.

"This shows that emerging adults rarely know where they will be living from one
year to the next," he writes.  "All of this moving around makes emerging
adulthood an unstable time, but it also reflects the explorations that take
place during the emerging adult years."

Barnard's life fits this model. During college, he changed dorms every year, and
in his senior year, he moved to an off-campus apartment. After college, he moved
home, then moved into his first apartment.

Now he's in his second apartment but says he finally plans to stay awhile.

"This is going to be the longest stay I've had since I went to college," he
says. "I've sort of settled in."
---
Following Generation Next

USA TODAY and MacNeil/Lehrer Productions are traveling the USA to chronicle the
interests and concerns of the next generation: the USA's 42 million 16- to
25-year-olds. They're also known as millennials, echo boomers and Gen Y.

This is the first in a series of updates from the Generation Next project, which
includes stories in USA TODAY and on NewsHour with Jim Lehrer, a Pew poll and a
PBS documentary in January.

Online, look for links to reports from the road by TV's Judy Woodruff and the
Generation Next team.

www.usatoday.com

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Color, Andrew Councill for USA TODAY
PHOTO, B/W, Andrew Councill for USA TODAY

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COVER STORY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              130 of 181 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             August 11, 2006 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

XK could cost you your license;
It's that fun to drive, not to mention arresting to look at

BYLINE: James R. Healey

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 1391 words


Drape your arm over the steering wheel and cruise through the coffee shop
parking lot at a walking pace. The 2007 Jaguar XK is smooth and easygoing,
providing eye candy for all. You feel like a million bucks.

Jump in, stressed and hurried, and race for the dry cleaners. You're late. Your
clothes are hostage until the cleaners reopens after a week's vacation. You
don't care because the drive was so invigorating. You feel like a million bucks.

Nail the gas. The sound changes from throaty in the background to roaring in the
foreground and the car leaps forward, as if it had more horsepower than the 300
it does. The automatic transmission snaps off crisp shifts -- or you do, using
the manual-mode paddles on the steering wheel -- and the car's running
way-past-legal speeds quickly enough to threaten your driver's license. And you
feel like a million bucks.

Jaguar has revamped its sporting model, previously known as the XK8, and turned
it into a gorgeous machine that's at ease cruising the boulevards, running
errands and charging under hard throttle.

Very tough to get a car to do all those with aplomb and to satisfy the driver in
each case.

The XK -- it comes in your choice of sleek, fast-back coupe or folding-soft-top
convertible -- hardly is perfect at the three tasks. But it is more than
competent at each and brings special sensations to all.

As it should, for $80,000-plus. It ought to sweep the floors, fold the laundry
and read to the kids for that price. And keep itself clean.

Instead, it just fills you up with the pleasant feeling you've always thought
you'd get from a spiffy car but haven't quite (or haven't at all if you've never
been able to afford an ultraclassy machine).

On the scale used by the well-off, the XK is a bargain. Looks a bit like the
rare Aston Martin DB9 for half the price. Provides a package similar to the
Mercedes-Benz SL for $10,000 less. Is a good-looking, less-complicated
alternative to the BMW 6 Series for a similar price.

In fact, the value proposition is a Jaguar salient. The beautiful XKE of the
1960s was a lower-price alternative to exotics such as Ferraris.

Consumer Reports magazine, basing its scores on reader surveys, shows Jag as a
brand much improved but still way down at 31 out of 36 U.S.-market brands,
mainly because of problems with the S-Type sedan. Consultant J.D. Power and
Associates, basing its rankings on surveys of owners, shows Jaguar among the
handful of highest-quality models new but below-average when the cars are 3
years old.

Too confusing? Just consider Jaguar in the hunt rather than an example of
awfulness, as some still believe. Here's what stood out after a week in an XK
convertible and a week in a coupe.

*Seats were quite comfortable and easily adjusted into a just-so driving
position. Every car with power seats and more than one driver ought to, by law,
have memory settings to promote domestic bliss. The XKs have several.

*The engine and transmission were a delight. The V-8 is unimpressive on paper:
300 horsepower at a time that family SUVs have as much; only a few horses more
than in the XK8 it replaces and requiring a fast 6,000 revs to hit that  peak.

How misleading. The drive-by-wire system rapidly cranks on the revs and power,
and you're shooting ahead at a very satisfying and exciting rate. The power is
more than enough for sporty endeavors, owing to a car that's lighter than the
one it replaced. Jag says the coupe weighs 108 pounds less than the XK8 coupe,
and the convertible is 221 pounds lighter.

*Steering, brakes and suspension all lived up to the promise of the under-hood
growl. The 2007's stiffer structure contributes to the taut feeling. Jag says
the coupe body has 67 fewer separate panels than its predecessor, and the
convertible, 102 fewer, which means fewer places to twist and bend.

*Not-quites and oversights undercut the pleasure. Despite high overall marks for
the suspension, it allowed the front end to bound a bit in bumpy corners,
eroding handling precision.

Coupe windows didn't always close properly and had to be powered down, then
closed anew. Early miscue; fixed now, Jag says.

The convertible had a bit more shimmy on bumps than you'd like, although it
wasn't willowy, as badly done convertibles are.

The convertible's windshield moved a startling amount when the top latches
engaged at the end of the top-up routine. Mark White, chief of body engineering
for Jag, says that's been fixed since the early production test car was built.
Tolerances were tightened in the vicinity of the hood and the windshield
structure.

*Fancy features worked well and were easier to use than expected. Jag says it
tried not to bury anything more than four layers deep in a menu. Most were much
more accessible than that.

The  navigation system, for example, was close to intuitive and, although the
screen was a bit  small, offered a vivid display and nice presentation of
information.

The standard backup alarm beeps if you get too close to something while in
reverse. Sensitivity was about right.

Most high-end cars offer a backup camera instead of an alarm. Jag says it looked
at camera systems during XK's development but considered them unrefined. Too,
Jag thinks it's not intuitive to look forward at a screen while going backward.

*The convertible top raises or lowers in about 18 seconds, quickly enough, and
can be operated while moving up to 10 mph. That's handy if you start the top at
a red light that turns to green before the top finishes its cycle.

The XK is arresting to see, easy to drive, thrilling to spur. It doesn't take
long behind the wheel to begin dismissing the problems as imaginary and
embracing the satisfactions as reality.

---
2007 Jaguar XK
*What is it? Full remake of Jaguar's high-end, aluminum-body, rear-drive
sportster, available as a coupe or a convertible. Manufactured at Castle
Bromwich manufacturing facility, Birmingham, England.

It replaces the XK series that was introduced in 1996 and discontinued in 2005.
Jaguar says the XK is the beginning of a new look and feel for the brand.

*How soon? On sale since April. The supercharged XKR goes on sale about next
January.

*How much? Coupe starts at $75,500, including destination charge. Convertible
starts at $81,500. Tested coupe was $88,000; convertible, $87,300.

*Who'll buy? Jaguar says Power Information Network, a unit of consultant J.D.
Power and Associates, gives this picture: average age, 53; 69% male; probably
been driving a Jaguar, Porsche or Mercedes-Benz.

Jaguar calls them "affluent people living the 'gorgeous' lifestyle. They are
always in the most exclusive places with society's elite."

*How many? 4,000 a year, more or less.

*What's the drivetrain? 4.2-liter V-8 rated 300 horsepower at 6,000 rpm, 310
pounds-feet of torque at 4,100 rpm; six-speed automatic transmission with
steering-wheel-mounted manual-shift paddles; traction control.

*What's the safety gear? Expected bags and belts, plus anti-lock brakes,
stability control, side-impact and head-curtain bags for front-seat occupants,
pop-up rollover protection bars behind rear seats.

*What's the rest? Standard features include climate control; navigation system;
leather upholstery; power steering, brakes, windows, seats, mirrors, locks;
backup obstacle alarm; rain-sensing wipers; cruise control; headlight washers;
outside mirror defrosters.

*How big? 188.6 inches long, 74.5 inches wide (81.5 inches including mirrors),
52 inches (coupe) or 52.3 inches (convertible) high on a 108.3-inch wheelbase.
Passenger space is listed as 74 cubic feet (smaller than a subcompact car).

Trunk space: coupe, 10.6 cubic feet with mini-spare tire, 11.7 cubic feet when
the car's equipped with run-flat tires and no spare; convertible, 10 cubic feet
with mini-spare, 11.1 cubic feet with run-flats.

Weight: coupe, 3,671 pounds; convertible, 3,759 pounds.

Carries up to 815 pounds (coupe) or 816 pounds (convertible) of people, cargo
and accessories.

Towing is not recommended.

*How thirsty? Rated 18 mpg in town, 27 on the highway. Trip computers in the
test cars showed the coupe got 17.9 mpg and the convertible, 18 mpg. Both were
driven mainly in the suburbs, with a few short freeway hops and as many
full-throttle blasts as prudence and the police allowed.

Premium fuel is specified. Performance and fuel economy drop if lower-octane
fuel is used, Jag says.

*Overall:  A good reason to get rich.

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS, B/W, Jaguar (2)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: TEST DRIVE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              134 of 181 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           September 22, 2006 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

10 great places to putt up or shut up

BYLINE: Kathy Baruffi

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 3D

LENGTH: 758 words


Swing into fall with a hole-in-one through an alligator's mouth or under a
waterfall. Bob Detwiler, owner of the Hawaiian Rumble course in North Myrtle
Beach, S.C., which hosts the Masters National Championship in October,
established the U.S. ProMiniGolf Association and turned the game into a
legitimate sport. He shares his picks for top putting spots with Kathy Baruffi
for USA TODAY.

Pirates' Pier Mini Golf

Santa Monica, Calif.

"Putters can hear real waves below as they navigate through a shipwreck and
other swashbuckling themes on this mini-golf course 40 feet above the Pacific
Ocean," Detwiler says. The course is part of Pacific Park, a 2-acre theme park
on the historic Santa Monica Pier. Save time for a ride on the solar-powered
Pacific Wheel, an enormous Ferris wheel with spectacular views of the coastline.
310-260-8744; pacpark.com.

Deer Run Golf Center

Woodstock, Ill.

Out in the country, 10 miles south of the Wisconsin border, this prairie-themed
course is incorporated into the natural landscape. Balls are driven through
logs, up and around hills and over a stream. "Watch for the wolf on top of the
waterfall," Detwiler advises. The mini-golf course is part of a family-oriented
golf learning center and driving range. 815-338-9701; deerrungolfcenter.com.

Mini-Golf America

Williamsburg, Va.

"This is a great place to visit. The course is only 2 miles from the historic
area," Detwiler says. All-day passes are available and hole placements change
daily. The course is set in flowering gardens with hundreds of shrubs, azaleas
and perennials. In fall the foliage is vibrant. 757-229-7200;
minigolfamerica.com.

Premiere Country Club

Sedona, Ariz.

Located on the grounds of Los Abrigados Resort and Spa, high in the desert, you
won't find any giraffes or windmills on this eco-course, where philosophical
postings at each hole remind players to respect the environment. "This course
rewards the skilled player. Luck is not much of a factor here," Detwiler says.
Save time for a Jeep or Hummer tour of the surreal red rock formations, a visit
to the Grand Canyon or a walk among ancient Native American cliff dwellings
nearby. 928-282-1777.

Golf Gardens

Avalon, Calif.

Originally a garden, this beautiful course on Catalina Island is half a block
from the beach. Palms, a coral tree and eucalyptus provide plenty of shaded
areas. "There are lots of ups and down as well as tunnel shortcuts and
loop-the-loop holes," Detwiler says. Save time for nearby dolphin, porpoise and
whale-watching charters, in season. 310-510-1200.

Dolphin Mini Golf

Boothbay, Maine

"Shoot a hole-in-one through a fisherman's house or into a whale's eye at this
nautical-themed course where the ship's wheel turns and buoys bounce," Detwiler
says. The greens have dolphin, whale and anchor shapes, and colorful goldfish
share nearby pools with frogs and lily pods. Visit the Covered Bridge Shell
Museum, then head over to the Co-op, owned by local fisherman, for a lobster
roll. 207-633-4828.

Grand Country Indoor Mini-Golf

Branson, Mo.

Live music brings more than 7 million visitors a year to this small town in the
hills of the Ozarks with 40 theaters and 60,000 theater seats. Putters will pass
the world's largest fiddle with flashing neon strings as they walk through the
lobby to the 36-hole indoor golf area of the Grand Country Square complex. "The
climate-controlled environment is a welcome relief from the summer humidity and
winter weather," Detwiler says. 417-334-3919; grandcountry.com.

Fantasia Gardens Miniature Golf

Walt Disney World Resort, Fla.

"Hippos dance, Pan plays the flute, broomsticks leap and water shoots out of
their buckets at this unique course based on the Disney animated film Fantasia.
It's a golfing fantasy," Detwiler says.  407-560-4753; disney.go.com.

Par-King Skill Golf

Lincolnshire, Ill.

An easy drive into the northern suburbs of Chicago, this course is also a trip
back in time with '50s-era turtle, clown and carousel. "Designed to test your
skill, the course has many moving pieces and mechanical objects, hence the
48-inch height requirement for kids," Detwiler says. There's a roller-coaster
hole where you hit the ball into an elevator and it goes up a tall tower and
does a big loop. At the orbiter hole, players hit their ball from a rotating
platform. 847-634-0333; par-king.com.

Bay View Golf Park

Kaneohe, Hawaii

"This 36-hole course in Kaneohe Bay has long, sloping hills with lots of banks
and angles," Detwiler says. The tropical setting includes a giant banyan tree,
grass huts, rivers, canyons and waterfalls. 808-247-0451.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Bob Riha Jr., USA TODAY
PHOTO, B/W, Par-King

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              135 of 181 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           September 29, 2006 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Quest improved but still not best;
Interior looks good, third-row seats better and engine dandy

BYLINE: James R. Healey

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 1410 words


Nissan has belatedly discovered that minivan buyers want conventional, not
quirky, and has tried to recast its Quest van as less weird.

The effort is partly successful but doesn't solve all the problems.

The 2007 freshening comes three years after the van was launched. You'd expect a
company to wait four or more years before sinking money into a product in a
static market dominated by three big players -- and it's  not one of them.

Chrysler Group, Honda and Toyota, the Big Three of minivans, own a combined 72%
of U.S. minivan sales, according to Autodata.

General Motors and Ford Motor, the Little Two, together have an additional 17%
-- although Ford says it will stop making Ford Freeestar and Mercury Monterey
minivans next year.

Kia dominates the Tiny Others, holding 5% of U.S.  sales. Nissan's Quest claims
just 3%.

Quest sales the first half of the year were off 30.2% from a year earlier, says
Autodata. In August, the first full month the new one's been on the market,
sales were 27.7% worse than last year's.

To de-odd the Quest, Nissan remade the interior (though seats still look and
feel a lot like previous ones), tweaked the exterior and added features. Nissan
says it uses better materials on the interior. Cheap-looking and -feeling
interiors have been Nissan's Achilles' heel.

The result is a van that doesn't look much different outside, has more general
appeal inside and remains fun to drive because of its 3.5-liter V-6 and
snappy-shifting automatic transmission.

Most noticeable: Gauges now are in front of the driver, instead of in the center
of the dashboard. Big improvement.

Controls look and operate more conventionally. Shifting the transmission lever,
operating the turn signals, activating the wipers -- all a pleasure because of
the finish on the controls and the precision with which they work.

Styling didn't change, just new parts on the schnoz and rump. You might not like
it, but you won't think of it as a generic minivan.

Without a full redesign, which the '07 Quest isn't, Nissan couldn't hide the
sliding door track, an ugly gash down the van's side. (Nor is there any
indication that Nissan agrees that the track is a visual indignity.) Chrysler,
Ford and Toyota do especially good jobs by hiding the track along the lower edge
of the rear window. Honda camouflages it along a crease in the body panel.

The Nissan van's rounded edges, protruding nose and flowing roof give Quest
character. Some people don't like characters. Others find them refreshing.

Other points:

*Interior. Better-looking, yes. More comfortable, no. It was impossible to get
suitably arranged in the front seats of the test van, a well-furnished, $41,000
SE. It was possible, thank goodness, to approximate comfort sufficiently to
drive the machine.

Second and third rows were more comfortable than front seats.

Physiques differ. Yours might find Quest's front seats agreeable, as did another
driver in the household.

Nissan retained the optional skylights over the back seats. Those do a nice job
brightening what in many vans is dungeonlike space.

Improved materials and surfaces, as Nissan pledges, upgrade the insides.

*Function. Improved. The third-row seat folds down into the floor differently
and more easily than it did, and you no longer have to remove the head
restraints first. But it balks at lying flush with the cargo floor, leaving a
bit of a ski ramp back there. The floor in front of the second-row seating isn't
level, either. It's scooped out to give the second-row seats room to fold. No
big deal generally, but bulky items sit at an angle if you carry them on the
floor in front of the second row. They are awkward to slide across that part of
the floor.

Lights above the second row swivel and have tightly focused beams. That makes
them useful as reading lights without annoying or distracting the driver.

The optional rear entertainment system includes two screens, not just one, so
the third-row riders can view the movie as comfortably as those in the second
row.

*Performance. Quest's 3.5-liter V-6 is similar to the one used in the 350Z
sports car but tuned differently for smoother driving in traffic. Rated 235
horsepower and 240 pounds-feet of torque, the Nissan engine is just shy of the
3.5-liter V-6 in the Honda Odyssey, a bit short of the 3.5-liter that's new for
'07 in the Toyota Sienna. The Nissan requires premium fuel to make its numbers,
while Toyota and Honda specify regular.

That aside, the Quest engine is dandy. Sounds good, revs quickly, feels lively
and confident whether burbling or barreling. Quest's five-speed automatic shifts
brilliantly, up or down. But there's only limited ability to shift it manually.

Cornering, braking and steering all felt very right on the test rig, except the
turning circle was awkwardly large. Nissan says it's 40 feet. Honda lists 36.7
feet for Odyssey. Toyota, 36.8 feet for Sienna. Chrysler, 39.4 feet for Town &
Country. Nissan says Quest's longer wheelbase, which expands passenger space and
provides a smooth ride, makes it hard to turn as tightly as shorter-wheelbase
models.

*Quality. Previous models have been poor, and owner satisfaction has been
below-average, according to Consumer Reports magazine's data from thousands of
owners. Odyssey and Sienna are the only two vans scoring high enough to be
recommended by the magazine.

Perhaps outweighing its shortcomings, Quest brings personality and driving
allure to the minivan party. The test vehicle was exceptional on a road trip
because of the delightful powertrain and spot-on steering. If only those seats
hadn't been so uncomfortable.

You might lean toward Quest if you are iconoclastic, get a kick out of how much
fun it is when you hit the gas, like the bright and roomy interior, drive in
wide-open spaces where turning circle isn't an issue and believe Nissan has long
since fixed the quality problems.

If that doesn't describe you, you'd probably be happier with an alternative.
2007 Nissan Quest
*What is it? Update of the slow-selling, front-drive, seven-passenger minivan to
make it more conventional and broaden its appeal. Manufactured at Canton, Miss.

*How soon? On sale since early July.

*How much? Base model starts at $25,000 including $650 destination charge. S
model is $26,300. SL is $28,150. SE is $34,550. Selling for about dealer invoice
cost, plus or minus $500, online car shopping sites say (including $1,000 rebate
scheduled to expire Monday).

*Who'll buy? Women, younger and more affluent than typical minivan buyers,
Nissan says. They're likely to be college graduates, married with young
children.

*How many? Nissan won't say. So far this year, Quest sales average about 2,800 a
month.

*What's the drivetrain? 3.5-liter V-6 rated 235 horsepower, 240 pounds-feet of
torque; five-speed automatic transmission; traction control.

*What's the safety gear? Expected bags and belts, plus anti-lock brakes,
head-curtain bags for all three rows of seats. Optional: Anti-skid control and
front-seat, side-impact bags.

*What's the rest? Standard features include climate control; power steering,
brakes, windows, locks, mirrors; remote-control locks; cruise control; AM/FM/CD
stereo; tilt-adjustable steering wheel; rear window washer, wiper; P225/65R-16
tires, temporary-use spare.

*How big? A few inches longer, taller than other vans. Quest is 204.1 inches
long, 77.6 inches wide, 71.9 inches tall (without roof rails), on a 124-inch
wheelbase. Weight is listed as 4,291 to 4,480 pounds, depending on model.

Rated to carry 1,204 pounds of people, cargo and vehicle accessories. Rated to
tow up to 3,500 pounds.

Cargo space is listed as 32.7 cubic feet behind third row, 88.2 cubic feet when
third row is folded into floor (85.4 cubic feet on SE model because of sunroof
intrusion), 145.7 cubic feet when third and second rows are folded (140.9 cubic
feet on SE).

*How thirsty? Rated 18 miles per gallon in town, 25 on the highway, 21 in mixed
driving. Premium fuel is recommend. Regular is OK; power will drop slightly.
Tank holds 20 gallons.

Trip computer in test vehicle showed 14.2 mpg in suburban driving, 16.2 in mix
of suburban-highway driving.

*Overall: Better, but not best.
---
More online

*Chat online with James R. Healey at 2 p.m. ET today at talk.usatoday.com.

*E-mail testdrive@usatoday.com.

*Go to cars.usatoday.com to hear  Healey's comments on the Nissan Quest, to see
more photos of the Quest, to find previous Test Drive columns and to get
information on pricing, incentives, crash-test scores and more.

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS, B/W, Nissan (3)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: TEST DRIVE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              141 of 181 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            October 23, 2006 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Little shark helps pierce great white mystery;
Aquarium's young star could change perceptions

BYLINE: John Ritter

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 1206 words


MONTEREY, Calif. -- Let's put a great white shark scientist on the spot.

Tell us how many great whites there are. We don't know.

Tell us about their breeding habits. Pretty much a mystery.

How big do they get? Not sure.

How long do they live? Ditto.

The great white shark is one of the oceans' greatest predators, an animal feared
by man and fish alike, an object of public fascination even before that campy
hit movie Jaws. Yet only recently have we begun acquiring the skimpiest of
knowledge about the species.

A little guy in a 1.3-million-gallon tank here at Monterey Bay Aquarium is
crucial to that effort. An instant celebrity when he went on display Sept. 1,
already the second-longest great white shark to survive in captivity, the
juvenile is doing more than drawing visitors to one of the world's top
aquariums.

Swimming with huge tunas, Pacific barracudas, a giant green sea turtle and other
denizens of deep offshore waters, the shark is bringing in revenue that goes
back into research. He's helping to educate the public about the plight of
sharks -- many species are depleted by overfishing -- and he's beefing up a
growing body of work on white shark habits.

"There's no doubt we'll learn a lot about white shark behavior, biology and
physiology from captive animals," says Chris Lowe, a marine biology professor
and director of SharkLab at California State University, Long Beach. "But the
biggest value is these little sharks are ambassadors. The aquarium's ability to
keep them will be a key turning point in getting people to look at white sharks
not just as a threat."

Great whites are king of their natural environment but become delicate creatures
when confined. A few dozen attempts have been made since the 1950s. None was
successful until two years ago when the aquarium here kept a young female for
198 days, releasing it only after it killed two soupfin sharks in the big tank.

The aquarium's first try, in 1984, ended badly when a 5-foot great white, caught
by a fisherman in Bodega Bay north of here, refused to eat and died after 11
days. In 2000, curators decided to try again, but only after careful study of
what would put a great white at ease.

By then other aquariums, including SeaWorld in San Diego, had learned that a
great white needs a big space because it must swim constantly to breathe. A tank
had to have rounded sides, so a shark wouldn't bump into a corner and injure its
nose.

Starting small

Tanks had to be cleared of pumps because electrical currents disorient sharks. A
key step, copied from a world-class facility in Okinawa that keeps whale sharks,
was building a 4-million-gallon pen in Monterey Bay outside the aquarium to
mimic open-ocean conditions. That provided a sea-to-tank transition where
curators could observe a shark and make sure it was healthy and eating food they
offered.

The aquarium sought small whites after early attempts with large ones failed at
SeaWorld and San Francisco's Steinhart Aquarium. The new resident is 5 feet, 8
inches long, weighs 100 pounds and is about a year old.

"We're not trying to display a large 18-foot animal," curator Jon Hoech says.
"We believe starting small gives us our best chances."

The unnamed male appears to be as big a hit as his female predecessor. She
attracted 1 million visitors and $3 million in revenue during the winter 2004-05
tourist off-season. The aquarium has spent nearly $4 million since 2000 on its
white shark project; $840,000 of that went back into field conservation
research, spokesman Ken Peterson says. The young male, a resident for 53 days as
of today, has brought in 250,000 extra visitors.

The aquarium's success has won over critics such the Pelagic Shark Research
Foundation, a Santa Cruz, Calif., group that opposes confining certain
deep-ocean animals.

"Their program has evolved," director Sean Van Sommeran says. "We stick to our
policy, but we're supportive of the project, and it's bringing in a lot of money
that can be used on behalf of the shark."

Visitors linger in front of the tank's 15-foot-tall, 13-inch-thick acrylic
viewing wall, startled by 500-pound bluefin tuna but mostly waiting for the star
to cruise by. He'll swim high and low, glide along the walls, keep to himself.
The big tuna ignore him, but a school of sardines stays out of his way.

Twice-daily feedings are a big draw. From above, a worker lowers a pole and
chunk of black cod, albacore tuna, salmon or other delicacy into the water.
Another handler shoos away other fish.

Soon the shark, as he would in the wild, moves swiftly up from below toward the
food, grabs it in his jaws, pivots and swims away.

Most of what had been known about white sharks came from fishermen. The sharks'
migratory movements were mysterious, though it was assumed they hung out mostly
in coastal waters.

"We don't even begin to understand how animals use the 'blue' part of the
planet," says Barbara Block, a professor at Stanford University's marine station
here.

In recent years, a lot of effort went into tagging whites and tracking them by
satellite. Findings, still limited in scope, were surprising. Whites had long
been found in the Farallon Islands west of San Francisco, in the Marin Headlands
to the north and at the rocky coastal point Aoo Nuevo to the south, gorging on
seals and sea lions.

Tracking by satellite

Whites also were known to be around Mexico's Guadalupe Island, on the Chilean
coast, in Spencer Bay in southern Australia and off South Africa. They like
chilly waters associated with Mediterranean climates, says Peter Klimley, a
marine biology professor at the University of California, Davis.

Satellite tracking showed adults traveling much farther: from coastal California
to the Hawaiian Islands, from Northern California to Baja, from South Africa to
Australia. Scientists don't know why. Block says whites may swim to Hawaii in
winter for its marine mammal buffet, including baby humpback whales.

"Are there populations at these places" so you can calculate a total, Klimley
says, "or are they moving between these sites so there may be even fewer, which
is perhaps the likely scenario?"

A graduate student of Klimley's is working on what's hoped is the first reliable
estimate of the global white shark population. "There aren't going to be a lot
of them," Klimley says, because the top-of-the-food-chain predator reaches
sexual maturity late in life and bears a single pup every other year. One
hypothesis is that no more than 5,000 exist, he says.

Knowing the population and whether it's going up or down helps predict effects
on other marine life, Klimley says. If the white shark is depressing the seal
population, that could increase the population of a fish humans eat.

Scientists were perplexed when tracking found white sharks going to a place
about halfway between California and Hawaii. It's the ocean equivalent of a
desert -- no mountains, no valleys, no food, just an aquatic wasteland. Yet the
sharks were showing up. Researchers called it the Shark Cafe.

At first they thought that if the cafe had nothing to do with food, it must be
about reproduction. "Adult males and females were showing up, so that would
sound like sex," Block says. "But then young ones showed up, too, which makes
everybody wonder what's going on."

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, USA TODAY (Map)
PHOTOS, B/W, Jack Gruber, USA TODAY (2)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              143 of 181 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            October 27, 2006 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Labor deal details could boost pay, help rich teams

BYLINE: Hal Bodley

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 4C

LENGTH: 865 words


ST. LOUIS -- Baseball's rich could very well get richer, thanks to the new labor
agreement between management and players.

Start with the new $148million -- an 8.4% increase from $136.5million -- luxury
tax threshold, which increases to $178million in 2011, the final year of the
contract.

Add to that elimination of the deadlines teams had to decide whether they would
keep their own free agents. That extends the negotiation period indefinitely and
could drive up salaries.

In the past, teams had to decide by Dec. 7 to offer their free agents salary
arbitration. If they declined, that player could not be re-signed until May 1.
Players offered arbitration had until Dec. 18 to accept or decline. If they
accepted, they were considered signed. If they declined, they could continue
negotiating with their teams, but only until Jan. 8. Those three dates were
eliminated.

Teams now must offer arbitration by Dec. 1, and the player has until Dec. 7 to
accept. Otherwise negotiations continue until the player reaches agreement with
his team -- or another.

This allows teams more time to make decisions about their own as well as other
free agents.

Baseball's industry revenues will approach $6 billion in 2007, from $5.2 billion
this year. That, coupled with the competitive-balance threshold of $148 million,
will give many of the richest franchises more freedom to spend.

"I think there were gains for both sides," says agent Scott Boras. "There's more
liberalness in the free agent area, more options for clubs to obtain their own
free agents in the bargaining process.

"On the draft side, high school players, particularly those who cannot attend
college, are left with very little leverage."

Philadelphia Phillies assistant general manager Ruben Amaro Jr. says,
"Basically, the clubs can sign free agents at any time. I like the changes,
because it simplifies things."

Teams that understand how salaries may increase will be quick to exercise
options, realizing in the current economic climate they're wise decisions.

The New York Yankees are planning to exercise Gary Sheffield's $13million
option, and the Minnesota Twins have already made their move on Torii Hunter's
$12million deal for 2007.

Last offseason, the Detroit Tigers were able to sign pitchers Kenny Rogers and
Todd Jones at reasonable figures. Those types of signings may be more difficult.

Most teams try to keep their payrolls below the threshold because they do not
want to pay that percentage of tax above that plateau. The Yankees paid $34.1
million in 2005.

Average salary was about $2.7 million in 2006 and could reach $3 million next
season.

Just as important: Revenue sharing is pouring funds into the coffers of
once-struggling, small-market franchises. This year, $326 million will be
transferred, a key reason the World Series-winning team  will be the seventh in
as many years.

Boras says when he negotiated Alex Rodriguez's record 10-year, $252 million deal
before the 2001 season, "revenues were $3 billion. You have a near-doubling of
industry revenues. Superstar retention for the key players in the game is now
available to every major league franchise (because of revenues and revenue
sharing)."

Will salaries continue to jump? "The escalation of salaries is because of the
demand of premium players by clubs which have revenues the fan base is aware
of," Boras says.

Amaro isn't certain the new contract will boost salaries. "There's also the
theory there are going to be more free agents in the marketplace, which will
bring overall dollars down," he says.

Detroit downtime: Whitey Herzog, who took the St. Louis Cardinals to three World
Series during 10 years as their manager, says Detroit's week off before the
start of the Series, plus Wednesday night's rain delay, has cost the Tigers.

"I don't think one day of rain is that important, but the days they had off
after they clinched the pennant really hurt them," says Herzog over the phone
from his St. Louis home. "They were so hot, playing so well, pitching so well.
They would have been better off if they kept playing. They haven't swung the
bats very well, and I think that's because their timing has been off."

Herzog chuckles when the controversy surrounding Detroit pitcher Kenny Rogers
and the whatever-it-was substance on his pitching hand Sunday night is
mentioned.

"You know as hard as that baseball is today, you can't cut it with your belt
buckle and surely can't put a dent in it with your thumbnail," he says. "I sit
here at home sometimes and take my thumb and try to put a mark in it and can't
do it."

Around the horn: The Baseball Writers Association of America has asked Major
League Baseball to withhold the expected awarding of the 2009 All-Star Game to
the Cardinals and Busch Stadium unless improvements are made to the new park's
media facilities. Commissioner Bud Selig says he will look into the matter. ...
Boras, Alex Rodriguez's agent, reiterates that Rodriguez "is not going
anywhere." ... Selig insists he will not remain in the job when his contract
expires after the 2009 season -- two years before the labor deal expires. If
Selig keeps his word, the new commissioner will be responsible for the next
collective bargaining agreement.

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              148 of 181 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           November 8, 2006 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Dems pick up Senate seats in Pa., Ohio, R.I.;
Control hinges on three states with competitive races now held by GOP: Va., Mo.
and Mont.

BYLINE: Jill Lawrence

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 970 words


WASHINGTON -- Democrats defeated Republican senators in Pennsylvania, Ohio and
Rhode Island on Tuesday, three of six seats they needed to wrest control of the
chamber from Republicans. They also dashed GOP hopes of bucking the national
mood in heavily Democratic Maryland and New Jersey.

Still, a 50-50 tie or a razor-thin Republican majority appeared possible as the
party struggled to defend its turf in a climate made hostile by war, scandal and
an unpopular president. The GOP now holds 55 seats. Democrats entered the
election with 44 seats and the help of one independent, Vermont's Jim Jeffords,
who will be replaced by another independent.

Thirty-three states elected senators on Tuesday. The Democrats' challenge was to
hold all 18 of their own seats and win six new ones in a landscape dominated for
years by President Bush and his party.

Americans have concluded, Senate Democratic leader Harry Reid said just after
midnight ET, that "a one-party town just simply doesn't work."

Control of the chamber hinged on three competitive races in states now held by
Republicans: Virginia, Missouri and Montana.

Republican Sen. George Allen and Republican-turned-Democrat Jim Webb were fewer
than 2,000 votes apart out of more than 2 million cast with almost all votes
counted in Virginia. Both candidates were buffeted by character attacks over
their views on women and minorities in one of the most unusual Senate races this
year.

Allen started out with a double-digit lead in public-opinion polls and
presidential aspirations, but a series of gaffes and missteps erased his lead
and dimmed his national prospects. By Election Day, despite his apologies and
assertions that Webb would raise taxes, he had lost his lead.

Webb, a Navy secretary for Ronald Reagan, supported Allen in 2000. He warned
against an Iraq invasion months before it happened and changed parties because
of the war, saying the GOP had "lost its way" on national security.

In Missouri, GOP Sen. Jim Talent was trying to hold off state auditor Claire
McCaskill in a race that was tied all season in polls. An initiative to protect
embryonic stem cell research provoked voter-turnout drives by both sides.

McCaskill benefited from union efforts to build support for a minimum-wage hike,
another initiative on the ballot. EMILY's List, which backs Democratic female
candidates who favor abortion rights, spent nearly $400,000 to help her.

In four states, Democrats exploited opportunities beyond widespread unhappiness
with Bush and the Iraq war:

*Republican Sen. Lincoln Chafee, a moderate who said he didn't vote for Bush in
2004, was swamped by the tide in heavily Democratic Rhode Island. Winner Sheldon
Whitehouse, a former state attorney general, argued that a vote for Chafee was a
vote to continue GOP control of the Senate.

*Pennsylvania Sen. Rick Santorum, the No. 3 Republican leader and a prominent
national spokesman for conservatives, ran in a swing presidential state with a
popular Democratic governor. His opponent, state treasurer Bob Casey, argued
that the country needs change, accountability and a minimum-wage hike.

*Democratic Rep. Sherrod Brown made a similar case next door in Ohio to beat
two-term GOP Sen. Mike DeWine. Ohio Republicans have been mired in scandals
involving the governor, a congressman and a top GOP fundraiser.

*In Montana, Republican Sen. Conrad Burns was ensnared in the Jack Abramoff
lobbying scandal. State Senate President Jon Tester, a rancher and butcher,
closed with an ad in which Brian Schweitzer, the Democratic governor, accused
Burns "and his crooked pals in Washington" of lying about Tester's position on
taxes.

Another nail-biter was Tennessee, where former Chattanooga mayor Bob Corker
survived a bitter three-way GOP primary and then beat Democratic Rep. Harold
Ford of Memphis.

Ford was bidding to become the South's first black senator since Reconstruction.
He reached out to moderate and rural voters by emphasizing his religious roots
and fiscal conservatism.

Republicans hoped to overcome the odds with Tom Kean's aggressive challenge to
New Jersey Sen. Robert Menendez, but Kean fell short. The GOP also sought
crossover appeal in heavily Democratic Maryland. Lt. Gov. Michael Steele, who is
black, was endorsed by some black pastors and Democratic officials. His
opponent, Democratic Rep. Ben Cardin, will succeed retiring Sen. Paul Sarbanes.

In Minnesota, Republicans once had high hopes for Rep. Mark Kennedy. But
Democrat Amy Klobuchar, the Hennepin County prosecutor, kept a seat now held by
retiring Democrat Mark Dayton.

One of the Democratic Party's best-known national figures won an easy victory.
Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton, D-N.Y., a former first lady and a presidential
prospect, raised more than $38 million for a race against a Republican who never
got any traction, former Yonkers mayor John Spencer.

Two independents allied with Democrats, Connecticut Sen. Joe Lieberman and
Vermont Rep. Bernie Sanders, also won their races. Both said they will vote with
Democrats in the Senate. Lieberman, a pro-war Democrat, lost his primary to
anti-war businessman Ned Lamont and came back as an independent.

Democrats were unusually aggressive this year in picking candidates. Sen.
Charles Schumer, D-N.Y., head of the party's campaign committee, broke precedent
by helping at least a half-dozen contenders win primaries or run in them
unopposed.

The money collected by the competing Senate campaign committees reflected the
political environment. Democrats raised $104 million, vs. $78 million for the
GOP.

A 50-50 Senate, with Vice President Cheney breaking ties, was a distinct
possibility. The Senate was evenly divided in 1881 and periodically during
1953-54, when nine members died or resigned, Senate historian Betty Koed says.
When it happened in 2001, the two parties arranged to share power.

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Karl Gelles, USA TODAY, Source: USA TODAY research (Map)
PHOTO, B/W, Spencer Platt, Getty Images
PHOTO, B/W, Ray Stubblebine, Reuters
PHOTO, B/W, Douglas C. Pizac, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              149 of 181 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           November 8, 2006 Wednesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Dems pick up Senate seats in Pa., Ohio, R.I.;
Casey, Brown, Whitehouse defeat GOP incumbents; Lieberman wins

BYLINE: Jill Lawrence

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 993 words


WASHINGTON -- Democrats picked up Senate seats in Pennsylvania, Ohio and Rhode
Island on Tuesday, three of six they needed to wrest control of the Senate from
Republicans. The party also kept a seat in New Jersey the Republicans had hoped
to capture.

Pennsylvania Treasurer Bob Casey, son of a popular former governor, defeated
Republican Sen. Rick Santorum, part of the party's leadership and a national
spokesman on conservative issues. In New Jersey, Democratic Sen. Bob Menendez
staved off another namesake son of a popular former governor, Tom Kean.

In Minnesota, Democrat Amy Klobuchar, Hennepin County's prosecutor, won her race
against Rep. Mark Kennedy for a seat now held by a Democrat.

Republicans struggled to hold their 55-seat majority in a climate made hostile
by war, scandal and an unpopular president. Democrats entered the election with
44 seats and the help of one independent, Vermont's Jim Jeffords, who will be
replaced by another independent.  A 50-50 Senate, with Vice President Cheney
breaking ties, was a distinct possibility.

Thirty-three states were electing senators on Tuesday. Democrats hold 18 seats,
Republicans 15.

The Democrats' challenge was to hold all of their own seats and find six pickups
in a landscape dominated for years by President Bush and his party. The party
also was counting on two independents who have said they'll organize with the
Democrats.

The states in play until the end stretched from the Eastern seaboard to the
Mountain West. Democrats were counting on winning Republican seats in Ohio and
Pennsylvania, and trying for four more pickups in Rhode Island, Virginia,
Tennessee, Missouri and Montana. Republican hopes were focused on New Jersey and
Maryland.

Virginia was one of the tightest and most unusual Senate races this year. Both
candidates were buffeted by character attacks over their views on women and
minorities.

Republican Sen. George Allen started out with a double-digit lead in the polls
and presidential aspirations, but a series of gaffes and missteps erased his
lead and dimmed his national prospects. By Tuesday, despite his apologies and
assertions that Democrat Jim Webb would raise taxes, he had lost his lead.

Webb, a Navy secretary for Ronald Reagan, supported Allen in 2000. He cautioned
against an Iraq invasion before it happened and became a Democrat because of the
war. He said the GOP had "lost its way" on national security.

In Missouri, GOP Sen. Jim Talent was trying to hold off state auditor Claire
McCaskill in a race that was tied all season in polls. An initiative to protect
embryonic stem cell research provoked voter-turnout drives by both sides.

McCaskill benefitted from union efforts to build support for a minimum wage
hike, another initiative on the ballot. EMILY's List, which backs Democratic
female candidates who favor abortion rights, spent nearly $400,000 to help her.

The third nail-biter was Tennessee. Former Chattanooga mayor Bob Corker survived
a bitter three-way GOP primary and ran a strong race against Democratic Rep.
Harold Ford of Memphis.

Ford was bidding to become the South's first black senator since Reconstruction.
He campaigned heavily among blacks, who are 16% of Tennessee's population. He
also reached out to moderate and rural voters by emphasizing his religious roots
and fiscal conservativism.

The GOP sought crossover appeal in heavily Democratic Maryland. Lt. Gov. Michael
Steele, who is black, was endorsed by some black pastors and Democratic elected
officials. Democratic Rep. Ben Cardin beat Steele.

In four states, Democrats were exploiting opportunities beyond widespread
unhappiness with Bush and the Iraq war:

*Republican Sen. Lincoln Chafee of Rhode Island, a moderate who said he didn't
vote for Bush in 2004, lost in the heavily Democratic state. Democrat Sheldon
Whitehouse argued that a vote for Chafee was a vote to continue GOP control of
the Senate.

*The socially conservative Santorum was running in a swing presidential state
with a popular Democratic governor. Casey prevailed with the argument that the
country needs change, accountability and a minimum-wage hike.

*Democratic Rep. Sherrod Brown made a similar case next door in Ohio to beat
two-term GOP Sen. Mike DeWine. Ohio Republicans have been mired  in scandals
involving the governor, a congressman and a top GOP fundraiser.

*In Montana, Republican Sen. Conrad Burns was ensnared in the Jack Abramoff
lobbying scandal. State Senate President Jon Tester, a rancher and butcher,
closed with an ad in which Brian Schweitzer, the Democratic governor, accused
Burns "and his crooked pals in Washington" of lying about Tester's position on
taxes.

One of the Democratic Party's best-known national figures was headed for easy
victory. Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton, D-N.Y., a former first lady and a
presidential prospect, raised more than $38 million for a race against a
Republican who never got any traction, former Yonkers mayor John Spencer.

Two independents allied with Democrats, Connecticut Sen. Joe Lieberman and
Vermont Rep. Bernie Sanders, won their races.

Sanders votes with Democrats in the House and will continue in the Senate.
Lieberman, a pro-war Democrat, lost his primary to anti-war businessman Ned
Lamont. The 2000 vice presidential candidate garnered substantial support from
Republicans in his independent bid but said he would be aligned with Senate
Democrats.

Seven Republicans and 11 Democrats (including Lieberman and Clinton) were
considered safe bets.

Democrats were unusually aggressive this year in picking candidates. Sen.
Charles Schumer, D-N.Y., head of the party's campaign committee, broke precedent
by helping at least a half-dozen contenders win primaries or run in them
unopposed. He told candidates to respond to TV attacks within a day -- "not just
verbally, but with ads."

The money collected by the competing Senate campaign committees reflected the
political environment. Democrats raised $104 million, vs. $78 million for the
GOP.

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Karl Gelles, USA TODAY, Source: USA TODAY research (Map)
PHOTO, B/W, Spencer Platt, Getty Images
PHOTO, B/W, Gail Burton, AP
PHOTO, B/W, Tom Strickland, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              150 of 181 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           November 9, 2006 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

MLS rockets to popularity in Houston;
First-year Dynamo playing for league title

BYLINE: Johnnie Whitehead

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 3C

LENGTH: 896 words


Major League Soccer's newest franchise has finally warmed to its surroundings in
Houston and has turned out to be a perfect fit.

The Houston Dynamo are on the cusp of winning the championship Sunday when they
play the New England Revolution -- and their style befits another beloved team.

The Dynamo's heart-stopping, come-from-behind victories in the playoffs live up
to the Houston label of Clutch City, a moniker given after the NBA's Houston
Rockets caught fire after an unspectacular regular season in 1994-95 to win an
improbable championship.

Trading a cooler climate in northern California for the sweltering heat and
humidity of the Southwest contributed to a slow start for the Dynamo. They won
only six of their first 14 games.

"It was tough to adjust to. You can see that in some of the results from early
in the season. Our bodies weren't used to playing in the heat every day. It's
draining," says Brian Ching, the co-leader in goals for a team loaded with
players who once thrived playing end-to-end.

Still, the Dynamo have maintained an energetic and passionate style that has
been well-received. They're expected to have a crowd advantage this weekend with
the title game near Dallas.

More than 25,000 attended the April home opener at the University of Houston's
Robertson Stadium, and they've kept coming back.

"We don't like to kick and run. We like to possess the ball ...  looking to
attack," coach Dominic Kinnear says. "The people wouldn't keep on coming out
here unless the team was good. Playing soccer the right way -- with skill,
determination, hard work and commitment -- is what these people like."

Starting over

The Earthquakes had just completed an 18-4-10 season in San Jose. Though they
failed to win the championship last year, they were looking forward to another
season at Spartan Stadium.

Then word came in December that operations were moving to Houston. While other
MLS players were getting prepared to report to training camp, the Earthquakes --
who would be known as the Dynamo -- had to uproot. (The Houston franchise is
considered to be a new club and all records of San Jose are staying in that
city. MLS has an agreement in place with potential owners that could bring back
a team to the Bay Area.)

Instead of offseason conditioning, Dynamo players, 17 of whom were in San Jose,
were focused on closing costs, doing walkthroughs and finding schools for their
children. There was only a skeleton front-office staff to assist them with
arrangements in what's the fourth-largest city in the USA.

Ching had to leave behind his wife, Charisse, while she finishes school at the
University of Pacific in Stockton.

"To have to  live apart while she goes to school is not easy," says the forward,
who moved into a condominium. "She has one more year to go. It's not ideal, but
once she's done, she'll be a pharmacist and she can move anywhere."

The reception for the team in Houston has eased the transition. During the
playoffs, the Dynamo's home games have drawn 17,440 and 23,107, just 560 fewer
than immensely popular D.C. United for the most of any MLS team. They averaged
18,935 in 16 home matches, a 45 % increase from attendance in San Jose. They're
fourth in the 12-team MLS in merchandise sales.

What has made their matches unique, however, is the electricity at Robertson
Stadium amid a sea of orange-clad Dynamo die-hards.

"We were very happy in San Jose. The fan base was fantastic. We were upset
leaving the Bay Area," captain Wade Barrett says. "But what we've gotten from
the community here has been bigger and better than anything that any of us could
have expected."

Says MLS Commissioner Don Garber: "We knew from the time the league was launched
that Houston would be a great soccer city. The last year has proven that our
expectations for the market is right on track."

Stepping up to change

Kinnear took over a winner in 2004 -- he was an assistant when the Earthquakes
won MLS championships in '01 and '03 -- but it has taken a couple years to get
this team back on the title track.

Last year, he had 18 new players on the roster and no longer had star forward
Landon Donovan, defender Jeff Agoos and midfielder Richard Mulrooney. That
didn't deter the then-Earthquakes from finishing with 64 points, the second time
in league history that a club had 60 or more points in a regular season.

They had a rockier road this season (11-8-13, 46 points) but still finished
second in the Western Conference. They've overcome the occasional absence of
Ching (national team duty and injury) in large part because of Dwayne De
Rosario, who was converted from playing forward to exclusively midfield.

He is tied with Ching for the team lead with 11 goals and has been just as vital
to Houston's defense, tracking back to break up attacks in the defensive third.

"His last two years he's been very good," Kinnear says. "He's dynamic. He's
dangerous, he understands his role and has a flair for the dramatic."

The same can be said of the team. Who would've thought this team -- and all it
went through to adjust -- would be playing in Sunday's championship?

"There's no clear formula for what it takes to be successful," Barrett says.
"Soccer is probably the one game where you can either dominate and lose or
underperform and win.

"But the experience of what we had to go through in the offseason helped bring
the group together, and we're the better for it."

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Carlos Javier Sanchez, Houston Chronicle, via AP
PHOTO, B/W, Jack Dempsey, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              151 of 181 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           November 21, 2006 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Homes' losing streak to continue;
Weakness nationwide as prices fall in 45 metro areas

BYLINE: Noelle Knox

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 502 words


Home prices will drop further through the end of the year, the National
Association of Realtors projected Monday, after news that prices fell in 45
metro areas last summer, as weakness in the housing markets spread to more
areas.

The drag on median home prices has gone beyond the industrial cities, where job
losses have taken a toll on housing. Now, markets in Florida, California and
Arizona, where prices had shot up higher than many working families could
afford, are falling back to Earth.

The 45 metro areas that saw year-to-year price declines in the third quarter
were the most since the NAR's record-keeping began in 1979.

"We had the biggest boom ever, so you'd expect we would have the broadest price
drop," says David Lereah, chief economist for the NAR. "In the fourth quarter,
you are going to see a meaningful drop in every region of the country."

Nationally, the median price of an existing single-family house fell to $224,900
in the third quarter, 1.2% lower than in the same period last year.

The Detroit area was the worst hit; prices there fell nearly 11% in the
July-September period from a year earlier.  Sarasota, Fla., was second, with a
9% drop in the median single-family home price.

Four Florida metro areas were among the 10 regions with the steepest price drops
in the third quarter. And in California, prices fell in San Diego and
Sacramento.

"Florida has responded a lot quicker than California, which is good news for
Florida because they're going to get the correction over with faster than
California," Lereah says. "I'm not sure about California. They've got the
problem of the biggest price correction to make because they have a more serious
affordability problem."

Still, just as the real estate boom didn't lift every housing market, the
slowdown isn't hitting every area. More than 100 metro areas posted price gains
over the summer, including 21 that saw double-digit gains.

Nevertheless, the number of metro areas that suffered price declines jumped from
26 in the April-June period, and the trend could continue for the next few
quarters as sellers in more cities are forced to cut prices to woo buyers.

"When you see a large number of metro areas posting declines," says Joel Naroff
of Naroff Economic Advisors, "it tells you it's a widespread phenomenon."

Most of the metro areas that have seen the deepest price declines this year are
in such states as Michigan, Ohio and Indiana, which have suffered huge job
losses in manufacturing. These are also areas where foreclosures are highest,
further depressing prices.

Though buyers in the region enjoy more opportunities now, many are reluctant to
purchase because of the weak job climate in the industrial Midwest, says Mark
Hull of Re/Max Realty Group in Detroit.

"For sellers, it's almost a nightmare," Hull says. "A property can be marketed
with every kind of tool you can think of, and unless there are really, really
great incentives that make the property 20% below what the market price should
be, they're just sitting there."

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, Color, Alejandro Gonzalez, USA TODAY, Source: National
Association of Realtors (MAP)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              155 of 181 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              May 19, 2006 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Starbucks Nation;
Starbucks aims beyond lattes to extend brand to films, music and books

BYLINE: Bruce Horovitz

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1438 words


SEATTLE -- Starbucks is changing what we eat and drink. It's altering where and
when we work and play. It's shaping how we spend time and money. That's just for
appetizers.

Starbucks has an even glitzier goal: to help rewrite society's pop culture menu.
The company that sells 4 million coffee drinks daily in the USA is hot to extend
its brand beyond the espresso machine to influence the films we see, CDs we hear
and books we read. In the process, it aims to grow into a global empire rivaling
McDonald's.

"It amazes all of us -- how we've become part of popular culture," says Chairman
Howard Schultz, sitting casually in his office near a photo of him arm-in-arm
with Mick Jagger. "Our customers have given us permission to extend the
experience."

The kingpin of pricey coffee is intent on ranking among the top trendmeisters
before the decade is out. Something like: If you love the taste of our coffee,
you'll love our taste in pop culture, too. "Call it the Starbuckization of
society," says George Ritzer, sociology professor at the University of Maryland.
"Starbucks has created the image that they're cutting edge."

Schultz is dead serious about taking his company Hollywood -- and beyond.
Starbucks Entertainment, formed two years ago, has 100 employees and is
relocating to Santa Monica, Calif. It retained the William Morris Agency to help
link the brand, via marketing ventures, with films, music and books. In some
cases, Starbucks will have a financial stake.

"We are engaged every day in discussions with the highest levels of people in
the entertainment business," Schultz says.

Starbucks has had talks with musicians Jagger, Bono, Prince and Chris Martin
about promotional links with CDs, division president Ken Lombard says. He says
he hears from record labels, film studios and publishers daily about possible
tie-ins.

They might need Starbucks more than it needs them. Its stock is up about 5,775%
since it went public in 1992. It's had 172 straight months of same-store sales
growth.

Music was Starbucks' first foray into pop culture. It shared in eight Grammy
Awards in 2004 for backing the Ray Charles Genius Loves Company CD. Its stores
sold about 835,000 copies, about 25% of sales. In 2005, Starbucks sold 3.5
million CDs of all kinds.

"We are in a unique position to transform the way music is discovered and
delivered," Lombard says.

Starbucks' film effort was less commercial, but Schultz says the plan is to back
films that fit the brand. "We would not do the next Spider-Man." Its first deal
has been to promote Lionsgate's  Akeelah and the Bee for an undisclosed equity
stake. Since opening April 28, the movie has earned mostly positive reviews but
posted modest sales of $14 million through May 14.

Next up, Starbucks will sell, and might publish, books. "The search is on for
the right one," Lombard says.

It also is testing in a few sites a plan to make stores what Schultz calls
"digital fill-up" stations for entertainment downloads. By ramping up Wi-Fi
networks already in more than half its stores, Starbucks could offer not only a
place to check e-mail on a laptop but also load an MP3 player. "People are using
our stores in ways we never imagined," he says.

Like Oprah Winfrey, Starbucks is emerging as a self-appointed culture guru. It's
drawing folks who want a jolt of what's "in" with their java.

"People promote their own brands -- even promote themselves -- by being
Starbucks consumers," says Jeff Swystun, global director at brand-savvy
Interbrand.

Starbucks manages to project itself as both hero and renegade. As a brand, says
Watts Wacker, futurist at FirstMatter, it's a lot like Bono: a good man and bad
boy.

Starbucks is also ubiquitous. It has 7,950 U.S. stores -- plus 3,275 elsewhere
-- and an average of five opening every day worldwide. Its long-term goal is
15,000 U.S. stores, 30,000 globally. By contrast, McDonald's has 13,700 U.S.
stores, 31,000 globally.  "Starbucks has found a way to reach every
demographic," says Barry Glassner, author of The Culture of Fear. "It's hard to
be an American without stepping in one."

Some do every day. And 24% of Starbucks' customers visit 16 times per month. No
other fast-food chain posts numbers even close.

Sun Cunningham plans her days around Starbucks. "I guess it's a little crazy,"
says the consultant from Silverthorne, Colo. "But whenever I run errands, I map
it out so I can stop at a Starbucks in between."

Manhattan resident Eve Epstein goes to Starbucks daily. Three mornings a week,
she also takes her son, Asher, 2, and meets her best friend -- with her toddler.
"Our kids will spend their childhoods there," she jokes. For parents, she says,
"Starbucks is the new McDonald's."

While Starbucks is just getting into the pop culture business, it has already
touched us all by:

*Changing what we'll pay for coffee. In its less costly markets, a "tall"
(small, 12 oz.)  cup of regular coffee still costs about $1.40. In its priciest
market, New York City, a "venti" (large, 20 oz.) Frappuccino will set you back
$4.90.

"We live in a society where people think $5 is $1 because of Starbucks," says
Marian Salzman, trends guru at JWT Worldwide.

Washington, D.C., lawyer Lisa Terry, who goes four times a week, gives Starbucks
a nickname based on her average tab: FourBucks.

Starbucks not only made four bucks a cup acceptable, it opened the door for
others. "I got into the business because of what they created," says Michael
Coles, CEO of 500-store Caribou Coffee.

Not everyone has bought in. Some 1,829 consumers were asked by Marketing
Evaluations, The Q Scores Co., last year to rate 170 major brands for "value."
On a scale of 1 to 100, the average score was 26. Starbucks came in at just 10.
"The consumer is saying, 'Man, look what I'm paying for this!'" says Steven
Levitt, president of the firm.

*Changing coffee tastes. Like it or not, Starbucks has changed expectations of
how coffee should taste. "They've done a great job of raising coffee standards,"
says Bryant Simon, author of the upcoming book Consuming Starbucks.

Starbucks coffee buyers, tasters and its quality control team taste an average
1,000 cups per day. It's forced McDonald's and Burger King to upgrade their
brews.

*Changing what we eat. "It's hard to eat healthy at Starbucks," says Marion
Nestle, author of What to Eat. "Portions are too big, and the drinks are full of
calories."

It's about to get easier. This year, Starbucks has started a menu revamp with
more better-for-you foods. Fruit and yogurt parfaits and warm breakfast
sandwiches have rolled out in many markets. New salads are under review. Even
Starbucks trail mix is on tap. Healthier food "is part of every conversation we
have," says CEO Jim Donald. But coffee is the focus, he adds.

*Changing how we order. Starbucks made custom ordering chic, says Brad Blum,
former CEO of Burger King, now a restaurant industry consultant. "People take a
sense of ownership when their order is personalized," he says.

*Changing how people meet. "There's a sense of security when you go there,"
psychologist  Joyce Brothers says. It has given people  a "safe" place to
socialize, she says.

Terry, the D.C. attorney, says Starbucks is the only place she feels comfortable
meeting guys on first dates. "It's cornered the market on meeting places," she
says.

*Changing cities. Starbucks is influencing urban streetscapes. In brochures for
high-end apartments near New York City, it's not uncommon to see "near
Starbucks" as a selling point. A Starbucks in the neighborhood is "definitely an
indication that an area has arrived," says Doug Yearley, a regional president
with builder Toll Brothers, now putting up luxury condos near a Starbucks in
Hoboken, N.J.

*Changing social consciousness. Starbucks has added more than a teaspoon of
social responsibility to its premium coffee.

No other retailer in North America sells more Fair Trade coffee -- marketed by
co-ops that guarantee living wages to coffee growers. It has 87 urban locations
co-owned by Earvin "Magic" Johnson. It's begun rolling out paper cups made with
10% recycled materials.

Many of its part-time "baristas" are eligible for health and 401(k) benefits,
something that Schultz is proud of and that has had an impact on the industry.
But some employees push for more. A union recently formed in Manhattan to seek
more pay and "to make Starbucks more socially responsible to workers," barista
Daniel Gross says.

Despite recent moves to become a cultural curator, Schultz says Starbucks still
has to earn its stripes as tastemaker. Much as it would like to become an
"editor" of culture, he says, "one of the great strengths of Starbucks is our
humility."

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, Color, Karl Gelles, USA TODAY(Illustration)
GRAPHIC,b/w,Robert W. Ahrens,USA TODAY(Map,Chart)
PHOTO, B/W, Jennifer S. Altman for USA TODAY

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COVER STORY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              163 of 181 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            February 27, 2006 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

When sleep is just a dream;
Overstimulated Americans struggle to get quality rest

BYLINE: Marco R. della Cava

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1765 words


Admit it. You're reading this, but given the opportunity, you'd gladly snooze or
slumber. For this is a nation in dire need of a nap.

Never before have work and play stolen more hours from the sandman. Between a
global economy that demands increased productivity and a technology-fueled
entertainment machine that provides non-stop diversions, it's a wonder people
get any rest at all.

An NBC Today show/Zogby International poll indicates nearly half of Americans
say they don't get enough sleep and roughly one-quarter get fewer than six hours
a night. Data from the National Center for Health Statistics show a 20-year
trend of Americans reporting less sleep.

Whatever the roots of a sleep problem, from a harried life to a medical
condition, people desperately are seeking ways to get some quality shut-eye.

Some have found solace in prescriptions for sleeping pills, 42 million of which
were filled last year, up 60% since 2000, according to research company IMS
Health. Others have followed offbeat routes to a rested feeling -- from frazzled
New Yorkers who zonk out midday in rented napping "pods," to an Internet blogger
in Las Vegas who says his energy stems from his ability to sleep in 20-minute
bursts every few hours, around the clock.

Having some sort of strategy to get the sleep we need is crucial in a culture
that is making increasing demands on our time, says David White, professor of
sleep medicine at Harvard University and editor of the journal Sleep.

"This is an interesting juncture. Stress and anxiety levels are at a fever
pitch, which limits the ability to sleep well. And there's also more science
than ever showing what a detriment that (unrested) state is to performance and
health," White says. "We all have different sleep needs. Just be sensitive to
that and give yourself what you need."

But the truth is, most of us don't really know how sleep-deprived we are. Life
pins up its daily to-do lists, and we tick off the boxes.

Freelance photographer Elizabeth Coll, 29, often found herself dragging between
assignments in Manhattan but was too far from her Brooklyn home to get some
sleep. Now she pops into MetroNaps in the Empire State Building.

For her $65-a-month membership, Coll is entitled to one 20-minute nap daily in
one of MetroNaps' eight sleep pods, futuristic beds each with a bubble dome that
pumps in soothing New Age music.

"It's great to be able to do this in a city that barely lets you sit down, let
alone nap," she says. "I always feel full of energy afterward."

For Coll, the sleep thief is her frantic schedule; for others it's the body
itself.

How real is the problem?

Throughout most of her life, San Francisco office administrator Ruth Lym, 59,
says she didn't realize how tired she was: "I just thought everyone fell asleep
at their keyboard after lunch, or at a friend's house if the temperature got too
warm."

Five years ago, she visited The Sleep Disorders Center at the University of
California-San Francisco and learned that she had sleep apnea, an inability to
breathe well during sleep that in extreme cases can be fatal.

Ever since she learned to sleep with an air-pumping mask "that makes you look
like Darth Vader," Lym's life has brightened. "But I still have to watch out to
make sure I'm rested. I'd love to go to bed at midnight, but I shoot for 10 p.m.
And then there's always that temptation in our society to just pop a pill."

Ads for prescription sleeping pills such as Ambien and Lunesta have indeed
become a familiar presence, particularly in media aimed at women, who studies
indicate suffer from insomnia more than men.

What seems like an insomniac's dream is making some health analysts restless.
Sleep editor White says he does not "make any value judgment about taking
sleeping pills," but says he is concerned that "20 years from now we might
evolve into a society that takes a pill to wake up and one to go to bed."

Public Citizen's Sidney Wolfe is more forceful.

"There's a whole scam going on here," the watchdog group's health research
director says. "The drug companies launched these incredibly successful
marketing campaigns that convince normal people they have serious sleep issues.
That's not to say there aren't some people with problems, but I don't think the
numbers are as high as what groups like the National Sleep Foundation report."

That foundation, which receives funding from companies such as Ambien maker
Sanofi-Aventis, conducts an annual poll on sleep habits. Last year, it reported
that "about one-half of America's adults say they frequently experience at least
one symptom of insomnia."

The foundation's CEO, Richard Gelula, says his group does not promote pill use:
"We always urge people to evaluate their sleep habits and see what they can
change in their lives first."

He adds that the group's polls indicate 11% of adults use alcohol as a sleeping
aid and 9% opt for over-the-counter drugs. "What this says to me is that there
is a lot of desire to treat the problem, but many folks aren't going to their
doctors."

A coffee culture

As the debate over what constitutes a sleeping problem goes on, harried
Americans struggle to keep pace with daily life at a time when cellphones,
computers and the Internet have virtually eliminated the notion of downtime.

Various industries are cashing in. Starbucks is ever ready to lend the groggy a
jittery hand, with 10,000 coffee stores worldwide (7,699 of them in the USA) and
plans for 10,000 more by 2010.

When that caffeine buzz wears off, many people opt to pass out on pricey
bedding. In 2004, 24% of shoppers paid $1,000 or more for a mattress, compared
with 15% in 2000, according to the International Sleep Products Association.

For Vivian Ashbourne, the keys to a great sleep are the heavy bedroom curtains
that beat back the daylight in his New Brunswick, N.J., home. Ashbourne, a
divorced dad, is   a night-shift nurse. Though his body has been trained to rest
during the day, he still feels the effects.

"You feel like you're not thinking as sharply," he says. "But ... I just make
do. This is a sacrifice, something I do in order to be able to spend some time
with my child."

About 20% of Americans don't work traditional day-shift jobs, a statistic that
probably will increase as the service economy grows to keep pace with baby
boomers and their discretionary income, says Harriet Presser, University of
Maryland sociologist and author of Working in a 24/7 Economy: Challenges for
American Families.

"What's concerning is that late-night shifts often result in chronic sleep
deprivation, which in turn has ripple effects" that can include drowsy driving
and marital strife, Presser says. She cites the example of a night-shift
policeman returning home in the morning just as his wife heads off to work,
leaving him with child-care duties.

"Kids suffer because parents don't have the energy to cook for them, so they eat
fast food. And marriages suffer because people stop communicating."

International law firms, data processing companies and increasing numbers of
manufacturing outfits also are asking more from employees as cheap foreign labor
and other factors put the squeeze on profits. Enter Circadian Technologies, a
consulting firm in Burlington, Mass., that helps Fortune 500 companies analyze
employee work schedules to craft shifts that keep a body's circadian rhythm
(which dictates sleep times) in mind.

When a trucking company sought the firm's help to cut its accident rate, steps
were taken to alter drivers' timetables. "Accidents dropped 75%," says Martin
Moore-Ede, Circadian's chairman. "Globalization is driving efficiency into the
American economy, but on the backs of employees. Increasingly, though, companies
are taking proactive steps to fight fatigue."

Sleeping on the job is one of society's enduring taboos, but it's one that may
well have to fall if our economy is to remain healthy. That's the crusade of
Bill and Camille Anthony, co-authors of books on the virtues of napping and the
duo behind National Workplace Napping Day. (The drowsy take note: It's April 3.)

"There's such a prejudice against napping in our culture. You 'sneak a nap,'
'get caught napping.' But it's a no-cost way to keep people happy," says Bill
Anthony, a professor at Boston University's Center for Psychiatric
Rehabilitation. He naps on a mat in his office, as does his wife at her job as
CFO of a mortgage company.

Sleep analysts concur that a 20-minute nap -- no more, no less -- works wonders
for those who need a daytime pick-me-up.

Arshad Chowdhury, co-founder of  MetroNaps, says the idea for his business came
to him after "seeing my investment-banking colleagues fall asleep in meetings."
MetroNaps will expand to New York's financial district this year; it also has
pods in Vancouver's airport.

"It's a bit like selling bottled water in the '80s," he says. "Napping will be
hot, but it might take some time to catch on in the culture."

The 'polyphasic' system

Not, however, in Steve Pavlina's house, where napping has become  an art form.
The Las Vegas self-help website operator recently decided to adopt a
"polyphasic" sleep routine -- sleeping for 20-minute stretches once every four
to six hours, around the clock.

"For the first three weeks, I was pretty cranky, but now I'm just fantastic,"
says Pavlina, 34. "I have so much time to myself at night to do things I like.
And yet I'm rested."

Pavlina's wife, Erin, 36, confirms that her husband appears quite normal,
despite sleeping a total of about three hours a day. And the benefits of this
odd routine include Steve baking in the middle of the night, serving as the
family watchdog and ceding the bed to his wife as he naps on the couch.

Analysts aren't sure about polyphasic sleeping. "I suppose some can do this and
be OK, but there could be health implications down the line," says Sleep editor
White, adding that the best approach remains "getting in a good six to eight
hours between 10 p.m. and 7 a.m."

Indeed, with simpler sleep-improvement options available -- earlier bedtimes,
lowered caffeine intake and kid-tested napping -- it's doubtful many will opt
for Pavlina's approach to feeling both rested and productive in a go-go culture.

Just ask his wife. "I don't think I'll be trying this," she says with a laugh.
"I really like my sleep."
About this project

USA TODAY and NBC's Today show have teamed up for a special report on sleep in
America.

In today's newspaper, USA TODAY explores the sleep problems caused by hectic
lifestyles and the increase in the trend toward Americans sleeping less.

Today (7-10 a.m. weekdays) will air special reports on various sleep topics this
week.

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC,B/W, Alejandro Gonzalez, USA TODAY, Source: An NBC Today show
Zogby International poll of 2,297 adults (Bar graph)
PHOTO, Color, Todd Plitt, USA TODAY
PHOTO, B/W, Todd Plitt, USA TODAY

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COVER STORY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              168 of 181 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             April 18, 2006 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Getting along with China: a question of priorities

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 593 words


When Chinese President Hu Jintao arrives in Washington state today, he'll be
feted at a banquet at the mansion of Microsoft Chairman Bill Gates outside
Seattle. But when Hu reaches Washington, D.C., on Thursday for his first White
House visit as China's leader, he's only getting a lunch, not the fancy dinner
that would signal a full state visit.

Though that might seem a quibbling matter, the symbolism is rich because it
reflects the deep ambivalence with which the Bush administration views China.

Is China a benign competitor and potential solid ally, as Hu insists, or a more
menacing power that in the future could threaten U.S. interests? A host of
perplexing issues could break either way:

*China's record on human rights and democratic reform is abysmal. Though the
Chinese people have greater economic freedom than in the past, the communist
government retains tight control. Will China disprove the dictum that capitalism
and democracy go hand in hand?

*China's economy is growing rapidly, at a rate of 8% to 10% annually. Last year,
Americans bought $202 billion more in Chinese-made goods than China imported
from the USA. Many U.S. jobs, particularly in manufacturing, have been hurt.
China is reluctant to revalue its currency, the yuan, which is being kept at
artificially low levels.

*Chinese officials have been roaming the globe sealing deals as its energy needs
grow. What if it squeezes the United States out of markets in Africa or Russia?
Oil prices could spike even higher.

*The Chinese hold much of the U.S. debt. If they were to stop buying the U.S.
treasury bills used to finance the budget deficit, interest rates would likely
shoot up.

*China's military is expanding. It says it has no threatening intentions. But
what if it chooses later on to invade Taiwan, which America says it will
protect, or challenge the United States elsewhere?

None of these issues is going to be resolved on Hu's visit -- particularly in a
congressional election year when many Americans are suspicious of China. They
require the slow and painful give-and-take of negotiation. Some activists say
the United States shouldn't try, until or unless the Chinese improve their
record on human rights.

But the war on terror and the turmoil in the Middle East require Washington not
just to deal with Beijing but also to decide which of its many priorities is
paramount. There is no higher priority now than preventing Iran and North Korea
from developing nuclear weapons, which they could use to threaten U.S. allies
or, worse, give to terrorists.

Beijing's willingness to help contain Tehran's ambitions provides an immediate
test of future intentions, of whether China is, as the official mantra goes,
"rising peacefully." China has been reluctant to flex its diplomatic muscle
other than in its own narrow interests. Yet if China wants, as it says it does,
to be treated as an equal and a great nation, it needs to show that it can
manage global problems responsibly.

Although Washington has limited options in dealing with Tehran, Beijing has
leverage because it buys Iranian oil and gas. China, along with Russia, has been
blocking assertive action against Iran on the United Nations Security Council,
where both hold vetoes.

Thirty-four years ago, President Nixon made a dramatic trip to China to restore
ties after two decades of frostiness. In a warm official toast, he called for
the two countries to "rise to the heights of greatness which can build a new and
better world."

Bush and Hu can use this week's meeting to do the same. Even if it's just over
lunch.

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Pool photo by Adrian Bradshaw

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              172 of 181 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            August 24, 2006 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Poachers squeeze the fun out of snake collecting;
High-dollar prices prompt some to pillage habitats for gain

BYLINE: Benjamin Spillman

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 829 words


PALM SPRINGS, Calif. -- When the sun sets on Southern California's Whitewater
Canyon, it comes alive with snakes, frogs and lizards out to enjoy the warm
desert air. It also comes alive with reptile enthusiasts and poachers.

The enthusiasts obey the law and troll for pets; the poachers ignore the law and
snatch up slithering creatures to sell on the global market for wildlife.
There's a license for the enthusiasts; there's not one for the poachers. The
former would watch Snakes on a Plane with fascination; the latter with dollar
signs in their eyes.

The canyon and countless ponds, streams and prairies on public lands across the
USA are the setting for a cat-and-mouse game between reptile poachers and the
people who watch over protected wildlife.

"Some nights are busy, some nights you don't see anything," said Kyle Chang, a
game warden for the California Department of Fish and Game, who quietly stakes
out Whitewater Canyon several times a year.

On a busy night, Chang might make 10 stops, most to verify collectors are
carrying a state fishing license, a prerequisite for catching reptiles such as
the Whitewater rosy boa, a docile snake that makes a good pet.

Chang uses a rope taped to resemble a California king snake as a decoy. When
somebody stops for the fake snake, he pulls up and checks for a license, bag
limit or other violations.

While legitimate collectors -- sometimes called "herpers" -- don't cause
problems, unlicensed poachers gathering for commercial gain can decimate an
area.

Poachers flock to places such as Whitewater and Borrego canyons and Joshua Tree
National Park in California and plentiful hunting grounds in Arizona, South
Carolina, West Texas and countless spots in between. "It is definitely a
problem," said Jeff Lovich, deputy director of the U.S. Geological Survey's
Southwest Biological Science Center in Arizona.

Chang says California fines can be as low as $10 for people who forgot their
license at home to $385 or more for blatant poaching offenses.

In nearby Joshua Tree National Park, federal penalties for pilfering wildlife
can include jail time and fines up to $250,000, depending on the types and
quantity of reptiles taken. Joe Zarki, a park spokesman, said penalties vary
depending on whether the offender is part of a commercial ring or simply a child
catching a lizard for a pet.

Rangers at Joshua Tree National Park say it's tough to quantify how much
poaching occurs. That's because it's not enough to catch poachers with the tools
of the trade -- snake hooks, pillowcases, cages, Zarki said. "One of the
problems is you have to actually catch people with the reptiles in hand," he
said.

Lovich said Gila monsters are popular poaching targets. Named after the Gila
River Basin in Arizona, they are one of two kinds of poisonous lizards. Those
bred in captivity can be traded legally, but a price tag that can exceed $1,500
on the open market makes wild Gila monsters, which are a protected species,
attractive to poachers.

Venomous snakes, and their non-poisonous cousins, are popular, too. The rosy boa
sells on the Internet for $100 to $300.

"There is ... a bit of a thrill for people because there is a great deal of
phobia among the general population," said Jack Crayon, a biologist and former
herper (from the Greek word for reptile) who lives in Indio, Calif. "There is
some satisfaction in handling something a lot of people are afraid of."

Chang says poachers occasionally will go to great lengths to snatch wildlife. He
described finding people in Whitewater Canyon with frogs, toads and lizards
stuffed into jars and snakes loose on the floorboard.

To sell native California reptiles within California, sellers need to produce
documentation the reptiles were bred in captivity, not caught in the wild,
Crayon said. California reptiles, however, can crop up without documentation in
other states, and Lovich said he has encountered people offering wild-caught
reptiles for sale.

Legal commercial operations, such as turtle farms in the southeastern USA, can
lead to poaching, said Allen Salzberg, the New York-based publisher of Herp
Digest.

"There is constant pressure for wild-caught males and females to bring into
these farms," he said.

For some people, though, collecting reptiles isn't about money or thrill.

"They are so fun," said Mathew Bartol, 22, of Valencia, Calif., as he handled an
18-inch rosy boa he picked up on Whitewater Canyon Road. "What makes it so fun
is the search."

Bartol, who had a license and could legally catch the boa, chatted with Chang
and two other collectors. They talked about the weather and collecting
conditions.

Chang said Bartol, who was collecting with his dad and a family friend, is more
representative of snake-enthusiasts than poachers.

"Some people like fishing over hunting. Some people like reptile collecting over
fishing," Chang said. "Like any sport you have good people, bad people and
people who walk the line."

Spillman reports daily for The Desert Sun in Palm Springs

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              175 of 181 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           October 26, 2006 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Rocking the church;
Episcopal 'U2-charist' uses songs in service

BYLINE: Gary Stern

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 9D

LENGTH: 898 words


When Anglican Archbishop Thomas Cranmer compiled the Book of Common Prayer
during the 16th century, he wanted to make the prayers accessible, so he wrote
in English, not Latin, and made sure it was distributed to every church.

About 450 years later, there is another attempt to make prayers more accessible
-- by  an Irish bard who wears wrap-around shades instead of a clerical collar.

It may not qualify as a mini-Reformation, but a Communion service driven by the
music of singer Bono and his U2 bandmates is catching on at Episcopal churches
across the country.

The U2 Eucharist is not some kind of youth service held in the church basement
but is a traditional Episcopal liturgy that uses U2's best-selling songs as
hymns.

"It makes you, like, warm inside," says Bridgette Roberts, 15, who is a Roman
Catholic and attended a recent U2 Eucharist at All Saints' Episcopal Church in
Briarcliff Manor, N.Y. "Usually at church, you love Jesus and everything. But
this way you can express how you feel."

Says her friend, Natalie Williams, 17: "I love Bono, and you can rock out to the
music. But in church, you hear it in a different way. It's like new."

The Rev. Paige Blair, an Episcopal priest in York Harbor, Maine, came up with
the idea and held the first service at her church on July 31, 2005, displaying
U2's lyrics on a screen by the altar. Since then, she informally has consulted
with about 150 churches that have had U2 Eucharists, or plan to, in 15 states
and seven  countries.

Interest in the service is spreading by word of mouth alone, although Blair's
church is starting what it calls a "U2-charist team" to take the liturgy on the
road.

Much of U2's songbook is explicitly Christian and perfectly suitable for a
worship service, even if some people might need time to get used to the idea,
Blair says.

"Bach and Handel were the popular music of their day, and they had trouble
getting played in church. The Methodist hymn writers once wrote contemporary
music. Are we worshiping Bono? Absolutely not. No more so than we worship Martin
Luther when we sing A Mighty Fortress Is Our God."

Churches increasingly have borrowed the beats and melodies of popular music --
rock, country, rap -- since the 1960s, just as blues and R&B once  influenced
gospel music arrangements. Today, an entire Christian music industry borrows
from everything in pop music except  sex-obsessed lyrics.

U2 somehow seems to live in rock music's hedonistic world  -- without being of
it.

"A lot of contemporary Christian music has such locked-down, straightforward
meaning that you can't play with it," says Lutheran Rev. Christian Scharen,
director of the Faith as a Way of Life Project at Yale Divinity School and
author of a new book,  One Step Closer: Why U2 Matters to Those Seeking God.

"U2 is good at the art, using language like a poet would, like the classic hymn
language. Listen to their lesser-known song Daddy's Gonna Pay For Your Crashed
Car, which is about grace. We mess up, but God is merciful. That's playful."

The U2 Eucharist can vary from church to church, but a key part is an offering
for Bono's campaign to eradicate extreme poverty and global AIDS.

"It's a big reason that this has taken off as a movement," Blair says. "It's
what Bono and the band are passionate about."

A spokesman said U2 is rehearsing and unavailable for comment.

Permissions haven't been an issue; churches that use U2's music for a one-time,
non-commercial service do not need permission, says the band's record label,
Universal Music Group.

At the service in Briarcliff Manor, the opening hymn was U2's Pride (In the Name
of Love). About 110 people filled the tiny church, most of whom were not
parishioners. They warbled tentatively at first, as images of Rosa Parks,
Gandhi, Martin Luther King Jr. and others appeared on a large screen, but many
were singing out before long. As worshipers approached the communion rail,
Bono's recorded voice sang  "Let it go/ Surrender/ Dislocate" from the song Bad.

"Tonight is a call to action," said the Rev. Timothy  Schenck, the church's
rector.  "It's about living out our faith in the world, something, I'm
embarrassed to admit, that Bono does better than many professional Christians."

The Christian themes in U2's music have been widely recognized since their 1981
album, October. But from the start, some have not been comfortable with Bono's
regular criticisms of church leadership or his unwillingness to identify  with
any Christian tradition.

"Bono has said repeatedly that Christianity without an element of social justice
is empty," said a 2003 editorial in Christianity Today. "We agree. But a
Christian's pleading for social justice without worshiping God regularly within
the community of the church is little more than activism for its own sake."

Still, there has been little criticism of the U2 Eucharist, even from
traditionalists within the deeply divided denomination.

"The U2 Eucharist is simply another form of music used to celebrate the Lord's
supper and bring people into the presence of God through worship," says the Rev.
Canon Daryl Fenton of the Anglican Communion Network.

Stern reports for the Journal News in Westchester, N.Y.

Spiritual lyrics

I waited patiently for the Lord

He inclined and heard my cry

He brought me up out of the pit

Out of the miry clay

I will sing, sing a new song

I will sing, sing a new song ...

-- From the U2 song 40, based on Psalm 40

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Steven Senne, AP
PHOTO, B/W, Bob Riha Jr., USA TODAY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              177 of 181 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            October 31, 2006 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

How Disney created fantasy;
Loneliness drove a genius to give world Mickey Mouse

BYLINE: Deirdre Donahue

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 6D

LENGTH: 471 words


Walt Disney: The Triumph of the American Imagination

By Neal Gabler

Knopf, 851 pp., $35

---

According to Neal Gabler's masterful new book, Walt Disney was not the warm and
wise patriarch, not  the cynical Hydra-headed purveyor of crass entertainment
loathed by intellectuals, nor the vice-ridden, alcoholic anti-Semite depicted in
recent biographies.

In Walt Disney: The Triumph of the American Imagination, Gabler presents his
subject as a driven, moody, brilliant, emotionally vulnerable and often lonely
man who took the dreams in his heart and his mind and made them real.

His extraordinary ability to escape from harsh reality into the realm of his own
imagination would give the world films such as Snow White, create Disneyland
with its cultural connotations of fantasy and shape how the world sees the
United States. Love him or hate him, Mickey Mouse is a global symbol.

The best aspect of Gabler's portrait is its coherence. The admired author of An
Empire of Their Own: How the Jews Invented Hollywood and a bio on Walter
Winchell, Gabler is an expert on Hollywood.

Hence, his book is not simply a recitation of facts. Rather, it offers
clear-headed analysis.

Without simplifying a complicated man, Gabler argues convincingly that Disney
was motivated by neither money nor fame nor a love of showbiz. It was his desire
for control, a hunger to create a utopia filled with the innocent joys of
childhood mixed with the wonder of technology, that drove him to animation, toy
railroads and his fantasy theme park.

Disney's dreams were forged in his poverty-stricken, work-filled, unhappy
childhood, where the sensitive Walt never had the fun, the attention, the
laughter he desperately craved from his harsh, disappointed father.

The deepest, most interesting relationship described in the biography existed
between Walt and his older brother and business partner, Roy, with whom he
fought together and against his whole life.

Throughout Walt's career, Roy handled the money and protected his often
high-handed and impulsive brother.

In his personal life, Disney truly was the down-to-earth Midwesterner he
appeared. He liked simple food, adored his two daughters and grandchildren, and
never cheated on his wife of five decades.

Gabler presents a more disturbing Disney at the studio. From the beginning,
Disney was a demanding perfectionist, driving his employees but also inspiring
them with his dream and rewarding their work.

But after union woes shut down his studio in the 1940s, he changed, becoming
abusive and paranoid. Gabler says Disney was no racist but became known as an
anti-Semite because of his very conservative political attitudes.

This exhaustive, serious biography does not gloss over Disney's faults. Yet it
is clear Gabler ended up with a  wistful affection for his subject and his
dreams of a perfect childhood.

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W

DOCUMENT-TYPE: BOOK REVIEW

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2006 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved
