
                               2 of 268 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            April 4, 2007 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Is Earth near its 'tipping points'?;
Scientists: There may be no return from climate change

BYLINE: Dan Vergano and Patrick O'Driscoll

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 1943 words


Earth is spinning toward many points of no return from the damage of global
warming, after which disease, desolation and famine are inevitable, say
scientists involved in an international report due  Friday on the effects of
climate change.

Opinions vary about how long it will take to reach those "tipping points" and
whether attempts to cut planet-warming gases churned out by power plants,
vehicles and other human industry can slow, halt or reverse the harmful effects
in coming decades. Some suggest  it might be cheaper for society to adapt to the
changing climate than to roll back the pace of warming.

But in the report, the second of three this year by the Intergovernmental Panel
on Climate Change, thousands of climate scientists and representatives of more
than 100 nations, including the USA, present in the most stark terms the "key
global risks" -- serious environmental consequences from the changing climate --
that threaten humanity.

"It's time (a report) puts people on the planet into the picture" of global
warming, says economist Gary Yohe of Wesleyan University, a lead author of the
report.

Concerning the USA, the report will reference numerous scientific studies on the
effects of spring arriving weeks earlier, says University of Montana ecologist
Steve Running, an author of the chapter on North America. The "big climate
signal and impacts"  will be in the West, he says. Earlier melting of mountain
snow, on which much of the region depends for water, would mean more severe dry
spells and droughts that would trigger worse wildfire seasons. Lower stream
flows also would threaten fish and wildlife.

Research also has predicted more frequent heat waves, increased rainfall and
flooding in northern states, and more severe tropical storms on the Gulf and
East coasts.

In its first report in February, the panel, backed by the World Meteorological
Organization and conducted under the auspices of the United Nations
Environmental Programme, concluded that "unequivocal" evidence shows industrial
releases of greenhouse gases have warmed the Earth an average of about 1 degree
Fahrenheit in the past century. That makes it "very likely" that temperatures
will rise 3 to 7 degrees this century, depending on future emissions.

This week's report, essentially a review and condensation of climate research
since 2001, is designed to identify the dangers that the failure to curb
emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gases present for the
planet. Just as new buildings in earthquake zones are designed to handle more
than everyday shocks, and fire insurance is meant to cover more than burnt
toast, politicians and planners want to know worst-case scenarios, says Stanford
University climatologist Stephen Schneider.

"In a sense, we are looking at a series of tipping points for humanity and
climate," says Richard Moss, director of the U.S. Global Change Research Program
Office.

Irreversible effects on plants, animals, farming and weather already are
apparent, says biologist Camille Parmesan of the University of Texas in Austin,
one of the scientists assigned to review the report.  Studies weighed in the
report show that warming has eliminated about 70 animal species and affects 59%
of wild species surveyed.

"We are seeing plenty of potentially dangerous outcomes where the hotter it
gets, the worse it gets," Stanford's Schneider says.

Moss says the roughly 5-degree rise in global average temperatures envisioned in
the February report will cause damage that cannot be recovered. He echoes a
warning by NASA scientist James Hansen in 2004 that the window for action is
only 10 years. The Stern Review, a high-profile report last year by the United
Kingdom's chief economist, Nicholas Stern, warns of serious financial threats to
agriculture and commerce.

Some scientists question such concerns. Danish statistician Bjorn Lomborg has
become a spokesman for the view that trying to repair global warming will cost
more money than just working to adapt the world to it. He suggests, for
instance, that it would be cheaper to cure and eradicate malaria than to attack
the rising temperatures that could expose millions more people to the disease.

Gore makes his case

Last month, Lomborg followed former vice president Al Gore to the microphone in
testifying before a House committee. Gore, star of the Oscar-winning documentary
on warming, An Inconvenient Truth, called the phenomenon a "planetary
emergency." Lomborg countered that Gore "has gotten carried away and has come to
show only worst-case scenarios."

Schneider argues that worst-case scenarios are still  real threats. A collapse
of the Greenland and Antarctic ice sheets, which Lomborg downplayed at the
hearing, genuinely worries scientists such as Stefan Rahmstorf of Germany's
Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research. Rahmstorf has suggested sea
levels could rise as much as 4.6 feet worldwide by 2100. Schneider says a simple
cost-benefit analysis ignores the reality that poor people in Bangladesh and
other low-lying lands would have to bear the brunt of climate change.

In Brussels this week, about 60 lead authors are working with representatives of
more than 100 nations to distill, clarify and approve the panel's findings in a
short summary for policymakers. The summary is out Friday; the scientific
chapters arrive Tuesday.

Environmental and energy analyst Anthony Patt of Boston University, a report
co-author,  says the report will divide the possible effects of temperature
increases this century into three grades: a 3.6-degree rise with warmer winters
but few human catastrophes; an up to 7.2-degree rise that wealthy nations could
handle but would prove calamitous to poor nations and many species; and an even
higher rise, which "would prove difficult for any society to adapt to."

What are the yardsticks?

In grades of scientific certainty, physical effects such as temperature, sea
level rise and concentrations of greenhouse gases are most certain, Schneider
says. Next come biological ones, such as species extinctions. And the hardest to
estimate are human effects, such as disease and hunger.

What the panel's report will not establish is whether vast infestations by pine
beetles in the forests of the western USA and Canada are tied to warming,
Running says. Although many scientists believe there is a link, he says,
research has not focused enough on temperature. "My nose is telling me there's a
climate-change signal here, but the papers in print yet aren't doing a strong
enough analysis."

Worldwide, thresholds were outlined last year in "Avoiding Dangerous Climate
Change," a summary of tipping points for which British Prime Minister Tony Blair
wrote the foreword. They include:

*At a 3.6-degree rise, all Indian Ocean coral reefs go extinct, and 97% of the
rest around the globe are "bleached" or severely damaged. All Arctic ice
disappears.

*At a 5.4-degree increase,  half of all nature reserves become unable to
conserve native species. The Amazon rainforest disappears.

*At 7.2 degrees or higher, coastal flooding is seven times worse than in 1990.
Malaria threatens 330million more people a year, and hunger jeopardizes 600
million. Australia no longer can grow food.

All of this leaves aside the most extreme risks that Schneider calls the "dark
edge of the bell curve": melting of the vast Antarctic ice sheets; shutdown of
Atlantic Ocean circulation, which brings warm weather to the United Kingdom; and
the release of more greenhouse gases frozen in the Arctic tundra.

Some scientists, such as Penn State's Michael Mann, worry that the panel's
reports lag behind the latest science because of a six-month research cutoff
before their release, a lifetime in climate study.

Last month, for instance, a report in Geophysical Research Letters found that
ocean acidification from increased carbon dioxide is likely to wreak "havoc" for
shellfish and coral and disrupt food chains.

A Colorado State University analysis in March said warming will make grazing
lands less productive by 2050.

A University of Minnesota team reported that Lake Superior has warmed an average
of 4.5 degrees since 1979, about twice the local atmospheric warming.

Because the panel's reports trail such research, they are "always by design ...
a little conservative," Mann says.

In May, the climate panel picks up where this month's report leaves off: an
assessment of ways to counteract and adapt to warming.

"I suspect we're reluctant to think about it because we're worried that if we
start, we will have no choice but to think about nothing else," John Lanchester,
who reviewed recent works on climate change, wrote in a recent London Review of
Books.

"The scientists involved are not just talking in a new way, one unfamiliar to
both them and us, but are in effect trying to sell us something," Lanchester
says. "And we the public might be undereducated, but we know not to trust
entirely someone who is trying to sell us something. ... We deeply don't want to
believe this story."

But James McCarthy of Harvard, incoming head of the American Association for the
Advancement of Science, says the reality of warming is accepted, with regional
climate-change trends already playing out as predicted.

The biggest tipping point already may have happened, says John Drexhage of
Canada's International Institute for Sustainable Development: Talk of global
warming has become routine and accepted for all politicians, not just Al Gore.

The warming world

Significant effects of climate change expected worldwide in the 21st century:

North America

Reduced springtime snow pack; changing river flows; rising sea level; increased
intensity and energy of Atlantic hurricanes; more frequent, intense heat waves
and wildfires.

Pacific and small islands

Inundation of low-lying coral islands as sea level rises; widespread coral
bleaching, ending their use as fish nurseries; more powerful typhoons.

Central America

and West Indies

Greater likelihood of intense rainfall and more powerful hurricanes;
biodiversity loss as specialized local species succumb to abrupt climate shifts.

South America

Melting glaciers reduce water supplies; more frequent occurrence of intense
periods of rain, leading to more flash floods.

Global oceans

Made more acidic by increasing CO{-2} concentration; water circulation slows.

Arctic

Significant retreat of ice; disrupted habitats of polar mega-fauna; accelerated
loss of ice from Greenland Ice Sheet and mountain glaciers; shifting of ocean
fishing regions; replacement of most tundra by forest.

Africa

Declining agricultural yields and diminished food security; increased occurrence
of drought and stresses on water supplies.

Europe

More intense winter precipitation, river flooding and other hazards; increased
summer heat waves and melting of mountain glaciers; greater water stress in
southern regions.

Central and northern Asia

Widespread melting of permafrost, disrupting transportation and buildings;
greater swampiness and ecosystem stress from warming; coastal erosion as a
result of sea ice retreat.

Southern Asia

More intense cyclones increase flooding of deltas and coastal plains; major loss
of mangroves and coral reefs; increased pressure on water resources with rising
population and need for irrigation.

Australia and New Zealand

Substantial loss of coral along Great Barrier Reef; significant diminishment of
water resources; coastal inundation of some settled areas; increased fire risk;
some early benefits to agriculture.

Antarctica and Southern Ocean

Increasing risk of significant ice loss from West Antarctic Ice Sheet, risking
much higher sea level in centuries ahead; accelerating loss of sea ice,
disrupting marine life and penguins.

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, Color, Web Bryant, USA TODAY (ILLUSTRATION)
GRAPHIC, B/W, Source: Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (CHART)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COVER STORY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               5 of 268 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              May 3, 2007 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Environmentalism vs. skepticism;
Should we believe scientists' diagnoses of our planet's health? Cal urges
caution and patience in assessing the 'cult-like' enviro-movement. Bob says the
time to act is now.

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 21A

LENGTH: 1453 words


Cal Thomas is a conservative columnist. Bob Beckel is a liberal Democratic
strategist. But as longtime friends, they can often find common ground on issues
that lawmakers in Washington cannot.

Today: Today's environmental movement.

Cal: It seems you can't pick up a newspaper today without reading a story about
our impending doom, Bob. Global warming, of course, is the evergreen news story.
Polls show Americans are more concerned about it than they were just a year ago.
Not surprising, being that it's become the crisis du jour. San Francisco, a
reliable source of laughs and hyperventilating policy decisions, has decided to
ban evil plastic bags. Even the Supreme Court joined the chorus in chastising
the EPA for not aggressively tackling car emissions.

Bob: And this is a bad thing?

Cal: Preserving the planet is a good thing. But when the train is moving in the
direction of the environmental movement, we have good reason to be skeptical.
Environmentalists are notorious for not letting the facts get in the way of a
good, if harrowing, story.

Bob: I think you have it backwards, Cal. The Bush administration has been guilty
of trying to play its own games with the world of science. A few years ago,
dozens of scientists, including Nobel laureates, issued a statement blasting the
administration for distorting scientific fact "for partisan political ends." And
many of the issues were related to the environment: mercury emissions, lead
poisoning and -- yes -- climate change.

Cal: Aren't many of these the same scientists who depend on such environmental
"crises" to ensure that they'll continue to receive funding for studies that
confirm the impending doomsday? When drug companies fund studies on their own
experimental medicines, and the findings work to their benefit, they are viewed
skeptically because they stand to cash in. When the same thing happens in the
climate change industry, we're to accept that their science is as pure as a
mountain stream. Why is that?

Bob: Do you really want to compare Big Pharma with  environmental scientists?
That debate could eat up the rest of this column! But really, Cal, why don't you
give today's environmentalists a fair shake?

Cal:  Do they give conservatives a fair shake? Anyone who doesn't buy into their
doctrines -- which include an agenda for growing the power and reach of
government -- is deemed an uneducated heretic who wants to destroy the planet.
There ought to be a balance between conservation and environmentalism. Just a
couple weeks ago, the greenies celebrated the 37th Earth Day  as though it were
a religious holiday. For the secularists, planet-worship has replaced holidays
like Christmas and Easter. We can respect the Earth without worshipping it as a
deity. Where's the tolerance you display on so many other things, but abandon
when it comes to planet-worship?

Bob: There should be no tolerance when the issue is the current and future
survival in a livable environment. Those of us who worship God, as we do, should
indeed respect the planet He created. In fact, many Christian conservatives
share the concerns of those on "the left" and understand the urgency here.

Cal: It's tactics as much as beliefs. I'm guessing some of these same Christians
will hold to conservative principles about how we should proceed. And that
doesn't mean relying on big government.

Bob: Clearly, government will play a critical role in this. The people, however,
are creating the urgency.

Cal:  But they're  trying to kill the industrial goose that has laid the golden
eggs so many of us enjoy. Radical environmentalists would end the lifestyles we
have worked hard to create that make life enjoyable.

Bob: Listen to yourself. If the planet is no longer habitable, "lifestyles"
would become irrelevant, right?

Cal: You sound like the Chicken Little environmentalists who want to scare up a
worldwide panic. An article in The Washington Post  said children are fretting
over the effects of climate change and that psychologists are seeing young
patients "preoccupied by a climactic Armageddon." Yesterday's children feared
nuclear annihilation. For today's kids, it is the fear of a hot summer? We need
some perspective here.

Bob: So you're saying kids don't have reason to be fearful of our planet's
future?

Cal: I'm saying they can be good stewards of the environment but shouldn't be
driven there by teachers who pollute their minds with end-of-the-world
scenarios.  We can have both a cleaner planet and maintain the lifestyle we've
built if we create a balance.

Bob: What environmentalists are saying is that we can't take baby steps anymore.
We have to do something big before Earth gets to the point of no return.

Cal: The global warming hysteria  is what threatens our lifestyle. Environmental
fundamentalists claim "science" proves man is responsible for a slight increase
in Earth's temperatures. That's a hard sell when snow rested  on Washington's
cherry blossoms and record low temperatures have visited  many parts of the
country.

Bob:  No reasonable person can view the science and say  that man has not
exacerbated global warming. A U.N. report on climate change confirms as much.

Cal: Look, let's see if we can find some common ground here. I agree that we
should reduce  pollutants in the air, land and water. If laws can restrict a
company's ability to pollute,  I'm for that. Technology increasingly gives us
the means of eliminating waste in environmentally friendly ways, and  technology
may one day free us of our oil dependency. Now that's a national security issue,
especially as oil revenue lands in terrorists' hands.

Bob: On oil dependency, we're on the same page.

Cal:  I also oppose efforts to  require the CIA and Pentagon for the first time
to assess the national security implications of climate change. These agencies
have enough to do fighting wars and keeping us safe from another terrorist
attack.

Bob: Terrorists don't pose a threat anywhere near the magnitude of the threat to
our citizens by the alarming increase in global warming. The security threats
are real. If the Earth continues to warm -- and droughts that are already
destroying crops in poor nations increase -- the flood of people attempting to
cross our borders will make the current levels of illegal immigration look like
a drop in the Rio Grande.

Cal: So now global warming will be responsible for illegal immigration, too?
Come on, Bob. Al Gore has tried to argue that climate change is the "most
serious" challenge we face, even greater than terrorism. He's been rightly
ridiculed for those comments.  After all, a nuclear strike by a terrorist could
instantly wipe out a million people. You want to talk about an environmental
worry? Let's talk about a nuclear winter.

Bob: Cal, even President Bush is seeing the light. He has accepted man's role in
climate change and even asked Congress to extend his authority to force
automakers to increase fuel efficiency standards. Bush has ordered higher
standards for light trucks. Doing the same with cars would  be a small but
important step.

Cal:   I'm willing to start with the things we agree on: better mileage for
cars, exploration for additional energy sources in Alaska and the Gulf of
Mexico, alternative fuels and energy independence. Private industry should lead
this charge. Then, as we reflect on Earth and atmospheric temperature over time,
we can better assess whether it's all hot air, or if it's a serious matter
requiring the attention of the USA and the rest of the world.  It would be a
shame if we changed  our way of life only to learn we didn't have to.

Bob: Better to be prepared, though, for whatever nature has in store for us.

Cal: Yet skepticism can also serve us. Remember the countdown of panic that led
up to Y2K? We were warned of our impending doom then, too. People stocked their
houses with canned goods and water. They hunkered down like it was the end of
the world. Companies across the globe spent billions of dollars preparing for
our computer meltdown. Yet 2000 came and went with barely a whimper. Didn't the
science crowd predict that one, too?

Bob:  And we were no worse off by preparing for it. The same can be said about
our environmental worries today. As for what to do, I still can't agree on
Alaska drilling. It's too little, too late and environmentally dangerous. I
agree on the need to rapidly develop alternative fuels, although energy
independence will take decades to accomplish. We need a major commitment --
government working with private industry -- to make this happen. Your commitment
to better gas mileage for cars is a giant  leap for you, but a mere baby step
for mankind. But hey, I'll take it.   I know a tree that needs a hug, Cal --
even if it's from you!

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Bob Laird, USA TODAY (ILLUSTRATION)
PHOTOS, B/W (2)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               6 of 268 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            February 2, 2007 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Report says warming 'very likely' caused by people, will last centuries

BYLINE: Patrick O'Driscoll

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 472 words


Most of the global warm-up of the past 50 years is "very likely" the result of
human activity, says a report due out today from international climatologists.

The Associated Press and other news agencies obtained a 20-page summary of the
report by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. The panel's
conclusions, drafted by representatives of 113 nations at a meeting this week in
Paris, were based on scientific studies over the past six years.

"The observed widespread warming of the atmosphere and ocean, together with
ice-mass loss, support the conclusion that it is extremely unlikely that global
climate change of the past 50 years can be explained without external forcing,
and very likely that is not due to known natural causes alone," the report said.

The AP quoted the report as saying increases in temperature and global sea
levels caused by human activity will "continue for centuries . . . even if
greenhouse gas concentrations were to be stabilized."

Quoting from a "final text" of the assessment, Reuters news service said the
panel found that "most of the observed increase" in temperatures since the
mid-20th century is very likely due to greenhouse-gas emissions from the burning
of fossil fuels such as oil, coal and natural gas by automobiles, power plants
and factories.

Average temperatures rose about 1.5 degrees during the 20th century.

Numerous scientists who had seen previous drafts or participated in the global
project have told USA TODAY and other news agencies in recent days that the
report foresees worse heat waves and droughts, more powerful storms, heavier
rain and gradually rising sea levels as temperatures rise and polar ice
continues to melt.

"Very likely," in the panel's terminology, means a 90% certainty that climate
change is caused by people, according to the American climate researcher who
developed that percentage scale, Jerry Mahlman. He says the finding means
"there's no excuse for politicians to go and stick their heads in the sand as
they have done for some time."

The panel's last report in 2001 said human blame was "likely," or a 66%
probability.

Some researchers, including climate scientist Roger Pielke Sr. of the University
of Colorado, have questioned the accuracy of climate predictions. Pielke has
suggested that deforestation and other factors are more to blame for warming
than fossil fuels.

The White House said it would review the report.

"The president has long said that humans are playing a role in global warming,
and he's put forward programs to address it," White House spokesman Tony Fratto
said.

More than 2,500 scientists helped prepare the report, which the AP says will
project an increase in sea levels of 7-23 inches by century's end. Some, but not
all, of the projected temperature and sea level rises are slightly lower than
projected in the 2001 report.

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Benoit Tessier, Reuters

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               7 of 268 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           January 10, 2007 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

El Nino gives USA its hottest year in '06;
Climate change enters as a factor

BYLINE: Patrick O'Driscoll

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 441 words


DENVER -- Last summer's deadly heat wave and a balmy December helped make 2006
the warmest year ever recorded in the USA, federal climate officials announced
Tuesday.

The National Climatic Data Center  says factors include the El Nioo climate
pattern and "the long-term warming trend" of climate change, due in part to
"greenhouse gases." The center says the warmth made drought more severe in the
Plains and parts of the West. Wildfire agencies say it helped make it the worst
wildfire season ever, with 9.8 million acres burned.

"There's no denying that climate change is occurring, and warmer winters and
warmer years are more common for that reason," says Jay Lawrimore, monitoring
chief for the center, which keeps the nation's weather records. "What we're
seeing (in 2006) is just becoming so much more common."

New York City, still without snow this winter, last week broke a 129-year record
for latest date for the first snowfall. In the Northeast, ski resorts report
little snow and temperatures too warm to make artificial snow.

Temperatures were above normal even in Colorado, where major snowstorms before
Christmas and New Year's paralyzed Denver and socked the Great Plains. The
city's average reading for December was still 1.4 degrees warmer than usual.

A side benefit: Residential energy demand for heating was 13.5% lower than
normal for October through December, the center said.

An average national temperature of 55.01 degrees pushed 2006 past 1998 as the
warmest on record. Fifteen of the years since 1981 rank among the 25 warmest
since national record-keeping began in 1895.

The climate center says the current El Nioo, the periodic warming of Pacific
waters, is the biggest factor for 2006, and global warming is "a contributing
factor." This is believed to be the first time the annual report mentions
climate change as a cause.

It was the warmest year ever in New Jersey, and five states had their warmest
December: Connecticut, Minnesota, New Hampshire, New York and Vermont.

During last summer's heat wave, record highs from South Dakota across the Plains
taxed water supplies for crops and livestock. Heat was blamed for at least 140
deaths in California.

The year's warmth wasn't just about extreme highs. Lawrimore says that last
summer, more than 40% of the USA had unusually warm overnight temperatures; in a
typical year it would be 10%. Daily records for the highest overnight low were
tied or broken more than 3,000 times last summer in hundreds of cities and
towns, especially in the West. About 100 locations recorded their all-time
highest lows for any date, from 88 in Cedar Butte, S.D., to 102 in Death Valley,
Calif.

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              23 of 268 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              June 8, 2007 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Greenpeace, others pan G-8 global warming deal

BYLINE: David Jackson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 505 words


ROSTOCK, Germany -- An agreement to curb global warming by the Group of Eight
industrialized countries was hailed as "excellent" by one of its authors, but
environmentalists dispute the deal's real impact.

German Chancellor Angela Merkel, who shepherded the deal as the G-8 summit's
host, said Thursday that the climate-change agreement represented "very great
progress and an excellent result."

President Bush and other G-8 leaders said they are committed to "substantial"
cuts by 2050 of greenhouse-gas emissions, which are caused by the burning of
fuels such as gasoline and coal. But critics note that the deal has no binding
caps, only a pledge to "consider seriously" a 50% cut by midcentury.

Greenpeace USA was one of several groups to say the agreement fails to provide
clear targets for dealing with the threat of global warming.

Greenpeace and other groups blamed Bush, who has long favored voluntary
reductions, for blocking the 50% cut sought by Merkel and British Prime Minister
Tony Blair. Merkel and Blair also suggested a target of keeping global
temperature increases to less than 2 degrees Celsius by 2050, which is not part
of the deal.

Still, both Merkel and Blair praised the G-8 statement as a step forward. "We
agreed that we need reduction goals, and obligatory reduction goals," Merkel
told reporters.

Bush, after meeting with Blair privately, said the United States is "deadly
earnest" about dealing with global warming, and "will be actively involved."

G-8 members supported Bush's idea of holding a conference of the 15 countries
that produce the most greenhouse gases. Those polluters would include China and
India, which Bush said must be part of any global plan on climate change.

The 15 countries would develop their own climate-change plans, as well as a
"global framework," by the end of 2008, according to the G-8 agreement. A
broader deal would emerge by the end of 2009, after Bush leaves office.

The Center for American Progress, a liberal think tank in Washington, called
Bush "the skunk at the garden party" for rejecting the Merkel-Blair targets.
Daniel Weiss, the center's director of climate strategy, said Bush's global
warming plan amounts to "more talk, less treatment."

The G-8 members did support Merkel's demand that countries endorse the United
Nations framework for climate-change talks. That framework begins with a
December meeting of environmental ministers.

The U.N. framework is a successor to the Kyoto Protocol, an international treaty
that expires in 2012. The United States refused to ratify the treaty, in part
because it did not apply to China and India.

David McCormick, deputy national security adviser for international economic
affairs, said the G-8 recognizes that climate-change policy has to be developed
so it does not hurt energy security or economic growth. He said the Bush
administration also wants to promote energy efficiency, such as alternative fuel
sources. "The president absolutely supports the development of a global goal ...
by the end of 2008," McCormick said.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Carl De Souza, AFP/Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              25 of 268 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            February 5, 2007 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

A climate-change cost analysis;
Panel to answer the 'So what?' questions on global warming

BYLINE: Dan Vergano

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 9D

LENGTH: 511 words


The human and economic cost of global warming will move to center stage when the
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change releases the second and third
installments of its report this spring, experts say.

"Now, stronger results are being expressed with higher confidence in terms of
impacts that will be triggered by temperature increases," says economist Gary
Yohe of Wesleyan University in Middletown, Conn. Yohe is an author of the
climate change panel's report due in April called "Impacts, Adaptation and
Vulnerability."

The panel's report is the creation of three separate "working groups," which
each prepare a separate report. The first, which was released Friday and
involved the efforts of thousands of scientists and government reviewers,
concludes with 90% certainty that humanity is triggering global warming by
burning fossil fuels, cutting down forests and other activities.

The April report will pick up the ball from there to answer the "So what?"
question, Yohe says. The document will assess the effect of warming on
socioeconomic and natural systems and show that the effects on people "are
distributed across the globe and in every major sector of human activity," he
says.

Like other climate panel reports, the impacts assessment will review and combine
studies conducted since 2001. Ocean acidification that is killing corals and sea
life, disappearing species, the failure of crops and water supplies and other
calamities have been detailed in journals in recent years, notes climate
scientist Patrick Gonzalez of the Nature Conservancy.

The third report, to be released in May, focuses on "mitigation" measures, such
as taxing carbon dioxide production.

"Mitigation has become an issue of more broadly appreciated importance," says
economist Jae Edmonds of the Pacific Northwest National Laboratory in College
Park, Md., pointing to a flurry of legislative activity on Capitol Hill aimed at
limiting carbon dioxide emissions. "If carbon change really is serious, probably
it's about time to think seriously about it."

But the third report, which also examines technology options, from biofuels to
windmills to "sequestration" of industrial greenhouse gases in underground rock
layers, won't be a cookbook of fixes for global warming, Edmonds says. "People
will find we face a complex problem -- not an insoluble one, but it will take
real efforts."

Landing just as congressional and state leaders have taken up climate change
legislation, the three reports come at a pivotal moment, Gonzalez says. "All
three reports are important; the progress of science is narrowing down answers."

The Nature Conservancy already uses published studies to target climate efforts
worldwide, including:

*Sierra Nevada Mountains. With the Agriculture Department's Forest Service,
conserving mountain valleys, meadows and wetlands vegetation as warming moves up
mountain slopes over about 700,000 acres.

*Florida Keys. Monitoring coral reef bleaching and planning to farm
heat-resistant corals.

*Yunnan, China. Mapping ecology of mountain areas already affected by warming.

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Ove Hoegh-Guidberg, AFP/Getty Images

DOCUMENT-TYPE: SCIENCE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              39 of 268 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             August 20, 2007 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Top 25 Scientific breakthroughs;
Great minds make giant leaps

BYLINE: Dan Vergano

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 1429 words


In 1982, a human genome was a science-fiction fantasy, and the space shuttle was
state-of-the-art science.

The field of science has stretched ever more widely into everyday life since
then, bringing us cellphones, Web browsing and the promise of a biotechnology
bonanza. With help from longtime science observers, USA TODAY's Dan Vergano
counts down the 25 top milestones. Share your choices at Top25.usatoday.com.

1  Accelerating universe (1998)

Exploding stars, receding away at an ever-faster pace, stunned scientists by
showing that an anti-gravity effect is relentlessly expanding the universe. This
expansion still defies explanationstill defies explanation and is one of the
chief mysteries in all of science.

2  Human genome (1999)

Competing public and private teams declared victory in mapping human DNA's
24,000 or so genes, ushering in a coming era of gene-based medicine.

3  Climate accord (2001-2007)

The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change went from finding global warming
"very likely" to "unequivocal," by 2007, a view that coincides with growing
public acceptance of climate change.

4  Hubble launched (1990)

The Hubble Space Telescope overcame early mirror distortions to become
astronomy's most productive observatory and a symbol of scientific achievement.

5  Big Bang fingerprinted (1992)

NASA's Cosmic Background Explorer (COBE) probe mapped the fiery Big Bang's
aftermath, detecting hot spots in the early universe that coalesced into
galaxies.

6  DNA fingerprinting (1985)

Sir Alec. Jeffreys. at the United

Kingdom's University of Leicester

announced a method of identifying people based only on their DNA, now a
fundamental forensics tool. Made famous by television's CSI %series, DNA
fingerprinting has been used to imprison criminals and free the innocent,
raising questions about the justice system in its wake.

7  Hello Dolly! (1996)

Ian Wilmut of Scotland's %Roslin Institute led the team behind the birth of the
first cloned mammal, a sheep named Dolly, preceding %horses, bulls and dogs.

9  World Wide Web (1989)

Physicist Tim Berners-Lee. of CERN in Switzerland unveils a method to link pages
through the Internet %to share research - and now everything else. And later
pornography./seems a bit unfair link to mr. Berners-Lee...?? might insert
something else.. dk/ awww man, it's a good joke-dv- oh alright

8  Ozone unmasked (1987)

Flying High over Antarctica,

NASA scientists saw confirmed that chlorofluorocarbons - compounds once found in
aerosol-spray dispensers aerosols and refrigerants - inert in the lower
atmosphere were eating stratospheric ozone. %A ban promises some recovery .
resulted and for this protective ultraviolet-ray-screening atmospheric layer.
layer of protection from the sun's% ultraviolet rays. is recovering.this
ok?/good, but can we fit?-dv/

10  Extrasolar planets (1995)

Swiss astronomers Michel. Mayor. and %Didier. Queloz. report the first detection

of a planet, named 51 Pegasi B, orbiting

a nearby sunlike star. More than Over 200 "exo8planets" are now known, including
one found in a nearby star's "habitable" zone.

11  RNA interference (1998)

Working with wormsnematodes, biologists Andrew Fire. and Craig Mello. report how
protein-building/protein-building not important to RNAi-dv/ RNA strands can
selectively shut down genes, a dazzling research and medical tool./Art: 2006
Nobel Prize in Medicine photo?/

12  Top quark detected (1995).

Atom-smashing physicists at Fermilab, a %federal research lab
facilityok?/sure-dv/, detect the top quark, a long-sought subatomic particle.
Confirmation of its existence cements the modern% understanding of the structure
of matter. /art at
http://www.fnal.gov/pub/inquiring/physics/discoveries/top-photos.html and
http://www.fnal.gov/pub/inquiring/physics/discoveries/top_quark_background/top95
_collision.html /

13  Feathered dino found (1992)

U.S. and Chinese researchers find the remains

of the first of many feathered-dinosaur fossils, confirming growing
paleontological% perception that birds are, in fact,% %living/should we say....
descended from dinosaurs? Dk/ either way is fine, yours is more taxonomically
correct/dinosaurs.

14  Pluto dethroned (2006)

The discovery of Eris, a frozen world larger and farther away than Pluto, leads
the International Astronomical Union

to disown the ninth planet.

15  Embryonic

stem cells (1997)

A University of Wisconsin team first isolates human embryonic stem cells,

master cells that may one day be used to create

rejection-free transplant tissues. Destruction of

embryos to harvest the cells remains controversial on political, moral and
religious fronts.

16

Water on Mars (2000-2004)

Spurred by a

Martian meteorite that might hold

fossil bacteria, NASA revs up its Mars

program, with satellite images and the rover Opportunity finding that salty seas
once sat on the Red Planet.

17  Oldest hominid (1994)

A 4.4 million-year-old Ethiopian

fossil, Ardipithecus ramidus. no ital per style guide,

presented by a team at the University of California-Berkeley, predates all known
human species.

18  'Intelligent design' lawsuit (2005)

Reaching "the inescapable conclusion that ID (intelligent design) is an
interesting theological argument, but that it is not science," federal judge
John Jones halts a Dover, Pa., school board's bid to suggest to science students
that an "intelligent designer" created life.

19  Neutrino mass discovered (1998)

Measuring cosmic rays, U.S. and Japanese physicists show that neutrinos -
elementary radioactive decay particles - have mass, /how about... contradicting

a previous belief they were without mass and offering.... etc. Then I would drop
the stuff about the sun and just say this spurred new searches for leftover
neutrinos. DK/offering a surprising hint about a new theory

of matter in the universe. The find also leads to searches for leftover

neutrinos from the Big Bang.I don't really understand this, Dan. Why is it
important that neutrinos have mass? /Standard equations predict they should be
massless, so the finding opens a crack towards new physics that goes beyond
existing theory of matter./

20  Abrupt climate change (1982-85)

Geologists and

paleoclimatologists

find evidence that

sudden climate shifts, 60-degree temperature jumps and doubling of rainfall in
some places, have occurred within the past 600 million years. Some worry

that man-made global warming will spark

similar shifts. Why - if this has happened over 600 million years? Are
scientists concerned tht manmade warming will lead to more abrupt changes?/yes,
some are. It was a surprise it happened so quickly sometimes.-dv- Happened in
the last 600 million years, most recently it happened about 8,000 years ago in
the Northern Hemisphere when the Ice Age ended. /

21  Neuroscience explodes (1990-present)

The "Decade of the Brain"

premieres new imaging devices that reveal how the brain really works.

22  Quantum teleportation (1998)

Despite Einstein's 1930's disbelief, European researchers transfer -

instantaneously and over distance - one light particle's characteristics

to another, opening a new secure method of communication.

23  Evo devo (1999)

Evidence that evolution alters genes active in infancy to create novel physical
structures in species coalesces into a new branch of biology.

24  Golden age of solar astronomy (1996)

The international Solar and Heliospheric Observatory's (SOHO) sun-watching
satellites begin operations, opening up solar seismology and making real-time
space weather forecasting possible.

25  'Hobbit' discovered (2004)

Still controversial,

the discovery on an Indonesian island of Homo floresiensis - an 18,000-year-old,
pint-sized human

species - by an

Indonesian-Australian team stuns paleontologists because

of the small brain size of these tool-using hunters.

---

Design by Lori Sloan. Photo editing by Katye Martens. Photos and graphics: 2.
Human genome illustration by USA TODAY; 4. Hubble telescope by NASA via Getty
Images; 5. Temperature fluctuations shown as color variation in an all-sky image
of the infant universe, 380,000 years after the Big Bang, by NASA/WMAP Science;

6. DNA illustration by USA TODAY; 7. Dolly, 2003, by Jeff J. Mitchell, Reuters;
8. Antarctic ozone hole, 2006, by AP; 10. Artist's rendering of exoplanet, by
AFP/Getty Images;

13. Caudipteryx dinosaur by AP; 14. Artist's rendering of Pluto, by NASA; 15.
Single cell being removed from human embryo, by AP; 16. Channel on Mars thought
to be formed by flowing water, by AP; 17. Hominid's lower jaw bone, by Sileshi
Semaw; 20. Kulusuk, Greenland, by John McConnico, AP; 24. The sun, 1997, by AP;
Artist's rendering of Homo floresiensis, by Peter Schouten, AFP

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              52 of 268 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          December 12, 2007 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Earthbound mission for NASA: Public health;
In a 'paradigm shift,' climate-tracking satellites try to scope out disease
outbreaks

BYLINE: Andrea Stone

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 7D

LENGTH: 1055 words


WASHINGTON -- From an orbit hundreds of miles above Earth, NASA's constellation
of climate-research satellites may not be able to spot a flea in the desert
Southwest.

But a program that uses space observations to pinpoint the habitats of rodents
carrying plague-infected fleas could warn of disease outbreaks in vulnerable
areas of New Mexico.

Run by NASA's Applied Sciences Program, the fast-developing tool is mining
vegetation, rainfall, temperature and topography data from 14  climate
-monitoring satellites to predict and prevent outbreaks of infectious diseases.

The focus is on "vector-borne" diseases spread by rodents, mosquitoes, fleas and
ticks. By monitoring climate, precipitation and ground-cover changes that
encourage these creatures to thrive, scientists can offer early warnings about
potential outbreaks of diseases such as malaria, West Nile virus and bubonic
plague.

"This is a huge breakthrough revolution in the field of public health," says
program manager John Haynes, who unveiled NASA's infectious-disease-finding
abilities for doctors attending the American Society of Tropical Medicine and
Hygiene meeting in Philadelphia last month.

Satellites have been used to predict the weather since 1960. Their use in making
public-health decisions is only about a decade old.

"There's been a paradigm shift," Haynes says. NASA is reaching out to
"front-line troops who are our nation's health defense."

Information from the remote sensors is being shared with the federal Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention, the Defense Department, state health agencies,
the World Health Organization and foreign governments.

Unlike surveys of patients, which are prone to human error, satellite data
"provides a reliable tool for public health that ... is not confounded by other
factors," says Teresa Fryberger, NASA's Applied Sciences Earth Science Division
director.

Among the diseases targeted:

Malaria

A parasitic disease spread by mosquitoes in tropical climates, malaria is a top
concern for military planners. In 2003, one-third of U.S. personnel involved in
a peacekeeping mission in Liberia came down with the disease.

By combining ground observations with satellite measures of temperature,
rainfall, ground-cover density and soil moisture, NASA and military researchers
in Thailand and Indonesia have identified hot spots. Maj. Jittawadee Murphy of
the Armed Forces Research Institute of Medical Sciences in Bangkok says in an
e-mail: "Each species of mosquitoes prefers different and unique habitat to
breed. Therefore we're able to estimate mosquito populations in each terrain,
predict disease cases at particular time(s) of the year, and conduct research
studies for disease control and prevention at the right place and the right
time."

Murphy also said scientists use NASA data to predict outbreaks of scrub typhus,
a sometimes fatal disease endemic to Southeast Asia, by locating habitats of
chigger mites that spread it.

West Nile virus

NASA's Terrestrial Observation & Prediction System combines satellite imagery
and ground-station data to collect, integrate and analyze in nearly real time 30
environmental factors that could contribute to the mosquito-borne disease.

William Reisen, a research entomologist at the Center for Vectorborne Diseases
at the University of California-Davis, is lead scientist on a project. He shares
data with state public health officials and 63 mosquito-control districts.

"If we could forecast where and when" virus-infected insects would swarm, crews
"could adjust their control operations to reduce mosquito abundance and have
things in place" before people fall ill, he says.

Bubonic plague

Endemic to the western USA, especially the Four Corners region of the Southwest
(the meeting point of Utah, Colorado, Arizona, and New Mexico), bubonic plague
spread by rats and their fleas sickens 10 to 20 people a year.

Because rats tend to breed in canyons, NASA combines topographical data with
predictions of rodent food supply and migration patterns to predict the location
of outbreaks. It shares the information with the CDC. Early warning is crucial,
because the plague's flulike symptoms can lead to misdiagnoses that could prove
fatal if antibiotics aren't administered promptly.

NASA satellites also can help distinguish  between a naturally caused outbreak
and one that might result from bioterrorism.

When an outbreak of Rift Valley Fever killed more than 120 people in Saudi
Arabia and Yemen in 2000, U.S. military commanders worried it might have been
caused by the  release of the fever-causing virus by a terrorist cell.

Using rainfall data from NASA's Tropical Rainfall Measuring Mission satellite
and vegetation measurements from the Terra and Aqua satellites, scientists
discovered "the heaviest rainfall in that area than they'd had in 30 years." The
rain boosted the mosquito population, so "with extremely high likelihood, we
determined it was naturally caused," Haynes says.

NASA plans seven more global climate science satellites by 2013, which should
expand the number of infectious diseases it can monitor.

One candidate is avian flu, which is spread by waterfowl. The U.S. Agency for
International Development already finances programs to tag migratory birds with
GPS satellite transmitters to monitor their movement and match their paths with
disease outbreaks.

"It's up to us at NASA to use our research ability to determine if there are any
environmental observations (that can shed light on) the transmission of this
disease," Haynes says.

---

Turning satellite data into public warnings

NASA is using climate-monitoring satellites to gather data that help
public-health officials anticipate the outbreak

of infectious diseases.

1

Locate the culprits.

Satellites scan for habitats of rodents, mosquitoes, fleas, ticks and other
carriers of diseases such as malaria, West Nile virus and plague.

2

Observe the surroundings.

Satellites return data on environmental factors such as vegetation, rainfall,
soil moisture, surface ultraviolet radiation and temperature.

3

Identify ideal conditions.

Scientists analyze the environmental changes that make certain parts of the
world more hospitable to disease-bearing creatures.

4

Apply the information.

Information is shared with federal, state and foreign health officials so they
can take appropriate steps to warn and protect the public.

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHICS, B/W, Sam Ward, USA TODAY, Source: USA TODAY research
(ILLUSTRATION)
PHOTO, B/W, Artist's rendering by NASA

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              57 of 268 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          December 26, 2007 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Global warming cast an unrelenting shadow

BYLINE: Elizabeth Weise

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 7D

LENGTH: 803 words


From the largest scales (global climate) to the smallest (cell research), this
was a year punctuated by significant developments in science.

USA TODAY's Elizabeth Weise highlights the findings.

Global warming

It led the pack as the main science story of 2007. This was a year in which the
topic moved from being theory to  fact in the scientific world and, perhaps more
important, in the minds of many Americans.

It also was the year in which the gold-standard scientific body on the topic,
the United Nations' Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, won the Nobel
Peace Prize. It shared the award with former vice president  Al Gore.

In its long-awaited report in February, the U.N. panel said that global warming
was unequivocal and that humankind's reliance on fossil fuels -- coal, fuel oil
and natural gas -- was to blame. Discussion has shifted in scientific and
political circles to "What effects will it have?" and "What can we do about it?"

The year ended with this month's international climate talks in Bali. The
sometimes-fractious discussions resulted in a plan-to-make-a-plan to fight
global warming by 2009. That plan will replace the Kyoto Protocol, the 1997
agreement to reduce the emission of heat-absorbing "greenhouse" gases. Much of
the protocol expires in 2012.

Stem cell breakthrough

In November, two teams of scientists reported success in reprogramming human
skin cells to behave as embryonic stem cells, which can become any cell in the
body.

Their papers appeared in two prestigious journals, Cell and Science. The Cell
report was from a group led by Shinya Yamanaka of Kyoto University in Japan. The
Science study was from Junying Yu and James Thomson at the University of
Wisconsin-Madison.

The new technique uses a chemical cocktail that contains gene-controlling
proteins to turn the skin cells back to their pluripotent, or unlimited, state.
The hope is that the promise of stem cells -- to provide cures for diseases such
as diabetes and Parkinson's and repairs for those with spinal cord damage --
might be accomplished without the moral issues that have dogged the research.

Until now, creating human embryonic stem cells required destroying a human
embryo.

The brightest supernova

Astronomers began seeing the brightest supernova of a star ever observed in May.
That's when light from the death of SN 2006gy finally reached Earth. The star
was 240 million light-years away. (One light-year is about 5.9 trillion miles.)
It was about 150 times heavier than our sun when it exploded. It still burned
brightly in the sky more than 250 days after its initial explosion.

New species, looming extinctions

Scientists all over the world discovered thousands of new species, including:

*A medium-size, tree-dwelling primate called a highland mangabey in the
mountains of East Africa.

*A new variety of clouded leopard on Borneo and Sumatra.

*A black toad with purple rings in Suriname.

*A deep-water squid with 10 arms and huge fins like elephant ears.

*A giant rat, close to cat-size, in New Guinea.

But at the same time that scientists were seemingly finding new species
everywhere they looked, they sounded the alarm about a coming wave of
extinctions resulting from climate change.

Some scientists estimate that if global warming continues, 20% of the world's
plant and animal species may vanish.

Feathered, flightless dinosaur

Archaeologists in China discovered the remains of a feathered,

16-foot-tall, 3,000-pound flightless dinosaur that stunned scientists. The
70-million-year-old Gigantoraptor erlianensis was found in Mongolia and could
stand eye-to-eye with a tyrannosaur. Previously, the largest bird dinosaur, or
oviraptor, found was the size of a horse.

Bee gone

And finally, 2007 was the year that scientists began to seriously study a
serious problem: the dying off of the world's bee colonies. Beekeepers have
reported losses of 30% to 90% of their honeybee hives. Researchers have dubbed
it "colony collapse disorder."

The hard-working bee is crucial to the world of agriculture as well as to the
natural world. The $15 billion-a-year

honeybee industry pollinates 90% to 100% of at least 19 kinds of fruits,
vegetables and nuts nationwide, from almonds and apples to onions and broccoli.

Beekeepers travel nationwide to supply pollinators to farmers.

When colonies collapse, bees abandon the hives, leaving behind the queen and
young bees. The remaining bees have high levels of bacteria, viruses and fungi
in their guts. Parasites wait unusually long to invade abandoned hives.

The American Beekeeping Federation estimates that 600,000 of 2 million hives
have been lost nationwide.

One possible cause, suggested in September's Science, is Israeli acute paralysis
virus, whose place of origin is unknown. Scientists have found a strong
correlation between infected bees and those destroyed by the disorder.

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Peter Essick, Aurora/Getty Images
PHOTO, B/W, Junying Yu, AFP/Getty Images
PHOTO, B/W, Paul Ouboter, Conservation International, via AP
PHOTO, B/W, AP
PHOTO, B/W, NASA/CXC/UC-Berkeley/N.Smith
PHOTO, B/W, European Southern Observatory via AP
PHOTO, B/W, Craig Sanders, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              77 of 268 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              March 5, 2007 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Check it out

BYLINE: Priyanka Dayal and Bruce Rosenstein

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 613 words


South rising

In the 1930s, Southerners made half as much as the average American. But today
their incomes are competitive and their living conditions just as good. In a
special report in Sunday's  The Economist, Robert Guest takes a sweeping look at
the combination of political, social and economic factors that have led to the
South's rapid economic growth.

Guest reports that after the end of segregation, race relations improved in the
South, providing impetus for firms and workers to move there. Talented workers
have flocked to the Southern states for the warm weather and lower cost of
living. Less regulation, lower taxes and weaker unions have lured companies to
move their operations to the South.

States such as Virginia and Florida have seen economic booms that have not
slowed in recent decades. Still, the South faces obstacles, the most serious
being the population's low level of education. Although reformers have made a
serious attempt to improve schools over the past few years, Southern schools are
still lagging behind the rest of the country's.

World-beater ideas

A certain strain of imaginative, entrepreneurial business is finding ways to
make the world a better place, reports March's Fast Company in its 6th Annual
Fast 50 report. Some of the innovators behind what the magazine calls "50
solutions for what ails the planet" are familiar names: General Electric, Home
Depot, Honda Engineering and Ikea. One is California's Gov. Arnold
Schwarzenegger, whom Fast Company praises for focusing the power of the free
market on major problems such as global warming, dependence on foreign oil and
unaffordable health care.

The California Global Warming Solutions Act surpasses previous laws by mandating
a 25% reduction to 1990 levels in carbon dioxide emissions.

Two fast-growing companies aim to improve dental health for children by
specializing in dentistry only for kids who qualify for government insurance.
FORBA -- which stands for "for better access" -- and Kool Smiles operate more
than 80 clinics around the country. Are they doing all this because they want to
save the world, or because they can turn a profit? Yes, says Fast Company. And
not a moment too soon.

"People say, 'You can't get everything done,'" Schwarzenegger tells the
magazine. "But the only way to know if you can lift 500 pounds is if you put 500
pounds on the bar."

The report is online at www.fastcompany.com/fast50_07/.

Retailers' right to choose?

The Supreme Court will hear arguments in a case this month that pits the rights
of manufacturers against the rights of retailers on the issue of wholesale
pricing of goods. Manufacturers are hoping the high court  will overturn a 1911
decision that ruled price-fixing violated the Sherman Antitrust Act, Sarah
Goldstein reports in this month's issue of Inc. Retailers, meanwhile, are hoping
to retain the power to boost their own sales by discounting, and customers,
presumably, are just hoping prices won't go up.

A lower court ordered Leegin Creative Leather Products, a California-based
luxury leather goods company, to pay more than $3 million in damages after it
stopped shipping handbags to Kay's Kloset, a Dallas-area retailer. Leegin cut
the store off in 2002 after it repeatedly discounted a line of popular handbags
by as much as 20%. But Phil Smith, owner of Kay's Kloset, says his business has
been struggling since losing the handbag line.

Economists are split on whether allowing manufacturers to fix prices reduces
competition, Goldstein reports. The Bush administration announced in January
that it was supporting Leegin, the manufacturer. The court is scheduled to hear
arguments March 26 and announce a decision in June.

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              82 of 268 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             March 19, 2007 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Book warns of economic collision course;
Solution may hinge on living locally

BYLINE: Russ Juskalian

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 9B

LENGTH: 632 words


Deep Economy

By Bill McKibben

Times Books, 250 pages, $25

---

We have more stuff, we live longer and our houses keep getting bigger. Every
second of every day, the world's economic machinery churns out a continuously
growing stream of wealth.

So, what's the problem?

According to Bill McKibben, author of the new book Deep Economy, the process of
accumulating "more stuff" is putting our happiness on the chopping block.

If that wasn't enough, we seem to be endangering the planet's ability to sustain
human life.

"For most of human history, the two birds More and Better roosted on the same
branch. You could toss one stone and hope to hit them both," writes McKibben,
invoking a fundamental tenet of market capitalism: As a population accumulates
wealth (more), people benefit by an increase in quality of life (better).

In Deep Economy, however, McKibben argues that we have entered a phase in which
More and Better are uncoupling. The two concepts may even be at odds with one
another.

McKibben believes that "the distinguishing feature of our moment is this: Better
has flown a few trees over to make her nest. That changes everything. Now, if
you've got the stone of your own life, or your own society, gripped in your
hand, you have to choose between them. It's More or Better."

There are a lot of voices in the fashionable milieu where economics,
environmentalism and psychology overlap, but McKibben has been here from the
beginning. His 1989 treatise on global warming, The End of Nature, was one of
the earliest books on climate change that was intended for a general readership.

McKibben is back with Deep Economy, applying the ideas behind local,
decentralized economics to various aspects of contemporary life: the gathering
of food (in small farms and farmers' markets), the production of energy (on your
roof or in your backyard), the happiness of communities and the sustainability
of an ecological system he believes is already on the brink.

McKibben argues for what he calls the Durable Future based on human goals of
happiness and sustainability, not the abstract goal of accumulating wealth.
Local economies, he writes, are the key.

We've heard this line of reasoning countless times. But as oil prices stay high,
conflicts light up the globe and each week a new report is issued damning
practices responsible for global warming, the idea of sustainable (or durable)
economics is gaining currency.

What makes McKibben's book stand out is the completeness of his arguments and
his real-world approach to solutions. He is just as comfortable calling on
economist John Maynard Keynes as he is visiting neighborhood farmers. (He writes
about successfully relying on locally produced food one Vermont winter.)

And while it is easy for some in the developed world to talk about paying a
little extra for local goods, McKibben is mindful of the fact that any solution
should also work for those in the developing world.

McKibben talks about a 12-year-old girl he met in China while researching his
book. She cries when she talks about her life, about her mother leaving for
factory work in the city and never returning, about her father beating her
because she was not a boy and about how there wasn't enough money for her to
complete school past the ninth grade. In this world, "It's perfectly plausible
that More and Better still share a nest. Any solution we consider has to contain
some answer for her tears. Her story hovers over this whole enterprise. She's a
potent reality check."

What is clear is that fossil-fuel supplies are limited, the climate is
undergoing change, and something has to give.  "So here's the punch line: The
movement toward more local economies is the same direction we will have to
travel to cope with the effects of these predicaments, not just to fend them
off."

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W

DOCUMENT-TYPE: MONEY BOOKSHELF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              83 of 268 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             July 12, 2007 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Scientists design building with water walls

BYLINE: Michelle Healy

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 6D

LENGTH: 528 words


A building with walls made of thin sprays of water that can display words or
images sculpted into the falling water goes on display at an upcoming
international exhibition. It can also open a door anywhere in the water wall for
people to enter the "Digital Water Pavilion," which will hold exhibitions and a
cafe, says the Massachusetts Institute of Technology team behind the project.
The pavilion, to be shown at the 2008 World Expo in Zaragoza, Spain, drops a
water curtain from its 16-foot ceiling with valves spaced about an inch apart,
controlled by computers to sculpt patterns and words into the flow, team leader
Carlo Ratti says. Sensors will open the curtain to allow people to walk inside.
"We lead much more fluid lives today, and we think architecture should respond
to the way we live," Ratti says.

iPods in lightning -- not a good idea

Emergency room doctors report treating patients who have suffered
lightning-strike injuries while using personal electronic devices such as MP3
and CD players outdoors during storms. A letter in today's New England Journal
of Medicine details the case of a Canadian jogger who received wishbone-shaped
chest and neck burns, ruptured eardrums and a broken jaw after lightning
traveled through his iPod during a thunderstorm. Contrary to some urban legends
and media reports, electronic devices don't attract lightning like a tall tree
or a lightning rod does. "It's going to hit where it's going to hit, but once it
contacts metal, the metal conducts the electricity," says Mary Ann Cooper of the
American College of Emergency Physicians. A spokeswoman for iPod maker Apple
declined to comment. Packaging for iPods and some other music players does
include warnings against using them in the rain.

Bus-length squid washes up in Tasmania

A dead squid as long as a bus and weighing 550 pounds washed up on an Australian
beach, officials said Wednesday. Measuring 3 feet across at its widest point and
26 feet from the tip of its body to the end of its tentacles, it was found early
Wednesday by a beachcomber on the island state of Tasmania. The largest giant
squid on record is a 1,100-pound, 33-foot-long colossus netted by a New Zealand
fisherman in February. For anyone thinking that such large finds suggest a
calamari feast, Genefor Walker-Smith, a zoologist at the Tasmanian Museum,  says
giant squid contain high levels of ammonia in their bodies to aid buoyancy and
that they "would not taste very nice at all."

Baby mammoth carcass discovered

The frozen carcass of a 10,000-year-old baby mammoth has been unearthed in a
remote region of northern Siberia, a discovery that scientists said Wednesday
could help in climate-change studies. The 4-foot gray-and-brown carcass, which
was discovered in May by a reindeer herder in the Yamal-Nenets region, has its
trunk and eyes virtually intact and even some fur remaining, according to the
Russian Academy of Sciences' Zoological Institute. Scientists believe mammoths
lived from 4.8 million years ago to around 4,000 years ago. Studies suggest
climate change or overkill by human hunters as possible reasons leading to their
extinction.

---

E-mail betterlife@usatoday.com

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Color, Carlo Ratti Associati
PHOTO, Color, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              86 of 268 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 20, 2007 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

A green ceiling;
Environmental employment opportunities should include the urban poor

BYLINE: Annette Fuentes

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 728 words


Investment in new technology, business and renewable energy sources is booming,
and that's creating vast job opportunities in the so-called green economy. From
"green" buildings designed with energy efficiencies to research into renewable
energy, lots of smart money is going into an array of solutions to clean up our
collective act. But who will participate in the blossoming and profitable green
economy?

The environmental movement hasn't given high priority to the concerns of people
in low-income, urban communities. Now is precisely the time to reach out to
blacks and Latinos with the promise of green-collar jobs that make them part of
the solution.

"It can't just be the Prius and polar bear and Ph.D. crowd. We have to include
more people," says Van Jones, founder of Green for All, a national organization
advocating jobs in the green economy for the poor. "There's also a question of
equal opportunity and access. We fought for years to integrate a pollution-based
economy. And now we're about to create a green economy, but one that is lily
white."

Green for All -- a spinoff of the Ella Baker Center for Human Rights in Oakland
-- is a coalition of 11 groups around the country. Jones is right on several
counts. Unless environmentalism becomes a more inclusive movement to protect the
health of our natural environment and of people living in the most polluted
areas, it will never achieve more than minimal gains in air quality, energy
efficiency and climate stability.

Role of inclusiveness

The way to a more inclusive environmentalism is a more inclusive green economy.
Not everyone can afford a Prius.  That's where the coalition's strategy comes
in. The majority of Americans live in urban areas, which are where some of the
worst pollution and health problems also reside. Investing in green-collar jobs
for residents in these areas serves the dual purposes of spreading the mantle of
environmentalism and of providing employment where joblessness is translated
into despair and economic distress.

Sustainable South Bronx, a partner in Green for All, is modeling the kind of
green-collar job development that could benefit people across the country. Its
program trains residents in green-collar job skills such as:

*Urban forestry, in which trainees learn tree pruning. This craft can create
cooling canopies on the streets during the day, while letting streetlights shine
through at night to facilitate safer streets.

*Construction of green roofs, an increasingly popular technique in cities to
cool buildings in summer.

*Hazardous-waste cleanup, so that residents can be trained and certified for
jobs in abating the Bronx's contaminated sites.

*Wetland and salt marsh restoration and stream bank stabilization are also part
of the training.

"People see they can play a part in improving their world," says James Chase of
the Bronx group. "They see how economics is tied to their communities, their
jobs, their health."

Multiple approaches

There's no doubt that putting the brakes on climate change and altering our
energy use is a long-term effort that requires many simultaneous approaches. And
the best chance at success lies in including the most people, from the ground
up, in creating that change. This will take massive investments in people -- not
just in research and new clean energy technologies. As Jones notes, "If you want
to make the U.S. a leader in solutions, you have got to retrofit, rewire and
reboot a nation. That's a lot, and you don't have a green-collar workforce
trained to do that. You've got to train up millions of people and get government
to put money on the table for it."

A commitment of public funds will require collaborations among unions,
grassroots organizations and elected officials at all levels to ensure that
low-income people enjoy the fruits of the greening movement.

Green for All and its founding civil rights organization have helped Congress
take the first steps in this process, with passage of a bill to create a $125
million green-collar  training program.

That's encouraging, but it's only the beginning of what should be a massive
investment in people who can be the front-line change agents in saving the
planet, the polar bears and their own communities.

---

Annette Fuentes is an adjunct professor at the Columbia University Graduate
School of Journalism and a member of USA TODAY's board of contributors.

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Sam Ward, USA TODAY (ILLUSTRATION)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              87 of 268 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            February 16, 2007 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

China envisions environmentally friendly 'eco-city';
Trio of villages will preserve wildlife and be powered by sun, wind, biofuels

BYLINE: Calum MacLeod

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 1097 words


CHONGMING ISLAND, China -- At the mouth of the Yangtze River, an hour by ferry
from Shanghai, a new kind of Chinese city will rise from the mudflats and
wetlands.

In three years, the island's black-faced spoonbills and other rare birds will
share this migratory stop with 25,000 humans, the initial inhabitants of what
developers call the world's first "eco-city."

If Dongtan Eco-City opens on schedule, it will become a carbon-neutral urban
showcase at about the same moment scientists foresee China surpassing the United
States as the globe's leading emitter of greenhouse gases.

The state-run developer behind the $1.3 billion project envisions three modern
villages on Chongming Island, which is about three-quarters the size of
Manhattan. The communities will be powered by energy captured from sun, wind,
biofuels and recycled organic material. A quarter of the island will be
untouched ecological buffer. Grasses will grow on rooftops for natural
insulation. Rainwater will be purified for use. Vehicles will operate on clean
fuels.

Four other Chinese cities plan to build similar eco-zones. London Mayor Ken
Livingstone, who visited Dongtan last April, said he wants to build a smaller
version along the River Thames.

Development and damage

China has managed a century of economic development in little more than a
generation -- and ravaged itself in the process. Today, it is home to 16 of the
world's 20 most polluted cities, the World Bank says. It battles the effects of
deforestation and overgrazing -- soil erosion and spreading deserts -- while
annually losing grasslands equivalent to an area the size of Connecticut. The
State Environmental Protection Administration says China's major rivers are
dangerously polluted, half its cities are choked by hazardous air, and acid rain
falls on a third of the country's land mass.

Thanks to prevailing winds across the Pacific, the USA is firmly in China's
firing line. China is the major source for deposits of mercury, a highly toxic
metal, in the western half of the USA, says Jozef Pacyna, a professor at the
Norwegian Institute for Air Research. Mercury billows into the atmosphere from
coal-burning power plants, source of 70% of China's energy, but it is only the
tip of a toxic iceberg: Coal contains more than 60 trace minerals and heavy
metals, Pacyna says.

Dongtan's backers see the city as an answer to the staggering environmental
degradation in China. "It could be a model -- and not just for China," says
Nicole Deng, operations director for Shanghai Industrial Investment Co. (SIIC),
the company behind the project.

The British design firm hired by SIIC to design Dongtan says the city will be
practical and commercially sensible -- high-tech, economically vibrant, a model
for urban planners everywhere -- not a green utopian boondoggle.

"The main grid of the city will be for walking and cycling, not cars. There will
be public transport within (550 yards) of each home," says Peter Head, director
of Arup, the British firm designing Dongtan. "With no (gasoline) or diesel
engines, Dongtan will be a quiet place. So you can open windows and ventilate
buildings."

To be carbon-neutral, Dongtan must cut carbon emissions as much as possible and
offset remaining emissions by planting trees and using environmentally friendly
technologies to generate energy.

The island is to be connected to Shanghai and the mainland by a new 15.6-mile
bridge and tunnel. Road and rail links will cut commuting time from Dongtan to
45 minutes.

Construction on the island is to start in September. Even with 20% of projected
dwellings set aside for affordable housing, the farmers living here say it will
be too pricey for them to stay. Dongtan "won't help me," says Peng Shouyong, who
makes about $700 a year raising pigs, growing crops and breeding crabs on the
island. "But China needs it."

Doubts about project

In Shanghai, there is skepticism. "So many real estate projects advertise
themselves as 'green this' or 'green that,'" says Shen Yue, a film director.

China "is littered with expensive demonstration projects that have not been
replicated," says Elizabeth Economy, senior fellow at the U.S. Council on
Foreign Relations and author of The River Runs Black, a book about China's
environment. Even so, she says Dongtan is "potentially an exciting advance."

SIIC won't discuss some details, such as how much it will charge for homes and
apartments. It has scaled back aspects of the project. Head says Dongtan is "the
first step down a new road, not a final answer to anything."

The project comes as the central government tries to halt the country's
environmental decline and find workable energy alternatives -- without slowing
the 10% annual economic growth rate. Beijing has moved to shut unlicensed power
plants. Alternative fuels are to provide 16% of total energy by 2020.

Pan Yue, deputy director for the State Environment Protection Administration,
told state media that environmental issues have "become a key bottleneck" for
the economy. The government's China Modernization Report, issued last month,
acknowledged that the country had made no progress in protecting the environment
over the past three years.

China's leaders "finally realize they need to use new energy. Not because it is
cheaper, but because they see the environmental problems associated with fossil
fuels and (because) they are worried about the increased importation of oil,"
says Zhang Zhongxiang, an energy and environment expert at the East-West Center
in Hawaii.

Wind farms have sprouted up in Inner Mongolia and elsewhere. "If there is any
spare land in windy areas, people are looking to develop wind farms," says Alex
Westlake, chief operating officer of Camco International, a British firm that
helps companies reduce emissions.

Yang Ailun, a climate and energy specialist at Greenpeace China, says the
country's belated environmental awakening can't prevent it from becoming the
world's top polluter -- and might not be enough to keep Dontgan from being
doomed.

Global warming is raising ocean levels so fast, Yang says, that the eco-city and
Chongming Island could eventually "disappear because of climate change."

About Dongtan ("Eastern Bank"), on Chongming ("Lofty Brilliance") Island:

*25,000 residents by 2010; 80,000 by 2020; 500,000 by 2030.

*Three village-style neighborhoods: Marina, Lake and Pond.

*Only clean-fuel vehicles, such as hydrogen cars, permitted.

*No landfills; majority of waste to be reused. Organic waste such as vegetable
peels used to generate electricity.

*Sewage processed for irrigation and composting.

Sources: SIIC and Arup

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Arup
GRAPHIC, B/W (MAP)
PHOTO, B/W, Calum Macleod, USA TODAY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              93 of 268 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 5, 2007 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Coalition calls for presidential plan

BYLINE: Patrick O'Driscoll

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 8D

LENGTH: 203 words


DENVER -- The next president must lead the USA against global warming for
national security and opportunity's sake, not just the environment's, a
climate-change coalition led by former senator Gary Hart said Tuesday.

"There are businesses to be born, jobs to be created and profits to be earned in
a sensible and strong plan" against warming, said "green" industrialist Ray
Anderson, co-chair with Hart of the new non-partisan Presidential Climate Action
Project.

The group, based in Denver, unveiled more than 250 recommendations and 1,000
policy options for presidential candidates.  So far, three -- all Democrats --
have answered initial requests to brief them. Hart said organizers have met with
Barack Obama and with aides to Hillary Clinton and Bill Richardson.

"We don't call for action, we lay out the action," said Hart, whose group seeks
movement in the first 100 days of the next presidency to revamp industry and
technology the way Franklin Roosevelt led the transformation of the USA through
the Depression and World War II.

The ideas include a 90% cut in greenhouse emissions and 200 mpg car-and-truck
fuel economy by 2050, a "carbon-neutral" federal government and $1 billion in
technology innovation awards.

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: SCIENCE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              94 of 268 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 13, 2007 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Green Exchange takes root soon;
Market for trading of greenhouse gas credits to open

BYLINE: Paul Davidson

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 487 words


A star-studded cast of energy and environmental brokers and investors is
launching a new exchange for trading credits that offset the greenhouse gas
emissions that cause global warming.

The Green Exchange is expected to sharply expand the fast-growing market for
trading greenhouse gas and renewable energy credits, says Peter Fusaro, chairman
of consulting firm Global Change Associates.

The exchange will start in the first quarter. Its partners are Nymex Holdings,
parent company of the New York Mercantile Exchange, the world's largest energy
exchange; Evolution Markets, the biggest broker of environmental credits; and
investment banks including Morgan Stanley, JPMorgan, Credit Suisse and Merrill
Lynch.

"You have the largest energy exchange partnering with the largest environmental
brokers," Fusaro says.

Today, countries that ratified the Kyoto treaty have agreed to cut their
emissions of greenhouse gases, such as carbon dioxide. European countries have
adopted a cap-and-trade system that limits carbon emissions by utilities and
industries, with companies that exceed their cap buying allowances from those
that fall under their limits. Many of the trades take place on the European
Climate Exchange.

But the United States has not joined the Kyoto treaty, so the market for trading
carbon credits is voluntary. For example, a corporation can offset the
greenhouse gases it produces by purchasing carbon credits, or offsets. Such
credits can help subsidize the planting of a forest, for example, which removes
carbon from the atmosphere.

Many banks and other investors are eager to invest in carbon offsets because
Congress is expected to impose a cap-and-trade system in the USA after the 2008
election. That's expected to boost the price of U.S. credits from $2 to $5 per
ton of carbon to $30 to $50 a ton.

Today, trades are typically completed on the Chicago Climate Exchange or by
brokers, such as Evolution Markets. The Chicago exchange, however, handles a
relatively small volume for traders, who must be members, and no third party
guarantees their quality, Fusaro says. Evolution, meanwhile, cannot assure the
credit-worthiness of buyers and sellers, says company President and CEO Andrew
Ertel.

The Green Exchange will provide a clearinghouse that alleviates both concerns.
It also will handle a much wider array of products, including European
allowances, voluntary U.S. pollution offsets and renewable energy credits, which
help subsidize wind farms or solar plants.

The exchange will list products on the vast CME Group Globex computer platform,
which is used by banks and institutions to trade agricultural and energy
products, allowing them to easily participate in the new exchange.

Uniting big energy brokers "will create more emission reductions at lower
prices," Ertel says.

The U.S. market for voluntary credits is $100 million a year, but the worldwide
market for carbon allowances is about $60 billion.

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              97 of 268 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            February 16, 2007 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Lakes under massive Antarctic ice sheet surprise scientists;
Sheet's collapse would raise global sea levels

BYLINE: Dan Vergano

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 502 words


There are 14 regions of previously undetected lakes hidden beneath parts of the
massive West Antarctic Ice Sheet that are continuously dumping their contents
into the surrounding sea, NASA scientists reported Thursday.

The researchers acknowledge that they don't know what role these lakes play in
draining ice away from the sheet, but its collapse is one of the most extreme
fears in global warming scenarios. Antarctica holds about 90% of the world's ice
and 70% of its reservoir of fresh water, NASA says.

The West Antarctic Ice Sheet contains enough ice to raise global sea levels more
than 16 feet if it collapses, according to the British Antarctic Survey.

Although more than 100 subglacial lakes have been detected in Antarctica,
discovery of the lakes beneath two glacial streams of ice surprised researchers,
who previously thought water flowed evenly below the ice streams, says study
author Robert Bindschadler of NASA's Goddard Space Flight center in Greenbelt,
Md.

The lakes were detected under 2,300 feet of ice by satellite data gathered in
2003 and 2006. The satellite bounced laser measures off the same patches of ice
to measure precise changes in elevation, according to a presentation made by the
researchers at the American Association for the Advancement of Science meeting
in San Francisco.

The lakes gave away their positions by rising and falling -- by as much as 30
feet in one case. The researchers, expressing surprise at how quickly the lakes
drain, think they fill until they bust, sending their contents cascading under
the ice sheet.

"It's a bit like an old cartoon in which an invisible character sneaks across a
sofa," says glaciologist Richard Alley of Penn State University in College Park,
Pa., who was not part of the study. "You can follow the character's progress by
seeing the cushion sink and then rebound under the footprints."

"This is important because this is how ice leaves the sheet and goes into the
ocean, affecting sea level," says Bindschadler. A recent Intergovernmental Panel
on Climate Change (IPCC) report warned that ice sheet melting could add to an
already projected 7- to 23-inch rise in global sea levels by 2100.

The ice streams atop the lakes are fast-moving, daily shifting about 5 feet and
dropping ice into the sea, the scientists say. They are just two of the roughly
dozen ice streams feeding the edges of the West Antarctic Ice Sheet into the
sea.

The sheet last melted about 125,000 years ago, during a period of temperatures
rivaling today's, sending sea levels perhaps 18 feet higher, according to NASA.

Alley cautions that scientists still haven't figured out how the lakes, along
with smaller subglacial lakes in Eastern Antarctica, control how ice sheets
drain into the oceans, or their potential for collapse.

"We can't predict what these ice streams are going to do, based on these
measurements," Bindschadler says.

Global warming melts the ice sheets, he says. "That's the easy part." However,
"the hard part is the details of how it all works."

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              101 of 268 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             March 30, 2007 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Nuclear power has too many negatives

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 799 words


USA TODAY's article "Some rethinking nuke opposition" correctly reported that
the Union of Concerned Scientists is "willing to consider nuclear power as part
of a long-term solution to global warming" (News, March 23). Nonetheless, our
position -- which is not new -- includes some major caveats that the article
glosses over.

Yes, the United States should be re-examining all low- and zero-carbon energy
options, but expanding U.S. nuclear power capacity anytime soon will present the
same serious liabilities that the Union of Concerned Scientists has been
pointing out for years:

*Building nuclear power plants is not cost effective.

*There still is no viable solution for storing highly radioactive nuclear waste.

*The federal government's enforcement of safety regulations is negligent.

*Reactor sites and spent fuel pools are potential targets for nuclear terrorism
and sabotage.

*Reprocessing used nuclear fuel (as proposed by the Bush administration) is
extremely dangerous, increases the amount of bomb-usable plutonium, creates
additional terrorist targets and encourages nuclear proliferation.

Nuclear power is not the solution to global warming.

There are faster, safer and cheaper ways to meet our energy needs, including
renewable energy sources and cogeneration technologies, which combine heat and
power.

Alden Meyer

Union of Concerned Scientists

Washington

Nuclear 'renaissance'

Seems that the "No Nukes" mantra of many environmentalists is being challenged
by global warming and other environmental concerns.

While some are still wringing their hands over voicing lukewarm support for
nuclear power, a dozen utilities are in various stages of planning for the
construction of more than 30 nuclear plants.

Regardless of where you stand on climate change, coal -- which accounts for 50%
of our electricity -- emits carbon dioxide, harmful particles and sulfur and
nitrogen oxides.

Today, 20% of the USA's electricity is produced with safe, reliable and
economical nuclear plants. The more we learn about nuclear energy, the easier it
is to see why we are poised for a nuclear renaissance in the USA.

Perhaps the new mantra should be "Know Nukes."

Gilbert J. Brown, Ph.D.

Professor and Coordinator

Nuclear Engineering Program

University of Massachusetts-Lowell

Why not solar power?

There is absolutely no need for nuclear power in the USA because there is a
simple, mature technology that can deliver huge amounts of clean energy without
any of the headaches of nuclear power.

It's called concentrating solar power (CSP) -- the technique of concentrating
sunlight using mirrors to create heat that is used to raise steam to drive
turbines and generators, just like a conventional power station. It is even
possible to store solar heat in melted salts so that electricity can be
generated at night or on cloudy days.

CSP technology has been generating electricity successfully in California since
1985, and a half-million Californians use it. Furthermore, CSP plants are now
being planned or built in many parts of the world.

CSP technology works best in hot deserts. But countries without deserts can
still enjoy the benefits of CSP because solar electricity can be transmitted
over very long distances.

A recent report from the American Solar Energy Society says that CSP plants in
the southwestern states of the USA "could provide nearly 7,000 Giga-Watts of
capacity, or about seven times the current total U.S. electric capacity."

In the "Trans-Mediterranean Interconnection for Concentrating Solar Power," a
report commissioned by the German government, it is estimated that CSP
electricity, imported from North Africa and the Middle East, could become one of
the cheapest sources of electricity in Europe, including the cost of
transmission.

Gerry Wolff

Coordinator of Trans-Mediterranean Renewable Energy Cooperation-UK

Menai Bridge, United Kingdom

USA needs to keep up

The public's acceptance of nuclear energy is not confined to the USA. Europe is
experiencing the same reality-driven changes. German Chancellor Angela Merkel
has been trying to retain nuclear power plants that are being phased out and
wants to construct more.

During a recent visit to Finland, a very environmentally conscious country, I
was amazed to see one of the world's largest nuclear plants on the island of
Olkiluoto.

England also is considering another wave of new nuclear power plants. About 31%
of Europe's power is generated by nuclear power plants.

Parts of the developing world, in particular the Pacific Rim countries, are
boldly constructing and planning a large numbers of plants.

The U.S. environmentalists lobbying against nuclear power need to accept this
technology as one of many alternatives to our future energy crisis.

The rest of the world has come to this conclusion, and we need to keep up.

Lorry Wagner

Solon, Ohio

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, The Decatur (Ala.) Daily file photo via AP
PHOTO, B/W, File photo by Paul Vathis, AP

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              108 of 268 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              March 5, 2007 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

How to change lightbulbs?;
Market forces, not mandates

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 575 words


In many housewares sections, they barely have a toehold: The odd-looking,
squiggly-shaped compact fluorescent light bulbs (CFLs) are vastly outnumbered by
boxes of familiar incandescent bulbs.

That's no surprise. CFLs can cost at least four or five times as much as
traditional bulbs. They contain trace amounts of mercury, which means they
should be recycled. And though manufacturers continue to improve them, they take
longer to reach full brightness and give off a harsher glow that takes some
getting used to.

But everything else about CFLs helps explain why they, or something like them,
are the wave of the future. They last about 10 times longer than traditional
bulbs and use only a quarter to a third as much electricity. Though they're
pricier upfront, they more than pay for themselves: A typical 100-watt CFL can
save about $60 compared with the 10 energy-hungry incandescent bulbs a consumer
would have to buy (and buy electricity for) over the CFL's roughly five-year
life.

Most important, the potential greenhouse-gas reductions are stunning: The U.S.
government estimates that if every American household replaced just one bulb
with a CFL, it would have an impact equal to taking a million cars off the road.

If the benefits are so great, why not ban incandescents and require CFLs? That,
too, could be a wave of the future.

Australia's right-leaning government has just announced that it will mandate a
phaseout of most incandescent bulbs over the next few years. Cuba's communist
government likes CFLs so much that it began sending youth brigades into Cuban
homes two years ago to swap them for people's incandescents.

In the USA, lawmakers in California, which has led the nation in promoting
energy efficiency and cutting greenhouse emissions, are considering the "How
Many Legislators Does it Take to Change a Light Bulb?" bill. It would ban most
incandescents by 2012.

Tempting as it is to jump on the ban-wagon, it seems heavy-handed and premature
to force consumers to buy CFLs. Just think back to the backlash to another
environmentally conscious mandate -- the one that all toilets made after Jan. 1,
1994, had to use 1.6 gallons or less per flush. Because the first generation of
low-flow toilets didn't work very well, the mandate inspired civil disobedience,
consumer wrath and a black market in older toilets.

A brighter idea on light bulbs is to capitalize on market forces, rising public
concern about global warming and the desire of major corporations to bolster
their "green" credentials. Wal-Mart, the world's largest retailer, is using its
enormous sales clout to persuade its millions of customers to buy CFLs, setting
a goal of selling 100 million by 2008. Websites have sprung up to proselytize
for the bulbs (www.18seconds.org took its name from the time it takes to change
a bulb). The public awareness campaign -- and sales -- are gaining momentum.

If the government does get involved, it would make more sense to set tougher
energy standards for bulbs generally and let manufacturers figure out how to
meet them, rather than specify particular technologies. General Electric, the
largest U.S. bulb maker, says it plans to unveil an incandescent bulb twice as
efficient as regular ones by 2010, and just as efficient as CFLs by 2012.

Cutting the nation's energy use and its greenhouse-gas emissions are vital
goals. But in the case of bulbs, it's better to persuade consumers to see the
light, rather than force them to.

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              110 of 268 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             April 30, 2007 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Immigration rallies likely smaller;
Activists expect new tactics, new climate to lower attendance

BYLINE: Martin Kasindorf

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 602 words


LOS ANGELES -- Marchers demanding a path to U.S. citizenship for as many as 12
million undocumented immigrants will take to the streets in many cities Tuesday,
but organizers say crowds will fall far short of last year's giant rallies on
May 1.

A year ago, police estimated that more than 1 million people rallied for rights
for illegal immigrants and against a short-lived proposal in Congress that would
have made illegal entry to the USA a felony.

Crowds were estimated at 400,000 in Los Angeles, 400,000 in Chicago, 30,000 in
Houston and 20,000 in New York City. In economic boycotts billed as "a day
without immigrants," hundreds of thousands of Hispanic workers and their
supporters didn't punch the clock. The ports of Los Angeles and Long Beach shut
down, and 72,000 students walked out of classes in Los Angeles.

In contrast, a march here Tuesday is likely to attract no more than "tens of
thousands," says Javier Rodriguez of the March 25 Coalition, a group named for a
rally of 500,000 here in 2006.

In Tucson, where 18,000 marched last year, 10,000 are expected to turn out, says
Frida Espinosa of the Tucson May 1 Coalition. There's comparatively little talk
of boycotts.

Event planners attribute part of the difference to nationally syndicated
Spanish-language radio disc jockeys. They whipped up crowds last year but have
shifted political tactics.

The popular Eduardo Sotelo, known as Piolin or "Tweetybird," is asking listeners
to write a million letters in support of immigration changes. He says he'll
deliver those letters to Congress. Renan Almendarez Coello, the DJ known as El
Cucuy ("the boogeyman"), says persuading legal residents to become citizens and
vote is more effective than marching.

"It was very nice to see everybody walking around and being supportive and not
making a big mess, but it is more important to register and vote," he says.

Demonstration organizers also attribute lowered expectations to fragmented
leadership, discouragement that Congress approved no immigration bill last year
and a more punitive climate.

"The situation has changed drastically for us," says Armando Navarro,
coordinator of the National Alliance for Human Rights. "Last year, there was a
sense of passion and determination, inspired by fear of criminalization and
rising expectations for legalization. The political climate is becoming more
restrictionist right now, and our capacity to respond is not there."

As cities such as Hazleton, Pa., pass laws cracking down on illegal immigrants,
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement stages raids on workplaces to detain
undocumented workers.

By displaying such toughness in protecting borders, President Bush could soften
opposition to the kind of immigration bill he wants: one that would combine
stepped-up law enforcement with a path to citizenship for illegal immigrants.

House Republicans blocked such a bill last year after the Senate passed it.
Democrats now control Congress and side with Bush on the issue, but Republican
votes are needed.

Immigrant rights groups are split over the latest proposal in Congress,
sponsored by Reps. Luis Gutierrez, D-Ill., and Jeff Flake, R-Ariz. The bill
would provide a way to earn citizenship that "could take up to 20 years," the
skeptical Navarro says.

Navarro says activists did little to keep immigrant communities mobilized after
last year's rallies and find it hard to "rekindle that spirit." Jorge-Mario
Cabrera, a spokesman for the Central American Resource Center here, cites one
reason it's so hard: "There is a real disappointment in the community that last
year we became so engaged, and nothing happened."

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, J. Emilio Flores, Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              113 of 268 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              July 16, 2007 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

McCain's latest political strategy: Survival;
Campaign crisis pushes senator to change course in presidential race

BYLINE: Susan Page

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 963 words


CLAREMONT, N.H. -- For Arizona Sen. John McCain, it's back to basics.

His presidential campaign nearly broke, stripped of staff and on a slide in
state and national polls, he pleaded his case and fielded questions for more
than an hour Saturday before about 100 New Hampshire residents gathered in the
second-floor meeting room at American Legion Post 29.

In place of the nationwide organizations and TV ads some of his top rivals air,
he'll rely on town hall meetings like the ones that propelled him to victory in
the New Hampshire primary in his first presidential bid in 2000.

Faye Bopp, 57, voted for him then but isn't sure about this time. "I really
respect him, but that doesn't mean I agree with him on everything," especially
the war in Iraq, she says as she waits for McCain to arrive. "I want to bring
our troops home."

McCain insists he is in the presidential race to stay -- only a "fatal disease"
could prompt him to withdraw, he says -- and his gallows humor remains intact.
As reporters crowd around him with questions about his campaign's financial woes
and the departure of top aides, he finally replies, "You mean, in the words of
Chairman Mao, it's always darkest before it's totally black?"

So what next?

McCain and members of his inner circle say he has a strategy that depends, at
the moment, on simply surviving for the next few months as the 2008 campaign
sorts out.

"The good news is it's a wide-open race," says Charlie Black, a veteran
Republican strategist and McCain adviser. No other top contender -- former New
York City mayor Rudy Giuliani, former Massachusetts governor Mitt Romney or
prospective candidate Fred Thompson, a former Tennessee senator -- has a
decisive claim to the Republican nomination yet.

Mark McKinnon, who was President Bush's media strategist and counsels McCain,
says a comeback campaign "reinforces what voters like about John McCain,"
including his refusal to quit a fight even when the odds are long.

McCain's plan:

*"Strip it to the chassis." Those are McKinnon's words, reflecting more
necessity than choice. Since campaign manager Terry Nelson and chief strategist
John Weaver left last week, other staffers have followed, and McCain is braced
for more resignations to be announced today.

A preliminary campaign budget drawn up in November and reported Saturday in The
Washington Post predicted that McCain, at the time seen as the front-runner,
would have raised $71 million by now and spent $26 million. Instead, $24 million
has been raised, and nearly all of it is gone. Second-quarter financial reports
were due at the Federal Election Commission by midnight Sunday.

McCain says he's considering whether to accept campaign matching funds -- and
with them federal restrictions on spending -- but he rules out borrowing from
his family's assets.

McCain will have a leaner staff and bare-bones operation. Though he had traveled
to some campaign events on chartered planes, he flew to New Hampshire on a
commercial flight and drove around the state in a rented SUV.

*Focus on three states. McCain says he'll narrow his focus to the three states
with the opening contests: Iowa, New Hampshire and South Carolina. The theory is
that momentum from an early win will sweep through later primaries.

He starts from behind. According to recent statewide polls aggregated by
political website RealClearPolitics, McCain runs third in New Hampshire, third
in South Carolina and fourth in Iowa -- a state whose contest he skipped in
2000. He has announced he won't compete in a straw poll in Iowa next month.

His prospects for a turnaround in Iowa are "mixed at best," says Steve Roberts,
a member of the Republican National Committee and former state GOP chairman. The
caucuses put a premium on an extensive grass-roots organization.

In South Carolina, where McCain lost the primary to George W. Bush in 2000, his
support of an immigration bill that would have provided a path to legal status
for illegal immigrants has cost him dearly, state Republican Chairman Katon
Dawson says. "No matter how much lipstick you put on that pig, you still aren't
going to want to kiss it," Dawson says.

*Change the conversation. McCain's support of staying the course in Iraq has
eroded his standing among independents, and his stance on immigration has done
the same among conservative Republicans. When he opened the town hall meeting in
Claremont, McCain detailed his views on other priorities -- addressing climate
change, curtailing government spending and helping displaced workers -- before
mentioning the war.

When a man in the audience asked about immigration, McCain said he had learned
"a bitter lesson," then corrected himself. "Not a bitter lesson; we learned a
lesson" during the immigration debate.

He said he was ready to take a piecemeal approach rather than seek comprehensive
legislation, first addressing border security and then, perhaps, trying to enact
a temporary worker program for agriculture.

Earlier, McCain told reporters that the immigration issue was no longer going to
be "on the front burner" since the overhaul bill he supported was defeated in
the Senate. He said the Iraq issue would change, too, for better or worse.

"We're either going to show some success, or we're going to be forced out;
everybody knows that," McCain said. "Conflicts, wars, are never static. They
move in one direction or another."

The same could be said of presidential campaigns.

Orson Swindle, a friend of McCain since they were cellmates as POWs during the
Vietnam War, says McCain is determined to persevere despite predictions of his
campaign's demise.

"He's had six or eight near-death experiences in life," Swindle says. In New
Hampshire for the weekend to offer support, he watched the town hall meeting
from the sidelines. "He's not going away."

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC,b/w,Alejandro Gonzalez,USA TODAY,Source:USA TODAY/Gallup Polls,
Margins of error: +/-5 percentage points(Line graph)
PHOTO, B/W, Jim Cole, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              117 of 268 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 4, 2007 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

UAW contracts' national impact;
Other industries could see changes in health care, wages

BYLINE: Sharon Silke Carty

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 974 words


DETROIT -- At the kickoff to the United Auto Workers negotiations with Detroit
automakers last summer, union President Ron Gettelfinger insisted the new
contracts would not stray radically from past versions.

But labor experts say the four-year contracts with General Motors, Ford Motor
and Chrysler are indeed transformational. And they could reverberate throughout
the manufacturing sector and even into the public sector as companies and
government bodies look for ways to alter their cost structures.

The UAW agreed to some radical changes, including taking control of retiree
health care and allowing  lower wages for new workers.

"What a huge sea change," says Sean McAlinden of the Center for Automotive
Research. "A lot of people, the rank and file, don't quite understand what was
just agreed to. It's not the picture people have had of Detroit."

On Monday, Ford and the UAW went through the final formalities, gathering at
Ford's headquarters  to sign the pact. Ford was the last automaker to sign a
deal with the UAW after negotiations that began in July and resulted in
short-lived strikes at GM and Chrysler.

The basic structure of the auto contracts is often copied by other groups in the
Midwest, including teachers, state workers, police and firefighters. Outside the
Midwest, other industries often mimic some auto contract provisions as well,
including the airline and steel industries.

"The UAW has blazed a lot of trails in the auto industry that have opened up in
many other industries," says Harley Shaiken, a professor of labor studies at the
University of California, Berkeley. "For example, in the early 1950s, paid
health care, pensions and job security were pioneered by the UAW."

Key provisions that other unions and companies may be eyeing:

*Retiree health care trusts. The UAW will become the steward of a $61.9 billion
trust set up to fund health care for 600,000 to 700,000 retired autoworkers and
their dependents. While some companies have tried passing health care costs off
to unions in the past, the UAW's trust will be the largest.

The Voluntary Employees' Beneficiary Association, or VEBA, lets automakers move
a huge liability off their books  and may be attractive to many older companies,
such as airlines, that have large numbers of retirees.  It could even spread to
government jobs, where large numbers of retired teachers and police officers
draw generous health care benefits.  "We will certainly see considerably more
pressure for VEBAs," Shaiken says.

The fund also will make the UAW a more powerful force in Washington, where the
union has been lobbying for nationalized health care for years. "This agreement
is going to help push health care reform in the country," says Jane Lauer
Barker, a labor attorney at Pitta & Dreier in New York. "The health care needs
of workers, including retirees, need to be dealt with in some desirable,
rational manner. I'm sure the UAW will be moving the country's political climate
behind universal health care."

*Two-tier wages. The UAW agreed to let automakers hire a new class of workers at
$14 to $16 an hour, depending on the kind of work. That's compared with
assembly-line workers, who make about $26 an hour.

Two-tier wage structures are controversial. Last summer, grocery workers in
Southern California reversed a two-tier wage structure that labor leaders said
was divisive and led to high turnover. A new pay scale lets workers climb the
wage ladder more slowly.

Companies that have enacted two levels of wages have found that "it creates
friction," Shaiken says. "Plus, companies have complained about not being able
to find the kind of worker they want at the new, low wages."

In the auto industry's case, many of the lower-waged jobs are ones that the
companies could have found either temporary workers to perform or could have
outsourced to suppliers.

*Product guarantees.  In agreeing to make big concessions, the union scored
product guarantees in many GM plants and forced Ford to keep open a couple  it
originally had planned to close.

The union essentially traded future wages for the promise that the automakers
won't take jobs out of the country. That could turn out to be a fundamental
change in the way unions and companies bargain, Shaiken and McAlinden say.

Still, many of those promises are based on current sales rates and production
projections that  could be too rosy. The automakers retained the right to alter
the agreements  if sales or market share fall below projections.

"Essentially at the end of the day, they didn't really promise anything," says
Kevin Tynan, an analyst at Argus Research. "More and more, they're feeling like
the union doesn't have the power to do anything about it anymore."

"The investment guarantees are not an iron-clad, locked-in guarantee, no matter
what," Shaiken says. "But what they do do is very significant. The concern is
companies selling cars but producing them in China or Mexico or someplace else.
The investment guarantees push future investment, if it takes place, into
unionized plants."

Experts not in agreement

Even the experts don't agree on whether the UAW is better or worse off with the
new contracts.

Some say that by helping preserve the companies its members work for, the union
has a better chance of preserving jobs. "The only real strength of the UAW is
sustainably profitable companies. Absent that, the UAW is toast," says David
Cole, chairman of the Center for Automotive Research.

But some of the concessions made, especially the two-tier wage system, may prove
to be a stumbling block for the union. By creating a new, lower-wage class of
workers, the union may now have a tougher time organizing more plants, says
Chris Kutalik, editor of Labor Notes newspaper. "Why would workers want to join
a union? Why deal with another body over you if it doesn't translate into a
union advantage?"

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Bill Pugliano, Getty Images
PHOTO, B/W, Carlos Osorio, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              136 of 268 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              July 9, 2007 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Around the world with Live Earth

BYLINE: Donna Freydkin, Elysa Gardner and Rachel Grumman

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 3D

LENGTH: 616 words


Report from New Jersey

The weather was sultry Saturday in New Jersey as musicians and more than 50,000
fans gathered for Live Earth at Giants Stadium. "But that's why we're here,"
noted Taking Back Sunday singer Adam Lazzara. The overall vibe was inclusive as
presenters and performers helped Al Gore spread his message about climate
change.

For USA TODAY, Donna Freydkin, Elysa Gardner and Rachel Grumman capture the
show's hotter and cooler moments.

The reunited Police highlighted the New Jersey Live Earth show. Roxanne was a
pure crowd-pleaser, as was another early classic, Can't Stand Losing You, which
Sting turned into an audience sing-along. The Police chief then invited "our
great friend John Mayer" to join the band for Message in a Bottle; Mayer joined
Andy Summers on guitar. Kanye West added to the stew, embellishing Sting's vocal
with a freewheeling rap. As Sting sang, "Sending out an SOS," West shouted, "We
can save the world!"

But wait, there was more -- sort of: "I'm going to introduce another bass
guitarist," Sting announced, "... Mr. Al Gore!" Gore didn't play, alas, but he
thanked the crowd and wished everyone goodnight.

Earlier, after a set that ended with I Need to Wake Up, her Oscar-winning song
from An Inconvenient Truth, Melissa Etheridge introduced "my hero and friend"
Gore. He thanked Etheridge for her "wake-up call" and read all seven points of
the Live Earth pledge to a cheering crowd. "Ladies and gentlemen, times like
these demand action," Gore said.

Roger Waters made a musical statement by opening his set with the Pink Floyd
fave Money, which features the line "Money, so they say/is the root of all evil
today."

Local boys Bon Jovi made good. Real good. The band that Gore said was the first
to sign on sang its hits to delirious fist-pumping fans; the place dissolved
into pandemonium as the band closed with Livin' on a Prayer.

In an unexpected patriotic tribute, Smashing Pumpkins leader Billy Corgan played
a guitar rendition of The Star-Spangled Banner.

Kanye West, backed by an all-female string orchestra in silver dresses, streamed
through hit after hit while the audience sang along and swayed with hands in the
air.

Shirtless with baggy jeans, Akon jumped into the crowd, unnerving security as he
was mobbed. Riding a fan's shoulders, he high-fived and shook hands.

Before going onstage, Alicia Keys told USA TODAY she had designed her set with
the issues driving Live Earth in mind. She picked For the Love of Money because
"for me, that's why we are where we are." She also selected two relevant
classics: Stevie Wonder's Living for the City and Marvin Gaye's Mercy, Mercy Me
(The Ecology). Gaye's song "is so accurate now," she said, shaking her head.
"How could that song still be so accurate 30 years later? That's sad, man."

KT Tunstall kicked off a frisky set with her breakthrough hit Black Horse and
the Cherry Tree. "Pull your phone charger out of the wall and ... eat more soil,
or something," she advised the crowd before wrapping up her set.

Some reporters tried to uncover contradictions between artists' espousal of the
cause and their actual energy consumption. Mayer had an amusing riposte to this
gambit. Asked what his eco-sin was, he responded, "I don't know ... but tell the
editors back at Glass Half Empty that I said hey."

Told that some of the fans were there more for the music than the message, he
said, "It's a very young movement. ... It's difficult to gauge the success of
awareness. You can't find out by 9 o'clock tonight how much awareness there is.
... But you hope that 2% of that message will make its way in."

It may have even sunk in at American Idol. Judge Randy Jackson said, "There
could be green in our future."

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Stan Honda, AFP/Getty Images
PHOTO, B/W, Stephen Hird, Reuters
PHOTO, B/W, Koichi Kamoshida, Getty Images

DOCUMENT-TYPE: MUSIC

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              138 of 268 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             August 27, 2007 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Efforts to save amphibian species to go global in 2008

BYLINE: Patrick O'Driscoll

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 465 words


Up to half of the world's 6,000 amphibian species are so threatened by disease,
pollution and climate change that the globe's zoos and aquariums plan this week
to declare 2008 "The Year of the Frog" to rally international support.

The effort casts light on the plight of frogs, toads, salamanders, newts and
worm-like caecilians, an amphibian order found mostly in the tropics.

"Between one-third and one-half of those 6,000 species will go extinct in the
wild in our lifetime," says Jeffrey Bonner, chairman of Amphibian Ark, a
U.S.-based effort to raise $50 million for the rescue of species from
extinction. "Each time you lose a species, it's like popping a rivet on an
airplane. Who cares? If you lose too many rivets, the wing falls off."

Amphibian Ark seeks to establish 500 rescue facilities, especially in Latin
America and Africa, where most of the threatened species live. Cooperating zoos,
many of them in the USA, would harbor them in their own facilities or new ones
from Ecuador to Tanzania.

Among the strategies is to convert commercial shipping containers into mobile,
"bio-secure" labs and habitats. Bonner says this "lifeboat approach" would
rescue amphibians until conditions in the wild improve or science solves the
mystery of a fungus called chytrid, which kills up to 80% of amphibians it
encounters within months.

The World Association of Zoos and Aquariums is quite likely to endorse the
project at its meeting this week in Budapest, Hungary.

And what would a worldwide effort to save amphibians be without its most famous
personality?

Three international conservation groups "are in conversation with Kermit the
Frog," says Bonner, president and CEO of the St. Louis Zoo. "We would hope to
see him in Times Square when the ball drops on New Year's to kick this thing
off."

Already on board: TV naturalist David Attenborough of Life on Earth and The
Living Planet fame. As 2008 is a leap year, the initiative also intends to mark
the calendar's extra day, Feb. 29, as "frog leap day" to further the campaign.

Bonner says 60% of America's 89 amphibian species are vulnerable or endangered.
The USA's federal list of threatened and endangered species includes 23 of them
-- six frogs, four toads and 12 salamanders. Among them is the Wyoming toad, the
only amphibian alive in the world that is classified extinct in the wild,
Amphibian Ark program officer Kevin Zippel says.

Extinction could eliminate potential keys to medical breakthroughs.

Scientists are studying four species that secrete a skin substance that
"completely inhibited the transmissions of AIDS -- they stopped AIDS cold,"
Bonner says. "We've yet to unlock those mysteries. But if we have no more frogs
to work with or lose the one species that holds the key, we will have lost
something of immeasurable value."

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Gerry Marantelli, Amphibian Ark
PHOTO, B/W, Dirk Petzold, Amphibian Ark

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              139 of 268 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            October 15, 2007 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Gore blazes eco-trail

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 422 words


It's a polite fiction that the Nobel prize committee has no political agenda; it
has used the peace prize more than once to convey disdain for the policies of
President Bush, and its message in giving this year's prize to Al Gore is clear:
The world takes this problem far more seriously than the USA does.

All the same, good for Gore. In a year when there has been much conflict but
little real peacemaking, giving the award to the former vice president and the
United Nations panel on climate change serves a useful purpose.

Global warming, now broadly accepted as a serious threat, could mean not just
hotter weather and bad news for beach houses, but mass migration and increasing
strife over vanishing resources. Gore has been a tireless and effective
proselytizer, alerting the world to the rising danger.

Personalities aside, the award is a timely reminder of all that might be done --
now -- to begin to address this problem.

*The Environmental Protection Agency has been dragging its feet since 2005 on a
request by California, now effectively joined by 14 other states, to enforce
tough new auto standards to cut greenhouse gas emissions. The Supreme Court
ruled this year that the EPA has the authority to try to control greenhouse
emissions; the agency should act.

*Congress could approve a cap-and-trade system for carbon emissions similar to
the one that worked well to limit the sulfur dioxide emissions that create acid
rain. The greenhouse gas problem is far more complex, but the model for
beginning to cut emissions is there.

*Most importantly, the president could embrace serious emissions limits in the
USA and the industrialized world. That would help raise pressure on China, India
and other countries where emissions are the real problem going forward. U.S.
inaction is a perfect excuse for those countries to stall as well.

Bush, who has fought real action throughout his presidency, argues legitimately
that a serious U.S. effort would burden the economy. It is also possible that
the warming trend is too strong to reverse. But similar arguments were made
against ultimately successful efforts 40 years ago to improve U.S. air and water
quality. The only guarantee is that without U.S. leadership, a bad outcome is
inevitable.

In any case, many initiatives that reduce greenhouse gases carry an enormous
potential side benefit: Reducing our use of oil would reduce our
self-destructive support for oil exporters such as Russia, Iran and Venezuela,
all threats to the USA. That, too, would serve the cause of peace.

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Reuters

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              140 of 268 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           November 1, 2007 Thursday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Eco-friendly homes are moving into mainstream

BYLINE: Charisse Jones

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 1099 words


Incentives, awareness among buyers and builders fueling the growth of
residential 'green' movement

T

he new houses that will line a rural tract in suburban New Jersey will have
walls insulated by blue jeans. In Dallas-Fort Worth, a starter home will come
equipped with a computer-controlled vent that pulls in fresh air.

The "green" movement that has spurred schools to discourage paper lunch bags and
motorists to trade in gas-guzzling sport-utility vehicles for hybrids is
creeping into the housing market as a growing number of builders construct
environmentally friendly homes and state and local governments offer incentives
to create such communities.

"You're beginning to see critical mass, beginning to see it not just be a
niche," says Calli Schmidt, director of environmental communications for the
National Association of Home Builders, a group of more than 800 state and local
home building organizations. "It's pretty much the future of building."

Growing awareness among builders and home buyers of environmentally friendly
building materials and methods -- plus government efforts to address climate
change -- are fueling the focus on eco-friendly single-family homes,
environmental advocates say.

"We're starting to see a greater focus on incentivizing green residential
building," says Jason Hartke of the U.S. Green Building Council, a collective
based in Washington, D.C. The council's guidelines for environmentally friendly
buildings are the industry standard. "When you think about the idea that 40% of
our carbon emissions in the U.S. comes from buildings, and about half of that is
residential, we've got to address all our building types."

The council's standards, known as Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design
(LEED), previously applied to commercial buildings. A rating system for homes
will be unveiled this month.

Currently, 500 builders participate in LEED for Homes' pilot phase and roughly
10,000 homes are being constructed to meet the organization's standards, says
Emily Mitchell, the program's assistant manager, "so we've seen exponential
growth in those program numbers over the last two years."

Local governments sign on

Some cities where green home building is taking hold:

*In Cincinnati, residents won't pay city property taxes for 15 years on homes
that are built or rehabilitated to LEED standards.

"We have been looking at all kinds of ways to encourage green design ... and
getting people to pay attention to conservation efforts. This is a really good
way to get people to incorporate some of these design standards as they're
building or remodeling dwellings," Mayor Mark Mallory says of the program, which
started last week.

*In Dallas-Fort Worth, McGuyer Homebuilders, which builds about 800
single-family homes a year in the area, now will build all new residences
according to criteria set by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and the
Dallas Home Builders Association.

Under its "ecosmart program," new homes, ranging from starter houses selling for
$120,000 to million-dollar residences, will include features such as denser
filters for air conditioning ducts and programmable thermostats to conserve
energy, McGuyer Division President Steven Hayes says.

*In Wood River, Ill., ground will be broken this week for a development that
will include roughly 150 single-family homes built to green guidelines set by
the National Association of Home Builders. Vegetation will be planted in the
community to help clean rainwater and slow its runoff, eliminating the need for
storm drains.

Matt Belcher, whose company is managing the Wood River development, built his
first community of green single-family homes this year in the St. Louis suburb
of Kirkwood. The community's houses were arranged so most windows faced south,
making the best use of solar heating and cooling.

"It just makes me a better builder," Belcher says of the environmentally
friendly practices his company is using.

*In Bernards Township, N.J., a dozen homes are being planned to blend into the
surrounding rural environment.

Paints and glues used in the homes won't have the usual smell because they won't
contain chemicals known as volatile organic compounds, says developer Anthony
Sblendorio, president of Back To Nature Ecological Design and Development.

The play area on the 89-acre site will use recycled tree logs and stumps instead
of the rubber found in jungle gyms. Recycled cotton -- mostly from blue jeans --
will be used for home insulation.

The development, whose home prices are expected to start at $3million, also will
have a wetlands area to treat storm water. "We're not just focusing on limiting
damage to the environment and building green homes," Sblendorio says. "How do we
design so there's increased soil health, increased biodiversity, increased
habitat?"

"The town is very receptive," town engineer Peter Messina says. "This township
is a suburban community that's clinging to its history of agriculture. ...
Almost every development is getting greener, but this is going above and beyond
what another subdivision would do."

Levittown, N.Y., renowned as the nation's first suburb, is launching an effort
this month that will offer discounts and low-cost financing to enable residents
to buy energy-efficient appliances for their homes. "Easy environmentalism is
what we call it," Nassau County Executive Tom Suozzi says.

Cost is an issue

Building green can be more expensive, some developers say. While home buyers may
recoup the extra cost through savings on energy and water bills, steeper price
tags for design or special appliances may put off some builders, Hayes says.

For a growing number of homeowners, however, green features are a necessity.
"That was absolutely important for my family and for having my kids grow up in a
healthy environment," says Maren Engelmohr, whose family moved in July into one
of the five homes that make up the Kirkwood development. Hundreds have visited
her home to see an example of a green residential structure, she says.

About 80 local green home building programs have been created  across the USA,
and organizations ranging from the EPA to the Green Building Council are
establishing ratings and guidelines for eco-friendly homes, making such
construction more accessible, Hayes says.

"People say they want to be green, but are you going to have a home built in a
side of a mountain with a sod roof?" Hayes says. "There had to be a compromise
somewhere between what's 'far out there green' and what we can get in the
marketplace (so) that people can have a home that's attractive but still
environmentally responsible."

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              144 of 268 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            February 9, 2007 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Time change could catch businesses snoozing;
Earlier daylight time has potential to fool software

BYLINE: Paul Davidson

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 490 words


It doesn't boast the doomsday drama of the Y2K computer bug, but a looming new
software snafu could become a nuisance for consumers and costly for some
businesses.

Call it Baby Y2K.

For the first time, daylight-saving time will kick off three weeks early this
year, on March 11, and end a week later, on Nov. 4. Congress approved the
changes as part of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 in a bid to conserve
electricity by extending daylight-saving time for a month. Seemed harmless.

But, if no steps are taken, the shift could throw off everything from
videocassette recorders and computers to surgery schedules and
multimillion-dollar stock trades.

"It's going to be a pain," says Gartner analyst Cameron Haight. "But it's
certainly not a Y2K-style event."

The Y2K, or Year 2000, bug put computers at risk of shutting down after Dec. 31,
1999, if they read 2000 as 1900. The earlier onset of daylight-saving time is
far less ominous. For consumers, any gadget with a clock that adjusts for
daylight time must be manually changed, including VCRs and climate-control
systems that scale back at night.

Other devices whose clocks are set by a network server, such as cable set-top
boxes and most cellphones, should be automatically modified by the service
provider.

Businesses could be hit harder. With no fixes, electronic calendars on
Microsoft's nearly ubiquitous Windows operating system will send notices an hour
late, resulting in missed meetings. For most businesses and consumers with the
latest version of Windows XP, an update to head off such slip-ups will
automatically take place Feb. 13. Other patches, such as to correct wrongly
entered meeting times, must be downloaded.

Businesses face other minefields. Stock trades set to occur at certain times
could happen late, costing millions. Buildings that unlock at 7 a.m. could stay
shuttered. Airline monitors could flash wrong departure times.

Most big companies have updated systems but many "haven't done enough," says
Andi Mann of Enterprise Management Associates. Some small businesses are
oblivious, says Jason Sharp of C/D/H consultants.

Discount broker Scottrade has made fixes "that will prevent any potential
problems," spokeswoman Kelly Doria says.

Bronson HealthCare Group  is working to ensure surgery schedules  are in sync.
Things should go smoothly, but some software vendors have yet to deliver
patches, so managers will double-check schedules the day before, says Mac
McClurkan, chief information officer.

"This is not Armageddon," he says.

---

Consumer tips

*VCRs made before August 2005 must be updated manually March 11 and again April
1, when VCRs are set to change to daylight-saving time. Similar adjustments will
be needed Oct. 28 and Nov. 4.

*Cable set-top boxes, cellphones: Most will be updated by service provider.

*Microsoft Windows: Windows XP Service Pack 2 gets automatic update. For other
fixes, go to www.microsoft.com/dst2007. Some old systems require manual updates.


LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              150 of 268 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             August 6, 2007 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Watch, listen & read

BYLINE: Jacqueline Blais

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 599 words


"What a great time to be alive, because this generation gets to completely
change this world."

--Paul Hawken, author and environmentalist

The 11th Hour

Opens Aug. 17 in New York and Los Angeles; expands Aug. 24; presented by Warner
Independent Pictures

*Star factor: Leonardo DiCaprio is the narrator and a producer of this eco
documentary. He worked with, among others, Leila Conners Petersen
(writer/director/producer) and her sister, Nadia Conners (writer/director).

*The pitch: We are easily at the tipping point -- the 11th hour -- where we'd
better learn to treat nature in a frugal, clean way, or else. A good chunk of
this documentary demonstrates how Earth cannot continue to support billions of
people by doing business in a wasteful way.  The film builds to a reprieve --
ideas and elegant solutions are offered.

*The cast: About 50 experts, including scientist Stephen Hawking, sustainable
designer William McDonough, 2004 Nobel Peace Prize winner Wangari Maathai.

It's Not Easy Being Green

Airs on Sundance on Tuesdays (Aug. 7, 14, 21, 28) at 9 p.m. ET

This BBC import continues the saga of the Strawbridges, a family of four who try
to set up a self-sustaining household in the English countryside in Cornwall;
30-minute episodes.

Libby, Montana

Airs on PBS' P.O.V., Aug. 28, 10 p.m. (check local listings). Drury Gunn Carr
and Doug Hawes-Davis, directors.

It tells the story of the contamination of Libby, Mont., location of what the
Environmental Protection Agency has called "the worst case of industrial
poisoning of a whole community in American history," according to the film.

The setting: Libby, Mont., in the Rocky Mountains.

The work: Since the 1920s, Libby workers mined an ore called "vermiculite," a
material often associated with asbestos. Its commercial product is Zonolite,
used mainly for insulation. (An estimated 35 million homes in the USA could
contain asbestos-tinged Zonolite, according to the film.) Vermiculate was so
common in Libby, even the ball field was lined with it. W.R. Grace bought the
factory in the 1960s and closed it in the early 1990s.

The deaths: "In May 2002, 218 crosses were displayed in memory of the known
Libby asbestos victims. More than 1,200 other Libby residents had been diagnosed
with lung abnormalities by July 2004." -- from the film.

The issue: "This poisoning continued for more than 30 years after W.R. Grace
knew of the dangers." -- from the film's press material.

Stay tuned: W.R. Grace and some executives face a criminal trial, which is
scheduled for September.

Reading for CEOs who'd like to catch up

*For deposed CEOs. Firing Back: How Great Leaders Rebound After Career Disasters
by Jeffrey Sonnenfeld, Andrew Ward (Harvard Business School Press, $29.95).
Interviews with CEOs drop-kicked by their boards, and analysis of unseen causes.

*For CEOs under attack. Damage Control: Why Everything You Know About Crisis
Management Is Wrong  by Eric Dezenhall and John Weber (Portfolio, $24.95). The
worst mistake for a company under attack  is giving in to its enemies.

*For CEOs attacked by Eliot Spitzer.  Spoiling for a Fight: The Rise of Eliot
Spitzer by Brooke Masters (Holt Paperbacks, $16). As the  attorney general of
New York, Spitzer made a name for himself fighting wrongdoing on Wall Street.
Last year, he was elected governor of New York with a mandate to change the
political climate in the state capital of Albany. But in recent weeks, it turns
out that members of his administration engaged in the behavior Spitzer vowed to
change. One was placed on leave, and Spitzer apologized to New Yorkers.

---

Contributing: Greg Farrell

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Color, Chuck Castleberry, Eleventeen Productions
PHOTO, Color, Eleventeen Productions
PHOTO, Color, Nick Smith, BBC
PHOTO, Color, Bloomberg News
PHOTO, Color

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              152 of 268 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          September 20, 2007 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Study: TV station ownership has impact on kid shows;
Owning multiple stations in one market examined

BYLINE: David Lieberman

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 440 words


NEW YORK -- Children lose when a company acquires multiple TV stations in their
town, according to a study out today from a group that wants to stop the Federal
Communications Commission from relaxing ownership rules.

Children Now is releasing "Big Media, Little Kids 2," which expands a 2003
study, to coincide with an FCC public hearing today in Chicago. The hearing is
part of the FCC's required quadrennial review of media ownership rules.

The FCC voted in 2003 to make it easier to own multiple TV stations in a market,
but a federal court ruled it had not adequately justified the change.

Children Now found the average time devoted to kids' shows fell 70%, to nearly
six hours a week, at stations in eight markets that became part of a "duopoly"
or "triopoly" (two or three with one owner) from 1998 to 2006.

By contrast, children's programming fell 41%, to about five hours a week, at
stations that remained separate.

"The duopoly stations are performing the worst in a climate where all broadcast
stations are reducing their children's programming," says University of Arizona
communications professor Dale Kunkel, who advised Children Now.

Many stations have cut back as children and advertisers turned to cable
networks, including Nickelodeon, the Disney Channel and Cartoon Network.

About 14% of homes, however, don't have cable or satellite TV, according to
Nielsen Media Research, and Kunkel says many are "poorer families, arguably the
ones that need children's educational programming most."

Broadcasters have argued they need ownership flexibility to handle competition
from cable and the Internet -- and the costs from the federally mandated switch
to digital broadcasting in 2009.

Change has "eroded television broadcasters' audience, reduced advertising
revenues, and is threatening the economic survival of some local stations," the
National Association of Broadcasters said in an FCC filing this year.

The trade group also said that "changes to the media ownership rules are
irrelevant" to the kids' programming debate. FCC rules for the 1990 Children's
Television Act require at least three hours a week of kids shows.

Children Now, though, says that broadcasters that won the right to own multiple
stations in cities promised to "enhance" public interest programming. The report
shows "that's not true," says Christy Glaubke, head of the group's media
monitoring program. "They cut at a far greater rate."

The study compared 506 children's shows in the first week of March in Atlanta,
Buffalo, Chicago, El Paso, Indianapolis, Nashville, Portland, Maine, and
Spokane, Wash., with 786 in those cities during the same week in 1998.

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              160 of 268 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            February 9, 2007 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Point taken: Jeep Compass is pretty swell;
It's worth getting past the poor first impression

BYLINE: James R. Healey

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 1751 words


You really want to dislike the Jeep Compass.

It's a car trying to be a Jeep. It's ugly, at least toward the rear. The
interior plastics have a Third World appearance, although they fit together
well.

It's built at a Dodge factory in Illinois, not the Ohio plant that is Jeep's
home. It has Chrysler Group's so-called World Engine under the hood, a
four-banger that's been anything but world class in previous test vehicles. And
if you need a final reason for anti-Compass prejudice, it's those awful
bobble-head TV commercials, the most grating pitch since Mazda hired a kid to
stage-whisper "zoom zoom."

Ah, but that's the thing with prejudice -- by definition, judgment in advance.
After some examination, it turns out Compass is swell. It's remarkably well
equipped for its price (high teens to mid-20s). The test vehicle was a $23,380
Limited with four-wheel drive and manual transmission. With the possible
exception of the optional automatic transmission, what it didn't have, you don't
need.

The leather seats were unusually comfortable, shaming the chairs in some
much-higher-price machines.

The manual gearbox shifted easily, and the clutch engaged smoothly.  It's not a
Miata-style snick-snick shifter, but neither is it the kind of balky, truckish
operation you get in some vehicles. It needs a sixth gear, though. It revs at a
fast 3,000 rpm at 70 mph, bad for fuel economy and peace and quiet.

The body leaned a fair amount in fast corners, but the tested Compass
surprisingly didn't feel tipsy. It was fun, not frustrating, in those
ever-tightening freeway off-ramp spirals. The suspension conquered much of the
body lean to get the Compass around bends smartly.

Brakes and steering felt about the way you'd want, responsive without being
touchy.

And the engine -- my, what have they done? It was a coarse and crude power plant
in a pre-production Dodge Caliber (Test Drive March 3, 2006). In the
regular-production Compass tester, it was the opposite. No shaking or vibrating.
No nasty noises, only a gruffness that grew assertive as more throttle was
applied.

Whatever was wrong with it before, no longer is.

Inside, the things you need to grab or see are about where you want them, but
they are housed in plastic that looks and feels uninviting. And the climate
control knobs had the precision and smoothness of a badly broken toy.

The sliding armrest between the front seats will be either just the right height
or a constant elbow whacker when you shift gears, depending on your build. And
it gets in the way of fastening the safety belts easily.

The back seats are uncommonly roomy for two people. Jeep claims an astonishing
39.4 inches of rear legroom. That's slightly more than in the second row of big
General Motors SUVs, such as Chevy Suburban.

People won't fit in the middle seating spot in the rear. The center hump is too
high, and the cup holders that stick off the back of the front console eliminate
what little foot room there would have been.

The shoulder portion of the lap-shoulder belt for that middle spot unhooks to
make it easier to fold the back seats flat for cargo. That's common. But when
unhooked, the shoulder portion stows easily and securely in a slot on the side
of the cargo area. That's uncommon, and welcome. It's easier than the ceiling
slots you get in other vehicles, which never seem to work right and leave slack
that rattles.

The Compass four-wheel-drive system normally is front-drive, but will start
shipping power to the rears even if the fronts aren't slipping, Jeep says.
Sensors mull such matters as how fast you're going and how sharply you're
turning and can express up to 60% of power to the rear wheels a moment before
they need it. Use the locking mode, and the spilt is 50/50 -- good for sand,
deep snow and the like. In any mode, it was excellent in the light snow and
heavy rain during the test.

As far as the styling, well,  the police report says:

The fellow doing time for the look of the Pontiac Aztek was paroled. A hard-core
recidivist, he fashioned an ugly stick and began whomping on the Compass. Alert
authorities wrestled him to the ground before he could get much beyond the front
and rear fenders, and the reverse-slant rear-most roof pillar. Unexplained is
what miscreant made the windshield pillars so wide that you can't see
pedestrians in the periphery. Use special care in busy parking lots and
intersections.

Why a car-style Jeep? To sell more Jeeps. The brand figures people are pining
for the Jeep name and look, but not the stiff ride and other rugged attributes.

That leaves a sour taste, though; a watering-down of what Jeep stands for. So
look at it this way instead: Compass is a marvelous, affordable package that's a
lot more fun to drive and has a lot more utility and room than you expect. And
it just happens to be a Jeep.

2007 Jeep Compass

*What is it? Small, four-door crossover SUV based on the Dodge Caliber hatchback
sedan. Available with front-wheel drive (FWD) or four-wheel-drive (4WD).
Manufactured at Belvidere, Ill.

*How soon? On sale since July.

*How much? Base model, called Sport, starts at $15,985 (including $560
destination charge) with FWD and manual transmission; $17,585 with 4WD. Limited
starts at $20,140 with FWD, $21,740 with 4WD.

*Who'll buy? Jeep says mostly women in their early 20s to early 40s, single or
recently married, who earn $60,000 a year, plus or minus, and consider
themselves independent, sophisticated and modern. Jeep says 50% are
college-educated.

*How many? As is becoming common, Jeep won't say.  It's the worst-selling Jeep
the past six months, on track to hit only about 45,000 a year.

*What's the drivetrain? 2.4-liter four-cylinder engine rated 172 horsepower at
6,000 rpm, 165 pounds-feet of torque at 4,400 rpm; five-speed manual
transmission. Continuously variable automatic transmission (CVT) is optional.
The optional four-wheel-drive system can send up to 60% of power to the rear
wheels and can be locked in a 50/50 split.

Optional in the base model with FWD only, for those who can't drive a manual but
crave good fuel economy numbers: 2-liter four-cylinder rated 158 hp at 6,400
rpm, 141 lbs.-ft. at 5,000 rpm, CVT.

*What's the safety hardware? Expected bags and belts, plus side-curtain bags,
stability and anti-rollover systems, anti-lock brakes.

*What's the rest? Standard features include AM/FM/CD stereo with auxiliary input
jack; power steering, brakes; tilt-adjustable steering column; rear wiper,
washer, defroster.

More notable are features that aren't standard. Unless you pay extra, you don't
get climate control; power windows, mirrors, locks; cruise control;
remote-control locks; floor mats. Jeep can change standard features any time.
Check www.Jeep.com.

*How big? Not very; think a half-size smaller than a Honda CR-V. Compass is
173.4 inches long, 69.3 inches wide, 65.2 inches tall on a 103.7-inch wheelbase.

Passenger space is listed as 101.3 cubic feet. Cargo space is listed as 22.7
cubic feet behind the back seat, 53.6 cubic feet when the back seat is folded
flat.

Weight is listed as 3,071 to 3,329 pounds, depending on model and equipment.

Rated to carry 925 pounds of people and cargo. Rated to tow as much as 2,000
pounds.

Turning circle diameter is listed as 35.6 feet curb-to-curb with 17-inch wheels,
tires; 37.2 feet with 18-inch wheels, tires.

*How thirsty? 2.4-liter engine with FWD is rated 26 mpg in town, 30 on the
highway with manual transmission, 24/27 with CVT automatic. 4WD is rated 25/29
with manual, 23/26 with CVT.

Optional 2-liter, FWD, CVT is rated 26/30.

The trip computer in 4WD, manual test vehicle showed 16.3 mpg in suburban
driving, which included significant amounts of cold-weather idling.

Tank is 13.5 gallons (4WD) or 13.6 gallons (FWD). Regular-grade (87-octane)
gasoline is recommended.

*Overall: Surprisingly delightful.

Toyota

Scion xD and xB. Scion's lineup is overhauled with replacements for the xA and
xB sedans that account for about half of the brand's sales.

Replacing the xA hatchback is the 2008 xD, built on the platform used for
Toyota's Yaris small car. It goes on sale late this summer.

To sate stimulation-craving young buyers, xD will come with a strong stereo and
the now-common jack for an MP3 music device. And it will have plugs on the
stereo for cables that can feed into additional amplifiers and other sound
system upgrades. An optional audio system will allow owners to download images
and brief video clips to play on the sound system's display panel.

For those interested in actually driving the car, xD will have a 1.8-liter
four-cylinder engine rated 128 horsepower. A premium array of standard features
is planned, including  side- and head-curtain air bags; power locks, mirrors,
windows; remote-control locks; and turn signal in the outside mirrors.

The xB, still boxy, is due late this spring. It is built atop a new platform and
comes with a more-powerful 2.4-liter, four-cylinder engine rated 158 hp.

Do-everything entertainment features similar to the xD's are included as is a
similar list of accessories.

Prices weren't disclosed. Current Scion sedans start at about $13,000.

Toyota Highlander. Toyota is enlarging its popular crossover SUV for 2008,
giving it a hefty jolt of additional power and coming up with a way to use two
captain's chairs in the second row but also provide three-across seating when
needed.

The '08 Highlander is due in showrooms in June. A gasoline-electric hybrid
version is planned two months later. Toyota says the hybrid would have had a
fuel-economy rating of 31 miles per gallon in town, 27 mpg on the highway under
current standards. Those numbers will drop some under the stricter government
standards that apply to 2008 models. Rating for the gasoline version wasn't
disclosed.

The new engine is Toyota's 3.5-liter V-6, rated 270 horsepower,  an increase of
55 hp over the 3.3-liter V-6 it replaces.

The hybrid will continue to use the 3.3-liter engine. Combined with power from
the electric motor, it will have the same 270-hp rating. The hybrid version will
have what Toyota calls EV-only mode, which runs on just the fully charged
battery up to 25 miles per hour for 3 to 5 miles.

Toyota says it has designed a second-row center seat that stows under the front
console. It can be pulled out for three-passenger seating in the second row or
tucked away to create two captain's chairs in the second row. The third row
seats two.

Prices weren't disclosed. The current Highlander runs from about $25,000 to
$40,000. The Highlander hybrid runs about $33,000 to $45,000.

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS, B/W, H. Darr Beiser, USA TODAY (3)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: TEST DRIVE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              168 of 268 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             April 23, 2007 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Globalization, inflation linked;
Dallas Fed chief: Seeing impact can help direct future action

BYLINE: Barbara Hagenbaugh

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 818 words


DALLAS -- A little more than a year after Richard Fisher took charge of the
Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas in 2005, he announced a radical change at the
regional central bank.

Fisher launched an ambitious effort to analyze the effects of globalization on
the U.S. economy and how the dramatic increase in trade of goods and services
should change the Fed's thinking about the economy and interest rate policy.

A year later, Fisher, a former U.S. trade official who was born to immigrant
parents and spent part of his youth in Mexico, says economists have barely begun
to gain an understanding of globalization's impact. One of the stumbling blocks
is that countries collect and disseminate data in very different ways.

It's a daunting task, but Fisher says gaining a better understanding of
globalization could help the Fed in one of its primary missions: tackling
inflation.

Globalization could be leading to lower inflation in the USA, and abroad, based
on stronger competition and access to pools of workers around the world.

On the current state of U.S. inflation, Fisher says although there have been
some positive signs recently, "we have a ways to go," arguing that if inflation
were to stay at current levels, he'd be "far from satisfied." That suggests that
while Fisher isn't eager to raise interest rates, he's unlikely to support an
interest rate cut anytime soon.

The Fed has kept interest rates unchanged for nearly a year.

USA TODAY's Barbara Hagenbaugh talked with Fisher on Thursday in his 14th-floor
office, which has a sweeping view of downtown Dallas.

Q: What would you hope to come out of the globalization project?

A: I would hope that the economics profession would begin thinking more
aggressively about this and what it means. ... I'm hopeful that we will make a
contribution to the Federal Reserve, and I would like that to be my legacy.

Q: Should globalization be factored into interest rate policy?

A: Absolutely. I factor it into the way I think. My job is to convince others to
factor it into the way they think. ... The U.S. is not an isolated economy.
We're not a closed world.

Q: How is the U.S. economy?

A: The economy has slowed down somewhat. There are many factors at play. One is
the downturn in the housing market. The other is high energy prices. And I also
think you reach a point in the business cycle where you almost have to regroup,
to catch your breath ... but I do expect us to continue to grow.

On the inflation side, I've been saying that I am hopeful that we will see the
numbers improve. ... I'd like some more verification. I'm not convinced yet,
although I'm hoping that I'll see verification soon that we've made enough
progress on inflation.

Q: Is the worst over for the housing market?

A:  I don't think the worst is over. ... Markets tend to overshoot. You can see
this huge buildup in inventory and high prices in certain markets. So there's a
correction, obviously, taking place. And the severity of that correction is what
needs to be monitored.

The real issue is, is the economy strong enough to withstand it? I'm working
under the assumption the economy is strong enough to withstand it. But it will
slow you down.

Q: What are the positives that are helping the economy weather the housing
downturn?

A: Americans will buy anything that looks good, feels good, smells good and
tastes good. We're great consumers. And consumption is over 70% of GDP.

Q: How do you answer to critics of globalization?

A: The only comfort you can provide is a realization that we've been doing this
repeatedly in this country for over 200 years. No one wants us to go back to
being a nation of farmers. Or a nation of people working in mass production
facilities or on assembly lines. There is a duty of the political class to
provide transition mechanisms. ... My heart goes out to those people. I know
what it's like to come home when the breadwinner has no bread. ... We replenish
ourselves repeatedly. That's the genius of capitalism, American-style
capitalism.

---

About Richard Fisher

*Born: March 18, 1949, in Los Angeles to a Norwegian mother and an Australian
father.

*Education: Degree in economics from Harvard; studied Latin American politics at
Oxford; received an MBA from Stanford.

*Career: President of the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas since April 4, 2005.
Was vice chairman of Kissinger McLarty Associates, a consulting firm headed by
former secretary of State Henry Kissinger. Was deputy U.S. trade representative,
overseeing the North American Free Trade Agreement and working on China's entry
into the World Trade Organization. Ran an investment management firm and hedge
fund in Dallas.

*Politics: Advised Ross Perot in '92 presidential race.  Ran for Senate as a
Democrat from Texas in '94, lost to Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison.

*Personal: Wife,  Nancy Collins Fisher; four children.

Hobbies: Runs, reads, collects first-edition books, likes Dairy Queen chocolate
dip cones.

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              189 of 268 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            October 12, 2007 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Colombia tackling tourism;
Buzz builds with increased safety, more cruise stops

BYLINE: Jayne Clark

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 9D

LENGTH: 586 words


CARTAGENA, Colombia -- In a country associated more with narcoterrorists than
sybaritic pleasures, leisure travel can be a tough sell.

But Colombia's climate is changing. Security experts no longer routinely warn
visitors that if they stray too far from major cities, they might as well
schedule their own kidnappings.

Foreign tourist visits are up from a half-million four years ago to 1.2million
now. Kidnappings have dropped by half. (Officials stress that tourists were
never a target.)

Many credit tough measures taken by President Alvaro Uribe since his election in
2002. The capital, Bogota, has shed its aura of danger.  New investment in
seaside Cartagena has rendered that city more free-wheeling and boisterous than
ever. On highways, rifle-toting soldiers man checkpoints, but they seem more
friendly than menacing, shaking hands and making small talk before looking in
the car trunk.

The U.S. State Department's warning against travel to Colombia, first issued in
1990, was updated in June, noting that although rural areas remain "extremely
dangerous," violence has decreased "markedly" in urban areas, including Bogota
and Cartagena.

Europeans, who generally are more impervious than Americans to such cautions,
never stopped traveling to the popular hot spot of Cartagena. But Americans
account for only 20% of foreign visitors to Colombia, and many of those are
visiting relatives.

That's changing with the return of major U.S. cruise lines.  During the 2006-07
season (September to May), there were  50 port calls at Cartegena, Santa Marta
and San Andres Island. This season, cruise lines will make 200 stops. Royal
Caribbean Cruise Lines, which returned to Cartagena in April after a five-year
hiatus, will make 43 calls in the next year among its three brands. Princess and
Holland America lines also are stopping.

Though cruise passengers aren't as desirable as more free-spending overnight
visitors, they can create positive word-of-mouth.

"They go back (home) and tell people, 'It's not what you thought,'" says
Colombia's vice minister for tourism, Oscar Rueda.

Royal Caribbean did "due diligence" before deciding to return. "The cruise lines
obviously are very cautious," says Maria Sastre, a vice president at Royal
Caribbean. "(Cartagena) is a wonderful, unspoiled destination that has
tremendous historical value. It offers the cruising passenger a completely new
and authentic experience."

Elsewhere in Colombia, other tourist venues are up and coming. Among them:

*Bogota will add 7,000 three- to five-star hotel rooms in the next three years.

*The country's first luxury eco-tourism development, in Tayrona National Park,
in a spectacular seaside setting with views of 19,000-foot Sierra Nevada peaks,
is drawing high-end tourists to a vast wilderness area near Santa Marta (four
hours north of Cartagena).

*"Coffee tourism" is flourishing in the coffee-growing region south of Bogota.

*The southernmost town of Leticia is becoming a popular jumping-off point for
trips into the Amazon Basin.

Obviously,  travelers shouldn't venture to some places -- the guerrilla-occupied
jungles of the south, for one. But, as Rueda notes, "there are places everywhere
(that) you shouldn't go."

Meanwhile, the country is attempting to rebrand itself with the slogan "Colombia
is Passion." The sentiment is aimed as much at its citizens as visitors, Rueda
says.

"For a long time, no one loved Colombia -- not even Colombians," he says. "Now,
Colombians are again proud to be Colombians."

---

E-mail jeclark@usatoday.com

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Jayne Clark, USA TODAY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              192 of 268 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            October 30, 2007 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Back on the ball;
Start of NBA's 62nd season finds Stern in best frame of mind after months of
scandal

BYLINE: Roscoe Nance

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 1611 words


NEW YORK -- David Stern, exuding the familiar bravado of his 24-year tenure as
commissioner, is downright giddy sitting in the NBA's Manhattan offices talking
about tonight's start of the 62nd season.

Gone is the emotionally drained person who nearly four months ago spoke without
his usual impenetrable aura ("I didn't look too good," he admits) in his first
public comments on the Tim Donaghy gambling scandal.

"I'm back," boasts Stern, 65. Just in time.

With the league reeling from a series of body shots, Stern says in a
wide-ranging interview with USA TODAY he is "having fun" despite the  Tim
Donaghy scandal, the New York Knicks losing an $11.6 million judgment in a
sexual-harassment lawsuit and the turmoil in the Pacific Northwest with the
possible relocation of the Seattle SuperSonics.

In typical fashion, Stern uses the league's marketing campaign for the 2007-08
season -- Where amazing happens -- to put his spin on the negative stories.

"Amazing," he says, "is where 81 points (by Kobe Bryant) happens, where Ben
Wallace's hair happens, where Yao Ming happens, where caring happens." He
pauses, then adds, "Where Donaghy happens, where clubbing happens, where
registered weapons happen. We invite our fans to mesh up whatever happens. It's
all there.

"With the playoffs and preseason, we have close to 1,500 episodes of the best
reality programming that plays around the world. That reality happens,
fortunately or unfortunately, on the court and off the court. It includes
everything.

"We are the absolute reflection of what's going on out there in the world,"
Stern says. "Anyone who doesn't think so doesn't know what's going on in the
world."

That's Stern at his best, a spin-meister supreme, marketing experts say.

"He really is a master at redirecting the focus," says Andy Appleby, CEO of
Rochester, Mich.-based firm General Sports and Entertainment. "There is so much
content that happens every single day of the season. It more than overshadows
the issues. What makes him so special is he's really hands on."

Stern had to be, with the issues and perceptions from critics he has confronted
from the start of his tenure. Thinking back,  Stern says, the NBA "was too
black. Too drugged. The players were paid too much money. The league was over
because Michael (Jordan) retired. The league was over because Larry (Bird) and
Magic (Johnson) were retiring.

"The league is never over."

Those within the league trust that is so and feel certain Stern will get his
latest message across, too.

"When I first broke in, a scandal like the referee problem could have bankrupted
the league,"  says Don Nelson, the Golden State Warriors coach and former NBA
player. "Right now we're so big and the commissioner has done such a wonderful
job, we can get through almost anything."

Stern says the games are a "tonic." He is banking on LeBron James, Dwyane Wade,
Carmelo Anthony, Chris Bosh and a wave of young stars to help shove the current
issues into the background the way Johnson, Bird and Jordan did more than two
decades ago.

"(Michael) Vick? Gone. (Barry) Bonds? Gone. Donaghy? Gone," Stern says. "The
Patriots are undefeated. The Red Sox (won) the World Series. Who's talking about
the issues? Who's talking about Vick or ... Bonds? They're focusing on the game.

"Maybe the issues never go away. They're always in the background. They're the
fabric. They're the texture, or the quilt, that is your sport. ... You educate
people, you tuck that in and you move on. It's always a part of you."

Nothing 'cordial to say' of ref

None of the issues Stern has faced was potentially more damaging than the
Donaghy scandal. The 13-year referee pleaded guilty to betting on NBA games,
some he officiated, and providing information so others could place bets.

"That cuts to the core of the credibility of the league," says Paul Swangard,
managing director of the Warsaw Sports Marketing Center at the University of
Oregon. "That has the risk of having a negative effect on the league's image."

Nothing has been more personally painful for Stern. If he looked as if someone
had kicked him in the gut when he first spoke publicly on it, he says it's
because "they did."

"Our core product is competition," Stern says. "And referees are there to make
sure there are no unfair advantages in that competition. The idea that one of
our referees was using the opportunity of his closeness to the game to give to
others, or so he could bet on games, is not what you aspire to."

Stern says he and Donaghy's former officiating colleagues have "a feeling of
betrayal."

"Our referees would themselves like to do something (to Donaghy) that's
illegal," Stern says.

Lamell McMorris, spokesman for the referees union, says, "There is extreme anger
and disappointment, but nothing that would lead to anything illegal. We're
moving forward."

Donaghy is set to be sentenced in January on felony counts of conspiracy to
engage in wire fraud and waging bets through interstate commerce.

Stern has not spoken to Donaghy. When asked what he would like to say to him,
Stern says he would like for the NBA lawyers to learn what Donaghy did and how
he did it.

But what would he say? Stern thinks hard before replying, "I have nothing
cordial to say."

Stern says the scandal has given the league an opportunity to take a fresh look
at the officiating system. Changes have been made and more are coming, even if
they are not apparent to fans.

Those changes will include posting the names of referees working games on a
particular night, eliminating a "secretive ... edge" for gamblers and responding
quicker to incorrect calls that were potentially game-changing to "humanize the
process," Stern says.

Knicks not in the clear

The NBA, under Stern's leadership, traditionally has gotten high marks for its
diversity. Yet the commissioner has been criticized for not punishing the
Knicks, owner James Dolan or coach Isiah Thomas after the organization was found
liable in the sexual-harassment suit brought by the club's former vice president
of marketing, Anucha Browne Sanders.

"It would be nice if the commissioner came out and said something and addressed
that situation," says TNT  analyst Reggie Miller, who played in the NBA for 18
seasons. "He could make a statement, be a calming influence on this."

Stern's failure to act is not in keeping with his reputation for  swiftly
handing out punishment to players and coaches.

"Should I bring the hammer before the appeal is decided and then give the hammer
back if it's reversed?" Stern says. "In most of the cases where I've acted, the
facts were undisputed. This one is a little trickier and is subject to appeal.
I'm not going to go rushing in just because it would be politically correct to
do so."

Does that mean hammer time could still be on the horizon? "I wouldn't term it
that way. I haven't made a final determination one way or the other. I consider
my options and powers wide open."

National Basketball Retired Players Association President Len Elmore  says he
understands why Stern has been slow to act. "The parties maintain they did
nothing wrong," says Elmore, a lawyer and TV basketball analyst whose last NBA
season was with the Knicks. "Until there is a final judgment, (a posting of) any
appeal, there is nothing he can do. ... It's not as cut and dry as (Dallas
owner) Mark Cuban criticizing officiating."

What is clear is Stern would have preferred a swifter end to the three-week
trial and doesn't  think there was a winner.

"It's fair to say ... it was imprudent for the case to go to a completed trial,"
he says. "I would have shared that with anyone who I spoke to prior to the trial
and its verdict. It doesn't matter who you believe, and by all accounts the
stories were sharply contrasting. It doesn't advance anyone's agenda. I don't
mean to sweep it under the rug. Litigated truth is not the highest form of
truth.

"I practiced law for a lot of years. I'd like to think one of the things I did
best was settle. You litigate to a point, then you go in a back room and you
settle because there is nothing to be gained by litigating it out."

Richard Lapchick, founder and director of the University of Central Florida's
Institute for Diversity and Ethics in Sport, says Stern has done a good job
setting the tone for diversity in the NBA. But Lapchick says ultimately clubs
are responsible for creating climates in which their employees are comfortable.

Lapchick says he conducted a diversity training session for league office
employees. Stern suggested all clubs undergo similar training.

"Some did. Some didn't," Lapchick says. "It's difficult for the league to get
involved in a team thing like that."

Seattle needs a miracle

Stern, however, has been involved in the SuperSonics' stalemate with the city of
Seattle  over building an arena for the club.

Sonics ownership is suing to get out of the lease at outdated KeyArena after
this season -- two years before it runs out -- so it can move the franchise,
possibly to Oklahoma City. The city is countersuing. Two fans also are suing the
Sonics.

"It's just part of a dynamic landscape," says Oklahoma City businessman Clay
Bennett, head of the Sonics ownership group. "This franchise could move to a
market where it could be an extraordinary success. It's part of doing business.
I'm more bullish than ever on this investment and the NBA."

Stern seems resigned that the Sonics, sooner or later, will leave Seattle. "We'd
love to keep the team there," he says. "But sometimes people talk themselves
into a position where, absent something just shy of a miracle, it ain't going to
happen. The  die is cast. Hopefully, saner heads will prevail.

"I just don't see it."

Contributing: Greg Boeck, Oscar Dixon

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Color, Todd Plitt, USA TODAY
PHOTO, B/W, Gregorio Borgia, AP
PHOTO, B/W, Haraz N. Ghanbari, AP

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COVER STORY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              197 of 268 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            January 26, 2007 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Lap of luxury;
Super hot spot Miami sizzles with new upscale resorts, restaurants

BYLINE: Kitty Bean Yancey USA TODAY

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 1501 words


MIAMI BEACH -- Nothing is too over the top here this season.

Bedrooms at slain designer Gianni Versace's opulent South Beach palazzo now can
be booked by anyone with the $1,000-plus it costs to spend the night there.

The new nightclub SET will have dancers swooshing up and down in glass elevators
designed like giant pneumatic tubes.

The just-opened Regent South Beach hotel offers two-level suites with rooftop
whirlpool tubs, $200 "car-turndown service" and an Argentine mermaid who swishes
in a glass-bottomed pool above the bar.

And beach butlers: There's a cadre on the white sands, from SoBe stretching
north to Fort Lauderdale. Usually young and buff, they're the sort who'd
probably peel a grape for you if you asked.

No doubt about it, in the everyone-wants-to-be-a-VIP era, this flashy playground
is getting even splashier.

As Miami prepares to host Super Bowl XLI next weekend, an infusion of high-end
hotels and spas, restaurants from big-name chefs and velvet-rope nightspots is
taking divine decadence to new heights.

From party-central South Beach, with its art deco hotels and clubs that pour
till 5 a.m., to new $600-a-night lodgings in once-tacky beach communities to the
north, the Miami area is morphing into a world-class luxury hot spot. "More and
more is coming in, and year after year it's getting better," says Suzy Buckley,
lifestyle editor for Ocean Drive magazine, which chronicles the places and
famous faces of South Beach.

In the first week of 2007, Miami area hotel rates were up 12.6% over the same
time last year, says Alinio Azevedo, a lodging analyst for Ernst & Young. Miami
is outperforming most of the USA on rate increases, he says. "The influx of
top-drawer properties has helped." (Average daily rate in December: $145.50 for
Miami, $193 for Miami Beach and Bal Harbour, he says.)

South Beach is famed for noisy hotels with small rooms, where style trumps
substance. That started to change in the past few years after luxe chains such
as Ritz-Carlton moved in. In 2005, The Setai, a super-elegant Asian-themed
resort, raised the bar on rooms and rates (Setai rooms start at $950 in the
winter season).

Those for whom money is no object can stay at the most famous address in South
Beach -- 1116 Ocean Drive, where Versace was fatally shot by Andrew Cunanan in
1997. Strolling past tourists who still come to gawk and being buzzed through
its gates makes an anybody feel like somebody. Suites start at $1,200. And for
$4,000, you can sleep in the designer's bedroom (refurnished but still
containing the sky-blue ceiling painted with fluffy clouds). Formerly open only
to members, Casa Casuarina now accepts outsiders, too.

Farther north on Ocean Drive, the newly built Regent South Beach opened in
December. Unlike SoBe hotels in historic art deco buildings whose configurations
must be respected, each of the 80 suites (averaging 480 square feet and renting
for $550 and up) has a balcony and large bathroom.

The Regent gives royal treatment that some might say qualifies as wretched
excess: Guests in the 27 penthouse-level suites are issued a cellphone with four
buttons that call their butler, concierge, valet parking and the hotel general
manager. Perfect for making dinner reservations while strolling the beach.

And that $200 car turndown? It includes a wash, wax and detailing. Miami Beach
has a car culture, Regent South Beach general manager Helena Blat says. "If you
have a $250,000 car, you have no problem paying $200 for a wash."

Regent sales and marketing manager Frank Fuentes adds: "These are people that
throw hundred-dollar bills around like they were tens."

That's true of growing numbers of South Florida visitors. A half-hour drive
north on Collins Avenue -- past the sites of future hotels including a W, a
southern branch of New York's Gansevoort and the first Canyon Ranch Living hotel
and condo spa community -- patrons happily splash out $295 (plus tip) for the
signature two-hour customized spa treatment at the new Acqualina, A Rosewood
Resort.

It might start with an Asian foot bath followed by therapist-prescribed
treatments done in a private spa suite with shower. Options include a reviving
salt scrub, a Balinese-style massage with hot stones and a scalp massage with
warm oil.

You can get a plain-vanilla rub, but two-hour treatments are advised at
Acqualina, where rates start at $695. "You can do very little in an hour," spa
director Vivianne Garcia-Tunon says. "Here a therapist can diagnose what you
need."

The Mediterranean-style Acqualina's location "is a challenge," says general
manager Florent Gateau, a Frenchman in a perfectly tailored dark suit. But
there's "a tranquility you don't find in South Beach. If you look for relaxation
in South Beach, good luck."

Good luck indeed.

With club-lined streets and balmy nighttime temperatures encouraging a parade of
exposed flesh, SoBe is the ultimate people-watching scene. Limos and more
Hummers than you'll ever see in one place roll by, blaring hip-hop or salsa.
Seniors with walkers mingle with trash-rummaging homeless and strutting models
in skin-baring garb. Music blares in hotel lobbies, restaurants and nightspots,
spilling onto the sidewalk.

Blink and the club of the moment isn't, replaced by something new. This season,
spurred by the big-bucks partying that accompanies the Super Bowl, new
nightspots will open next week.

Pre-rehab, Lindsay Lohan rang in the new year at Mansion, a cavernous club in a
former theater. Other magnets for visiting stars include Mokai (Lohan, Queen
Latifah and Lance Armstrong) and Snatch (Tom Cruise and Katie Holmes).

SET, due Feb. 2, is designed like a glam '40s Hollywood home stage set. Cameo
and Vice, a two-level club, is opening Super Bowl weekend with fanfare -- Prince
is due to play that Friday night at Cameo.

Whatever the upscale club, the game is the same. The action won't heat up till
midnight. Try to get on "the list" and be prepared to shell out hundreds for
"bottle service" (a fifth of booze and mixers). That is, if you make it past the
front door.

Hardy Hill, a 36-year-old Ray Liotta look-alike in a black velour jacket and
jeans who does VIP "guest retention" for The Opium Group (its clubs include
Mansion and SET), explains "door policy."

Whether you get past the rope depends on "what kind of vibe you're going to
contribute to the party," he says. It helps if you look "fun, hip, stylish."

Quieter quaffing goes on in the softly lit, gold-curtained bar of the new David
Bouley Evolution restaurant in the Ritz-Carlton, South Beach. Here, a "bar chef"
concocts drinks as complex as gourmet dishes with ingredients such as
elderflower and lemongrass.

Evolution, featuring the creations of star New York chef Bouley, is attracting a
formal-dining crowd that doesn't blink at $300-for-two tabs.

It's part of an expanding menu of high-end dining that could turn the tables on
the area's rep for uneven food and service. "Miami's had a problem with
consistency in restaurants," Buckley says. "Every time you go to one, you never
know what you're going to get."

Table 8, the East Coast sister of an L.A. celeb favorite, stars rising chef
Govind Armstrong's cuisine, including a memorable but pricey ($22) raw bluefin
tuna appetizer with hearts of palm marinated in sea water nesting on a bed of
mashed avocado. If you wear dark clothes, waiters ceremoniously proffer black
napkins to avoid unsightly lint from the white ones.

Thoughtful touch -- but a steady diet of fabulousness can bring on luxury
heartburn.

In that case, do what celebs seeking local flavor (including Cameron Diaz and
Justin Timberlake before their split) have done. Go south on Collins Avenue and
take a seat at the unassuming Cuban restaurant Puerto Sagua. Within 10 minutes,
a platter of roast chicken, black beans and rice, and fried plantains -- $7.25
-- arrives.

That's less time than it takes to attract a server's attention at many a trendy
South Beach cafe.

If you go...

Where to stay: Expect to pay more than $500 a night in the winter high season at
new Miami-area luxury lodgings such as Acqualina, A Rosewood Resort
(888-767-3966, acqualinaresort .com); the just-renovated Fairmont Turnberry Isle
Resort & Club (800-257-7544, www.fairmont.com/turnberryisle); and Regent South
Beach (800-545-4000; regenthotels.com). Gianni Versace's Casa Casuarina (from
$1,200 in winter; 305-672-6604 or casacasuarina.com), a private club and
10-suite boutique hotel.

Where to eat: Entrees are in the $30-$40 range at new, buzzed-about restaurants
such as Table 8 South Beach in the Regent; David Bouley Evolution in the
Ritz-Carlton, South Beach; Karu&Y in downtown Miami; Il Mulino New York in the
Acqualina resort in Sunny Isles Beach.

Where to party: Snatch, Suite and Mokai are getting buzz at the moment in South
Beach. Look for SET, Cameo and Vice to launch there in time for Super Bowl
revelry. Sophisticates enjoy the art-adorned Social Miami at SoBe's Sagamore
hotel.

Information: The Greater Miami Convention & Visitors Bureau, 800-933-8448,
miamiandbeaches.com.

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, Color, Adrienne Lewis (MAP)
PHOTOs, Color, Michael A. Schwarz, USA TODAY (2)
PHOTO, B/W, Michael A. Schwarz, USA TODAY

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COVER STORY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              202 of 268 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              May 29, 2007 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Want more?

BYLINE: Whitney Matheson

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 3D

LENGTH: 274 words


Movies

*Star Wars fans can make their own video mashups at StarWars.com in honor of the
blockbuster's 30th anniversary.

*A viral website for The Dark Knight has surfaced with a hidden message about
the next Batman film. Go to IBelieveInHarveyDentToo.com and highlight the entire
page (it will look as if you've landed on an obsolete site) to see "See you in
December" typed between The Joker's "Ha ha ha's." Could this be when a trailer
will arrive?

*The exclusive trailer for Transformers is at
movies.yahoo.com/feature/transformers.html. The film arrives in theaters July 4.

*The trailer for Michael Moore's Sicko has premiered at
movies.aol.com/movie/sicko/26778/trailer. The documentary examines the U.S.
health care industry and is in theaters June 29.

TV

*Saturday Night Live's Fred Armisen has started a blog at blog.nbc.com/fred. He
plans to write during the summer hiatus.

Music

*Ever want to start a band? Plug in a fake name and info at
bumbershoot.org/band-bio-generator.htm, and you'll get a history of your
fictional band.

*TV on the Radio, The Raveonettes, The Good, The Bad and The Queen and other
acts appear on a new album that's free at AdultSwim.com. Head to
adultswim.com/williams/music/warmandscratchy to get Warm & Scratchy.

*The Hood Internet specializes in unique mashups, from Lil Wayne and Modest
Mouse to R. Kelly and Broken Social Scene. Browse the offerings at
thehoodinternet.com.

Miscellany

*Former Arrested Development star Michael Cera has launched an online comedy,
Clark and Michael, at ClarkandMichael.com.

*Want a famous voice on your GPS navigation system? Go to Navtones.com to hear
Mr. T and others offer directions.

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              205 of 268 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              July 16, 2007 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Ivanovic's career served by Series;
Montreal title last year was platform for strong showings in 2007

BYLINE: Douglas Robson

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 8C

LENGTH: 1149 words


To trace Ana Ivanovic's meteoric rise in women's tennis, Montreal is as good a
place to start as any. That was where, last August, the Serbian teen slugged her
way to her first big title, beating former No. 1 Martina Hingis 6-2, 6-3 in the
final.

"I can say that was one of the breakthroughs I had," says Ivanovic, whose win in
Canada catapulted her to the US Open Series title and marked another milestone
in her budding career.

"Winning the US Open Series was also something special for me," Ivanovic says in
her trademark rapid-fire English. "When you look at the people who won Montreal
or the US Open Series, it was big names. It was pretty amazing that I was one of
them."

This time around it wouldn't look so amazing.

In just six weeks, Ivanovic transformed herself into a serious Grand Slam
tournament contender with big showings in the French Open and Wimbledon.

In Paris, the 19-year-old beat top-five players Svetlana Kuznetsova and Maria
Sharapova before freezing up in the final against Justine Henin, who won her
fourth title at Roland Garros. At Wimbledon she reached the last four, losing to
eventual champion Venus Williams, who assessed her opponent as someone with "a
lot of talent, a lot of power, a lot of potential."

The results on clay and grass have forced Ivanovic, now at a career high No. 5,
to throw out the idea that cement is her best surface.

"I always used to say I like hardcourts the most," she says, "but now I can say
I like them all."

If Montreal represented one breakthrough, Ivanovic's meeting with 36-year-old
Swiss entrepreneur Dan Holzmann in 2002 was another.

Like fellow top-five Serbians Jelena Jankovic and Novak Djokovic, Ivanovic and
her family endured the hardships of living through the 1999 NATO bombings,
six-hour bus rides to the nearest airport and a virtually non-existent tennis
infrastructure at home.

Indoor tennis in their war-torn homeland meant practicing in an Olympic-sized
swimming pool that had been drained of water, laid with carpet and converted
into two courts.

"It was impossible to play crosscourt because it was this far from the wall,"
Ivanovic said last month while gesturing with two fingers close together. "So we
had to keep playing down the lines."

Holzmann, co-owner of a successful vitamin company, had heard about Ivanovic
from his tennis instructor, a man of Serbian descent. Soon after, 14-year-old
Ivanovic and her parents flew to meet Holzmann in Basel, Switzerland. Intrigued
and aware that Ivanovic's sponsor was facing bankruptcy, he agreed to provide an
interest-free loan for coaching, travel and equipment that eventually reached
$500,000.

"I asked Ana what she wanted from life," Holzmann says of the day they met. "She
looked me in the eye and replied, 'I want to be No. 1 in the world.' I was
smitten at that moment. I took a quick decision that I would help her with
financial assistance."

It turned out to be one of his best investments. Ivanovic, who has earned more
than $2.5 million in prize money, paid back the loan within two years of turning
pro, and Holzmann is now her full-time business manager.

"He always believed in me, and that's been very important because coming from
Serbia it was very hard," Ivanovic says.

Fanfare has come quickly for the likable Serbians, whose charm and stellar play
have been the talk of the pro tour this season. After Roland Garros, where
Ivanovic, Jankovic and Djokovic reached the semifinals, they received a hero's
welcome in Belgrade. From a balcony outside the parliament buildings, 15,000
boisterous fans cheered.

"Everything has happened too fast; it's still hard to absorb everything,"
Ivanovic says.

Despite the crush of attention at home and increasingly abroad, Ivanovic has
handled the scrutiny with aplomb and graciousness while keeping her feet firmly
on the ground. The truth is, she's not just a player with pinup qualities (her
personal website got more hits last month than that of global icon Sharapova).
She's genuinely nice.

Put on the spot about her good looks by tabloid reporters in London, Ivanovic
politely replied she was flattered. Her peers seem to like her. For this
interview, she thanked a reporter for his time -- twice.

"Ana has never involved herself in petty jealousies, never moaned that her
poster somewhere was smaller than someone else's," Holzmann says.

However, Ivanovic's sweet nature has invariably drawn questions about her killer
instinct. That line of thinking was amplified by her performance at Roland
Garros and Wimbledon.

In the two biggest matches of her life, the 6-1 Serb with the killer forehand
played tentatively and scared, managing a total of nine games in the two
lopsided losses.

"I have to learn how to deal with it better," says Ivanovic, who lost 6-2, 6-4
to Williams at Wimbledon.

Holzmann, for one, isn't concerned.

"When on the court, she does have a killer instinct," he says. "But I do believe
that you can be No. 1 and still be nice."

Ivanovic says she is looking forward to defending her US Open Series crown, but
her trimmed-down schedule will make that more challenging. With so many matches
the last few weeks, she plans to enter two events before the Open, in San Diego
and Toronto (the men and women alternate between Montreal and Toronto each
year), down from three last year.

"I feel I need some time off," she says. "By the time you get to the U.S. Open,
you get a little bit tired and exhausted."

Ivanovic also hopes to improve on last year's performance in New York, where,
between shopping runs to Fifth Avenue and SoHo, she lost to eight-time Grand
Slam champion Serena Williams in the third round.

"I am really excited to go back this year and try to go even further," Ivanovic
says.

:

The Ivanovic file

Age: 19

Height, weight: 6-1, 160 pounds

Birthplace: Belgrade, Serbia

Residence: Basel, Switzerland

WTA Tour ranking: 5

2007 record: 36-12 (160-54 career)

2007 titles: 1, Berlin Open (3 career titles)

Season highlights: Besides her title, Ivanovic has made a big impact in the last
two Grand Slam events, reaching the French Open final (lost to Justine Henin)
and the Wimbledon semifinals (lost to eventual champion Venus Williams). ...
She's at a career-high No. 5 in the Sony Ericsson WTA Tour rankings. ... Won the
women's side of the US Open Series in 2006.

Personal: Began playing tennis at 5 after watching on TV. She practiced as a
youth during winters in Serbia in a swimming pool. "It was very expensive to
keep it warm during the winter, and there was not many people using it. So they
emptied the swimming pool and they put carpet inside and they placed two tennis
courts, and that's where I grew up practicing." ... Speaks Serbian and English.
... Has an official website, anaivanovic.com. ... Enjoys TV shows 24 and Lost.

Glamour girl? "I don't see myself that way. People know me for how I play
tennis. Once you're on the court, it doesn't matter the way you look. It doesn't
help you win points."

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO,color,Joe Klamar,AFP/Getty Images
PHOTO, B/W, David Vincent, AP
PHOTO,b/w,Michel Spingler,AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              211 of 268 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 4, 2007 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Our gold-star world;
The education elite have redefined what it means to be 'educated.' If a child is
ignorant of facts, dates and figures, no problem. The emphasis now is on
self-esteem and 'just being you.' That's much easier than learning.

BYLINE: Jonah Goldberg

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 951 words


While parents and politicians have been pounding the table demanding greater
academic performance in the "Three R's," social scientists, psychologists and
education bureaucrats have slowly, but ingeniously reframed the battle onto more
favorable turf. Rather than compete head-to-head in a battle we cannot win,
these dedicated teachers and administrators have elevated the importance of the
one area where no country can compete with us: Self-esteem.

Nearly 25 years ago, the Reagan administration released "A Nation At Risk," a
scathing indictment of the educational system, proclaiming, "If an unfriendly
power had attempted to impose on America the mediocre educational performance
that exists today, we might well have viewed it as an act of war."

A quarter century after we declared war on mediocrity, some say it is time to
face a painful truth: Mediocrity won.  Now it's time to cut our losses and admit
that this battle is lost.

'Just by being you'

It's easy to see why defeatism and depression reign supreme. Every day the
headlines announce how far behind we've fallen. Preschoolers in South Korea can
recite the square root of pi to the 300th place. Chinese kids know the periodic
tables even before the umbilical cord is cut.  A half-naked Sri Lankan child
just built the first fully functioning perpetual motion machine. The fact that
his school has no electricity, desks, or even a roof drives home that
infrastructure investments aren't the answer. Even if we repaired every leaky
schoolhouse roof in the country -- the central plank in the Democrats' education
program -- it's doubtful our first-graders would be able to discuss quantum
physics  the way Japanese tykes can.

But why be pessimistic when we can just pretend that America's can-do spirit
will overcome all?

This was the brilliant insight of America's educational industrial complex,
which has worked tirelessly to make our kids think the most of themselves
regardless of their accomplishments.

The unsung hero of this story is Fred Rogers of Mr. Rogers' Neighborhood. Few of
us realized that the saccharine sage of preschool TV, who died in 2003, was
preparing American youth for the rough-and-tumble world of global competition.
Beneath that soft red sweater beat the heart of a warrior.

"You've made this day a special day," he said at the end of every show. "Just
by being you. You are the only person like you in this whole world. And people
can like you just because you're you."

I remember during my own childhood how Saturday morning cartoons were punctuated
with public service announcements informing me that "the most important person
in the whole wide world is you." Looking at me today, who can deny the basic
truth of these ads?

More broadly, America's educational elite has built on this down payment of
unqualified self-regard by redefining what it means to be educated. Rather than
be educated about meaningless stuff -- dates, names, facts, figures and other
trivia -- these selfless patriots have committed to drilling it into kids that
no matter how "stupid" or "ignorant" they are on paper, in the real world they
are brilliant and wonderful.

The payoff is all around us.

A study earlier this year titled "Egos Inflating Over Time," led by Jean Twenge
of San Diego State University, found that -- you guessed it (Good for you!) --
egos are inflating over time. They concluded that America's youth are the most
self-absorbed since we began testing.

Confirmation of Twenge's findings abound. CBS' 60 Minutes profiled the so-called
Generation Y, which is so fond of itself that employers cannot keep up. These
new employees demand to be told how wonderful they are. They want to hear that
nobody has ever photocopied better. They want a gold star for getting coffee.
This demonstrates that our new educational regimen is showing real-world
results. Teach a kid that merely having a pulse is a major accomplishment, and
he'll carry that lesson for the rest of his life. Teach him how to do
trigonometry, and he'll forget it before his Xbox even warms up.

Sadly, despite this success, there has been a backlash. College professors
resent having to teach students who want an A for showing up. They applaud
foreign-born students who react to low grades by trying harder. We know where
that leads.

A recent op-ed in The Wall Street Journal decries the campaign to get rid of
"thought competition." This isn't, as I had imagined, where kids spend math
class daydreaming they are, say, Klingons endlessly challenging each other to
fights to the death. Rather, it is where students compete to see who is best at
math or writing.

Avoid 'vulnerable positions'

We must resist such backsliding. As one administrator said in the piece, "We
don't want kids to compete individually, put themselves in vulnerable positions
as individuals." Exactly so. Promoting academic competition only misleads our
students into thinking that hard work and dedication pay off.

Only by pressing our advantages can we remain No. 1. "Objective" criteria used
by our competitors are self-evidently illegitimate because they make our kids
feel bad.

We need to make each and every child such a bundle of unalloyed self-regard that
together they become black holes of self-esteem, the centers not only of their
own worlds but of the entire universe, from which no self-criticism can escape.

If we are going to leave no children behind, we must abandon the idea that being
smart and accomplished makes  you special. For only by getting rid of the idea
that some people are special can you teach children that everyone is.

---

Jonah Goldberg is editor at large of National Review Online. He is a syndicated
columnist and a member of USA TODAY's board of contributors.

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Web Bryant, USA TODAY (ILLUSTRATION)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              216 of 268 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            January 12, 2007 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Toyota gets new Tundra just right;
Automaker figures out U.S. pickup market

BYLINE: James R. Healey

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 1472 words


521 BBQ & GRILL, INDIAN LAND, S.C.  -- Lunch stop here proved two important
things. It is possible to get good barbecue at a building that's not condemned,
and Toyota's remake of its Tundra full-size pickup is a perfect fit in the
pickup landscape dominated by Detroit models.

The locals in the parking lot barely looked up as the new, big Tundra pulled in.
Sitting inside the restaurant and glancing out the window, it was difficult to
pick out the Tundra's rump from among the other pickups.

Normally, such lack of distinction would be anathema. But this time it could be
right. Having failed, more or less, to understand the American pickup ethic in
two previous tries, the Japanese auto giant has gone all-out this time.

It is pushing the 2007 Tundra as a true truck first, a Toyota just incidentally.
And, boy, is that a change for a company that's awfully stuck on itself.

Truck-selling being a numbers game, Toyota beefed up the  truck so it needn't
feel shy around its peers. All models, properly equipped, will tow more than
10,000 pounds -- as good as, in some cases better than, other full-size
standard-duty trucks.

Carrying capacity is a beefy 2,060 pounds. Unfortunately, that's the regular-cab
model that most people won't buy. The big-selling crew- and extended-cab models
carry 1,465 to 1,755 pounds. Respectable, but several hundred pounds less than
you'd get in similar General Motors trucks (Test Drive, Jan. 5).

The optional 5.7-liter V-8 is rated 381 horsepower, 401 pounds-feet of torque,
more than any other gasoline engine in a standard-duty pickup. The result is the
robust and easygoing power you expect from a mighty-engine pickup. As a bonus,
the 5.7 has shockingly sudden and satisfying acceleration, provoking lots of
horseplay during the test drives. That's a dimension of fun you don't get from
the Detroit rivals.

Pinnacle of the new size-matters approach is the Tundra CrewMax. It has
praise-worthy rear legroom and rear-seat versatility, exactly what you want if
you're buying a crew-cab truck. To beat CrewMax's room, you have to look to the
Dodge Ram Mega Cab. But the big Dodge gets its big cab simply by being long: 19
inches longer than the Toyota crew.

CrewMax's rear seats slide fore-aft. Nobody else's do. Fully forward, the rear
has enough knee- and legroom for adults and enough room behind that the back can
be reclined dramatically. Again, unique.

Even when the CrewMax back seats are back all the way, there's as much cargo
space behind the back seats as in the trunk of a small car.

All that interior room comes at the expense of a little cargo bed space. But the
Tundra CrewMax bed still is about 5-feet-6-inches long, enough for most users
and not much different from the size of competing models.

If your pickup is the family truckster, then nothing matches the Tundra
CrewMax's combination of comfort, utility, agility.

OK, so you don't need that much cab. Fine. The Double Cab is a little roomier
than other extended-cab models. Like the Dodge Ram Quad Cab, it has four real
doors and an abbreviated back seat.

What else stood out in the test drives:

*Style. Good taste and restraint weren't in play when the front of the Tundra
was crafted. But at least you won't mistake it for anything but a real truck.
That's an image Toyota wants.

*Comfort. Nonpareil in CrewMax, just OK in the Double Cab because of too-upright
rear seats.

Cloth upholstery is more comfortable than leather. That isn't news in a Toyota
truck, but it's worth a reminder before you pay for leather.

Proper driving position was easy to find, helped by a tilt-telescope steering
column.

*Power. Merely sufficient with the 4.7-liter V-8 carried over from the '06
lineup. It suffers when compared with the GM trucks' 4.8- or 5.3-liter V-8s. But
the Toyota 5.7-liter V-8, which Toyota predicts is the one most buyers will
choose, is peerless and a ball.

*Agility. Turning-circle diameter is listed as a modest (by big-truck standards)
44 feet for most models. The truck is a snap to park in spots tight enough that
you'd be reluctant to try in other trucks.

Brakes and steering, not always sharp on a pickup, felt agreeable on the
pre-production testers.

*Mileage. Fuel economy ratings are mediocre, a fact GM is seizing upon.  Highway
driving is where the GMs have the biggest advantage in ratings. However, in
real-world suburban test driving, a Chevrolet Silverado got far worse mileage
than its rating, while in the driving routes around here, the Tundras came
closer to their published ratings.

Tundra is at or near the top among big pickups. There's little reason not to
choose it.

But there's a lot of prejudice among truckers. A J.D. Power and Associates study
published in November found that 48% of people who buy Detroit pickups
"specifically do not want an import-branded truck." And 33% of the people who
buy Japanese pickups say they specifically did not want a Detroit nameplate.

---

2007 Toyota Tundra

*What is it? Complete remake of Toyota's big pickup; the automaker's third try
at a U.S.-market pickup. It's larger, more-aggressive-looking than its
predecessor and will tow and haul more. Available in an array of versions:
regular, extended (Double Cab) or crew cab (CrewMax) passenger cabs; cargo beds
measuring 66.7, 78.7 or 97.6 inches long; V-6 or V-8 engines; rear-wheel drive
(RWD) or four-wheel drive (4WD).

Available in Toyota's usual three grades, DX, SR5 and Limited. Manufactured at
Princeton, Ind., and at a $1 billion plant that just began operating in San
Antonio.

*How soon? Regular cab and Double Cab on sale mid-February. CrewMax available
late March or early April.

*How much? Not final at press time. Soon, though, because on-sale time is
imminent.

*Who'll buy? Toyota is trying to lure what it calls the true-truck crowd, such
as construction foremen and farmers, to add to its ready base of
import-brand-friendly buyers who want trucks but don't really need them. It's
playing on its made-in-America credentials to draw traditional buyers from
Detroit brands.

*How many? 200,000 this year, 250,000 or more thereafter.

*What're the drivetrains? 4-liter V-6 rated 236 horsepower at 5,200 rpm, 266
pounds-feet of torque at 4,000 rpm; five-speed automatic transmission. Manual
transmission no longer offered.

Optional: 4.7-liter V-8 rated 271 hp at 5,400 rpm, 313 lbs.-ft. at 3,400 rpm;
five-speed automatic.

Optional: 5.7-liter V-8 rated 381 hp at 5,600 rpm, 401 lbs.-ft. at 3,600 rpm;
six-speed automatic.

Automatic limited-slip differential standard with all drivetrains.

4WD system is conventional part-time setup with RWD, 4WD and 4WD low-range
settings. Driver must shift into and out of 4WD as needed.

*What's the safety gear? Expected bags, plus  lap-shoulder safety belts in all
seating positions, a no-brainer in cars but unusual in trucks. Anti-lock brakes,
anti-skid system, front-seat, side-impact bags, side-curtain air bags.

*What's the rest? All models have dual-zone climate control, AM/FM/CD stereo
with auxiliary input jack, power steering and brakes, tilt-adjustable steering
column.

Other standard features vary widely depending on cab size and model. Details at
www.toyota.com closer to mid-February on-sale date.

*What's the pledge? Basic warranty is three years or 36,000 miles, whichever
comes first. Powertrain is five/60,000. Corrosion is five/unlimited.

*How big? No more "not quite." Double Cab, which Toyota says will be biggest
seller, is 228.7 inches long (247.6 in. with long cargo bed), 76 in. tall (76.4
in. with 4WD), on 145.7-in. wheelbase (164.6 in. with long bed).

CrewMax is 228.7 inches long, 75.8 in. tall (76.2 in. with 4WD) on 145.7-in.
wheelbase.

Regular cab is 209.8 inches long (228.7 in with long bed), 76 in. tall (76.4 in.
with 4WD) on 126.8-in. wheelbase (145.7-in. with long bed). All models are 79.9
inches wide.

Weights range from 4,610 to 5,630 pounds, depending on model and equipment.

Rated to tow up to 10,800 pounds, carry 1,410 to 2,060 pounds, depending on
model and equipment.

Turning-circle diameter is listed as 44 feet, curb-to-curb, for most models,
39.2 feet for regular cab with standard bed, 49 feet for Double Cab with long
bed.

*How thirsty? 4-liter V-6, only available with RWD, is rated 17 mpg in town, 20
on the highway.

4.7-liter V-8 is rated 15/18 with RWD or 4WD. 5.7-liter V-8 is rated 16/20 with
RWD, 14/18 with 4WD.

Trip computers in 5.7-liter CrewMax and Double Cab test vehicles showed 16.7 mpg
in mix of suburban/ highway driving. 4.7-liter V-8s ranged from 14.3 to 16.4 mpg
in similar driving.

5.7-liter V-8 towing 7,000-pound trailer on highway and in suburbs showed 9.2
mpg.

Drive routes were short, none longer than 33 miles, so fuel economy results
might not be representative.

Fuel tank holds 26.4 gallons. Regular (87-octane) gasoline is specified.

*Overall: Winner, especially for buyers who need honest back-seat room or
serious power.

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS, B/W, Toyota (2)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: TEST DRIVE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              217 of 268 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           January 17, 2007 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Flying their own planes saves time;
Pilots also see stronger business ties

BYLINE: Gary Stoller

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 1407 words


Landscape architect Katie O'Reilly Rogers departs on business trips from her
Santa Barbara, Calif., home without a worry about airport or airline snafus.

She climbs into the cockpit of her own small airplane and takes off.

The added hassles of business travel from tightened security and airline
cost-cutting since the Sept. 11 terrorism has helped fuel an increase in the
business use of personal aircraft. Encouraged by a growing economy and a
generally favorable business climate, many business people -- particularly those
who live far from a big-city hub -- are realizing that piloting their own planes
saves time and, in some cases, money.

Rogers and other pilots cite other benefits to arriving at a meeting after
landing your own plane: stronger business relationships. Clients love the
pilots' stories, and sometimes they can even get a free joy ride.

The planes they're flying for business travel these days aren't necessarily
sleek corporate jets or very light jets, the new category of planes hitting the
market this year at prices starting at $1.5 million. They're using single-engine
piston planes that cost about $400,000 new, or less if they're bought used.

The Federal Aviation Administration estimates about two-thirds of the hours
flown by private planes are for business reasons. According to the agency's most
recent numbers, hours flown in private planes for business reasons in 2005 were
up 12.5% from 2001. Contributing to the increase: more business trips taken by
individuals or small groups in small, piston-driven airplanes.

On her business trips around the Far West,  Rogers, 53, flies her four-seat,
single-engine Mooney M20J, which she inherited from her father. She earned her
pilot's license in 2001 and would have done so regardless of the deteriorating
conditions in commercial travel. Nonetheless, she's reaping big benefits from
her decision to become her own pilot during a period when airport hassles are
high.

"I don't have to get to an airport two to three hours ahead of time," says
Rogers. "I don't have to go through security, and I don't have delays."

Gary Gongola, the 64-year-old president of a machine tools company in Menomonee
Falls, Wis., stopped piloting in 1965 to concentrate on raising a family. But
airline delays, cancellations and service bugaboos prompted him to get back into
the cockpit three years ago and fly his own plane.

He says his four-seat Mooney Ovation -- which cost $440,000 -- enables him to
better serve customers, and company sales have skyrocketed.

"I should have done this 20 years ago," he says. "I didn't realize it until
after 9/11."

Mark Miller, a spokesman for Piper Aircraft, the maker of several models of
small airplanes, says his company has noticed "the surge" of business people
becoming pilots. "Since 9/11, we're seeing a lot of people in their 40s and 50s
who had a passion for flying and have gotten more disposable income making a
business case for an aircraft."

Many small businesses are recognizing "the unique capability of small
airplanes," says Katie Pribyl, spokeswoman for the trade group General Aviation
Manufacturers Association. Small piston-engine planes "have evolved from
primarily recreational and utility vehicles to an essential tool for business,"
she says.

Plane sales going up

U.S. plane manufacturers shipped 2,024 single-engine piston planes in 2005, up
19% from 2004. The industry expects an increase when 2006 numbers are tallied,
and the same number or more this year.

Peter La Colla, a franchiser of more than 50 convenience stores in shopping
malls, has become his own pilot,  but it wasn't airline inconveniences that
prompted him. He says it was too exhausting traveling around the country from
his Topeka office in a minivan, visiting shopping malls in places as far-flung
as Minneapolis, Atlanta, Nashville and Chattanooga, Tenn.

"Now, I can hit 19 or 20 stores in a week's trip, and it can be a lot cheaper
than flying on airline flights," says the 40-year-old businessman who received
his license in 2000 and has flown at least 250 times since.

La Colla opted for a used plane, buying a 22-year-old, four-seat Mooney 231 for
$92,000 in 2002. He and another businessman, who runs an engineering firm, set
up a company that owns the plane. They coordinate schedules and rent it from the
company.

In September, La Colla and an employee flew on the plane to visit 11 stores in
five days. They visited eight cities at a cost of less than $4,500. If they had
taken airline flights, they would have spent more nights in hotels, rented more
cars and eaten in more restaurants.  The bill would have been much higher, La
Colla says.

Like many business people who pilot planes, though, La Colla and his employees
haven't abandoned the airlines. He carefully studies the cost of each upcoming
trip and uses commercial flights when they're less expensive. Last year, company
trips were split about equally between his plane and airline jets.

La Colla says he's developed "a much stronger business connection" with the
clients he's flown in his plane. "Without exception, everyone is mesmerized with
the marvel of flight."

La Colla calls his plane "a time machine." He can take off from a local airport
8 miles from his Topeka office and land in Chicago in the time it would take to
drive 90 minutes and check in for an airline flight in Kansas City,  the nearest
big commercial airport.

Fewer pilots than in past

Though the number of general aviation planes shipped by manufacturers is
increasing annually,  the industry has never returned to its  heyday in the
1960s and 1970s. Then, manufacturers delivered up to 18,000 planes in a single
year.

The number of active general aviation pilots in the USA has dropped from 800,000
in the early 1980s to fewer than 600,000 today, according to Phil Boyer,
president of the Aircraft Owners and Pilots Association, which represents
private pilots. AOPA is  promoting a new program, Project Pilot, to encourage
more people to become pilots.

Boyer attributes the drop largely to "a sociological change in the household"
that caused pilots who flew for recreation or personal use to instead
concentrate on family responsibilities. Families with two wage earners became
common, and men, who make up about 95% of all private pilots, began driving
children to soccer games or doing other duties, he says.

Others cite the costs of flight training and operating and maintaining a plane
as a contributor to the decline in pilots. It can cost $8,000 to $10,000 to
train and to obtain a pilot's license, and then $200 or more an hour to rent a
plane, says Michael Miller, an aviation consultant for The Velocity Group.

It takes six to 12 months to train and get a license, according to AOPA
spokesman Chris Dancy. Flying "is not something you can do in a heartbeat and
not for the average person off the street," Miller says. Business people have a
big advantage over recreational pilots because they can deduct from their taxes
the costs of buying, renting, operating and maintaining a plane.

Construction executive Tom Craig, 40, flies his six-seat Piper Meridian from
Naples, Fla., to Denver a dozen times a year. Each flight takes six hours vs.
about 10 hours using connecting airline flights, he says.

Brandon Parker, 29, president of a software company, flies a Cessna 172 out of
Montgomery Field in San Diego. He says the plane lets him "schedule a meeting or
training session around my own schedule." He can meet a client the next day
instead of having to plan in advance to get a low-fare airline ticket.

The advantages of piloting a plane for business "is the best-kept secret," says
Randy Africano, a 51-year-old aviation consultant who flies on business at least
twice a week from Peoria, Ill., in a seven-seat Mitsubishi MU-2 or a four-seat
Beechcraft V35B.

It's not a secret to Allen Warner, 53, the Cleveland-based president of three
transportation-related companies. Flying his own plane to "remote locations on a
moment's notice" to visit his franchisees has given his businesses a competitive
advantage, he says.

Just talking about piloting or giving a client a ride in a plane can also pay
off. Rogers, the landscape architect, says she works in the male-dominated
construction industry, and her plane has helped build business relationships.

"When I go to a job site, it takes awhile to gain their confidence," she says.
"But when I say I've flown in on my plane, they say, 'OK, lady, we can take you
seriously.'"

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Robert W. Ahrens, USA TODAY, Sources: FAA, General
Aviation Manufacturers Association and USA TODAY research (LINE GRAPH)
GRAPHIC, B/W, Marcy E. Mullins, USA TODAY, Source: USA TODAY research (MAP)
PHOTO, Color, Dan MacMedan, USA TODAY
PHOTO, B/W, Dan MacMedan, USA TODAY
PHOTOS, B/W, (2)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COVER STORY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              220 of 268 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           February 27, 2007 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

TXU takes $32B deal, cuts coal plans

BYLINE: Paul Davidson

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 393 words


TXU's plans to build only three pollution-belching coal plants -- instead of 11
-- after its $32 billion buyout will likely bolster a moderate retreat from
coal-fired generation nationwide.

But coal is still expected to be a big part of new capacity needed to meet the
nation's soaring power demand, analysts and executives say.

TXU, Texas' largest utility, said Monday it agreed to be sold to a group led by
Kohlberg Kravis Roberts, Texas Pacific Group and Goldman Sachs for $32 billion
in the largest leveraged buyout. The buyers will assume $13 billion in debt.

They have agreed to ditch plans for all but three of TXU's planned coal plants.
TXU faced withering criticism from environmental groups because coal plants emit
large amounts of carbon dioxide, the biggest culprit in global warming. Congress
eventually is likely to cap emissions and penalize plants that spew carbon.

Environmental groups that negotiated the TXU change hailed it as a breakthrough
that could sharply curtail the 150 or so coal plants still on the drawing board.

"The smart money is now on clean energy and lower emission," says David Hawkins,
head of the climate program for the Natural Resources Defense Council.

Last year, looming federal constraints on coal generation helped persuade
Southern California Edison not to refurbish a huge coal plant in Nevada.

Yet while coal is set to make up 50% of new capacity under current plans, it
likely will still account for 30% to 40% and be "a primary" power source even
after a pullback, says Larry Makovich of Cambridge Energy Research Associates.

Why? Nuclear power is expensive and faces uncertain approval; natural gas prices
are volatile; and renewable energy is intermittent.

Vic Svec of Peabody Energy, the nation's largest coal supplier, says the TXU
pullback will likely prompt others to build coal plants in Texas to fill the
void. Peabody and others, he says, are building highly efficient coal plants
that emit 15% less carbon. Shares of Peabody and other coal producers fell
Monday.

TXU also said it would spend $400 million on conservation initiatives and invest
in renewables. And the company said that after it goes private, perhaps in late
2007, electricity prices would be cut by 10% through September 2008.

The deal must clear several federal agencies but not state regulators. TXU
shares closed at $67.93 Monday, up 13%.

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              232 of 268 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                               May 4, 2007 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Compared with today's mowers, yesterday's just don't cut it;
New models are so much better: Cleaner, lighter, quieter, safer

BYLINE: Mindy Fetterman

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 1123 words


If you're still using that dusty old lawn mower that's been kicking around for
years, you might be in the market for a new one this spring.

If so, there's good news.

"We're surprised, really, by how good consumer products are becoming," says Roy
Berendsohn of Popular Mechanics, which tests and recommends products. "This is
not the mower you remember from your misspent youth."

Lawn mowers are cleaner, lighter, quieter and safer than they used to be, he
says. And they start on the first -- or second -- yank of the starter cord. "In
the '70s, everyone was saying: 'Why can we put a guy on the moon and we can't
buy a decent lawnmower?' That's changed."

Today, buying a lawn mower is more about how you  interact with the mower and
what you want it to do for you. All of them cut grass just fine.

One concern among a small-but-growing group of lawn owners is the effect of
cutting the grass on the environment. Some look to electric lawn mowers,
battery-powered mowers and old-fashioned push-reel mowers as an alternative to
gasoline-powered mowers, which are the most popular but pollute more.

"I have a lawn. I mow it," says Charlie Nardozzi, senior horticulturist for the
National Gardening Association. But he doesn't use chemical fertilizer or weed
killer, and his mower is an old-fashioned, non-engine push mower.

Gasoline-powered push mowers are 70% cleaner for the environment than they were
10 years ago, says Bill Harley of the Outdoor Power Equipment Institute, the
trade association that represents manufacturers. Still, using a gas mower for
one hour produces as much hydrocarbon and nitrogen oxide emissions -- the
so-called greenhouse gases -- as driving 11 cars for an hour; a riding mower
emits as much in an hour as 34 cars, according to the Environmental Protection
Agency. In April, the EPA proposed tighter regulations on small engines that
would cut emissions by 35%. If the rules are adopted, lawn mowers sold by 2011
might require catalytic converters, like those on automobiles.

Meanwhile, the cost of today's electric or gasoline-powered push mowers ranges
from about $250 to about $700, riding lawn mowers from $1,600 to $7,200, and
more-powerful garden tractors from $2,100 to $9,000.

Think about buying last year's model to save money, says Berendsohn. And tune
your lawn mower every year, including having blades sharpened. A small-engine
repair shop or lawn mower dealer can do that, usually for under $100.

"You'll be thankful you spent that money when it's 90 degrees out, and one pull
of the starter cord starts it up," Berendsohn says.

Before you buy ...

"You need to shop for a lawn mower just like you do any other important
purchase," says Frank Viggiano, who teaches courses in consumer product
innovation at Indiana University of Pennsylvania, in Indiana, Pa. Some things to
consider:

Fit: Test the mower out in the store or on a piece of turf outside the store.
Get the feel of how it's set up.

*Do you like the handle? Is it cushy enough to soak up some engine vibrations?

*Is the starter cord easy to reach?

*Work the lever that adjusts the height of the mower deck, which is the casing
that holds the blades. Is it easy to reach? Longer levers give you more leverage
to raise and lower the deck for longer or shorter grass.

*Check the operating controls for the bag that holds grass clippings. Is it easy
to get the bag off and on? Generally, rear-bag mountings work better, says Roy
Berendsohn of Popular Mechanics.

*How does the mower fit relative to your height and body type? "You have to
spend a couple of days behind a mower before you really get to know it," says
Berendsohn. "But you can get a feel for it."

Size matters: Don't buy a mower that's too big for your yard. "I've seen people
with little yards riding a big riding mower," says Bruce Butterfield, research
director of the National Gardening Association. "They spend more time backing up
and turning around than cutting the grass."

*Under a half-acre (20,000 square feet). Electric or battery-powered mowers are
aimed at smaller yards. If you get an electric mower, you'll have to manipulate
the  cord across your lawn as you're mowing. Battery-powered mowers are aimed at
owners of smaller, urban parcels and people who don't want to mess with a cord.

If you want to use no power, try a non-engine push-reel mower. They're not as
heavy these days. "That reel (of blades) used to be made of steel with a wooden
handle. You could hardly pick it up to put it up," says Viggiano. Today they're
made of lightweight aluminum and polycarbon resins. "If you have a really little
yard, there's no reason to go to power," he says

*Up to an acre (43,560 square feet). A gas-powered walk-behind mower is what you
need.

Depending on how strong you are or how much effort you want to exert, chose
self-propelled or push.

Some self-propelled mowers have an "easy stride" option. Instead of turning on a
motor to get the self-propulsion, the spring-loaded handle "senses the pushing
pressure and says, 'Speed up now,'" says Viggiano. "It moves to the pressure you
exert."

*From 1 to 3 acres (130,680 square feet). Time to bring in the big guns.

The current "hot" riding mower is the zero-turn rider, which can make a
180-degree turn. You can zip around tree trunks and cut row upon row without
wasting space. Zero-turn riders can go about 9 mph, twice as fast as
conventional riding mowers. But you'll pay. Conventional riders cost about
$1,600 to $3,000. Zero-turn riders cost about $2,600 to $7,200.

You might consider a lawn tractor or a more-powerful garden tractor if you have
rough, hilly land. Neither has a very good turning radius. But a lawn tractor
can pull a cart.  You can attach a ground tiller or snow plow to a garden
tractor.

A lawn or garden tractor may be for you if you have a real patch of property,
like Butterfield. He's got 3 acres cleared on his 150-acre patch of woods in
Vermont.

"I've got a four-wheel-drive Kubota diesel tractor with a 5-foot mowing deck, so
one pass cuts 5 feet," he brags. "It's my job!"

Safety: A safety innovation you might want on a gas or electric powered push
mower is the blade break clutch (BBC). When you stop mowing, the blades stop
spinning, even if the engine is running. That way, any rocks, sticks or tennis
balls won't come shooting out of the machine.

It adds up to $150 to the cost of a mower. "If you have a yard that's overhung
by a lot of branches and nuts on the ground and kids leaving toys outside, a BBC
is worth every penny," says Berendsohn.

Lawn mowers are quieter than they used to be, but they're still noisy. Look for
one with no more than a 90 decibel (dB) rating.  A jackhammer produces 113 dB of
noise, says Viggiano.

You might want to wear ear plugs. And "always wear safety glasses," he adds.

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Bob Laird, USA TODAY, Source: The Math Forum of Drexel
IUniversity (AskDr.Math.com) (DIAGRAM)
PHOTO, B/W, Tim Loehrke, USA TODAY
PHOTO, B/W, Glenn Russell, The Burlington Free Press, For USA TODAY

DOCUMENT-TYPE: MANAGING YOUR MONEY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              233 of 268 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             May 10, 2007 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

'Traveler' follows familiar path, but it follows it with style;
Vast conspiracy snags unwitting victims yet again

BYLINE: Robert Bianco

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 4D

LENGTH: 475 words


Traveler

ABC, tonight, 10 ET/PT

*** out of four

---

It's an odd path TV shows travel these days.

Take ABC's Traveler, which was expected for fall, was pushed back to midseason,
and is now being shoved into summer. And as an added twist in the road, ABC has
ordered only eight episodes -- which is generally the network's way of saying
"don't get attached."

It's possible that the fast failures of such serials as The Nine, Vanished,
Kidnapped, Smith and Six Degrees caused ABC to lose faith in the form. It's also
possible, or even likely, that ABC isn't thrilled with the direction the show
itself takes after tonight's pilot, which would explain why ABC has kept the
rest of the episodes to itself.

Taken together, that's worrisome news for viewers, who have been reluctant to
commit to serialized stories unless they're certain the show will be around long
enough to wrap the story up.

Whatever its future problems may be, Traveler's present is fairly bright.
Arriving with a sneak preview tonight before beginning its hot-weather run May
30, the show seems faster, brighter and more entertaining than most  of the
serials that beat it to the punch this fall.

Created by Eight Below's David DiGilio, Traveler marries current fears of
terrorism to a sturdy old scenario: the innocent dupe caught up in a vast crime
conspiracy. Think of multiple Hitchcock movies from The 39 Steps  to North by
Northwest; all that's missing is the cool blonde.

This time the dupes are Jay and Tyler (agreeably played by Matthew Bomer and
Logan Marshall-Green), college kids visiting New York with their best friend,
Will Traveler (Aaron Stanford).

Will may not be all he seems, however, and Jay and Tyler find themselves framed
for a bombing that appears to be Will's doing. Their Fugitive goal is now to
evade capture long enough to figure out who framed them and why.

Though it's a standard setup, Traveler avoids many equally standard missteps.
Jay wants to go to the police, which is only sensible, but he is scared off when
he realizes that the current climate could prevent him from getting a fair
hearing. The FBI agents on the case, blessedly, are neither stupid nor
criminally insane -- though given the history of these shows, that could change
by Episode 2.

The show even makes note of something 24 might want to incorporate one of these
days: the way a terrorist attack disrupts the normal workings of a city.

True, it would be nice if the plot signs weren't all pointing toward yet another
vast military/government/industrial complex conspiracy. And it would be easier
to have faith in the show if the network were showing a bit more faith itself.
Still, it's only a handful of episodes, running at a time of year when the
networks don't have much else new to offer.

That may not make you beat a path to Traveler's door, but you may want to amble
by if it's on your way.

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Eric Liebowitz, ABC

DOCUMENT-TYPE: TV PREVIEW

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              234 of 268 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              May 14, 2007 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

TOP 25 Memorable TV moments;
TV broadens its spectrum

BYLINE: Robert Bianco

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 8B

LENGTH: 1028 words


In 1982, the top TV series were 60 Minutes, Dallas and M*A*S*H, cable news was
in its infancy and MTV still played music videos. In the years since, seismic
changes have altered the broadcast landscape. On this page, USA TODAY's
television critic Robert Bianco lists his top 25 TV moments of the past
quarter-century. Share your choices at usatoday.com.

1 9/11 coverage

(2001)

The wall-to-wall response

to the attacks epitomizes

TV's power to unify us in

times of tragedy. From

those first images of the

planes crashing and the

towers falling, to the memorial

service at the National

Cathedral, it was the most

extensive, expensive coverage

since JFK's assassination,

a defining crisis

for a new age.

2 Fox Network

is born (1986)

By breaking up the

oligarchy of the Big Three,

Fox brought a new, edgier

energy to broadcast TV

and proved that creativity

could flourish on

smaller networks.

It paved the way

for the broadcast

and cable

expansion that

now includes

Fox News.

3The Oprah Winfrey Show (1986)

What began as a softer, gentler response to tabloid talk

shows has grown into a TV powerhouse, hosted by the

most influential woman in American media. Authors,

stars, politicians, they all bow to the mighty O.

4 The Sopranos (1999)

An unsurpassed artistic achievement, this

brilliant, violent series delved into the

dark flipside of the American dream.

Cable's best, highest-rated show set

artistic and financial benchmarks

while forcing broadcast to up its

game in response.

5 NYPD Blue (1993)

A defiantly, contentiously "R"

show in a G-rated network

universe, Blue introduced

a new level of realism and

maturity to TV drama and

rescued it from cultural

irrelevance. Without Blue,

there is no Sopranos.

6 The O.J. Trial

(1994)

The all-consuming

coverage of the "Trial

of the Century"

began with a seriocomic

afternoon

chase that solidified

the appeal of 24-

hour news. From the

Bronco to the glove,

few news events

have worked their

way deeper into the

popular culture.

7 The Simpsons (1989)

Having launched a thousand

catchphrases and products,

this hilariously

subversive cartoon

is on track to become

the longest-running

scripted program in

American history.

8 The Cosby Show (1984)

This sitcom savior

sparked 20 years of

"Must-See TV" dominance

while spreading

a gentle yet powerful

message about inclusion,

diversity and the

universality of real

family values.

9 The Real

World (1992)

With this MTV hit

and its weekly

hot-tub hook-ups,

reality got its bare

foot in the TV door.

Too late to slam it

now.

10 Johnny

Carson's last

show (1992)

Johnny Carson's exit

from The Tonight

Show was not just

the end of an era, it

was the end of latenight

talk -- as in

conversation rather

than promotion --

and the end of Tonight

as a launchpad

for new talent.

11 Janet Jackson's wardrobe malfunction (2004)

And the envelope pushes back. Jackson's Super Bowl breast-baring

brought the wrath of the FCC down on the networks, chilling the

creative climate considerably. NYPD Blue could not get on the air

today, and you have Jackson and Justin Timberlake to thank.

12 Dan Rather steps down (2005)

For over two decades, three men ruled the

evening newscasts: Rather at CBS, Peter Jennings

at ABC and Tom Brokaw at NBC. And it

all came to an end within a few months, with

Brokaw retiring, Jennings dying, and Rather

being forced out in a scandal that shook

public trust in the news media.

13 thirtysomething (1987)

This carefully observed, critically divisive

domestic drama marked the triumph of

boomers as a predominant TV force -- and

the end of the monolithic audience.

Never designed to please everyone, it

taught the networks how to be happy

with the people it pleased.

14 Dawson's Creek

(1998)

A younger generation finds

its muse in a show that did

for teens what thirtysomething

did for boomers. It

spawned an entire genre of

smart-talking teen dramas

and made WB the place to

be for the younger crowd.

15 American Idol (2002)

Long thought dead, variety

makes a comeback -- creating

careers and proving that it is still

possible to get adults and

children to watch the same show.

16 Seinfeld (1990)

A sitcom about nothing becomes the much-quoted,

catchphrase-loaded signature show of the decade.

Not that there's anything wrong with that.

17 Ellen

comes out

(1997)

Ellen DeGeneres

comes out as a

character and as a

person, and for the

first time, openly

gay voices are

heard on TV. Will &

Grace follows, and

what was once taboo

joins the cultural

mainstream.

18 The Apple commercial (1984)

It's not just the content of this 1984 parody

that was influential. It's where it ran: in

the Super Bowl, kicking off a commercial

competition that has often provoked more

interest than the game itself. Overnight, a

new form of entertainment was born.

19 Dan Quayle and Murphy

Brown (1992)

Seldom have pop and politics

clashed as dramatically, or comically,

as when Vice President Quayle

attacked this show for letting the

unmarried Murphy get pregnant.

TH

20 The Jenny Jones

Show murder (1995)

Scott Amedure told a surprised

Jonathan Schmitz that he had a crush

on him. Three days later, Schmitz

murdered Amedure in what was the

nadir, though unfortunately not the

end, of tabloid TV.

21 The Civil

War (1990)

A nation rediscovers

its history in

one of the greatest

and best-loved

documentaries

ever. It made stars

out of historians

and found new, if

now much imitated,

ways to bring

old stories, letters

and pictures to life.

22 Jon Stewart on

The Daily Show (1998)

No program better represents

the emergence of

"alternative news sources"

than The Daily Show under

Jon Stewart. Few comics

have so firmly put their

stamp on the news, and few

shows have more adroitly

addressed a skeptical

audience.

23 Clarence Thomas/

Anita Hill hearings (1991)

Sex and race combine to transfix a nation

that normally ignores Supreme Court confirmation

hearings. As an audience draw,

only the Iran-Contra hearings came close.

24 Lonesome Dove/

War & Remembrance (1989)

The era of the big miniseries reached

its peak -- and its end -- with the

longest (the combined War saga) and

the best (Dove) the genre had to offer.

25 The M*A*S*H finale (1983)

The Korean War and the series end with an extended

finale that draws around 100 million viewers, making it

the most watched episode in American series history.

---

Compiled and written by Robert Bianco, USA TODAY; design by Lori Sloan, USA
TODAY; photo research by Kevin Eans, USA TODAY

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS, Color, USA TODAY (2)
PHOTO, Color, Anthony Neste, HBO
PHOTO, Color, Timothy White, ABC
PHOTO ,Color, Fox
PHOTO, Color, NBC
PHOTOS, Color, AP (3)
PHOTO, Color, Chris Buck, Comedy Central

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              235 of 268 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              May 15, 2007 Tuesday
                                 CHASE EDITION

Nixon years revisited as library goes public;
Historian to revise exhibits, offer non-partisan record

BYLINE: Martin Kasindorf

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 725 words


YORBA LINDA, Calif. -- Unquestioning partisanship is giving way to a balanced
view of Richard Nixon at his presidential library as the federal government
prepares to take it over from a private foundation.

Opened in 1990, four years before the 37th president died, the Nixon
Presidential Library and Birthplace has been an orphan. It's the only one among
12 presidential libraries that gets no taxpayer funds.

The library doesn't hold Nixon's presidential papers because Congress wanted to
ensure that he wouldn't destroy his records after he resigned in 1974 to avoid
impeachment. By law, Nixon's 44 million pages of records and 3,000 hours of
secretly recorded Oval Office audiotapes have been held at a National Archives
and Records Administration facility in Maryland.

Nixon's family and loyalists have been presenting their take on history at the
9-acre library site, where Nixon and his wife, Patricia, are buried. (Nixon's
daughters, Julie Eisenhower and Tricia Cox, in 2002 patched up a six-year feud
over how to run the $40million Nixon Library and Birthplace Foundation.)

In library exhibits, John F. Kennedy's voice is never heard on the videotapes of
his 1960 debates with Nixon. A narrator tells visitors the debates proved that
on TV "style was more important than substance." There's no mention of Vice
President Spiro Agnew's resignation in 1973 amid corruption charges.

'Republican institution' goes public

"This was a private library that saw itself as a Republican institution, and its
programming reflected that. This will change," says Timothy Naftali, 45, the
University of Virginia historian who will become federal director of the library
this summer or fall, when the National Archives is to accept the institution
into the presidential libraries system under a 2004 law.

When the archives and the Nixon foundation asked Naftali to apply for the
library post, he insisted on a shift to non-partisanship. "I can't run a
shrine," Naftali says he told them. "I'm a historian."

Naftali, author of books on the Cold War and counterterrorism, was born in
Canada and became a U.S. citizen in 2005. He was 14 when Nixon left office, and
never met him. He's a registered independent.

The official transfer of the library, sought for years by Julie Eisenhower, was
supposed to happen last year. It is being delayed by problems installing a
climate-control system that meets the archives' standards.

Naftali says his goal is "setting a new tone."

A one-sided exhibit on the Watergate scandal is gone. The exhibit had featured a
voice-over attempting to explain the "smoking gun" tape, on which Nixon is
suggesting that the CIA could block the FBI investigation of the 1972 break-in
at Democratic headquarters in the Watergate. New video screens will present "a
360-degree view," Naftali says, by showing interviews with surviving Nixon
administration officials and a Democrat on the House committee that voted for
Nixon's impeachment.

New look at Nixon 'a historian's dream'

In January, Naftali organized a four-month exhibit on Nixon's 1970 Oval Office
meeting with Elvis Presley, who persuaded Nixon to give him a federal narcotics
agent's badge. "I just wanted that as an appetizer, to give people the idea that
history can be fun," he says.

The Nixon foundation, which will continue raising money for programs, is going
along with Naftali's non-partisan plans, says Executive Director John Taylor.

"What an opportunity to revise Nixon," Naftali says. "It's a historian's dream."

When the government takes control, it will open an enlarged, 32-seat research
room that will have the presidential library system's first wireless Internet
service. Before Nixon's papers can be trucked from the East, the archives must
secure a congressional appropriation to build a 10,000-square-foot addition to
house them.

The  Nixon tapes will stay in Maryland; the library will get copies. Naftali
says that makes little difference because "I'm going to put these tapes on the
Web."

Naftali wants to raise attendance by targeting two audiences: baby boomers
"nostalgic over the Vietnam War they fought or protested" and 12-year-olds he
can interest in history through high-tech displays. He says he wants the lobby
to highlight the moon landings, perhaps borrowing a NASA Lunar Rover.

"It's a little hard to make Nixon hip," he says, "but we can make the library
hip."

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Adrienne Lewis, USA TODAY, Source: ESRI (Map)
PHOTOS, B/W, Bob Riha Jr., USA TODAY (2)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              237 of 268 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              June 1, 2007 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Bush trip to cover a lot of ground

BYLINE: David Jackson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 309 words


President Bush leaves Monday for a busy week in Europe, beginning with a trip to
Prague and centered around his seventh meeting with the Group of Eight of
industrialized nations. A look at the president's trip:

Schedule

June 4-5: Prague, Czech Republic

June 5-8: Heiligendamm, Germany

June 8: Jurata, Poland

June 8-9: Rome

June 9: Vatican City

June 10: Tirana, Albania

June 10-11: Sofia, Bulgaria

June 11: Flies back to USA

On the agenda

Missile defense, climate change, democracy, trade, nuclear development in Iran,
independence for Kosovo, AIDS in Africa, relations with Russia and the war in
Iraq.

Old friends, new friends

For their first time as presidents, Bush will see new French leader Nicolas
Sarkozy in action. Another first: Bush's meeting June 9 with Pope Benedict XVI.
Old friend and German Chancellor Angela Merkel hosts the G-8, where occasional
adversary and Russian President Vladimir Putin will also be in attendance.

Postcard venues

Prague Castle, high above the Czech Republic's capital, is the largest medieval
castle in Europe. Heiligendamm, a high-end spa on the Baltic, is the site of the
G-8 summit. Jurata, known as the Camp David of Poland, is the setting for Bush's
meeting with Polish President Lech Kaczynski. While in Italy, Bush tours the
Basilica Santa Maria in Trastevere. In Albania, Bush visits his counterpart's
home, the Palace of the Brigades.

What to watch for

Missile-defense talks could spark more friction with Russia, because the United
States wants to put a radar installation on Czech territory and 10 interceptor
missiles in Poland. Merkel plans to push Bush at the G-8 for an agreement to
reduce carbon emissions. Will Pope Benedict XVI voice opposition about the Iraq
war, as predecessor John Paul II did to Bush? Amid Balkan anxiety over an
independent Kosovo, Bush meets with the leaders of Albania, Croatia and
Macedonia.

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Marcy E. Mullins, USA TODAY, Source: The White House
(Map)
PHOTO, B/W, Benoit Tessier, Reuters
PHOTO, B/W, Marcus Brand, AFP/Getty Images
PHOTO, B/W, Axel Schmidt, AFP/Getty Images
PHOTO, B/W, Michal Cizek, AFP/Getty Images
PHOTO, B/W, Max Rossi, Reuters

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              246 of 268 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            August 9, 2007 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Fight is on for campaign TV ad dollars;
How 2008 shakes out could determine spending in future election years

BYLINE: David Lieberman

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 1617 words


NEW YORK -- One of the bitterest scraps in the 2008 election season is well
underway, although you may not hear much about it on Hardball with Chris
Matthews.

Instead of Democrats vs. Republicans, this clash pits TV stations against cable
systems for one of the fastest-growing sources of local TV revenue: political
ads. Up for grabs is a record amount of at least $2 billion that candidates and
issue groups are expected to spend on the tube in the first presidential
election year since 1928 without an incumbent president or vice president in the
race.

The outcome of the showdown may help determine whether future campaigns continue
to blast a single message to a mass audience or start tailoring appeals to towns
or even neighborhoods.

"Candidates have moved their strategy toward geo- and micro-targeting with their
direct-mail efforts -- and they're trying to apply those lessons to TV," says
Joan Gillman, president of Time Warner Cable media sales.

She and other cable executives will promote that strategy with hardball
marketing as they try to raise cable's share. According to research firm PQ
Media, cable got 8% of the $1.7 billion spent on political TV ads in 2006, up
from 4% of $1.6 billion in 2004.

"We expect to be part of every race, and every candidate in every race," says
Andrew Capone of National Cable Communications (NCC), which helps advertisers
buy time on nearly all major cable systems. He says cable should get at least
20% of the market in 2008.

David Barrett, CEO of station owner Hearst-Argyle, calls such ambitious
forecasts "just bogus."

"Local television, local newspapers and perhaps local radio, in that order, are
the places to be" in 2008, he told analysts last month.

That's a far cry from a decade ago, when many broadcasters saw political ads as
a mixed blessing. Stations often have to turn away loyal local advertisers  to
comply with a federal mandate that stations sell candidates all the TV ads they
want in the 45 days before a primary and the 60 days before a general election.
Campaigns also are entitled to pay the lowest available rate for the time they
want.

Broadcasters warmed to politics, though, as it grew into the No.4 source of
local ad dollars in election years -- after cars, restaurants and
telecommunications. It accounted for 7.1% of revenue in top markets in 2006, up
from 5.3% in 2000.

Most political cash goes to stations with strong local newscasts in states with
hotly contested races or with early presidential caucuses or primaries. National
networks get little: They're expensive and reach lots of voters that campaigns
can take for granted or can't win.

'In the sweet spot'

Winners shift based on where key races erupt, but the cash generally is a big
deal for stations owned by ABC, CBS, NBC, Gray Television, Hearst-Argyle,
Sinclair, Young Broadcasting, LIN Television and Gannett (parent of USA TODAY).

"Anybody owning television stations in Iowa, New Hampshire, South Carolina,
Florida, Nevada, Ohio and Missouri -- they are all going to be in the sweet
spot" in 2008, says Evan Tracey, who tracks political spending for TNS' Campaign
Media Analysis Group. "And throw in a state like California that always has a
full and active ballot climate. It's going to do very well."

Total 2008 candidate and interest group spending on advertising and other forms
of marketing is expected to be $4.5 billion, according to PQ Media. That's up
64% from 2004 total spending, and even that estimate could be conservative
because:

*A major independent campaign for president -- say, by New York City's
billionaire Mayor Mike Bloomberg -- could add hundreds of millions to the TV
tally.

*Given the Democrats' narrow edge in the House and Senate, both parties have
strong incentives to squeeze contributors for cash if lots of races look close.
All House seats, a third of the Senate and 11 governorships are up for grabs.

*Technology may boost TV spending in local races, such as judges and city
councils. "It doesn't cost $30,000 to produce a spot anymore," says Tracey.
"Editing software has become very cheap and accessible. There are a lot of
low-cost ways to produce TV spots that didn't exist five or 10 years ago."

*Corporations, unions and interest groups now can air political ads in the 30
days before a primary and 60 days before the general election (about half of
election spending takes place in the frenzied month before the general
election).

The Supreme Court in June struck down a law barring such pre-election spots.
That's "going to mean a ton more (ad spending) than we anticipated," says Jack
Poor, head of marketing at the Television Bureau of Advertising.

Cable executives say they're off to a strong start for 2008.

"In states like Iowa and New Hampshire, we are getting presidential money from
virtually all of the folks who are advertising there," Capone says. "It wasn't
that way to this extent, this early and this much, four years ago."

One-stop ad shopping

Cable operators typically get two minutes an hour of time to sell on each
ad-supported network they carry.

NCC also will broker some of those spots. Owned by Comcast, Time Warner and Cox,
it offers one-stop shopping for ads on up to 60 networks across areas served by
different cable companies.

Cable executives say that they've addressed campaign gripes that cable ad time
is too difficult to buy or that it's hard to change ads at the last minute.

"Other advertisers do not drop off tape at 10 in the morning and expect it to
air at 5 that night," Gillman says. "You need to standardize procedures, and the
cable industry has made an investment in that and made it a priority."

Operators say their technology can target messages to small areas -- unlike TV
stations that beam signals across a wide region.

"These campaigns know exactly where their undecided voters are," says Gillman.
"If you know what ZIP codes they're likely to live in, you can reinforce your
strategy by focusing your 30-second spots to that market. You can't do that any
other way" on TV besides cable.

Operators also hope to persuade  candidates to pay them to make speeches or long
presentations available via video on demand.

"VOD is in 30 million homes," Capone says. "That will be the biggest new
technology platform for political advertising in 2008."

But it will be hard for cable to overcome being seen as a niche medium, mostly
good for city or county races or campaigns aiming to impress potential donors.

"Broadcast TV is still the go-to weapon," Tracey says. "The people who end up
tipping elections tend to be the undecided voters, and the only way to reach
them is to turn up the volume as loud as you can and hope your ads get in their
way."

The cable fight

It's expensive to play that game on cable: Per-viewer ad costs usually are much
higher than on local TV stations. Cable also misses lots of voters because about
61% of all viewers subscribe, says Nielsen Media Research. Some station owners
say they also can meet or beat cable by showcasing politics on their newscasts
and expanding that political coverage with websites.

"We plan to launch political microsites -- for example, ConnecticutPolitics.tv
and TexasPolitics.tv -- where we (can show) a lot of great coverage that gets
left on the proverbial newsroom floor," says LIN Television CEO Vincent
Sandusky. "More people are getting information from the Web during the day while
they're at work."

Cable also faces a fight for political spending on a second front from radio,
which aims to reverse years of market share losses.

Radio stations are highlighting their ability to reach key demographics: Urban
and top-40 stations work well for Democrats. Talk and country are good for
Republicans.

Radio also has "more flexible spot lengths so candidates can be more creative in
how they use the medium," says Genelle Niblack, head of political sales for Katz
Media Group, the largest radio ad sales firm. "Radio spots are offered now in a
blink -- which is two to three seconds -- as well as 10, 15, 30 and 60 seconds."

There's talk that some candidates will buy time directly from cable networks
including CNN and Fox News ahead of Feb.5, the so-called Super Duper Tuesday. At
least 15 states including New York, California, Illinois and New Jersey will
hold primaries and caucuses that day, potentially deciding the major party
presidential nominees.

Tight races loosen purse strings

Thus far, though, most presidential campaigns appear to be buying local ads in
states where the outcome is most in doubt and those with early contests, which
includes Iowa, New Hampshire, South Carolina and Nevada. "We don't know about
Nevada, but we're seeing people spend in those other markets," says Kathleen
Keefe, vice president of sales at Hearst-Argyle. "The theory seems to be that
candidates who come out leading or upsetting in those early races will prompt an
avalanche of fundraising and help them move on to Super Duper Tuesday."

As competition for political airtime grows, several campaigns are buying early
and paying more -- the cheapest time carries the risk of pre-emption at the last
minute.

"Politicians are saying, 'Wait a minute. I'm not willing to be bumped. I want
that local news,'" Sandusky says. "If it costs a bit more money to do that, so
be it."

Cable may even benefit from some stations running out of ad time.

"One thing that happened in 2006 that hadn't been seen much before was the loss
of (ad) inventory in markets with a lot of contentious races," says Leo
Kivijarv, PQ Media vice president of research. "Cable was one of the first
places candidates shifted their dollars to."

Voters may be less sanguine. "If you're in those states that are contentious,"
says Kivijarv, "you're going to be sick of politics and political ads."

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, Color, Sam Ward, USA TODAY (ILLUSTRATION)
GRAPHIC, B/W, Marcy E. Mullins, USA TODAY, Source: PQ Media (BAR GRAPH)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COVER STORY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              248 of 268 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           September 4, 2007 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

'Clean tech' eyes green (as in cash)

BYLINE: Russ Juskalian

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 458 words


The Clean Tech Revolution

By Ron Pernick and Clint Wilder

Collins, 320 pages, $26.95

---

The Clean Tech Revolution is a bit of an odd duck as far as clean energy books
go, but strangely wonderful.

Don't expect incessant warnings about rising sea levels and decimated coral
reefs. Instead, the book reads like an enthralling investment newsletter, minus
the "sign up now, and we'll show you how to make 1,000% profit in six months"
pitches.

Readers constantly will come across "Aha!" moments.

The Clean Tech Revolution is one of the few instances in this genre that shows
the green movement not in heartstring terms but as economically profitable.

Consider this: "In China, 200 million people in 40 million homes heat their
water with solar power, and it's not because they decided to do something about
global warming. It's because the heaters in the world's biggest solar hot water
market sell for as little as $160."

The real power players in the back-to-the-earth movement are the mainstream
consumers, investors, entrepreneurs, governments and multinational corporations
whose eyes are trained on that most crucial of economic fundamentals: the bottom
line.

That, at least, is the message behind The Clean Tech Revolution by Ron Pernick
and Clint Wilder. Pernick is a cofounder of Clean Edge, a clean energy research
firm. Wilder is a technology and business journalist who contributes to Clean
Edge.

They look at the profit potential of the new, international focus on sustainable
energy (solar, hydroelectric, biomass/biofuel, wind) and energy efficiency.

This movement is "the next big growth and investment opportunity," the authors
say. It's that simple: turns out that what's good for business is aligned with
what's good for the environment.

The Clean Tech Revolution is broken into chapters on what the authors believe
are the eight main sectors of clean tech -- from solar and wind energy, to green
buildings, to smart electric grids and water filtration.

The "Breakthrough Opportunity" sidebars detail certain technological or social
tipping points to look for, after which the authors expect to see a sudden shift
in growth or investment opportunities. The classic example: a point in the
future when consumer costs for solar panels drop below $2 per watt.

"The Clean-Tech Consumer" sidebars give suggestions that help buyers right now
-- for example, the benefits of tankless water heaters. At the end of each
chapter is a "Ten To Watch" list, covering 10 companies (from start-ups to major
players, such as General Electric) in the vanguard of clean tech.

There is one caveat: The introduction is mostly dry and threatens to turn away
some readers. If you're one of these folks, skip it -- the rest is too good to
let a wonky intro get in the way.

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              251 of 268 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           September 14, 2007 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Slippery slope for U.S. sewers: Age, rains, funding shortfalls a bad mix

BYLINE: Lynn Hicks

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 559 words


Recent flooding in the Midwest has brought to the surface another crisis
involving the nation's aging infrastructure: Heavy rains regularly overwhelm
sewer systems, causing lake and river pollution.

Overtaxed sewer systems send 860 billion gallons of raw or partially treated
sewage each year into the nation's waterways, according to the Environmental
Protection Agency. The problem of aging sewers --  some cities have sewage pipes
that are 50 to 100 years old, the EPA says -- is growing worse as federal
funding for repairs has fallen, according to the American Society of Civil
Engineers.

The society gave the nation's wastewater treatment plants a grade of D-minus in
its latest Report Card for American's Infrastructure. That 2005 grade was down
from a D in the previous report in 2001.

A draft EPA report says cities should prepare for overflows to worsen, as
climate change may lead to more rain and snow in the Great Lakes area and the
Northeast.

The environmental group American Rivers estimates the nation's sewage systems
need $390 billion worth of work over the next 20 years. Local officials,
however, say residents balk at the cost.

"A lot of cities don't want to borrow to do this work," said Kevin Baskins,
spokesman for the Iowa Department of Natural Resources.

About 50 Iowa cities and towns piped waste directly into rivers and streams last
month, during the state's wettest August on record, Baskins said. Although
diverting waste is illegal, he said, cities have little choice unless they were
to let waste back up into basements.

Wet weather has overwhelmed many other sewer systems:

*St. Louis. Federal and state environmental regulators sued the city's sewer
district in June, alleging that 500 million gallons of raw sewage overflowed
into the Mississippi River and its tributaries from 2000 through 2005. Lance
LeComb, spokesman for the Metropolitan St. Louis Sewer District, said the
district already has spent $1.3 billion to fix problems.

*New York City. Elliot Sander, chief executive of the Metropolitan
Transportation Authority, says heavy rain regularly overwhelms the city's aging
sewer lines, dumping contaminants in streets and waterways.

*Wisconsin. Duane Schuettpelz, chief of the wastewater section at the state
Department of Natural Resources, estimates that 25 to 50 communities will report
sewer overflows from late summer rains.

The EPA says combined sewer systems, which carry both waste and storm runoff,
serve about 770 communities containing about 40 million people, mostly in the
Northeast, the Great Lakes area and the Pacific Northwest. The EPA is pushing
cities to replace their combined systems with separate lines.

"It's a difficult issue to address because of the amounts of money and the time
needed to fix that many miles of sewer," said Kevin Weiss of the EPA's Office of
Wastewater Management.

Critics say the federal government has shirked its responsibility to help cities
with such costs. Bills under consideration in Congress would increase funding.
Without federal and state help, cities face an unacceptable choice, said Josh
Klein, organizer of the Act for Healthy Rivers project for American Rivers.

"Of course no one wants sewage in their basements, but no one wants sewage in
their rivers, either," he said.

Hicks reports for The Des Moines Register. Contributing: Perry Beeman, The Des
Moines Register.

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Tony Dejak, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              252 of 268 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           September 18, 2007 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

In credit crunch, location matters;
California, N.Y. and other areas with expensive homes are feeling it. Elsewhere?
Not as much.

BYLINE: Kathy Chu

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 2021 words


You've heard about how the credit crunch has made it harder for many types of
buyers to afford a home or qualify for a mortgage.

First-time buyers. Those moving up to larger homes. Buyers with marred credit or
little cash for down payments. Those in pricey areas who need "jumbo" loans
exceeding $417,000.

"If you're going to get a loan today, in comparison to six months ago, you'll
have to bring more money down, better documentation and better credit
characteristics to get the same terms," says Doug Duncan, chief economist of the
Mortgage Bankers Association.

But here's what you might not realize: The impact isn't the same everywhere. It
all depends on where you live.

A crackdown on subprime loans -- higher-rate loans to buyers with poor credit --
is hitting people especially hard in places such as Riverside, Calif., and
Miami, where buyers rely heavily on such products. In those cities, about one in
five outstanding loans are subprime, compared with one in nearly seven loans
nationwide, says First American LoanPerformance, an analysis firm.

Meanwhile, buyers with jumbo loans are getting slammed with higher rates. In
costly areas -- think New York, Los Angeles, San Francisco -- many buyers with
such loans are suffering.

In the six weeks that ended Sept.5, the average jumbo rate rose to 7.38% from
7.03%, even as rates on loans below $417,000 fell to 6.5% from 6.75%,
Bankrate.com says. Jumbo rates fell to 7.2% last week.

The credit crunch is likely to wreak the most havoc in California, Nevada,
Florida, Hawaii, Arizona and New York, because relatively high home prices there
have led many buyers to subprime, no-documentation or jumbo loans, says Thomas
Lawler of Lawler Economic & Housing Consulting.

But in lower-cost areas -- such as Des Moines; Lincoln, Neb.; Sioux Falls, S.D.;
and Bismarck, N.D. -- the mood is, What credit crunch?

States such as North Dakota and South Dakota, with less exposure to such loans,
are barely feeling the pinch of stricter lending rules, according to Lawler's
Mortgage Index of Pain, which gauges the effect of tightening credit.

The index is based on the idea that the more a state's residents rely on
non-traditional loans -- and to a lesser extent, jumbo loans -- the more severe
its likely fall in sales and prices.

Not many folks in Sioux Falls (median home price: $142,300), for example, need
jumbo or no-down-payment loans. Only 1% of all loans there are jumbos, First
American LoanPerformance says.

Here's a look at how the credit crunch is affecting buyers in metro areas across
the USA:

New York  Big down payments

Harold McKoy began house shopping in Yonkers, N.Y., two months ago. He quickly
learned that easy credit is history.

Unlike in many other parts of the nation, high demand for real estate in much of
the New York City area is propping up housing prices, making it especially
difficult for first-time buyers such as McKoy.

"I've heard that you need a preapproval (for a loan) before some agents will
even show you the house," McKoy, 37, said after touring a bungalow one recent
Sunday with his girlfriend and his two sons.

McKoy is preapproved for a loan but knows that won't save him if the lender
changes its terms. He's heard some lenders are demanding larger down payments at
the last minute. "I'm not so much worried about getting a loan," he says. "I'm
concerned about ... whether it'll be enough to get the house I want."

John Piazza, a broker in Yorktown Heights, N.Y., says, "In many cases now, (when
a deal) has gone close to closing, the bank has pulled out and said, 'We don't
have that program,' or they ask you to put more money down."

Peter Pellegri of Peekskill, N.Y., blames the credit crunch, in part, for losing
out on a house a few weeks ago. He and his wife, LuAnn, had been preapproved for
a loan. But it required that they first sell their condo -- a task that's become
harder in a sputtering market.

"Four years ago, when we bought our condo," Pellegri recalls, "we didn't need a
mortgage commitment, just a preapproval."

In West Harrison, N.Y., Liz Weber, who had rented an apartment for six years,
decided in April to buy a house. She was preapproved for a no-money-down loan.
She soon found a fixer-upper in Danbury, Conn., a tad more than an hour's
commute from Manhattan.

Then lenders began pulling back on no-money-down loans, which first-time buyers
like her have relied on to afford a house in the New York area. She feared her
own deal would fall through.

"Buying your first home is very scary, but knowing your loan may not exist by
the time you close is a whole different level of fear," says Weber, 35. "Up
until the moment I got the key, I was nervous."

San Francisco The hunt for bargains

The frenzied bidding that made the San Francisco area one of the nation's most
expensive real estate markets has waned, but demand remains high as
professionals and technology workers hunt for houses. Many, though, are seeking
lower-priced homes, borrowing cash from family or waiting and hoping that
interest rates will fall.

The mortgage crunch is squeezing Jeff King, a homeowner and general contractor
in San Francisco. King and his wife, Margot Beall, were among dozens of families
who flocked to open houses recently in the Richmond District suburb of San
Francisco, a short drive from the Golden Gate Bridge.

They own a three-bedroom home in the neighborhood, but they want a bigger house
as their two preschool-age kids grow up.

King says he's "very nervous" about the financial climate. He has an
adjustable-rate loan at 5.25% that will jump to a higher rate in two or three
years and jack up his payments. "I wish we had gotten a 30-year, fixed-rate
mortgage," says King, a remodeling contractor.

At the same time, higher rates on jumbo loans will make it tougher to afford a
larger home in a neighborhood where three- and four-bedroom houses range from $1
million to $2 million. "We may need to stay put," King says.

Rhoda Wynn, 33, a surgeon, moved to Silicon Valley two years ago and rents an
apartment. She's been house hunting for three months and has seen town houses
for $600,000 to $1 million. Wynn can't afford a big down payment, and the higher
jumbo rates would swell her loan payments.

Two lenders have preapproved her for a jumbo and a smaller, second loan that
would get her a town house for about $700,000.

"The increase in interest rates obviously erodes your buying power," she says.
"I'm discouraged by the mortgage situation, but I hope it thins the ranks of
buyers and reduces the competition."

Central Florida coast Trying to avoid a jumbo

In Satellite Beach, Fla., Michael and Debra Chapon are trying to take advantage
of a slow real estate market to get a good deal. They're targeting modest homes
on canals priced at $400,000 to $600,000.

They've spotted potentially good deals in the Waterway Estates area on the
barrier island, where sailboat masts poke up behind single-story pastel homes.
From his home office in a rental house, Michael Chapon is plotting how to
bargain with a seller to avoid having to get a jumbo loan of more than $417,000.

"There's a lot of stuff listed in the $500s that really should be down in the
$300s," says Chapon, 48. "We would prefer to be in something sooner rather than
later, but we can afford to wait."

For the Chapons, soaring costs for hurricane insurance and property taxes are a
particular concern. "You get into the $500,000 range, and you get a
$8,000-to-$10,000-a-year insurance bill and a $8,000-to-$10,000 tax bill before
you even pay the loan," says Chapon, a supervisor for a general contractor.

Fortunately, he says, Florida's home (and mortgage) market has been so slow
lately that some banks seem eager to write loans. Lenders in central Florida are
advertising 30-year jumbo-loan rates of 6.5% to 7.85%, compared with 30-year
conventional mortgages with rates of 5.95% to 6.55%.

Sioux Falls, S.D. What crunch?

Sioux Falls, a city of 148,000 with median household income of less than
$60,000, is among the many small and midsize markets across the nation that are
smiling with relative contentment these days.

They were never that swept up by the real estate boom, and they aren't squeezed
much by the credit crunch now. Real estate pros in Sioux Falls point to a
stable, low-cost housing market where buyers tend to stay within their means.

Subprime loans? Jumbo mortgages? Not very common in Sioux Falls. "We're not like
Phoenix or Las Vegas or San Diego," says Jay Zea, a Sioux Falls real estate
broker. "Those places are where the housing went berserk, and the appreciation
went wild, and then there were job losses and foreclosures.

"In cities like Sioux Falls, if borrowers have decent credit and a standard down
payment, they're not having any problem."

When Ryan Karst and his wife, Kara, began hunting for their first home in nearby
Tea, S.D., "We knew what our limits were," says Ryan, 25, an insurance agent.
For the $150,000 house they bought in January, the Karsts got a 30-year,
fixed-rate loan without denting their budget. "It's nice being in a market that
doesn't fluctuate with the rest of the country," Ryan says.

In Sioux Falls, Zea says, "There's only a (credit) crackdown if people don't
have any cash" and try to buy the priciest home in town. Then, "you might have a
problem."

Washington, D.C., area Lenders changing terms

The federal government's stable employment and higher incomes have somewhat
cushioned the effects of the mortgage crunch on the Washington area. Still,
tightened lending standards have especially hit the region's large immigrant and
minority communities.

Guadalupe Romero, 35, figured falling home values in the Washington area would
let her realize her dream of owning a home. She has been renting since arriving
from El Salvador 17 years ago.

But soon after finding a $290,000 town house in Woodbridge, Va., Romero, a
dental assistant, faced a tightening mortgage market. Romero and her boyfriend,
Jose Escolero, have solid credit scores but can't afford much of a down payment
or high loan payments.

Last month, their lender told them they qualified for a no-down-payment,
interest-only loan. Days later, the lender wanted an extra $400 a month to be
paid toward the loan's principal. "That's something I cannot afford," Romero
says.

Another lender will let her pay interest only -- with a 5% down payment.
"There's no way I can get $15,000," Romero says. For now, she and her family,
including her son, Jorge, 9, are living with her sister, their dream on hold.

On Capitol Hill, Terry Heubert, 31, and his fiancee wanted to move from his tiny
condo and buy a $639,000 town house. With condo values depressed, they decided
to keep the unit and rent it out. But they needed a no-down-payment jumbo loan
to get the town house.

They thought they had one until the rate on jumbos rose from 6.8% to beyond 8%
within two days last month. The couple no longer could afford the mortgage.

Heubert's broker persuaded the couple to kick in a 5% down payment, which
qualified them for a jumbo rate of 6.5%. To come up with it, Heubert refinanced
the loan on his condo and drew out the equity. Refinancing that loan at a higher
rate raised Heubert's payment by $300 a month. "We were kicking ourselves,
thinking, 'That's $300 more a month we could have had in our pocket,'" he says.

Los Angeles area More tight restrictions

Like Romero, Rocky Keever of Los Angeles was dinged by the credit crunch when a
lender suddenly changed a loan's rules.

In mid-April, Keever and his wife, Hannah, decided to rent out his condo and buy
a $990,000 loft.  Ten days before the deal was to close, he says, the lender
changed the terms. It would no longer let him buy the loft without selling the
condo first. With the loft's builder unwilling to wait, the deal fizzled. "They
(had) approved me 100%," says Keever, 27. "It fell apart because they tightened
restrictions."

Now, he and Hannah have decided to stay put. "I got caught in the credit
crunch," Keever says.

Contributing: Edward Iwata in San Francisco; Matt Reed of Florida Today in
Melbourne, Fla.; Stu Whitney of the Argus Leader in Sioux Falls; Paul Davidson
in Washington; and Chris Woodyard in Los Angeles.

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, Color, Julia Schmalz and J. Ford Huffman, USA TODAY
(Illustration)
PHOTO, B/W, Robert Deutsch, USA TODAY

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COVER STORY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              268 of 268 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 28, 2007 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Protect environment for future generations

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 247 words


USA TODAY's front page story "Fertility rate in USA on upswing" should be a
reason for sadness, not celebration (News, Dec. 20).

The article mentions economics and family policies as reasons for the increasing
fertility rate. But more Americans need to think about bringing children into an
industrialized nation that doesn't respect the environment.

Industrialized countries are responsible for most of the greenhouse gases and
global warming on this planet. The United States, producer of a massive amount
of greenhouse gases, is leading our planet toward environmental collapse. The
sooner we in the USA can reduce our numbers, the better the chances of survival
for our planet, and us with it.

Larry Dansinger

Monroe, Maine

Policies don't solve all

USA TODAY's article on fertility quotes Jose Antonio Ortega, head of the
fertility section of the United Nations' Population Division. He ties birth rate
to family-friendly government policies and finds it strange that the United
States has a higher fertility rate than Europe because of Europe's nationalized
health care.

But what about how people's faith factors into fertility rates? It seems to me
that religious people have more children, and this is worth considering when
comparing the USA with Europe.

The bottom line is that governments cannot solve everything. No matter how
family-friendly Europe's policies might be, Europeans eventually will not be
able to sustain them if they don't increase their populace.

Chris Reidy

Tucson

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2007 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved
