
                               8 of 169 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           January 10, 2018 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

After year of disasters, Gore still has hope for climate;
The world is on cusp of revolution, he says

BYLINE: Sammy Roth, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 741 words


Millions of lives in Florida, Puerto Rico, Texas and elsewhere were upended by
hurricanes, and tens of thousands of Californians lost their homes or businesses
in wildfires in 2017.

Last year, President Trump mocked climate science on Twitter and rejected an
international climate change agreement,  and his administration began undoing
dozens of regulations meant to slow the rise in global temperatures.

Despite all that, Al Gore is optimistic.

In an interview with USA TODAY at the Palm Springs International Film Festival,
which screened his new film, An Inconvenient Sequel: Truth to Power, this week,
Gore pointed to what he called signs of progress.

India plans to sell only electric vehicles by 2030 and generate staggering
amounts of solar and wind power over the next five years. China is launching a
national carbon trading program to limit pollution. Norway's $1 trillion
sovereign wealth fund -- the world's biggest investment fund -- plans to sell
its $37billion worth of shares in oil and gas companies.

Driven by rapidly falling prices of solar and wind power and by forward-looking
governments in countries such as India and China, the world has finally reached
a technological tipping point in the battle against climate change, Gore said.
The world is at the beginning of "a sustainability revolution that has the
magnitude of the Industrial Revolution but the speed of the digital revolution,"
the former vice president said.

"We saw it with the marriage equality movement. We saw it earlier with the civil
rights movement. All these movements have bumped along very slowly with an
agonizingly slow pace, and then all of a sudden there's an inflection, and
people say, 'Oh, I get it,'" Gore said. "We're at that point now with efforts to
solve the climate crisis."

Federal scientists reported Monday that 2017 marked America's third-hottest year
on record and contained 16 separate weather and climate disasters that each
caused losses exceeding $1billion, including Hurricanes Harvey, Irma and Maria
and the California wildfires. The damage from those disasters totaled a
record-breaking $306 billion. Though scientists don't attribute all those
disasters to human-caused climate change, they said human influence probably
played a role in worsening many of them.

Gore compared watching the nightly news to "a nature hike through the Book of
Revelation."

"People are connecting the dots on their own," he said.

Gore's new film says hardly anything about Trump, even though its release came
six months after he took office. Instead, Gore and the filmmakers focus on
reasons for hope: the growth of solar and wind power and the Paris climate
agreement signed by nearly every country in 2015.

Gore said the Trump presidency has been "less consequential than I feared it
would be." He had been concerned other countries would follow Trump's lead in
exiting the Paris deal.

"The entire rest of the world stood up and said, 'We're still in the Paris
agreement.' Some countries doubled down on it. California and quite a few other
states said, 'We're still in.' Hundreds of cities, thousands of businesses, and
the U.S. is now going to exceed its commitments under the Paris agreement
regardless of Trump."

Still, Gore said he's painfully aware that more must be done to avoid the worst
consequences of climate change.

Earth is nearly 2 degrees Fahrenheit warmer than it was before the Industrial
Revolution, when people started pumping large amounts of heat-trapping gases
into the atmosphere. The Paris agreement set a goal of limiting the warming to
no more than 3.6 degrees, but scientists fear that's slipping out of reach.
Staying under that limit was based on countries committing to more ambitious
targets every few years, which may be more difficult without the United States
at the table.

"I don't think it's ever too late to recapture its position of leadership, but a
great deal of damage has been done to the reputation of the U.S. in the rest of
the world," Gore said. "And many countries are now beginning to plan as if they
can't rely on U.S. leadership.

"I don't think it's too late. But I think we need a new president," he said.

Gore said one election isn't enough to turn the tide on climate change. He
harshly criticized the "cottage industry of climate denial" and said the United
States is "unique in all the nations of the world in having this persistent
climate denial movement that is financed by the large carbon polluters."

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Zoe Meyers/The Desert Sun

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2018 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              10 of 169 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            March 28, 2018 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

To save its ice, hockey is thinking green

BYLINE: Erik Brady, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 841 words


Hockey features glove saves, skate saves and stick saves -- though these are
nothing, really, next to the most audacious save on which the NHL has set its
sights:

Save the planet.

That may sound like a joke. What does hockey have to do with environmental
policy? Well, for one thing, the game is played on ice. And frozen ponds, where
so many of the league's players learned to skate, are in trouble. The average
length of the skating season may shrink by one-third in eastern Canada and by
20% in western Canada in coming decades.

That's according to research in the NHL's 2018 sustainability report, out
Wednesday morning. The report assesses the league's own environmental impact and
its commitment to fighting climate change.

Allen Hershkowitz, founding director and chairman of the Board of Sport and
Sustainability International, credits the NHL for using that term -- "climate
change" -- after the Trump administration announced in June that the U.S. would
walk away from the 195-nation Paris climate accord and Environmental Protection
Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt said carbon dioxide is not a primary
contributor to global warming.

"It would be dishonest not to acknowledge that the report is coming out when the
world is facing the most challenging political climate in the United States as
it relates to climate change policies," says Hershkowitz, whose non-governmental
organization has members in more than 50 countries.

Leagues prefer to stay far away from controversy  so they don't alienate  fans.
Just  look at the NFL, where players kneeling for the national anthem last
season caused considerable outcry.

Hershkowitz says climate change is about science, not politics. Even so, does
the NHL worry about disaffecting  fans who may think otherwise?

"What I would say is, when we do this work, we try to do it as apolitically as
possible," says Omar Mitchell, NHL vice president for corporate social
responsibility. "Because at the end of the day, as our commissioner would say,
this is the right thing to do."

More than a dozen federal agencies issued a report late last year that said
humans are the dominant cause of a rise in global temperatures that has led to
the warmest period in the history of civilization. That report said global
average temperatures have increased 1.8 degrees Fahrenheit over the past 115
years.

That's a period of time that encompasses the rise of hockey. The NHL celebrated
its centennial in 2017 -- and it wants to be around for its bicentennial.

"How we think about our environment and how we think about sustainability is
going to be a critical element in making sure our sport has a future," says Kim
Davis, NHL executive vice president of social impact, growth initiatives and
legislative affairs.

The NHL's report is voluntary. "And what gives the report its teeth is that we
did a carbon inventory" of the league's own environmental impact, Mitchell says.
"Hockey is a very energy-intensive sport. Our analysis shows about 66% of our
carbon footprint is attributed to energy usage to create an ice sheet. So what
we are trying to do is to promote innovations that will lower energy consumption
within our buildings."

The league launched its NHL Green initiative in 2010 and released its first
sustainability report in 2014. Among highlights of this second report:

The NHL reduced energy consumption 1% from fiscal year 2014 to fiscal year 2016.

The NHL decreased water consumption 7% from fiscal year 2015 to fiscal year
2016.

The NHL reduced CO2 emissions by 2% year-over-year from fiscal year 2014 to
fiscal year 2016.

"The single most important thing the NHL has done is measure, and refine the
measurement protocol, for professional sports," Hershkowitz says. "It can't be
understated how important that is, (measuring) energy use, water use and waste
generation at arenas that you don't own and that you occupy for only a fraction
of the time."

Scott Jenkins is general manager of Mercedes-Benz Stadium in Atlanta and
chairman of the Green Sports Alliance, which includes nearly 500 sports teams
and venues from 15 sports leagues in 14 countries. He says sports teams are in
favorable positions to influence the broader culture on environmental concerns
and to show that being environmentally sensitive is good for business.

"We can't afford to live on the sidelines," Jenkins says. "We have to get in the
game."

Which brings us back to frozen ponds. The NHL's sustainability report tells of
RinkWatch, which encourages citizens to monitor outdoor rinks and ponds in their
neighborhoods. The initiative was launched by researchers at Wilfrid Laurier
University in Waterloo, Ontario, in 2013. More than 1,400 rinks and ponds are
tracked to help scientists  study the long-term effects of climate change.

"If you trace (hockey) back to the sort of humble beginnings, particularly in
Canada, it all goes back to frozen ponds," Davis says. "A lot of NHL players
grew up playing hockey outdoors. It's such a critical part of the game, and it's
important that access remains available for future generations."

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2018 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              11 of 169 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             July 24, 2018 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Climate change linked to suicides;
Study suggests rates could rise with temps

BYLINE: Doyle Rice, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 659 words


Rising temperatures linked to human-caused climate change could lead to
increasing suicide rates in the United States and Mexico, a study suggested
Monday.

By comparing historical temperature and suicide data going back decades,
researchers found a strong correlation between warm weather and increased
suicides, according to a report published in Nature Climate Change, a
peer-reviewed British journal.

Researchers have known for centuries that conflict and violence tend to peak
during warmer months.

"Now we see that in addition to hurting others, some individuals hurt
themselves," said Solomon Hsiang, study co-author from the University of
California-Berkeley. "It appears that heat profoundly affects the human mind and
how we decide to inflict harm."

The study found climate change could lead to 9,000 to 44,000 additional suicides
across the United States and Mexico by 2050.

"This may be the first decisive evidence that climate change will have a
substantial effect on mental health in the United States and Mexico, with tragic
human costs," Hsiang said.

The study found suicide rates increase 0.7 percent in U.S. counties for each
1.8-degree  increase in monthly average temperature.

"The thousands of additional suicides that are likely to occur as a result of
unmitigated climate change are not just a number, they represent tragic losses
for families across the country," said lead author Marshall Burke of Stanford
University.

In the United States, suicides claim nearly 45,000 lives a year, twice the
number of homicides, and they are the 10th-leading cause of death. Suicide rates
in the U.S. have risen nearly 30percent since 1999, according to a report in
June from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.

Globally, about 800,000 people die as a result of suicide every year, the World
Health Organization said.

"Suicide is one of the leading causes of death globally, and suicide rates in
the U.S. have risen dramatically over the last 15 years," Burke said. "So better
understanding the causes of suicide is a public health priority."

Mental health experts caution other factors should be considered when studying
suicide rates.

Medication, prescription costs and  the economy are key parts of the equation,
said Daniel  Reidenberg, executive director of Suicide Awareness Voices of
Education, a non-profit organization.

"If in fact suicide rates were truly corresponding to the temperature, would
that suggest that we keep people who are suicidal in cooler climates or
temperature-controlled settings, and that would reduce the risk of their death?"
Reidenberg said.

Study co-author Burke said hotter temperatures are "clearly not the only, nor
the most important, risk factor for suicide."

"But our findings suggest that warming can have a surprisingly large impact on
suicide risk, and this matters for both our understanding of mental health as
well as for what we should expect as temperatures continue to warm," he said.

The  past three years have been the globe's hottest on record, the National
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration said, just as carbon dioxide levels are
at their highest in 800,000 years.

A study last year in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences found
that "warming temperature trends over the last three decades have already been
responsible for over 59,000 suicides throughout India."

Looking at social media, the authors found higher monthly temperatures also were
associated with an increased use of "depressive language" on Twitter. Looking at
more than a half-billion Twitter posts, they found that tweets contain language
such as "lonely," "trapped" or "suicidal" more often during hot spells.

Daniel J. Reidenberg, executive director of Suicide Awareness Voices of
Education, a non-profit organization dedicated to preventing suicide, raised
some red flags about the study. He said  the authors should have considered
other variables such as medication, prescription costs and economic factors.

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2018 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              15 of 169 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           January 18, 2018 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Nuclear threat is rising, global risks report says

BYLINE: Kim Hjelmgaard, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 454 words


Nuclear war, cyberattacks and environmental disasters top the list of man-made
threats to global stability in 2018, according to a survey of 1,000
international leaders from business, government, education and service groups.

The chance of another global financial meltdown has ebbed because of economic
expansions  happening worldwide, the annual World Economic Forum's Global Risks
Report found. It was released Wednesday ahead of the forum's meeting next week
in Davos, Switzerland.

Mother Nature topped the risks facing the world for a second straight year, the
survey showed. That includes natural disasters and extreme weather  that
human-caused climate change may be abetting.

The risk of nuclear war climbed up the list of concerns as a result of North
Korean leader Kim Jong Un's tests of ballistic missiles and nuclear weapons and
President Trump's  vows to annihilate North Korea if it launches an attack.

A near-unanimous 93% of respondents expect a worsening of "political or economic
confrontations/frictions between major powers" this year. Nearly 80% believe
risks associated with "state-on-state military conflict or incursion" and
"regional conflicts drawing in major powers" will be higher than in years past.

Trump will join other world and business leaders in the Swiss Alpine resort Jan.
23-26 for the forum, where he is scheduled to give the closing address,
organizers said.

Klaus Schwab, the forum's founder, said one big  debate will be "the future of
global cooperation related to trade, environment, the fight against terrorism,
tax systems, competitiveness."

"In this context it's absolutely essential to have President Trump with us," he
said. Trump has alienated some other world leaders with his preference for a
go-it-alone approach rather than embracing joint international efforts to deal
with problems.

Extreme weather in 2017 included three major Atlantic hurricanes -- Harvey, Irma
and Maria -- that caused a record $200 billion in damage.

Record high temperatures struck southern Europe, eastern and southern Africa,
South America and parts of Russia and China. Last year, Trump withdrew the U.S.
from the Paris Climate Accord that aims to reduce carbon emissions blamed for
global warming.

The greatest concerns for North American business leaders are cyberattacks,
terrorism, asset bubbles, fiscal crises and the failure of adapting to climate
change.

"Humanity has become remarkably adept at understanding how to mitigate
conventional risks that can be relatively easily isolated," the report said.
"But we are much less competent when it comes to dealing with complex risks in
the interconnected systems that underpin our world, such as organizations,
economies, societies and the environment."

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2018 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              18 of 169 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             May 16, 2018 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Hurricane Harvey's record rain tied directly to warmer Gulf

BYLINE: Doyle Rice, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 265 words


Record warm water in the Gulf of Mexico fueled the historic rainfall from
Hurricane Harvey last August, according to a  study that  found man-made climate
change was partly to blame.

More than 5 feet of rain  from Harvey in southeast Texas triggered  flooding
that killed 89 people, caused more than $126 billion in damage, displaced more
than 30,000 people and damaged or destroyed more than 200,000 homes and
businesses.

The heat in the Gulf last August, just before Hurricane Harvey, was the highest
ever recorded, scientists said.

"We show, for the first time, that the volume of rain over land corresponds to
the amount of water evaporated from the unusually warm ocean," said lead author
Kevin Trenberth of the National Center for Atmospheric Research. Seawater in the
Gulf was nearly 86 degrees, which helped boost Harvey's rainfall.

In other words, according to The Washington Post's Capital Weather Gang, the
study found that the amount of heat stored in the ocean is directly related to
how much rain a storm can unload. Harvey's rain was the most a single storm had
dumped on the USA in recorded history.

"Warmer oceans increased the risk of greater hurricane intensity and duration,"
Trenberth said. One of the main ingredients in hurricane formation is seawater
of at least 80 degrees.

"Harvey could not have produced so much rain without human-induced climate
change," the study said.

More troubling is that the record warm water  could be a harbinger of future
storms. "As climate change continues to heat the oceans, we can expect more
supercharged storms like Harvey," Trenberth said.

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2018 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              26 of 169 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            November 5, 2018 Monday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Opposing view: 'A costly, unfair and ineffective tax'

BYLINE: Bob Edwards

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 376 words


Voters in Washington state are asking themselves an important question: Should
one of the cleanest, greenest states in the nation saddle itself with billions
in new energy taxes for a badly written measure that will have no impact on
climate change?

Initiative 1631 is a deeply flawed, unfairly drafted energy tax that would force
Washington families, small businesses, farmers and consumers to pay higher costs
for gasoline, heating fuels, electricity and natural gas as well as for goods
and services.

It would impose a $15 fee per ton on certain carbon emissions beginning in 2020,
increasing by $2 each year plus inflation, quadrupling within 15 years, with no
limit on how high it could go.

A state analysis shows that the initiative  would increase energy taxes by $2.3
billion in the first five years alone.

This tax would especially hurt low-income and fixed-income households, seniors
and working families who can least afford to pay more. The fact that the measure
includes language purporting to mitigate these impacts is further evidence of
the regressive nature of the proposal. It would also damage our state's economy.

A study by National Economic Research Associates consulting firm found that the
$30 billion in new taxes collected over 15 years would cost the equivalent of
21,300 jobs and reduce the gross state product by $5.3 billion. Gasoline prices
would increase by 13cents per gallon in the first year alone, increasing
annually with no cap, adding up to 59 cents more per gallon within 15 years.

All told, the firm estimates total costs per household at $440 in 2020,
increasing to $990 by 2035.

Finally, the initiative provides no specific spending plan, too little
accountability and no requirements to reduce greenhouse gases. It gives an
unelected board of political appointees a blank check to spend billions as they
choose, without real legislative oversight or accountability to voters.

The initiative is a costly, unfair and ineffective tax that would damage our
state's economy and would block the pathway to meaningful climate policy. On
Tuesday, Washingtonians should reject 1631.

Bob Edwards is past president of the Association of Washington Cities, the Port
of Seattle Board of Commissioners and the Puget Sound Regional Council.

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2018 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              28 of 169 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           January 17, 2018 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Trump's job review, from Putin with love

BYLINE: Steven Strauss

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 680 words


Dear Donald:

Sincere thanks from Russia's leadership for your unstinting work on our behalf.
We realized, when preparing this one-year performance review, that you have done
so much for us -- including your verbal attacks on U.S. allies while singing my
praises, encouraging racial and religious animosity among Americans, dismantling
the State Department, undermining the FBI, NATO and NAFTA and much more -- we
could only highlight your major successes.

You've devastated America's ability to lead the world, and draw on allies for
support, even faster than we thought possible. This couldn't have gone better.
Across 37 countries, Pew Research reported confidence in the U.S. presidency
dropped from a median of 64% under President Obama to 22% under you. The
confidence of key U.S. allies plummeted even more dramatically.

You're also doing a fantastic job steering America into a major conflict.
Instead of trying to avoid a disastrous nuclear war with North Korea, your team
openly speculates that military action might be necessary. What a great way to
send North Korea's paranoid, nuclear-armed leader  over the edge! With a bit
more bellicosity, you could trigger a clash that devastates America's ally South
Korea and lands a nuclear strike against a major U.S. city. And we're pleased
you're keeping your options open for a war with Iran.

You're a genius at convincing your base you put "America First" while you
severely damage U.S. interests. Your decision to recognize Jerusalem as Israel's
capital didn't benefit America, but did anger the countries that buy U.S.
exports. So much for putting U.S. trade and jobs first! Your Jerusalem gesture
resulted in America's absolute humiliation at the United Nations --
demonstrating you've made the U.S. impotent in international diplomacy.

At your insistence, America withdrew from the Paris climate accords, isolating
the United States internationally. In just the past year, the U.S. had several
major climate-related disasters, resulting in damages in excess of $200 billion.
But you've staffed your administration with climate change skeptics who often
have no scientific background! You've adeptly set the stage to further weaken an
unprepared USA through future climate disasters.

The consensus is that your new Tax Cuts and Jobs Act will do little to increase
U.S. economic growth, but (by adding substantially to budget deficits) it will
further enfeeble the U.S. government. Even better, from our perspective, is the
act's attack on one of America's great strengths -- its research universities.
Currently, 11 of the world's top 20 universities are American. They contribute
significantly to keeping the U.S. a world leader in technology. The legislation
imposed (for the first time) a tax on some of America's most successful research
universities. Please use your anti-intellectual GOP to do even more damage to
them. Hopefully, you'll destroy them as successfully as you've destroyed respect
for America!

Your most significant achievement is normalizing Russian interference in U.S.
politics. Your GOP is openly called the Party of Putin, and an increasing
percentage of Republicans view Russia favorably. GOP  lawmakers are sending a
clear message to the FBI that it should not be investigating our activities.
Meanwhile, you're doing nothing to protect America's upcoming elections from our
manipulations. Excellent!

Of course, the year wasn't perfect. The U.S. Congress did make a show of voting
additional sanctions against Russia (we've noted this happened despite your
objections and your delayed implementation). We understand that occasional token
gestures are necessary to maintain the facade of U.S. independence from Russia's
orbit. However, keep these setbacks to the bare minimum!

Overall,  your first year in office has been outstanding. We have hopes that by
the end of your presidency, you will have completely destroyed America.

-- President Vladimir Putin

Steven Strauss, a member of USA TODAY's Board of Contributors, is a lecturer and
visiting professor at Princeton University's Woodrow Wilson School.

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: graphic

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2018 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              29 of 169 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            October 19, 2018 Friday
                                A CHASE EDITION

Forecasters say El Nio will keep cold under control

BYLINE: Doyle Rice, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 463 words


It won't be long until we're talking gloves, ice storms and snowmen. How bad
will the weather be this winter?

Warmer-than-average temperatures for most of the nation are expected, according
to federal forecasters from the Climate Prediction Center in their official
winter weather forecast released Thursday.

This is primarily due to a developing El Niño, a natural climate pattern defined
as unusually warm seawater in the central Pacific Ocean. It affects weather
patterns in the USA and around the world.

Warmer-than-normal temperatures are forecast "across much of the northern and
western U.S., with the greatest likelihood in Alaska and from the Pacific
Northwest to the northern Plains," Mike Halpert, deputy director of the
prediction center, said in a statement.

No part of the USA is favored to have below-average temperatures, Halpert said.
As for the Southeast, Mid-Atlantic and Ohio Valley, there were no clear signals
for either above- or below-average temperatures this winter.

Although the pattern hasn't formed, the climate center said El Niño has a 70 to
75 percent chance of developing this year. "We expect El Niño to be in place in
late fall to early winter," Halpert said. A weak El Niño is expected, but "it
may still influence the winter season by bringing wetter conditions across the
southern United States and warmer, drier conditions to parts of the North," he
said.

The entire natural climate cycle is officially known as El Niño - Southern
Oscillation (ENSO), which swings between warmer and cooler seawater in the
tropical Pacific. The cycle is the primary factor government scientists consider
when announcing their winter weather forecast.

If the prediction comes true, it would continue a streak of unusually warm
winters that goes back to the winter of 2015-16.

As for precipitation, a wetter-than-normal winter is forecast across the
southern tier of the USA and up the East Coast into the Mid-Atlantic. Northern
Florida and southern Georgia have the greatest odds for above-average
precipitation this winter, the prediction center said.

The only parts of the country predicted to see an unusually dry winter are the
northern Rockies and northern Plains, as well as the Great Lakes region.

Halpert warned that even during a warmer-than-average winter, periods of cold
temperatures and snowfall are likely to occur.

This winter forecast does not specify how much precipitation will fall as rain,
snow or ice, only that more is likely overall. Snow forecasts depend upon the
strength and track of winter storms, which generally cannot be predicted more
than a week in advance, the center said.

Other large-scale climate patterns in the atmosphere aren't included in this
official forecast since they can't be predicted more than one or two weeks in
advance.

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2018 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              32 of 169 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           August 22, 2018 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

EPA plan would prolong life of coal plants;
Opponents say they'll sue to thwart proposal

BYLINE: Ledyard King, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 695 words


WASHINGTON - Aging coal-fired power plants could get a new lease on life under
an industry-friendly proposal by the Trump administration that would replace the
Clean Power Plan, former President Barack Obama's signature plan to confront
climate change.

Unveiled Tuesday, the Affordable Clean Energy (ACE) Rule would give states broad
latitude  in how they would regulate power  plants' greenhouse gas emissions
that contribute to global warming as well as other pollutants, such as smog,
soot and mercury.

"Today we are fulfilling the president's agenda. We are proposing a (plan) that
promotes affordable, clean and reliable energy for all Americans," Acting EPA
Administrator Andrew Wheeler told reporters Tuesday, adding that the Clean Power
Plan "exceeded the agency's legal authority."

But by the EPA's own admission, the proposal could lead to more than 1,000
premature deaths a year, a statistic opponents pounced on.

"With today's Dirty Power Plan proposal, the Trump EPA once again proves that it
cares more about extending the lives of old coal plants rather than saving the
lives of the American people," said Conrad Schneider, advocacy director of the
Clean Air Task Force.

Environmental groups and some states vowed to sue to stop the plan's
implementation, just as opponents of Obama's Clean Power Plan have done.

In a tweet, California Gov. Jerry Brown called the EPA proposal "a declaration
of war against America and all of humanity" that will not go unanswered.

The Clean Power Plan rule was finalized in 2015, mainly targeting coal-fired
power plants that account for nearly 40 percent of U.S. carbon dioxide
emissions. But it remains on hold under a Supreme Court stay pending the outcome
of a legal challenge from  states.

In October, then-EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt rolled it back, carrying out a
promise by Trump to push an energy agenda that encouraged the use of coal. The
president, who has called global warming "a hoax" perpetrated by China to gain a
competitive edge, wrote in a tweet May 18 that "we have ended the war on coal."

Aimed squarely at coal-fired power plants, Obama's proposal would require
existing power plants to cut harmful emissions  based on 2005 levels. By 2030,
the reduction would be 32 percent for carbon, 90 percent for sulfur dioxide and
72 percent for nitrogen oxides.

Wheeler called the Obama plan "overly prescriptive and burdensome" and said it
would have led to "double-digit" increases in electricity prices in up to 40
states, Wheeler told reporters on a conference call. EPA officials on the same
call said consumer prices will fall slightly under the Trump plan by 2025.

According to the EPA, the Trump plan would:

Define the "best system of emission reduction" for existing power plants as
on-site, heat-rate efficiency improvements.

Provide states with a list of "candidate technologies" that can be used to
establish standards of performance and be incorporated into their state plans.

Update the New Source Review permitting program to further encourage "efficiency
improvements" at existing power plants.

Give  "states adequate time and flexibility" to develop their own plans.

Jim Matheson, CEO of the National Rural Electric Cooperative Association, which
serves 42 million consumers nationwide, supports the plan.

"The proposed rule appears to provide electric cooperatives with a more
achievable plan that adheres to EPA's historic approach to using the Clean Air
Act," he said in a statement. "This is necessary to provide electric co-ops the
certainty and flexibility they need to meet their consumer-members' local energy
needs."

But environmental groups decried the plan as a sop to the coal industry at the
expense of public health and the  reality of climate change.

Gina McCarthy, former EPA administrator under Obama and an architect of the
Clean Power Plan, called the Trump administration's move "a huge gimme to
coal-fired power plants" by giving them a "free pass" to increase not just
carbon emissions but other unhealthy pollutants as well.

"They are continuing to play to their base, and they are following industry's
playbook step by step," she told reporters. "This is all about coal at all
costs."

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Jim Cole/AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2018 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              33 of 169 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 21, 2018 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Poll finds split priorities, heralding more disharmony

BYLINE: Susan Page and Bill Theobald, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 705 words


Before a new divided government takes charge in Washington, Americans agree that
the nation is more divided - and not on much else.

In a USA TODAY/Suffolk University Poll, Republican voters worry that newly
empowered congressional Democrats will go too far in investigating Trump and his
administration. Democrats worry they won't go far enough. Republicans want
Congress to start the year by reducing illegal immigration and funding Trump's
border wall. Democrats want Congress to begin by addressing health care.

"It's the framework for gridlock," says David Paleologos, director of the
Suffolk University Political Research Center, with "passionate partisans
disagreeing on virtually every issue."

Just about everybody does agree on this: By  78 percent-11 percent, those
surveyed say the country has become more divided since Trump took office in
January 2017, not more united.

"The country is going through some trying times," says Thomas Maslany, 72, a
retired engineer from Perkiomenville, Pennsylvania, who was among those polled.
He supported Hillary Clinton in 2016 but doesn't vote a straight Democratic
ticket. When it comes to pursuing the president, "my heart says you can't go far
enough. My brain says no, that wouldn't be good."

He says, "Congress needs both an investigative and a policy agenda for next
year, not one or the other."

Maslany feels the same pull between priorities that face many members of the
116th Congress, set to be inaugurated next month with a new Democratic majority
in the House, a bolstered Republican margin in the Senate and a class of
freshmen who don't necessarily feel obliged to abide by the traditional ways of
doing things.

Voters say they want Washington to focus first on their lives - on fixing health
care, securing borders, improving infrastructure - rather than on Trump's
behavior. There is no bipartisan consensus about what policies to pursue, and
the legal turmoil roiling the president threatens to disrupt just about
everything else.

For starters, will Trump complete the final two years of his first term?

Nearly all Republicans, 93 percent-3percent, say he will. Most Democrats, 52
percent-39 percent, predict he won't. Overall, Americans by 66 percent-27
percent expect he will stay on the job.

On a list of six major issues, Republicans echo Trump. Six in 10 GOP voters
identify their top priority as illegal immigration, including fulfilling the
president's campaign promise to build a wall along the Mexican border.

"There are some dangerous people out there," Linda Overby, 75, a retired
secretary from Warrenton, North Carolina, and a Trump supporter, says in a
follow-up phone interview. "I am concerned about the safety of the country.
People talk about the suffering that these people undergo, but we suffer when
they come here and try to kill us."

Only 5 percent of Democrats agree that immigration should be the first issue for
the new Congress.

Among Democrats, the top issue by far is expanding access to health care and
reducing health care costs, cited by 37 percent. That's also the top concern for
independents, chosen by 35 percent. Seventeen percent of Republicans rank health
care as the first issue Congress should tackle.

Catherine O'Connor, 63, an artist and political independent from Lockport, New
York, has watched with alarm as the Affordable Care Act has been "eroded and
eroded and eroded," including the decision by a federal judge in Texas last
week, being appealed, that the  law was unconstitutional. Congress needs to be
"very disciplined" in protecting Obamacare, she says.

For Robert Cody, 29, a musician from Los Angeles, taking steps to counter
climate change should be at the top of Congress' agenda. "My most important
concern is that the planet is going to be habitable in 50 years," he says.
Climate change is "pretty irrefutable," but "it seems like we are living in a
vast denial."

While 18 percent of Democrats  cite climate change as the top issue, a scant 1
percent of Republicans agree.

There is no bipartisan accord on the question of investigating Trump and his
administration. Unsurprisingly, Democrats are more enthusiastic than Republicans
about that prospect. They rank it as second on the agenda; Republicans put it
dead last.

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2018 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              35 of 169 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            September 7, 2018 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Can't sleep on it: Nights are hottest on record

BYLINE: Doyle Rice, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 257 words


If you tossed and turned this summer because of the oppressive heat, here's why:

This summer's nighttime temperature, when averaged nationwide for June, July and
August, was the hottest ever, recorded at 60.9 degrees, the National Oceanic and
Atmospheric Administration said Thursday.

In fact, every state had an above-average summer minimum temperature.

Climate scientists define summer as the three months from June 1 through Aug.
31. U.S. climate records go back to 1895.

The inability of the atmosphere to cool off at night is a sign of global
warming, driven by man-made climate change, NOAA said.

"In general, since records began in 1895, summer overnight low temperatures are
warming at a rate nearly twice as fast as afternoon high temperatures for the
U.S.," NOAA said.

Overnight heat can have a profound effect  on human health.

"When nighttime temperatures continue to be hot, when that heat just runs all
the way through the night and onto the next day, we don't get that recovery,"
James Goldie of Australia's University of New South Wales told the Australian
Broadcasting Corp.

Burlington, Vermont, set its record for hottest night on July 2: The temperature
never dropped below 80 degrees.

Cities including Las Vegas; Brownsville, Texas; Caribou, Maine; and Sault Ste.
Marie, Michigan, had their warmest summers on record, NOAA said.

The nationwide average of 73.53 degrees made 2018 the warmest summer since 2012
and tied for the fourth-warmest on record.

The hottest summer in U.S. history remains 1936, at the height of the Dust Bowl.


LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2018 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              36 of 169 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            February 12, 2018 Monday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Spring forecasts tricky as La Nia heads out

BYLINE: Doyle Rice, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 313 words


Climate troublemaker La Niña, which is partly responsible for the extreme
drought now scorching the southwestern U.S. and California, is expected to fade
away over the next few months, scientists said.

In its place will be the "neutral phase" of the Pacific Ocean climate pattern
officially known as ENSO (El Niño-Southern Oscillation).

The climate pattern, marked by either unusually warm or cool seawater in the
central Pacific Ocean, can affect weather in the U.S. and around the world. The
La Niña phase is defined by colder-than-average ocean temperatures in the
Pacific. It's the opposite of El Niño.

ENSO-neutral, colloquially known as "La Nada," is the midpoint between El Niño
and La Niña and occurs when temperatures are near average in the Pacific Ocean.

Although La Niña is on the way out, it will "continue affecting temperature and
precipitation across the United States during the next few months," the Climate
Prediction Center said.

"La Niña will decay and return to ENSO-neutral during the Northern Hemisphere
spring 2018," the prediction center said. "The forecast consensus also favors a
transition during the spring with a continuation of ENSO-neutral conditions
thereafter."

The "in between" ocean state of ENSO can be frustrating for long-range
forecasters. "It's like driving without a decent road map -- it makes
forecasting difficult," said climatologist Bill Patzert of NASA's Jet Propulsion
Laboratory.

The ENSO cycle primarily affects U.S. weather in the fall, winter and spring,
and less so in the summer. It can affect the Atlantic hurricane season, however,
with El Niño favoring fewer storms and La Niña favoring more.

As for what all of this means for our spring weather here in the U.S., the
outlook from the prediction center generally favors dry, warm weather across the
southern tier of the nation, and cooler, wetter weather across the northern
tier.

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2018 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              37 of 169 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             March 26, 2018 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Student marchers ponder next step;
Young people want their presence felt at polls

BYLINE: Christal Hayes, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 860 words


They walked out of classes. They rallied in streets across the nation for the
March for Our Lives in powerful ways. They have the attention of millions. Now
what?

The student-led movement forged in Parkland, Fla., after the high school
shooting that took 17 lives is remarkable, organized and fierce -- but not rare.
Endless lists of groups have protested, marched, rallied, cried and pleaded for
changes, whether  for gun laws, immigration, women's reproductive rights or
climate change.

The question is whether these young people who call themselves "the
mass-shooting generation" will fade into the background of the debate over gun
control or be the leading charge in changing the country's policies.

Many of the Parkland students at the march in Washington on Saturday made it
clear one of the next revolutions would be at the polls.

"We are going to make this the voting issue," said David Hogg, a Marjory
Stoneman Douglas student and an organizer of the march.

"We are going to take this to every election, to every state and every city. We
are going to make sure the best people get in our elections to run not as
politicians, but as Americans."

Leaders of past movements said it's going to be an uphill battle to translate
the #NeverAgain movement into significant changes. A lot will revolve around
local efforts, keeping pressure on lawmakers and having a clear message moving
forward.

Jaclyn Corin, one of the core members of the group, said she knows it will be
difficult and called for the crowds Saturday in Washington  to vote. She and the
other student speakers shared stories of surviving gun violence and seeing it
rip apart their communities and families.

Corin told USA TODAY the students aren't "backing down." She said their
successes have been astonishing, and they're committed to finishing what they
started.

"Our target is the November elections, and we know we definitely have to keep
pushing forward to then," she said. "This whole thing has taken off into a much
bigger thing. We are starting a non-profit and want to continue to advocate for
gun control, reforms and voter education."

Focusing on elections and being "relentless" was a part of what made previous
gun control measures happen, said Richard Aborn, a former president of the Brady
Center, which advocates gun control.

In the 1990s, Aborn worked to  push for the federal assault weapons ban and the
Brady Bill, which created a waiting period for some gun purchases and the
establishment of a federal background checks system.

He said that back then, getting support from either political party was
difficult, and the National Rifle Association was the Goliath it still is today.
Over the years, the NRA has slowed and dismantled gun control efforts it said
would hurt the Second Amendment and gun owners across the USA.

The group filed a lawsuit in Florida shortly after the state passed a sweeping
bill after the Parkland shooting. It included gun control measures, including
one that would increase the age to 21 to purchase firearms.

The NRA said the legislation violated the constitutional rights of millions of
18- to 20-year-olds and called it "political eyewash."

Aborn said the Parkland students are resilient and have grit, noting that the
group has all the elements of a successful movement. But, he said, the students
must remain focused on the cities where members of Congress are from, which can
help thrust  gun violence into the spotlight of this year's elections.

He said that although the march in D.C. captured headlines, it's local efforts
that could lead to meaningful change. He said one of the keys will be making gun
control a vote-changing debate for Americans and the younger generation. Only
then, he said, will there be sweeping changes on policies.

"What happens with movements like this is you get great peaks of enthusiasm,
then it dissipates," Aborn said. "You have to keep up the pressure and also keep
things active at the local level with very specific goals, then you have to
publicize all the wins, whether it's a key vote or successful efforts in a small
town."

Many in the crowd Saturday said they knew the march wouldn't be enough.

Joyce Hylton, a retired high school teacher, came with her college roommate and
husband. She said she has watched gun violence  rip the country apart for
decades and "couldn't just stand back anymore and wait for someone" to push for
changes.

"It's time for all us to take responsibility and make sure these shootings
stop," Hylton said. She hoped the momentum from the rally would keep  supporters
on course for the November elections.

Keeping track of small wins keeps up spirits because it's going to be a long and
tough road before there are shifts in the gun control debate, said Meira
Levinson, a Harvard University education professor who focuses on youth
empowerment and civic education.

She said the Parkland students seem to have a good chance  at a sustained
campaign because they are diverse and joining forces with others, such as
minorities in cities that have been heavily affected by gun violence.

"Everyone can recognize themselves in these kids, and that is really crossing
boundaries," Levinson said.

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Liz Dufour/USA TODAY NETWORK

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2018 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              38 of 169 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 27, 2018 Thursday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Don't be a Scrooge with your business;
Innovation, adaptation can keep ghosts away

BYLINE: Small Business, Rhonda Abrams, USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 759 words


Are you the Scrooge in your small business? Remember, "A Christmas Carol" -
Charles Dickens' tale of a miserly business owner visited by the ghosts of
Christmas past, present and future? Let's imagine the story with a contemporary
small-business owner who's a stingy Scrooge.

It's a blustery Christmas Eve, and you're Ebby Scrooge, a small-business owner,
who's closing up shop. You remember past Christmas Eves spent with your business
partner, Jacob Marley and your wives, but Marley died seven years ago pulling a
heavy safe from his burning home.

At home, all alone, you pour yourself a scotch, and quickly fall asleep. The
sound of clanging wakes you, and you see your business partner, Marley, chained
to his soot-covered safe.

Startled, you knock your glass onto the floor. "Look what you made me do, Jacob!
That was Glenfidditch!"

"I see you're still a jerk, Ebby," says Marley. "You rip off customers, underpay
and bully employees, cheat on taxes, lie to vendors and post nasty tweets about
competitors." Unless you change, you'll end up like me - shackled to your money,
alone, unhappy for eternity."

"You need to learn, my old friend. So tonight, you'll be visited by three other
ghosts," Jacob says and vanishes.

You imagine you're seeing things, but you pour yourself another drink, fall back
asleep, when a different ghost appears.

The Ghost of Small-Business Past

"I'm the Ghost of Small-Business Past," the apparition says, "and I'm taking you
back to your shop on opening day." Suddenly, you see your store on your first
day of business. It's full of happy faces - customers, employees, you and your
business partner Marley.

"We had so many customers!" you say.

"Yes, because you treated them and your employees well, were honest, were
willing to change when needed, and had a sense of purpose and passion," says the
ghost. "And you managed a work/life balance."

"Ah, but that was before voracious online retailers cut into my business."

"Excuses, excuses, Scrooge. You didn't change with the times, innovate. You
voted for politicians who promised tax cuts instead of investing in education
and health care and infrastructure. When all you do is cut, look what results."

Suddenly, the Ghost of Small-Business Past whisks you to your house. It's the
day your ex-wife left. "All day long, you stare at your phone and check your
bank balance," she says as she walks out the door. "You work seven days a week.
You have no more friends. You're going to end up alone."

"Enough!" you cry, realizing she was right.

The Ghost of Small-Business Present

Once again, it's the present and you're at your empty home, the snow whipping
the windows. Another ghost appears.

"I'm the Ghost of Small-Business Present. Let's see what your business looks
like now." And immediately, you're at your office. You see yourself earlier that
day, calculating how much you'd save if you cut the hours of your sole remaining
assistant, Bob Cratchit, in half.

"You can't grow a business without good help, Ebby," the ghost says. "You made
Cratchit a contractor instead of an employee to avoid payroll taxes. You don't
cover Cratchit's health insurance, and he can't afford the medical bills for
asthmatic little Timmy. Timmy will be dead soon."

"OK, OK! Get me out of here!"

The Ghost of Small-Business Future

A third ghost appears. "I'm the Ghost of Small-Business Future."

Suddenly, the ghost transfers you to the front of your business, which is now
shuttered, with a sign saying "Closed."

"Your business was already in trouble when a hurricane hit due to climate
change. You're in debt and your credit score is below 500," says the ghost.

"No!"

"What's worse, you now live with your know-it-all brother-in-law who launched a
startup that was bought by Google."

"No! Anything but that!" you plead. "Have mercy! For god's sake, what do I have
to do to change the future?"

"It's not too late, Scrooge. But you have to learn how to be fair and honest. To
treat your employees well. To embrace change. And support policies that build
our country's future, not just enrich the rich. You have to protect the
environment. And to never, ever, send a nasty tweet again." And the ghost
disappeared.

Merry Christmas, small-business owners everywhere.

Rhonda Abrams is the author of "Six-Week Start-Up"
(https://planningshop.com/shop/six-week-startup-4th-edition/), just released in
its fourth edition, and other books for small-business owners. Connect with
Rhonda: facebook.com/RhondaAbramsSmallBusiness and twitter @RhondaAbrams.
Register for Rhonda's free business tips newsletter at www.PlanningShop.com

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2018 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              39 of 169 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              July 9, 2018 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Pruitt goes, but don't expect big changes at EPA

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 426 words


The only surprising things about the resignation of embattled Environmental
Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt were that it took as long as it did
and that he wasn't unceremoniously fired months earlier.

As an astounding number of scandals swirled around the EPA chief, the clamor for
his departure came to resemble nothing more than the 1972 Dr. Seuss classic
about a man named Marvin K. Mooney, with Pruitt substituting for the title
character:

"The time has come. The time is now. Just go. Go GO! I don't care how. You can
go by foot. You can go by cow. Edward Scott Pruitt, will you please go now!"

So Pruitt is finally and belatedly gone, after spawning more than a dozen ethics
investigations in fewer than 17 months on the job.

These cover a sweetheart rental agreement with an energy lobbyist's wife, lavish
spending of taxpayer money on security and first-class airfare, efforts to get
his wife a Chick-fil-A franchise, using aides to do his private business, and
other allegations too numerous to mention here.

How did Pruitt survive as long as he did? The short answer was the fealty he
displayed toward President Donald Trump and the passion he displayed for doing
the president's bidding in rolling back environmental regulations.

For all of Trump's rhetoric about "draining the swamp" in Washington, he was
reluctant to get rid of the biggest grifter in his own administration because,
as the president put it Thursday, in his opinion Pruitt was doing "an
outstanding job" within the agency.

In reality, the former Oklahoma attorney general leaves a disastrous policy
legacy on top of his disastrous personal one. Most consequentially, Pruitt, who
questions the overwhelming scientific consensus that human activity is driving
global warming, pushed Trump to withdraw the United States from the Paris
climate accord.

That ill-considered decision leaves America as the odd country out among the
world's nations, even as parts of the planet experience extreme,
record-shattering heat and rising sea levels.

Pruitt's top deputy, Andrew Wheeler, is set to become acting administrator
today. Wheeler, a former Senate aide, EPA staffer and energy lobbyist, is
expected to continue implementing Pruitt's deregulatory agenda. In other words,
the new boss is the same as the old boss, but with less baggage and a sense of
entitlement.

Like Cal Ripken's streak of 2,632 consecutive baseball games, Pruitt's record
for ethical entanglements by a single Cabinet member is going to be hard to top.
It was, indeed, long past time for him to go. So ... he went.

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Jim Lo Scalzo/epa-EFE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2018 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              40 of 169 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             August 17, 2018 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Red tide threatens Florida beaches and businesses

BYLINE: Caroline Simon, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 548 words


Florida Gov. Rick Scott declared a state of emergency Wednesday for seven
counties in southwest Florida over an unusually severe red tide outbreak.

The declaration will provide money and resources to address a problem that has
lingered since October in Charlotte, Collier, Hillsborough, Lee, Manatee,
Pinellas and Sarasota Counties.

Red tide is a burst of algae growth in the ocean that can kill marine wildlife
and negatively affect humans. Beaches are shut down, businesses have temporarily
closed, and Floridians wonder when it will all end.

Here's a look at what red tide is and how it affects Florida:

Question: What is red tide?

Answer: Red tide, which scientists call a harmful algae bloom, is caused by a
naturally occurring alga (a plant-like microogranism) called Karenia brevis or
K. brevis. When K. brevis appears in large quantities - typically in the Gulf of
Mexico - it can turn ocean water red, brown or green.

K. brevis contains harmful toxins that can affect the nervous systems of fish,
birds and mammals.

Q: Why is red tide happening?

A: The red tide has lingered along Florida's southwest coast throughout the
spring and summer, and bloom conditions began in November.

Red tide is caused by a combination of conditions, including wind, currents and
the presence of nutrients that allow the algae to grow. Though red tide appears
almost every year, the severity varies by year.

"For various reasons, the conditions all come together that make it move from
offshore to inshore," said Quay Dortch, a program manager for the National
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration who studies harmful algal blooms. "Some
years, it's sort of a minor problem, and some years - like this year - it's a
major problem."

Q: How does red tide affect wildlife?

A: Red tide can have debilitating effects on marine life. If the microorganisms
are concentrated at more than a 10,000-cell-per-liter rate, fish of all kinds
can start dying.

At least 400 stranded and dead sea turtles have been found since bloom
conditions began in November, as well as a manatee and a 26-foot whale shark.

Q: What about humans?

A: Most people can safely swim in red tide, but it can cause skin irritation and
burning eyes. Inhaling the red tide toxins can lead to coughing, sneezing and
teary eyes, though those symptoms are typically temporary. People with chronic
respiratory issues such as asthma are advised to avoid red tide.

Though the medical effects on humans generally aren't serious, the red tide is
affecting the economy in Florida: Some small businesses have temporarily closed.
One restaurant developed a "Fish Kill" cocktail - a blue-green drink featuring
floating Swedish Fish - the proceeds from which go to a clean water activist
group.

Q: How long will the red tide last?

A: It's hard to predict how long the red tide will remain; it could persist
through 2019. Red tides can last days, weeks or months and can change depending
on wind conditions and water currents. "We're beginning the season when the
blooms occur, so it's likely that it's gonna stick around for a while," Dortch
said.

Q: Is red tide tied to climate change?

A: Red tides are not a new phenomena - the first reported incident was in
Florida in 1844. Research hasn't found a definitive link between the severity of
red tides and climate change.

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Andrew West/USA TODAYNETWORK

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2018 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              43 of 169 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           February 7, 2018 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Can veterans fix our paralyzed Congress?;
They understand how to put country over self

BYLINE: Mike Mullen and Elliott Ackerman

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 696 words


Van Taylor and Pat Ryan are both running for Congress and would appear to have
nothing in common. Taylor, a Texas Republican, is pro-life and strong on Second
Amendment gun rights, and supports the repeal of the Affordable Care Act. Ryan,
a New York Democrat, supports Planned Parenthood and universal health care, and
believes that President Trump's proposed exit from the Paris climate accords is
"a betrayal of future generations."

Ideologically, these two seem like they couldn't be further apart. However,
they have found agreement on one issue, which offers a sliver of hope in these
deeply divisive times. They have each signed a pledge to "join with colleagues
on both sides of the aisle on at least one piece of major legislation each
year," and to "meet with someone from the opposing party one-on-one at least
once a month."

The pledge is sponsored by the new political group we advise, With Honor, and
we're aiming to have about 30 congressional candidates of both parties sign it.
Our goal is to create a cross-party congressional caucus capable of surmounting
what has become a debilitating partisan divide in our nation.

There is something else that Van Taylor, Pat Ryan and others signing the pledge
have in common. They are veterans, most of whom served after 9/11. This isn't to
say veterans running for office possess a unique intelligence or wisdom that
non-veterans don't posses. But through their experiences, veterans often
instinctively understand the cost of allowing the common good to be subordinated
to our differences.

Veteran representation in Congress is at about 20%, a record low. Compare that
with the 1960s and 1970s, when up to 73% in Congress were veterans. That was a
time when Congress passed historic bipartisan legislation such as the Civil
Rights Act, the Freedom of Information Act and the National Environmental Policy
Act.

It seems impossible to imagine the passage of such sweeping laws in our current
political climate, in which the media stoke our collective outrage and a certain
breed of politician (on the left and the right) divides us through our
suspicions of one another as opposed to uniting us through our common
aspirations. By enabling this division, we are living in a time of great moral
hazard. If two or three dozen politicians are willing to pledge themselves to
national interests ahead of party interests, that is a reason to be hopeful.

That this group is made up of veterans is also noteworthy, because the
civil-military divide in our country has similarly risen to a place of moral
hazard. A healthy democracy cannot be segregated from the military that serves
it.  We now have the opportunity to elect leaders who have experienced firsthand
the implications of U.S. decisions to use force abroad. In years to come, the
question will surely arise as to whether America should once again offer up its
sons and daughters to war. Those decisions -- above all others -- should fall to
those who can transcend the pernicious calculus of party loyalty.

Fundamental to our national character is an ability to set aside our differences
to achieve a higher purpose. We are writing because our experiences -- from the
ground level of leading Marines in combat in two wars, to the strategic level of
leading our military for four years as it prosecuted missions across the globe
-- have proved to us that this is true. This new cohort of veteran candidates
has put country above self before and is committing to do so again. Hopefully,
they will set an example for others in politics to follow.

That a commitment to work together is an act of courage speaks to the endemic
dysfunction in our politics, which last month led us to a government shutdown
and could do so again.

In the face of truly destructive congressional partisanship, voters crave
principled leadership. That a Republican from Texas and a Democrat from New York
have found something on which they can agree might seem a modest start, but
large-scale change often comes from the simplest of acts.

Retired admiral Mike Mullen, a former chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and
Elliot Ackerman, a novelist and Marine Corps veteran, are advisers to With
Honor.

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: OPINION

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2018 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              46 of 169 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           October 18, 2018 Thursday
                                 FIRST EDITION

'Tornado Alley' might not be where you think

BYLINE: Doyle Rice, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 425 words


The USA's infamous "Tornado Alley" may be shifting to the east.

Over the past four decades, researchers in a new study found that tornadoes have
increased over a large swath of the Midwest and Southeast, including what has
been referred to as "Dixie Alley."

At the same time, they've decreased in the central and southern Plains, the
region traditionally known as Tornado Alley that includes large parts of
Oklahoma and Texas.

"Regions in the Southeast and Midwest are closing the gap when it comes to the
number of tornado reports," said Northern Illinois University meteorologist
Victor Gensini, who led the study.

Although Tornado Alley still remains the top U.S. area for tornadoes, areas to
the east are catching up, based on data from 1979 to 2017.  That includes
portions of Mississippi, Alabama, Arkansas, Missouri, Illinois, Indiana,
Tennessee and Kentucky.

"It's not that Texas and Oklahoma do not get tornadoes," Gensini said. "They're
still the No. 1 location in terms of tornado frequency, but the trend in many
locations is down over the past 40 years."

This new research is key for pinpointing future tornado damage.  "Severe
thunderstorms accompanied by tornadoes, hail, and damaging winds cause an
average of $5.4 billion of damage each year across the United States, and
10-billion-dollar events are no longer uncommon," the study said.

"Economic losses associated with tornadoes will continue to increase in future
years," the study also warned, adding that "the combination of an increase in
risk and exposure could lead to a threefold increase in tornado disaster
potential."

Overall, about 1,200 tornadoes hit the nation every year,  the National Severe
Storms Laboratory said.  The laboratory's researcher and tornado expert Harold
Brooks co-wrote  the study.

Tornadoes in the Southeast also tend to be deadlier than those in the Plains
because of several factors such as longer, larger tornado paths, expanding
population, more mobile homes and more nighttime tornadoes.

More than 70 Americans a year are killed by tornadoes, and about 40  die each
year in the nine states that make up the southeastern U.S.

The Mid-South, an area with Memphis at its center, is a particular worry,
because it "has the greatest potential for increased tornado disasters by the
end of the century," the study said.

Study researchers also weren't sure whether the eastward shift in tornado
reports could be  the result of natural or human-induced climate change.

The study was published Wednesday in the Nature partner journal Climate and
Atmospheric Science.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2018 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              56 of 169 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             August 3, 2018 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

4 sticking points in the gas-mileage rule debate;
Will cheaper cars help or hurt environment?

BYLINE: Nathan Bomey, USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 397 words


President Donald Trump's administration officially proposed Thursday to freeze
federal fuel economy standards after the 2020 model year, reversing President
Barack Obama's move to cement the regulations late in his administration.

How does it affect you?

Views vary widely in a debate involving regulators, politicians, consumer
advocates, states, environmentalists and automakers.

Here are the key areas in dispute:

Costs: The National Highway Traffic Safety Administration said the proposed
freeze would prevent vehicle prices from increasing by an average of about
$2,340. Automakers have also argued against increased standards for this reason.

"Automakers support continued improvements in fuel economy and flexibilities
that incentivize advanced technologies while balancing priorities like
affordability, safety, jobs and the environment," the Alliance of Automobile
Manufacturers, which represents major auto companies on U.S. policy issues, said
in a statement.

But consumer advocates contend that fuel economy improvements save drivers on
gas in the long run. There's also no guarantee that automakers can't achieve
higher gas-mileage standards without increasing prices.

The environment: Environmentalists contend that weaker gas-mileage standards
worsen climate change by creating more greenhouse gas emissions. They say that
more fuel-efficient cars will help curb these harmful effects. Trump's EPA
argued that avoiding stricter standards keeps vehicles cheaper, which allows
consumers to replace their older, less fuel-efficient cars with newer more
fuel-efficient cars. Generally speaking, newer vehicles are more fuel-efficient
than older cars.

Safety: NHTSA argued Thursday that the plan would save lives.

It's a roundabout take that goes something like this: Preventing higher vehicle
costs makes new cars with better safety technology more affordable for
consumers, thus preventing roadway deaths.

But the argument that it makes a big impact is "laughable," Robert Weissman,
president of watchdog group Public Citizen, said in a statement.

States' rights: California, for example, has been historically allowed to set
more stringent emissions standards than the federal government to curb
pollution. But the Trump administration is seeking to remove that authority,
saying the nation should have one standard, not a hodgepodge of rules.
Automakers have backed Trump on this.

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2018 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              57 of 169 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 5, 2018 Wednesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Interior Secretary Zinke must resign;
He's embroiled in ethics and management failures

BYLINE: Raúl M. Grijalva

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 696 words


Ryan Zinke needs to resign immediately as secretary of the Interior.

I have resisted calling for this step even as questions have grown about Mr.
Zinke's ethical and managerial failings. Unfortunately, his conduct in office
and President Donald Trump's neglect in setting ethical standards for his own
Cabinet have made it unavoidable.

Mr. Zinke has never even tried to offer an explanation for the sheer scope of
his well-documented scandals. This silence is insulting to the American people,
and unsustainable given the Nov. 6 election results. Mr. Zinke holds his job as
a public trust, not  a stepping stone to his  personal ambitions. He has abused
that trust and damaged the Interior Department. The least he can do is step down
and give his successor a chance to begin reversing that damage.

It's worth recounting how far that abuse went on Republicans' watch. As has been
widely reported, an Interior Department inspector general investigation of Mr.
Zinke -- one of at least 17 publicly known formal probes of either him or his
department  -- was recently referred to the Justice Department.

The focus is a land development project called 95 Karrow in Mr. Zinke's hometown
of Whitefish, Montana, involving David Lesar, the chairman of oil contractor
Halliburton; his son John; and a Montana property developer named Casey
Malmquist. The proposal would increase the value of land controlled by Mr.
Zinke's family.

I am the ranking member of the House Natural Resources Committee, which oversees
the Interior Department, and earlier this year I asked my staff to look into
this relationship. They discovered that Mr. Zinke met with all three men on Aug.
3, 2017, in his office, then led them on a private tour of the Lincoln Memorial.
Mr. Zinke's public calendar does not include the attendees of the meeting or of
the Lincoln tour -- we know because Mr. Zinke's scheduler mentioned it in a
personal email.

When three of us on the committee publicized that finding in our call for an
investigation of 95 Karrow, we had no idea where the facts would lead. It is Mr.
Zinke's fault that the Justice Department was alerted, not the fault of the news
media or anyone else  his office has chosen to blame.

Beyond his personal foibles, Mr.Zinke has overseen the degradation of Interior's
senior workforce; announced plans to cut thousands of permanent positions;
prompted mass resignations from a nonpartisan National Park Service advisory
board; and tied employees and aides in knots to make himself and his wife
financially comfortable. These are not the hallmarks of an effective leader.

His policy direction at Interior is equally unfortunate. He has overseen the
dumbing down of science, often with a partisan edge. Rather than advancing their
agencies' multiple-use mission for public lands, many on staff spend their days
relaxing environmental and permitting standards for fossil fuel companies. They
are forced to remove mentions of humans' climate change impacts from official
reports.

They are instructed, above all, to make President Trump's "energy dominance"
agenda the sole guiding principle of environmental policy. That's even though
its giveaways are so extreme that the president of the pro-industry Western
Energy Alliance once said  they exceeded even her funders' wildest expectations.

I have sent dozens of unanswered letters seeking information about Interior
Department policies and Mr. Zinke's conduct. Should I chair the committee in
January, as I hope to do, those questions will only intensify as part of our
legitimate oversight duties.

The American people need an Interior Department focused on addressing climate
change, enhancing public recreation, protecting endangered species, and
upholding the sovereign rights of Native American communities. These are not
matters of personal preference -- they are enshrined in law and supported by
voters. The department needs someone accountable at the helm who believes in
this mission.

Mr. Zinke is not that person. Federal agencies cannot function without credible
leadership, and he offers none. He needs to resign.

Rep. Raúl M. Grijalva, D-Ariz., is ranking member of the House Committee on
Natural Resources.

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2018 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              71 of 169 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           February 13, 2018 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Gates again warns that U.S. could be losing clout

BYLINE: Marco della Cava, USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 867 words


Tech pioneer Bill Gates thinks the U.S. can keep its historically influential
role as a global leader.

But for a second year in a row, he cautioned that the nation risks losing its
geopolitical clout if the Trump administration succeeds in slashing foreign aid,
as proposed Monday in a new federal budget that prioritizes a jump in military
spending. Last year, the White House tried to reduce foreign aid by one-third,
but Congress did not approve the cuts.

"I hope we can keep our reputation in a deserved way," Gates said in a phone
interview in late January as talk of U.S. budget cuts rumbled.

If the U.S. diminishes its role providing aid to poor countries, it could both
disappoint allies and allow rival superpowers to step in and exert their
influence overseas, he says.

"They'll find China and others to help them out," he said of developing world
countries that rely on foreign humanitarian aid.

During Trump's State of the Union speech last month, he asked Congress to pass
laws requiring aid only be doled out to "friends" of the U.S., based in large
part how countries vote on big issues at the United Nations.

Gates points out even his sizeable philanthropic spend is dwarfed by the tens of
billions of dollars that countries, including the U.S. and United Kingdom,
typically funnel to international programs. Last year, the Bill & Melinda Gates
Foundation spent $4 billion on initiatives that battle malaria, HIV and other
global health scourges, the bulk of which afflict many of the 1.2 billion people
living in Africa.

"Africa is still a place where people have positive feelings about the United
States and its role," Gates told USA TODAY as the foundation prepared to release
the 10th annual letter summarizing the foundation's efforts.

His optimistic comment takes on particular meaning after the outrage among many
African and U.S. leaders last month when Trump compared African countries and
Haiti to an outhouse.

Trump's America First message has been on Gates' mind. In January 2017, he told
USA TODAY: "If you interpret America First in certain ways, it would suggest not
prioritizing the stability of Africa and American leadership."

Worries about a domino effect that could erode the United States' global
standing reflect the Microsoft co-founder's role on the world stage -- from
running a PC giant to, since relinquishing full-time Microsoft duties in 2008,
leading the planet's biggest philanthropy with his wife, Melinda.

This year, Gates, 62, and his wife decided their annual letter would answer 10
self-imposed questions. (Although not known for wise-cracking, Gates quips to
the reporter: "That's right, we're taking your job away, we generated them with
a computer.")

Among the queries:

Why not spend more on climate change? Bill says he invests in potential
solutions personally but feels philanthropy should focus on areas where
corporations and governments don't focus; Melinda says helping third-world
farmers get more from the land to withstand a changing climate is critical.

Does saving lives lead to overpopulation? Melinda says the opposite is true
because when mothers know their babies will live, they have fewer children; Bill
notes that the number of children under 5 who die has been cut in half to 5
million since their efforts began, and those surviving children could now live
longer with pioneering microbiome research that studies bacteria that live in
the gut.

Are Trump's policies affecting your work? Bill, who says this is the most common
question he gets of late, is diplomatic, saying he believes in dialog and is
thankful Congress is still debating those sweeping aid cuts. Melinda is blunt,
saying that she wishes the president would role model better and "treat people,
and especially women, with more respect when he speaks and tweets."

As husband and wife duos go, the Gates hold a powerful megaphone and can summon
world leaders to the phone with ease.

Little surprise there. Since its inception in 2000 through 2016, the foundation
-- which is fueled in part by billions from Bill Gates' friend and mentor Warren
Buffett -- has doled out $41.3 billion and has a trust endowment of $40.3
billion.

The organization distributes around $4 billion in annual grants, and the Gates
say the plan remains to exhaust all of the foundation's funds within 20 years of
the couple's death.

"I have nothing against foundations that work in perpetuity, but ours will come
to an end," he says, citing the Ford and Rockefeller foundations. "In the
future, there will be rich people who will act on the issues of the time."

In fact, the Gates have had an impact on swelling the ranks of future
philanthropists. The Giving Pledge, initiated by Gates and Buffett in 2010, now
has more than 170 signatories, men and women committed to donating the bulk of
their wealth within their lifetimes.

"You're seeing new pledgers out of India, China and even Africa, so to see this
be a global phenomenon is really great, and it's way more than Warren and I
would have expected," he says. "When someone like (Facebook founder) Mark
Zuckerberg gets involved, that makes wealthy people in their 30s think maybe
they should start thinking about this stuff, which is far earlier than I did."

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation/Prashant Panjiar

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2018 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              72 of 169 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             March 23, 2018 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Tide turns for fishing enthusiasts;
Trump lifts restrictions imposed under Obama

BYLINE: Ledyard King, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 1041 words


WASHINGTON - President Trump is known for hitting the golf course, but his
administration is putting the power of the presidency behind another favorite
American pastime: fishing.

The president has promoted the multibillion-dollar recreational fishing industry
that felt marginalized under the previous administration. President Obama
routinely sided with environmental advocates concerned about long-term damage
from overfishing, but Trump, the father of two avid anglers, has tacked in a new
direction.

"President Donald Trump was the best thing that ever happened to fishermen,"
said Jim Donofrio, executive director of the Recreational Fishing Alliance,
which fought the Obama administration to overturn limits on what private anglers
could catch in federal waters. "Some of them don't realize it, but they will."

Almost from the beginning, Trump made it clear the ocean was a frontier to be
used  not only for its energy potential but also for recreation and food.

"The fisheries resources of the United States are among the most valuable in the
world," he declared last year when designating June 2017 as National Ocean
Month. "Growing global demand for seafood presents tremendous opportunities for
expansion of our seafood exports, which can reduce our more than $13 billion
seafood trade deficit."

A proclamation by Obama in 2016 warned  of "jeopardizing marine populations and
degrading oceanic habitats."

The Trump administration increased recreational fishing access to three fish
stocks protected under catch limits.

Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross  approved a plan in June extending the
recreational fishing season for red snapper in the Gulf of Mexico from three to
42 days  even though his own agency warned it would lead to  overfishing.

In July, Ross  sided with New Jersey to loosen restrictions on the harvest of
summer flounder, known as fluke, over the objections of the Atlantic States
Marine Fisheries Commission. Commission Chair Douglas Grout said he was "very
much concerned about the short- and long-term implications of the secretary's
decision on interstate fisheries management."

In the fall, the South Atlantic Fishery Management Council, working closely with
the Trump administration, allowed recreational snapper fishing from Jupiter
Inlet Florida to the North Carolina-Virginia border for the first time since
2014. Kellie Ralston, Florida fishery policy director of the American
Sportfishing Association, called it a victory for anglers while
environmentalists warned of the risk to the red snapper.

This year, the biggest overhaul of fishing laws in more than a decade could land
on the president's desk after a Senate committee's approval last month.

If the Senate bill passes, it probably will have to be ironed out with broader
legislation that passed the House Natural Resources Committee in December. That
House bill would expand access to recovering fish stocks and require regional
councils that set catch limits to give weight to  fish counts provided by
saltwater anglers when assessing the health of a particular fish stock.

Advocates for recreational fishing  expect Trump will sign  the most ambitious
overhaul of the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act in more
than a decade

That has environmental advocates fearful.

"U.S. fisheries are truly at a crossroads," said Chris Dorsett, vice president
for conservation  programs at Ocean Conservancy. "A key question is whether the
Trump administration's decisions last year to override certain science-based
fishing regulations were isolated actions or the new norm."

For environmentalists who found a soulmate in Obama, Trump has proved to be
everything they dread.

He announced June 1 that he was pulling out of the  Paris climate change
agreement, and he is moving ahead to scrap the Clean Power Plan, both part of
Obama's agenda to curb carbon emissions. He ordered the rollback of dozens of
Obama-era regulations aimed at protecting public health and wants to open more
offshore oil and gas drilling. He proposed deep cuts to the Environmental
Protection Agency. And he stocked his administration with business-friendly
appointees eager to accelerate economic growth.

In 2015, when the GOP-controlled Congress moved ahead with a rewrite of the
Magnuson-Stevens Act, the Obama White House threatened a veto, saying the
measure "would impose arbitrary and unnecessary requirements that ... would
undermine the use of science-based actions to end and prevent overfishing." The
bill died.

The industry and the environmental community agree catch restrictions and other
management changes imposed by Magnuson-Stevens were instrumental in rebuilding
43 depleted stocks since 2000, including Atlantic sea scallops, pacific canary
rockfish and Atlantic scup, also known as porgy.

Though few dispute the stock of the red snapper in the Gulf of Mexico has made
tremendous gains since strict catch limits were imposed over the past decade,
there's sharp disagreement over whether it has rebounded enough to warrant
increased fishing. Environmentalists say no based on their analysis of the red
snapper's lengthy reproductive cycles; anglers say yes based on personal
observations of plentiful fish during their excursions.

Last year, the Commerce secretary  overruled the Gulf of Mexico Fishery
Management Council and gave recreational fishers more time on the water.

"The decision to extend the Gulf of Mexico red snapper season and allow
overfishing was a drastic change from the tried and true practices that have
brought our fisheries back from the brink,"  Dorsett said.

Donofrio said Trump understands that no one is more interested in the health of
marine life than the people whose livelihoods depend on it.

"All of us want long-term sustainability. All of us want long-term rebuilding,"
he said. "But right now, it's so rigid."

FOR FULL TEXT OF GRAPHIC/MAP PLEASE SEE THE ONLINE OR PRINT VERSIONS OF THIS
STORY

Fish fan: Three cases where the Trump administration increased access for
recreational anglers in 2017

Restrictions loosened on the harvest of summer flounder, known as fluke.

Recreational red snapper fishing allowed for the first time since 2014.

Recreational fishing season extended for red snapper from three to 42 days.

SOURCE USA TODAY research

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: graphic

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2018 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              73 of 169 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              April 6, 2018 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

'Mean Girls' musical says 'Me Too';
Movement shaped show's message on Broadway

BYLINE: Maeve McDermott, USA TODAY

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 2D

LENGTH: 687 words


NEW YORK - From its inception, Mean Girls has always been feminist.

Tina Fey's beloved teen comedy, an adaptation of Rosalind Wiseman's Queen Bees
and Wannabes, became a cult classic when it was released in 2004 and hilariously
yet subtly moralized the dangers of women not supporting one another.

The musical adaptation of Mean Girls opens  at Broadway's August Wilson Theatre
on Sunday, and while the characters -- and fan-favorites jokes about Glenn Coco
and Kälteen bars -- carry over from the  movie, the feminist themes are more
clearly articulated.

"I think that's a way that they've taken the movie from 2004 to now," Erika
Henningsen, who plays the musical's central role of Cady Heron, told USA TODAY.

There's the overtly girl-power dialogue and songs from  teacher Ms. Norbury and
subversive best friend Janis Sarkisian (a name change from the movie's Janis
Ian). There's also a surprising moment from  airheaded Karen Smith about
teaching  boys not to disseminate racy photos their female peers send to them,
and a climactic speech from Regina George, the queen bee of the Plastics clique,
about how women don't need to apologize for being powerful.

"There's a (new) wonderful scene in the musical where Regina tells Cady, 'You
don't have to apologize for being a badass. You have to apologize when you tear
somebody else down because of it. But you should never apologize for your worth
and your strength,'" Henningsen said. "And that's sort of been the new
development of Tina's message, of the show's message for today."

Fey shepherded her original Mean Girls script to the stage, writing the
musical's book, with her husband, Jeff Richmond (30 Rock, Unbreakable Kimmy
Schmidt), writing the music and Tony winner Casey Nicholaw (Book of Mormon,
Spamalot) directing and choreographing. She also tapped lyricist Nell Benjamin
(Legally Blonde) and old boss Lorne Michaels (Saturday Night Live) for
production.

One thing that none of the musical's braintrust could've anticipated was that
Mean Girls would enter previews at the same time sexual assault allegations
against Harvey Weinstein would begin to emerge and transform the social climate.

Now, in the context of the Me Too movement, which has swept the nation in the
short months since the Mean Girls' Washington, D.C., pre-Broadway run in
October, the musical has an added meaning that furthers the original movie's
message of sisterhood.

"I feel like, in just the last couple of months, this story has snowballed and
gained steam and it's been exciting to be a part of a project that adds a
positive message to that fire," Henningsen said.

"At the very end of this show, there's a moment where all six of the leading
ladies are at the edge of the stage. And that doesn't happen in a musical very
often, where you identify with six different females and you know them, they're
not just ancillary characters. And the whole idea of that (scene) was that
especially now, women are stronger together."

The 25-year-old actress, who made her Broadway debut as the youngest Fantine in
Les Misérables history, points to the movie's themes of women supporting women
as a central aspect of both the new Mean Girls musical and Hollywood's changing
climate.

"The less that we tear one another down and the less we undermine one another,
the more that we can move forward and accomplish," she says. "There's this idea
that, when we rob a woman of her individuality or her identity, it only makes it
OK for men, or for people in positions of power, to do the same."

And, save for a topical joke or two about Russian hackers and #complicit crooks,
the musical stays subtle with its political messaging, keeping its focus on the
evolution of its female characters. "The nice thing is that (Mean Girls) drives
that message home in such a subtle way and in a positive way. There's no bashing
of other people. There's just that clear message that Cady (recognizes), that,
'I have the choice to be kind to somebody. If I have the option to treat
somebody with dignity and respect, it's just easier and so much more effective
for our female population as a whole to choose that route.' "

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Mean Girls Mean Girls

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2018 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              74 of 169 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             April 20, 2018 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Industry growing like weeds;
Trump's perceived green light entices cannabis investors to spend billions

BYLINE: Trevor Hughes USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1295 words


DENVER - America's fast-growing marijuana industry appears poised for
supercharged growth after winning what cannabis entrepreneurs see as approval
from the Trump administration to forge ahead.

$25 billion projected in 2025

The market for legal marijuana  already was growing exponentially despite fears
of a federal crackdown under President Trump and Attorney General Jeff Sessions,
but Trump's signal that he'll respect state legalization could swing open the
floodgates by reassuring traditional investors, entrepreneurs and local
lawmakers  it's OK to jump in.

Across the nation, risk-takers have poured billions of dollars into the industry
while knowing they could be arrested by federal agents at any moment.

They've built -- largely unseen -- a powerful network of businesses poised to
take advantage of a more favorable federal climate. That industry already has
woven itself into the fabric of the states where pot is legal, providing tens of
thousands of jobs and generating billions of dollars in new tax revenue.

Experts say those numbers are likely to rise rapidly thanks to Trump's promised
hands-off approach and support of some sort of federal solution.

"Every day we wake up and build this industry. And every day we do that, it's a
little harder to shut it down," said Daniel Yi, a spokesman for the
California-based marijuana powerhouse MedMen.

There's no denying America's love affair with marijuana is accelerating across
the nation as voters loosen laws and grow increasingly comfortable with a drug
that has been forbidden for generations. Today, more than 60% of Americans
believe marijuana should be legal, double its popularity in 2000, according to a
January 2018 poll by the Pew Research Center.

But Trump's acceptance of popular state legalization reflects the reality and
power of this increasingly important industry. Across the country, cannabis
legalization is transforming communities in ways big and small, winning many
converts among skeptical cops and local politicians as new tax dollars pour into
schools and scholarships, pay for road paving and drug treatment, and, if
advocates have their way, lift  minority communities devastated by the war on
drugs.

"It's really fun to see people's minds change," said Jen Lujan of the
California-based marijuana firm Eaze.

Marijuana's economic impact in particular has helped keep the focus on the
positives of legalization. Though most supporters agree marijuana taxes haven't
been the boon many expected, the industry's economic power is undeniable.

At least 121,000 people are  working directly in the nation's
home-grown-marijuana industry, tending plants, trimming leaves and selling
cannabis products to eager consumers, according to BDS Analytics and Arcview
Market Research. For comparison, there are fewer than 50,000 coal miners,
according to the federal Bureau of Labor Statistics.

Nine states -- Alaska, California, Colorado, Oregon, Massachusetts, Maine,
Nevada, Vermont and Washington, along with Washington, D.C. -- have legalized
recreational pot use, although not all of them permit and tax sales. Those
states selling pot have collected more than $1.6 billion in taxes since their
legalization programs began, and California's launch of legal sales  earlier
this year is expected to supercharge that number.

Medical and recreational cannabis sales will hit $11.7 billion this year,
predicts cannabis analytics firm New Frontier Data, increase by 25% in 2019 and
hit $25 billion in seven years. For comparison, wine sales in the United States
were worth $60 billion last year, according to the Beverage Information and
Insights Group. For risk-taking entrepreneurs, cannabis holds the promise of a
vast new industry that's entirely homegrown.

How the federal government acts could change that dramatically. President
Obama's administration had promised it would leave well-run state marijuana
programs alone, but Sessions rescinded that promise in January, throwing the
industry into chaos. Many traditional investors have shied away from pouring
their capital into the industry over fears they'd be treated like drug
traffickers, and a strong sign of support from Trump over congressional action
might provide the reassurance they're seeking.

Because legalization has happened almost entirely at state ballot boxes, the
United States has so far avoided having a national conversation about the
broader implications of increased use and availability. That troubles
legalization opponents such as Kevin Sabet of Smart Approaches to Marijuana, the
nation's leading anti-cannabis organization. SAM has been fighting a
state-by-state battle against legalization on the grounds that increased access
will lead to increased use.  It supports increased access to drug treatment and
a reduction or elimination of criminal penalties for minor marijuana consumption
but opposes broad legalization.

"This reckless plan will not go unanswered," Sabet said.

Whether there really is a plan remains uncertain, and many marijuana industry
experts say they'll believe Trump only once there's a law in place. In dealing
with a president who sets policy via Twitter, they want to see actual
legislation.

"This is another head-spinning moment," said Oregon congressman Earl Blumenauer,
a Democrat and leading voice for federal legalization. "We should hope for the
best but not take anything for granted. Trump changes his mind constantly, and
Republican leadership is still in our way."

A USA TODAY survey in January found hundreds of thousands of dollars flowing
from the cannabis industry into campaign finance accounts of  lawmakers and
political action committees, with emphasis this year on congressional
Republicans who control the agenda. Democrats typically have been the largest
recipients of marijuana campaign money in the past, but Republicans are  taking
the lead in accepting those donations, according to the Center for Responsive
Politics, which analyzed contributions at the request of USA TODAY. Experts say
the  shift is largely attributable to the belief by marijuana businesses that
Republicans who support states' rights are their best allies today.

But in the industry's increasing clout, legalization  opponents see echoes of a
time when Big Tobacco called the shots.

"Tobacco Road also hired a lot of people and kept a lot of people employed,"
said Deni Carise, an addiction expert and chief scientific officer at Recovery
Centers of America. "I think (marijuana legalization) is going to cost our
country a lot of money."

Adds Sabet: "It's one thing to let someone grow a little pot at home. It's
another entirely to get Madison Avenue involved. This isn't something that
Cheech and Chong would have ever envisioned. The people in suits have taken
over."

Legalization supporters brush off those concerns, arguing that the war on drugs
for too long has demonized a plant widely used by humans for thousands of years.
They say it's about time national politicians recognize that marijuana
legalization is the right thing to do. And they say that if the nation's economy
can benefit, all the better.

"Now, finally seeing that momentum, seeing that shift, it's pretty amazing. And
it's happening quickly, quicker than maybe even the regulators are ready for,"
said Dennis Hunter, founder of California-based premium marijuana supplier
CannaCraft. "I don't think anybody realized how big this industry really is.
Everybody's aware of it right now, but it's getting normalized, and in a couple
years we'll all just accept it."

FOR FULL TEXT OF UNITED STATES MAP WITH MARIJUANA SALES PROJECTIONS BY STATE,
PLEASE SEE ONLINE OR PRINT VERSIONS OF THIS STORY

4.20

WEED DAY

Projected 2018 marijuana sales

CALIFORNIA   $3.8 billion

COLORADO   $1.7 billion

WASHINGTON STATE  $2 billion

SOURCE New Frontier Data

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, COLOR, JIM SERGENT/USA TODAY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2018 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              76 of 169 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              May 18, 2018 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Where the mega-rich and dirt-poor collide;
In L.A., today's Gilded Age shows its dark underbelly

BYLINE: Rick Hampson, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1929 words


LOS ANGELES - When she became president of the Beverly Hills/Greater Los Angeles
Realtors Association, Robin Greenberg wanted to do something for people who
couldn't afford any home, much less one like hers in the golden hills of Bel
Air.

Every month for eight years, she and colleagues went to skid row or elsewhere
downtown to feed the homeless.

Last December, she learned the homeless had come to her.

Before dawn Dec. 6, a wildfire raced out of a parched ravine in Bel Air,
scorching 422 acres, destroying or damaging 18 homes and forcing the evacuation
of about 700 others -- including Robin Greenberg's.

The fire was caused by a portable stove at a homeless encampment.

The wildfire is an instructive tale of America's second Gilded Age, when the
excesses and extremes that once seemed consigned to U.S. history have come
roaring back.

In this Gilded Age, like the one at the end of the 19th century, the gap between
rich and poor is widening; monopolies have more power over business, business
has more power over politics, and politics are close-fought and hyper-partisan.
The pace of change -- technological, cultural, social -- is dizzying.

In his presidential campaign, Donald Trump simultaneously evoked two Gilded Age
types: the plutocrat and the populist. "Trump is the perfect figure for the new
Gilded Age. He's like something out of Mark Twain" (who coined the term "Gilded
Age" in 1873), says David Nasaw, a biographer of Gilded Age industrialist Andrew
Carnegie. "Exaggeration is his essence."

The most striking feature shared by the two Gilded Ages is growing economic
inequality.

In Los Angeles, hundreds of encampments have sprung up on beaches, in riverbeds
and in canyons as the homeless population has exploded and expanded beyond its
boundaries.

The homeless camp where the wildfire started in December was only a mile from a
new hilltop mansion twice the size of the White House that's for sale for $500
million. It destroyed the $5.5million house of former NBA star Andrei Kirilenko,
singed some vines at Rupert Murdoch's Moraga winery and forced celebrities such
as Paris Hilton and Chelsea Handler to flee.

"I'm not a fire-and-brimstone, end-of-the-world kind of guy," says Bert Muto, a
formerly homeless man who saw a fire at another  camp threaten
multimillion-dollar houses. "But the biblical stuff is a reminder of what it
feels like today. Where's it gonna stop?"

The Gilded Age began about a decade after the end of the Civil War and ended
around 1901, when President William McKinley was assassinated and Teddy
Roosevelt took office.

It was an era of robber barons such as Rockefeller, Carnegie and Vanderbilt; of
state legislatures (which at the time elected U.S. senators) controlled by
railroads and other special interests; of giant industrial monopolies known as
trusts; of financial crises, including the panics of 1873, 1893 and 1907; and of
a populist reaction against all of the above.

Tycoons built 70-room marble oceanfront "cottages"  they occupied for only four
to eight weeks a year. A New York couple spent $400,000 -- more than $9 million
today -- to throw a costume ball at the Waldorf Hotel. Sociologist Thorstein
Veblen called the phenomenon "conspicuous consumption."

Home of the 'giga-mansion'

The city that epitomized the first Gilded Age was New York, site of the greatest
houses, most glittering social events and the mightiest banks. It was home to
the social elite -- the so-called Four Hundred (the number that could fit into
Mrs. Astor's ballroom). Its slums, bearing names such as Bandit's Roost and
Misery Row, were the subject of Jacob Riis' book How the Other Half Lives.

The capital of America's second Gilded Age is Los Angeles, where hilltop homes
worth tens of millions of dollars look out over a city in which even the middle
class struggles to afford shelter and the number of homeless increases daily.
The city's famed sprawl cannot isolate Angelinos from disorienting contrasts
many Americans assumed had disappeared after the changes of the Progressive Era,
the New Deal and the Great Society.

The heart of Gilded Age Los Angeles is Bel Air, a community of curving lanes and
hillside mansions where a Hollywood legend lurks behind every hedge and gate.
One may purchase "giga-mansions" with names such as The One ($500 million);
Chartwell, the setting for The Beverly Hillbillies TV show ($295million);
Billionaire, which has an ornamental helicopter on the roof ($188million, down
from $250 million); and The Manor, once home of producer Aaron Spelling ($200
million).

(These prices are more aspirational than rational; the $110 million for which
Hard Rock Cafe co-founder Peter Morton's Malibu home sold last month broke the
L.A. record of $100 million set two years ago by the Playboy Mansion and another
house.)

In Bel Air, a house is considered a mansion only if it's 30,000 square feet --
12 times as large as the average American single family house.

Many of Bel Air's steep, narrow lanes are construction zones. "There's a saying
here," says Jeff Hyland, head of the city's leading high-end real estate agency.
"If the house is 10 years old, it's a candidate for a remodel. If it's 20 years
old, it's a candidate for a tear down."

Once, the rich built their own dream houses. In the second Gilded Age,
developers such as Nile Niami, a former B-movie producer, will do it for them.

Niami is the builder of The One, the USS Enterprise of the new class of spec
houses. It sits on a 4-acre hilltop lot with 360-degree views, including the
downtown skyline and the Pacific.

The One has 20 bedrooms, seven pools (including a moat) and five elevators. It
has a nightclub, casino, flower room, spa, gym, beauty salon, 45-seat theater,
four-lane bowling alley and a four-oven commercial kitchen. There is a lounge
where the walls are glass tanks filled with iridescent jellyfish. There is
parking for 30 vehicles.

The master bedroom suite -- 5,500 square feet, more than twice the average house
-- has its own office, kitchen and pool.

If The One were to sell for even a third of its asking price after it's finished
next year, it still would set a  U.S. record by about $30 million.

No one needs such houses, so buyers must be made to want them by creating what
Niami's architect, Paul McClean, calls "an emotional connection." Hence,
amenities: swings suspended from the ceiling, or a jellyfish room.

Buyers who want such a place want it now, not in the three to four years it
takes to build one. Many mansions are sold in move-in condition -- fully
furnished, decorated and supplied, down to the champagne.

"All the decisions have been made for you. The lifestyle is there for you,"
McClean says. "All you have to do is move in." As Niami puts it, "The day they
buy it, they're ready to have a party."

The market is global. The world has more than 1,500 billionaires, a third of
whom are Americans.

None of Niami's potential buyers seeks a primary or full-time residence. Most
have five or six homes. The One, like other giga-mansions, will be a
pied-à-terre, or a place to entertain and impress. In a metro area with 58,000
homeless people, The One will be empty much of the time.

Its isolated hillside perch and skyline views provide an escape from such
vertiginous contradictions. McClean, the architect, talks about how his houses
separate their occupants from the "day-to-day life of the city."

They also break down the distinction between indoors and outdoors. Trading on
the benign climate, McClean uses glass walls and doors to create a sense of
being outside when you're inside. The ironic result is housing for the rich that
seems to disappear even as, for the poor, it actually is disappearing.

The poorest of the poor

Homelessness has achieved a special distinction in Los Angeles. Having increased
50% during the past five years, "it's supplanted traffic as the topic everyone
talks about," says Tom Waldman, spokesman for the Los Angeles Homeless Services
Authority.

The homeless are as visible as the Hollywood sign. More than two years after
Mayor Eric Garcetti declared a "state of emergency," about 41,000 are
"unsheltered" -- sleeping in cars, outside City Hall, under freeway overpasses.
The Los Angeles Times calls it "a human tragedy of extraordinary proportions."

The homeless are blamed for everything from declining ridership on the Metro
mass transit system -- nearly three in 10 riders say they stopped riding because
they felt unsafe -- to last year's hepatitis A outbreak. Of 36 cases, 16 were
among homeless people.

The city gets about 1,900 requests a month to clean up or remove homeless
encampments, nearly three times more than two years ago.

Increasingly desperate officials have designated lots where people who live in
their cars can legally park for the night and made 1,400 bins available to the
homeless to store their belongings. There are plans to lodge people in trailers
on city property.

The ranks of the homeless have been swelled by military veterans, young people
emerging from foster homes, refugees from domestic abuse and inmates released
under an initiative that made it easier to parole non-violent offenders. About
three in 10 homeless people are mentally ill, and two in 10 are addicts.

Housing is too expensive. In California, eight in 10 homes for sale are not
affordable on a public school teacher's salary.

Almost six months after the Bel Air wildfire, in the neighborhood that was
evacuated, there's talk of helping the homeless, and of keeping them out.

Robin Greenberg says the homeless won't resettle in the canyons and instead will
stay closer to services. She plans to keep going to skid row to help: "I like
interacting with them. I like it when people say, 'Thank you.' I've brought my
grandchildren."

Nickie Miner, another longtime resident, says that in an arid landscape subject
to high winds, homeless camps are a threat to public safety. She says some of
the homeless don't want help: "They want be survivalists, and they want to do it
in our hills."

Residents have been going on a social networking site to report homeless
sightings. A man was seen walking in the street near traffic, apparently "off
his meds." One resident raised the possibility of deploying a drone to spy on
potential campsites.

A bud beginning to grow

The extremes of the Gilded Age were moderated in the Progressive Era that
followed. But the seeds of change -- the income tax, antitrust laws, limits on
working hours and child labor -- were planted in the Gilded Age.

Such seeds may be there today, if we look for them. Consider the experience of
Bel Air's similarly affluent neighbor to the west, Pacific Palisades.

In November 2015, a man in a homeless encampment, using a lit paper bag as a
flashlight, started a fire that endangered several homes. Police ejected all the
homeless, including Victor Jimenez, who'd lost his home after losing his job as
a videographer at a law firm.

A Pacific Palisades residents' committee privately raised $125,000 to hire two
social workers to connect the homeless -- defined  as Palisades "residents" if
they'd been in town for six months -- with housing and services.

One worker helped Jimenez, 49, get a job and an apartment downtown. He's
grateful but is under no illusions about what prompted it: "After the fire, the
money was there."

Homelessness has been a sort of conflagration for greater Los Angeles.

In 2016, voters approved a $1.2 billion city bond to build  housing for the
homeless. Last year, they passed a county sales tax to fund homeless services.

On the scorched hillsides of Bel Air, the flowers known as "fire followers" are
beginning to bloom.

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo photos by Robert Hanashiro/USA TODAY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2018 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              78 of 169 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           November 1, 2018 Thursday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Texas election pits Jones vs. players;
Former Titans linebacker Allred faces Cowboys owner-backed Sessions

BYLINE: Brent Schrotenboer, USA TODAY

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 4C

LENGTH: 1388 words


Deep in the heart of deep-red Texas, Cowboys owner Jerry Jones has spent
thousands in support of Congressman Pete Sessions, a Republican who represents
his wealthy and exclusive neighborhood north of downtown Dallas.

That's his guy. And this is his turf, the 32nd District of Texas. It's where
Jones has a $28 million home and where Tuesday's midterm election has put him on
the opposing side of a former NFL player backed by the NFL players union.

His name is Colin Allred, former linebacker for the Titans. He's the Democratic
challenger and is playing for much higher stakes than the last time he faced a
Jones-backed team as a player against the Cowboys in 2010.

"I think Jerry is somebody who probably looks at Pete Sessions and recognizes
some things," Allred told USA TODAY.

Allred said he recognizes something else entirely, which is why he's running for
Congress. After 15 years under Sessions, this district might be ripe for change,
one of many in the nation that could turn Democratic blue on Election Day,
possibly altering the balance of power in Congress.

Polls show this race as a toss-up, owing to a number of possible factors,
including backlash against President Donald Trump and shifting demographics in
this once reliably Republican realm. Not so long ago, wealthy neighborhoods in
this district racially segregated themselves to be white only.

Allred, 35, is black and grew up without a father.

"Colin Allred has, in this political climate, captured people's attention," said
Cal Jillson, a political science professor at Southern Methodist University in
Dallas, which is part of the district. "They're giving him a look as an
alternative."

If he wins, Allred would serve a district where some of the neighborhoods
resemble a Texas version of Beverly Hills. Besides Jones, former President
George W. Bush has a home and a presidential library in this district. Former
presidential candidate and businessman H. Ross Perot has a $20.8 million mansion
there, along with Mavericks owner Mark Cuban ($18 million home), retired golfer
Lee Trevino ($8.5 million), Mavericks star Dirk Nowitzki ($6.1 million) and
former Cowboys quarterback Roger Staubach ($5.4 million), according to property
records.

In June, Staubach gave the maximum individual donation of $2,700 to Sessions'
campaign for this election. Cuban told USA TODAY in an email that he was
planning to vote but declined to state his preference.

A spokesman for the Cowboys said Jones wasn't available to comment on the race.
His family has spoken with its bank account instead.

Contrast in candidates

Records show Jones gave the Sessions campaign the $2,700 maximum for the
Republican primary election this year and  $2,700 in September, according to the
Center for Responsive Politics.

His wife, Gene, daughter Charlotte and son Jerry Jones Jr. also each gave the
individual maximum of $2,700 to Sessions for the primary election and again for
the general election.

The Sessions campaign didn't respond to requests for comment.

"He is probably fighting the hardest he's ever had to fight as an incumbent,"
said Candace Evans, a popular real estate blogger who ran an unsuccessful
campaign for a city council seat last year in the same district.

The two candidates differ along mostly traditional ideological lines and offer a
stark contrast.

Sessions, 63, is the older white incumbent who is chairman of the Rules
Committee in the U.S. House of Representatives. He has been in Congress since
1997, when he represented another district before moving to the newly created
32nd. He has played up his ties to the Republican administration and has
received endorsements from Trump and Vice President Mike Pence, who campaigned
for him in October.

"The balance of the Congress may be well decided in Texas, in this district,"
Pence told reporters with Sessions at his side.

Bush has helped raise money for him, too. Overall, the Sessions campaign has
raised more than $4.4 million since last year, according to federal election
data.

"Colin Allred wants a federal takeover of health care," said a recent
advertisement funded by the Congressional Leadership Fund, which supports
Republicans. The ad said Allred was "too liberal for Texas."

Allred was born and raised in the district, played football at Baylor and used
earnings from his NFL career to go to law school at the University of California
Berkeley. He later worked as an attorney in the Obama administration and has
been endorsed by former President Barack Obama.

The NFL players union's political action committee also donated the committee
maximum of $5,000 to his and other campaigns after collecting contributions from
many NFL players, including quarterback Tom Brady and cornerback Richard
Sherman. Overall, Allred has raised more than $4.9 million since last year,
according to federal election data.

"I know those players gave out of their hard-earned wages to that PAC," Allred
said of the players union PAC. "I appreciate the support, and the importance of
being able to organize the way we did."

Two years ago, the Democrats didn't run a candidate to challenge Sessions,
clearing his way to an easy victory with 71 percent of the vote. But there were
signs of vulnerability for the Republicans even then.

Segregated past,

tax brackets now

In the same election, Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton got 48
percent of the vote in the district, compared to about 46 percent for Trump.
Allred now has a chance here in part because of disenchantment with Trump and
partly because of an increase in the Hispanic population, which has
traditionally favored Democrats.

The white population has decreased in that district from 53 percent in 2010 to
48 percent this year, according to Esri, a location intelligence firm. At the
same time, the Hispanic population has increased from 25 percent in 2010 to
about 28 percent this year and projects to reach nearly 30 percent in 2023,
according to the firm.

"The growth of the Latino population with the decline of the non-Hispanic white
population is quite striking in this district and is likely behind it becoming a
competitive U.S. House race," Texas State Demographer Lloyd Potter said in an
email.

That's a different world from the days of segregation. In 1995, Bush sold a home
in the Preston Hollow neighborhood in this district and later discovered it had
a restrictive covenant in the deed designed to keep it under white ownership.
Such covenants had been common in that area in prior decades and in this case
was still in the deed when Bush sold it, unbeknownst to him at the time, a
spokeswoman said then. By then, it wasn't legally enforceable anyway.

Bush returned to the same area after finishing his second term as president.

"I think everybody who is from Dallas knows something about the history of
residential segregation here in Dallas," Allred said. "What I'm really proud of
is how far we've come."

This will be the first time Allred has been in a head-to-head matchup against a
team backed by Jones since October 2010, when the Titans played at Cowboys
Stadium. Allred aggravated a neck injury in that game and never played again,
ending a career that spanned five seasons. His team still beat the Cowboys that
day 34-27. After having surgery for the injury, he has a plate and two screws in
his neck as part of his football legacy.

Football, he said, has been an "icebreaker" on the campaign trail, a way to
connect with voters in a football-crazy state. He recently chatted on the phone
with former Cowboys running back Emmitt Smith, underscoring his observation that
this is a "really personal race."

"For me, everywhere I go, there are folks I grew up watching, or have known
growing up, or played with or played against," Allred said.

Yet his success in the election might depend in large part on whether those old
"comfortable" parts of the district opt for change, particularly the women
living there, said Jillson, the professor at SMU. Jones' neighborhood and other
wealthy parts of the district are still noticeably Republican, said Evans, the
real estate expert.

"These are women who generally vote their family tax bracket," Jillson said.
"Their (children) are going to private schools, and their (health) insurance is
just fine, thank you. Whether they actually pull the trigger (for change) at the
end of the day, that's an open question."

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2018 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              80 of 169 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            January 22, 2018 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Olympics uniforms have a high-tech edge

BYLINE: Maria Puente, USA TODAY

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 739 words


Ralph Lauren is bringing new meaning to the idea of warming up for the Winter
Olympics: His Team USA Olympic athletes' uniforms, embedded withwearable heating
technology, will actually warm them up.

Because who knows how cold it might get at the 2018 Pyeongchang Olympic Games in
Korea -- maybe 10 degrees or even lower? No problem.

USA TODAY got an exclusive look at the patriotic togs that America's Olympians
will be wearing when they parade into Pyeongchang Olympic Stadium for the
Opening Ceremony on Feb. 9: Red-white-and-blue down parkas equipped with a
button on a slender battery pack inside that the athletes can push to get an
instant and long-lasting jolt of toasty warmth.

Call it the coolest heating system ever, says a proud David Lauren, son of Ralph
and chief innovation officer for Ralph Lauren Corp., chief outfitter for the
U.S. Olympic Committee since 2008.

"It's the most technologically advanced jacket ever produced," Lauren says.
"There have been heatable blankets for kids before but they have wires. This is
a fabric with ink that heats up -- it's weightless, it's conductive and it's
immediate."

The electronic-printed inks, printed in the shape of an American flag in carbon
and silver and bonded to the interior of the jackets, are flexible and
stretchable. The parkas are water-repellent. The athletes can set the
temperature (there are three settings) via their cellphones. The heat can last
up to five hours on the high setting and 11 hours on the low setting, fully
charged.

And the heat button is big enough to be used with gloves, which is crucial
because the Opening Ceremony uniform includes large brown suede explorer gloves
with fringe and hand beading.

"We're using mobile technology so it's literally wired but with no wires,"
Lauren says. The heating system is embedded in "an American flag inside the
jacket, only the athletes will see it, so the American flag will heat the jacket
-- it's a symbolic ode to our flag."

It's also a symbolic ode to Ralph Lauren's design philosophy, intense patriotism
and love of the Olympics.

Besides the parka and the rhinestone-cowboy gloves (Ralph Lauren has long been
influenced by western-wear looks), the Opening Ceremony uniform includes a slim
jean with moto-inspired seaming, a patriotic intarsia-knit wool sweater, a navy
wool ski hat, a USA-themed classic navy bandanna, a leather belt and brown suede
mountaineering boots with red laces.

The hat, by the way, can be customized, a first, Lauren says. You can put the
name of your favorite athlete or even your mother's name on it. The Polo Ralph
Lauren Team USA collection is available in limited editions in select Ralph
Lauren retail stores and at RalphLauren.com and TeamUSAShop.com, with a portion
of the proceeds earmarked for the U.S. Olympic team. A variety of similar items
with heating technology will be offered in the fall, Lauren says.

All of the uniforms are made in the USA, Lauren said, eliminating the
controversy that erupted in 2012 when it came out that the uniforms for the
Summer Games in London were made in China.

As always, David Lauren says, the aim for Ralph Lauren's Olympic uniforms is to
create a look that "reflects the DNA of America" as a country always moving
forward, always innovating, with a strong sense of its heritage inspiring the
future.

"So you see vintage-inspired southwestern gloves adding to an eclectic look of a
jacket that is the cutting edge of modernity," Lauren says. "You're taking
jeans, which are an American staple and a sign of American style around the
world, and giving it a cutting edge of new fabrics and flexibility. You're
taking a classic and making it modern and that is what Ralph Lauren is about."

Lauren said the heating technology was developed exclusively for Ralph Lauren
and grew out of the success of the jacket that gold-medal-laden swimmer Michael
Phelps wore when he carried the flag at the Opening Ceremonies for the 2016
Summer Olympics in Rio de Janeiro. The USA on the back lit up, acting as "a
beacon" for the team, Lauren says.

"It got an overwhelming response, we got calls from celebrities and people
across the country asking, 'How do I get a light-up jacket?' -- it was a
social-media phenomenon," Lauren says. This year, the aim was to combine
symbolism with function.

"Our goal was to make Team USA feel comfortable and excited on the global stage,
where they could feel confident and secure and ready to compete," Lauren says.

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo photos by Ralph Lauren

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2018 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              84 of 169 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             April 13, 2018 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Florida may soon be known as the Salmon State

BYLINE: Alan Gomez, USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 731 words


MIAMI - Forget about the Pacific Northwest or the chilly coast of Maine. Your
next piece of salmon could come from the Sunshine State.

Atlantic Sapphire, a Norwegian company that pioneered technology to farm salmon
entirely on land, is building a salmon farm near the southernmost edge of the
continental U.S., about an hour's drive south of Miami.

The  tropical climate of South Florida may seem like the most unlikely spot to
raise the protein-rich, cold-water fish. But the company says Florida's unique
underground geology and the state's business-friendly environmental regulations
ended up being the perfect mix for its plunge into the U.S. market.

CEO Johan Andreassen said he scouted 13 U.S. states for 21/2 years before he
spotted a YouTube video outlining Florida's underground water system. The
naturally occurring water system features the separate layers of fresh and salt
water needed to raise salmon. He made a couple of calls, started raising money,
and by November, the company expects to drop its first salmon eggs into an
above-ground water tank.

"I was giving up," Andreassen said of his months of searching. "I was just
Googling, and I came across this video. I was shocked. We didn't expect that
this was a suitable area."

Atlantic Sapphire's new technology represents the latest step toward farm-raised
fish, a practice mired in controversy but growing worldwide. According to the
Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, fish farming, known as
"aquaculture," has grown so rapidly that it now provides half the fish consumed
by humans each year.

Siwa Msangi, a senior researcher at the International Food Policy Research
Institute and co-author of a 2013 World Bank study on global fish production,
said the image of farmed fish has suffered due to disease outbreaks in Chile,
Canada, China and elsewhere. But Msangi said salmon farms, traditionally located
in open water and contained only by nets, cannot keep out parasites, bacteria
and other contaminants, making them vulnerable to such outbreaks.

What makes Atlantic Sapphire's technique unique is that the salmon go through
their entire life cycle -- from egg to ready-to-eat adult -- in a contained,
above-ground, filtered water system. "That's the innovation," said Jose Prado,
the company's CFO.

Msangi said keeping the fish out of the ocean can keep them free of sea lice,
microplastics and other toxins that have doomed other fish farms.

"To be honest, this sounds like a great idea," said Msangi, who was not involved
in the Atlantic Sapphire project. "People are still wary of commercially farmed
fish compared to what they catch themselves. But given the environmental
problems as oceans warm,  there are going to be more problems with that method."

Atlantic Sapphire's  farm will stand on a 20-acre site in a swath of South
Florida long dominated by agriculture. The construction site is surrounded by
plant nurseries, palm tree farms and fields lined with tomatoes, sweet potatoes,
strawberries and papayas.

The company is building a series of water tanks connected by 67 miles of pipes,
starting with smaller tanks for salmon eggs and increasing in size to 36 tanks
that will hold 450,000 gallons of water each. The water in the tanks will be
cooled to 59 degrees and slowly transition from freshwater to saltwater to mimic
the salmon's natural life cycle. The entire site will be covered by a
400,000-square-foot roof designed to keep out the sun and withstand
hurricane-force winds.

While all that work is being done above ground, the key to the project lies
underneath (see graphic).

If all goes  to plan, Atlantic Sapphire will crank out 10,000 metric tons of
salmon by 2020. It has purchased 20 neighboring acres of land to expand further
and has an option to buy 40 more acres. That would allow the company to produce
90,000 metric tons of salmon a year, about 10% of the U.S. market.

The company already is producing salmon on its first land-based farm in Denmark.

FOR FULL TEXT OF GRAPHIC/MAP, PLEASE SEE ONLINE OR PRINT VERSIONS OF THIS STORY

South Florida's unique geology enables large scale salmon production on land

1 - Intake water is treated before reaching plant

2 - Salmon tanks

3 - Treated wastewater is disposed

Salt water (Comes from the ocean)

"Boulder zone"

(porous, cavernous region where Florida municipalities pump their wastewater)

SOURCE Atlantic Sapphire, USA TODAY reporting

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, COLOR, KARL GELLES/USA TODAY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2018 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              85 of 169 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            April 18, 2018 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Tart tongue, sweet spirit;
She was integral to 2 presidents

BYLINE: Susan Page USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1087 words


Barbara Pierce Bush, the former first lady whose cloud of white hair and strands
of fake pearls became her signature, died at her Houston home Tuesday after a
long struggle with congestive heart failure and pulmonary disease. The
down-to-earth matriarch, who could trace her ancestry to the Mayflower and saw
both her husband and son win the White House, was 92.

"I am still old and still in love with the man I married 72 years ago," the
former first lady wrote in a note published this month in Smith College's
alumnae magazine, still showing her characteristic humor. "I have had great
medical care and more operations than you would believe. I'm not sure God will
recognize me; I have so many new body parts!"

Her death was announced by Jim McGrath, spokesman for former president George
H.W. Bush.

A memorial service is to be held at St. Martin's Episcopal Church, a few blocks
from the home she and George H.W. Bush built after he was defeated for
re-election in 1992. A processional is planned to carry her body to the George
Bush Presidential Library Center in College Station, on the campus of Texas A&M,
where she will be laid to rest near the grave of a daughter, Robin.

Her husband, the nation's 41st president, is 93 years old and struggling with a
Parkinson's-like disease that put him in a wheelchair and made it difficult for
him to speak. Son Jeb Bush, the former governor of Florida, is slated to deliver
his mother's eulogy.

Barbara Bush dropped out of Smith during her sophomore year to marry George
Bush, the first boy she had ever kissed and a young Navy pilot in World War II.
After the war ended and he graduated from Yale, she and their toddler son,
Georgie, followed him from the comforts of Connecticut to the wilds of Texas,
where he was determined to make his fortune in the booming oil business.

Over the years, she established more than two dozen homes in their peripatetic
life, served as "the enforcer" rearing their five surviving children, and
emerged as one of her husband's most trusted advisers and biggest political
assets. She had a sharp eye for phonies and a blunt-spoken willingness to speak
her mind, including to her son, George W. Bush, when he became the nation's 43rd
president.

New England roots

Barbara Pierce was  born June 8, 1925, the third of four children, and grew up
in the tony New York City bedroom community of Rye. Her father, Marvin, was a
gifted college athlete who was trained as an engineer and rose to head the
McCall publishing empire.

Her mother, Pauline, was an avid gardener. Her  jibes about Barbara's childhood
chubbiness left her with a lifelong sensitivity about her weight. In her memoir,
Barbara Bush recalled her mother's dinner-time entreaties. "Eat up, Martha," she
would say. "Not you, Barbara."

At a Christmas dance at the Greenwich Country Club in 1941, George Bush asked a
mutual friend to introduce him to the pretty girl across the room. Barbara was
16. He was 17 and ready to enlist in the Navy as soon as he graduated from
Phillips Academy Andover. When they married, she was 19 and he was 20. Their
union, stretching more than seven decades, is the longest of any presidential
couple in U.S. history.

They had a large and boisterous family: George, Robin, Jeb, Neil, Marvin and
Doro. Living in Odessa, then Midland, Bush made his money in the Texas oil
business. He moved the family to Houston and launched a political career --
first becoming Harris County Republican chairman, then losing a bid for the U.S.
Senate and finally winning one for the House of Representatives.

President Nixon named him U.N. ambassador, then selected him to chair the
Republican National Committee during the Watergate scandal. President Ford
appointed him as the U.S. envoy to China, then as director of the CIA.

He ran for president in 1980, losing the Republican nomination but being
selected at the last minute by Ronald Reagan as his running mate. After two
terms as vice president, Bush was elected president in 1988.

At each step, Barbara Bush was his indispensable partner -- organized,
disciplined, focused and flexible. She built sprawling networks of friends, sent
out thousands of Christmas cards and easily socialized with strangers, from
foreign ambassadors at state dinners to factory workers on the campaign trial.
She wasn't flummoxed by abrupt changes in circumstance and locale.

As first lady, she became enormously popular --  scoring higher favorable
ratings than her husband or her son. Americans embraced her as an approachable,
no-nonsense matron.

The years also had their share of pain and sorrow. Daughter Robin died of
leukemia at age 3 in 1953. Barbara Bush suffered from a spate of depression in
1975 so serious that she contemplated suicide, she disclosed in her memoirs. At
age 28, son Marvin was diagnosed with ulcerative colitis, an incurable disease
that forced surgery to remove his colon. Son Neil became enmeshed in the
savings-and-loan scandals of the 1980s for his ties to a Denver bank. Neil and
daughter Doro had messy divorces.

Barbara Bush flinched at quips that she looked more like Bush's mother than his
wife.  Soon after becoming first lady, she was diagnosed with Graves' disease.
The thyroid disorder gave her double vision and led to painful complications
that she shielded from public view but that plagued her for the rest of her
life.

She is survived by 17 grandchildren, several involved in public service, and
seven great-grandchildren. Her grandchildren include George P. Bush, running for
re-election as Texas land commissioner; Lauren Bush, a former model who founded
a global food program called the FEED Project; and Pierce Bush, CEO of Big
Brothers Big Sisters Lone Star.

Feared by some

Barbara Bush was warm, but she could be tough. She didn't suffer fools gladly.
White House staffers sometimes avoided her for fear of being the target of a
cutting remark or of getting on her bad side.

She was born five years after women won the right to vote and lived to see a
woman nominated for president (not that she voted for Hillary Clinton; in the
2016 election, she wrote in son Jeb's name).

At a commencement address at Wellesley College in 1990, about 150 students
signed a petition protesting her appearance, arguing that her life choices made
her a poor role model for independent and career-minded women. She showed up
anyway.

In a  comment that brought laughter and applause, she said that someday, someone
in the audience might follow in her footsteps as the president's spouse. "And I
wish him well," she said.

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo ROBERT DEUTSCH/USA TODAY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2018 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              92 of 169 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 28, 2018 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

These are the top destinations for 2019;
From Seattle to Miami or Jordan to Iceland, travelers look to new year

BYLINE: Nancy Trejos USA TODAY

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 2D

LENGTH: 964 words


Which destinations do U.S. travelers want to explore in 2019?

Some are making a comeback after a tough 2018. The island of Hawaii, known as
the Big Island, seemed to have gotten it all this year: a volcanic eruption,
earthquake and hurricane.

The eruption of the Kilauea volcano on Hawaii island caused the closure of a
large swath of Hawaii Volcanoes National Park. Several parts re-opened in
September.

Highly dependent on tourism, the Big Island is ready to welcome back visitors.
And other islands within the chain want travelers to know that they have not
experienced similar problems.

Maui was vacation rental website HomeAway's top U.S. destination for 2019, based
on future demand. Its beaches, waterfalls, farms and scenic 53-mile drive to
Hana have enchanted travelers.

Rounding out the top five U.S. destinations on HomeAway are all warm weather
destinations in the south: Gatlinburg and Pigeon Forge, Tennessee; Gulf Shores,
Alabama.; Panama City Beach, Florida; and Miramar and Rosemary Beach, Florida.

Airbnb also highlighted Tennessee. The lodging website has named the Great Smoky
Mountains as one of 19 destinations to visit in 2019. Two of the national park's
most iconic trails are re-opening after a wildfire two years ago. The park has
the largest black bear population in the USA.

Nearby is Pigeon Forge, Tennessee, home to Dollywood. Using search, booking and
wish list growth data, Airbnb found that there was a 191 percent year-over-year
increase in bookings from October 2017 to October 2018 in the Great Smoky
Mountains.

The Catskill Mountains and Hudson Valley of New York also have seen an uptick of
interest on Airbnb, with a 100 percent year-over-year increase in bookings. It's
a year-round destination with ski resorts, vineyards, orchards and farms, and
this year marks the 50th anniversary of the famed Woodstock festival.

"The Catskills provide the perfect backdrop for a laid-back, season-agnostic
retreat," Airbnb says.

Miami is the top U.S. city to visit on Lonely Planet's list of places to travel
to next year. Miami has always captivated travelers for its beaches and
nightlife. But in recent years, it has turned into a center for the arts, food
and urban design. Downtown Miami has welcomed a $305million science museum. And
the Design District has become a "cultural magnet," Lonely Planet says.

Seattle home of Amazon headquarters, is another one of Lonely Planet's top
picks. The online retailer has transformed the Denny Triangle neighborhood.
Nearby, the Space Needle has gotten its largest renovation in more than 50
years. Down on the waterfront, a concrete expressway has been transformed into a
multi-billion-dollar tunnel.

American Express Travel's top trending U.S. travel destinations for 2019, based
on its  booking data, are Savannah and Washington, D.C. Savannah this year had a
96 percent year-over-year increase in bookings among card members while the
nation's capital had a 21 percent spike.

New York City is slated to have an eventful year in 2019.

Hudson Yards will debut in March. It's a $20 million project with condos, parks,
restaurants, hotels and public art in the West Side of Manhattan. The Statue of
Liberty Museum will open in May 2019.

International destinations

In a recent Booking.com survey, 45 percent of 21,500 global travelers said they
want to be more adventurous in their choice of destinations in 2019 than they
were in 2018.

Some up-and-coming destinations designated by Booking.com include Wadi Rum,
Jordan; Bacalar, Mexico; Ouarzazate, Morocco; and Palomino, Colombia.

The United States Tour Operators Association (USTOA) named its hot destinations
for 2019, based on a recent survey conducted by PriceWaterhouseCoopers. Its
members named Italy the most popular destination for travelers in 2019.

The top 10 hot destinations for the coming year also included Iceland, which
ranked second. It was followed by Japan, Vietnam, Australia, France, Spain,
Colombia, Cambodia and Portugal.

USTOA members also identified its top 10 off-the-beaten path or emerging
destinations. Iceland again ranked first and Cambodia came in second. They were
followed by Croatia, Colombia, Vietnam, Portugal, Bhutan, Bolivia, Myanmar and
Ethiopia.

"It's interesting to see five destinations - Iceland, Cambodia, Colombia,
Vietnam and Portugal - appear on both the hot destinations and emerging
destinations lists," says Terry Dale, president  of USTOA. "This tells us that
off-the-beaten path travel experiences continue to grow in popularity."

Jonny Bealby, founder of Wild Frontiers, which specializes in small tours to
off-the-radar destinations, says Uzbekistan is captivating clients. Passenger
numbers to the country were up 40 percent this year compared with last, and Wild
Frontiers expects that upswing to continue.

A number of people are choosing Uzbekistan rather than the less stable Middle
East to see its Islamic architecture. They also are attracted to the Silk Road
which has seen a resurgence in interest because of China's One Belt, One Road
infrastructure project. This year Uzbekistan introduced a new e-visa scheme,
reducing the costs and making it easier to obtain a visa to visit the country.

"Today Uzbekistan offers visitors stunning architecture, a fascinating culture
and a whole host of remnants of the great trading route which helped shape the
modern world," Bealby says.

One part of the Middle East that is seeing an uptick of visitors is Jordan. Wild
Frontiers saw passenger numbers there double this year compared to last. The
country has good infrastructure, hotels and roads. It also has direct flights
from New York, Chicago and Detroit.

American Express Travel's top trending international destinations for 2019 are
Barcelona, Doha, Hamburg, Marrakech, New Zealand, Nassau in the Bahamas,
Singapore and Tuscany.

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2018 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              93 of 169 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           January 18, 2018 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

9 of 12 Park Service board members quit in protest

BYLINE: John Bacon, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 282 words


Nine of the 12 members of the National Park Service advisory board resigned in
protest this week, saying Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke has ignored pleas for a
meeting and has "set aside" protection of the nation's natural treasures.

Board chairman Tony Knowles, a Democrat and former governor of Alaska, said in a
resignation letter to Zinke that the group has been waiting for a year to meet
and "continue the partnership" between the board and Interior officials.

"Our requests to engage have been ignored and the matters on which we wanted to
brief the new department team are clearly not part of its agenda," the letter
says. "I have a profound concern that the mission of stewardship, protection,
and advancement of our National Parks has been set aside."

The board's tasks included advising Zinke and the National Park Service on the
designation of national historic and natural landmarks. The board also advises
on a wide range of issues, such as  climate change and the administration of the
Historic Sites, Buildings, and Antiquities Act.

Last spring, Zinke suspended the work of more than 200 advisory boards,
committees and subcommittees pending a review. Some returned to duty, others
have been altered or dropped and others remain dormant.

Knowles told The Washington Post that the board, despite being required to meet
twice a year, has not convened since President Trump took office. Knowles said
members understood that the Trump administration would name its own board
members. Still, he said the resignees were not consulted on recent decisions to
increase visitor fees and to reverse a ban on plastic water bottles in the park
system.

"We were frozen out," Knowles told the Post.

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2018 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              97 of 169 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          February 21, 2018 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

It's time to leave Aniston alone;
'Poor Jen' doesn't need, or want, your pity

BYLINE: Maeve McDermott, Columnist, USA Today

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 698 words


Let's be clear: Jennifer Aniston doesn't want, or need, your pity.

When the story broke Thursday that Aniston and Justin Theroux are separating
after six years together, the dismaying reactions to the news included fans
petitioning for a  reunion with Brad Pitt, and headlines musing about how she
just can't keep a man around.

This needs to stop.

It's been more than a decade since Aniston became "Poor Jen," the image of a
scorned wife after Pitt split for Angelina Jolie. Aniston was often seen on
magazine covers with "Dumped!" splashed across her face. Then, over the next
decade, the media narrative shifted to portray the then-single Aniston as a
different kind of so-called victim: a childless woman in her 30s, with tabloid
covers speculating about her fertility and smearing her as "pregnant and alone,"
with anonymous sources falsely claiming she was expecting.

Yet, in the many years since her split with Pitt, the actress' life has turned
out just fine, as she continues to act and maintains her status as one of
Hollywood's wealthiest women. So why do we continue to paint her as a victim, or
fan-cast her life as if she's a character in a rom-com?

The "Poor Jen" trope has already returned this time around, with anonymous
sources claiming that Aniston's reclusiveness caused the split and that Theroux
was just too "hipster" for her, with headlines asking "Why can't Jennifer
Aniston keep a man?" and claiming Theroux "partied like a single man" while  Jen
stayed at home. It's not hard to see a toxic  narrative forming around this
breakup, about the hot younger actor (he's 46) leaving the "brittle older woman"
(she just turned 49) for greener pastures. With the ex-couple both fair game for
the tabloids as newly single stars, it's disheartening to imagine the potential
headlines that will accompany Theroux seeing someone new.

As gross as the media's dragging of Aniston was in 2005, it's even more
distasteful now, in the middle of a news cycle dominated by stories about women
fighting back against objectification in Hollywood. Two years before Me Too and
Time's Up became  red carpet talking points, Aniston wrote her own "Fed Up"
manifesto for the Huffington Post, calling time's up on the sexist and ageist
treatment she's seen over the years.

"For the record, I am not pregnant. What I am is fed up. I'm fed up with the
sport-like scrutiny and body shaming that occurs daily under the guise of
'journalism,' the 'First Amendment' and 'celebrity news,' " she wrote, before
launching into some particularly astute media criticism.

"If I am some kind of symbol to some people out there, then clearly I am an
example of the lens through which we, as a society, view our mothers, daughters,
sisters, wives, female friends and colleagues," she wrote. "The objectification
and scrutiny we put women through is absurd and disturbing. The way I am
portrayed by the media is simply a reflection of how we see and portray women in
general, measured against some warped standard of beauty."

Aniston's words echo the messages we've heard time and again on this season's
red carpets -- that society's mothers and daughters are people to be respected,
not objects to be ogled. In her essay's final few lines, Aniston takes a cynical
view of the tabloids, writing that she doesn't believe the women-hating media
coverage will ever change. "What can change is our awareness and reaction to the
toxic messages buried within these seemingly harmless stories served up as truth
and shaping our ideas of who we are," she writes, "and maybe some day the
tabloids will be forced to see the world through a different, more humanized
lens because consumers have just stopped buying the (expletive)."

Now, with the news of her split with Theroux reverberating around the
tabloidsphere, it's time to see whether her assessment is correct. In a Time's
Up-focused climate in which women's empowerment  is more in vogue than during
the Brangelina days of 2005, the Jennifer Aniston pity party  seems to  already
be making its return to the headlines, just as she predicted it would. What
remains to be seen is whether  readers will treat Aniston like a product, or, as
she's begged us, like a person.

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo EPA-EFE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2018 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              105 of 169 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             May 9, 2018 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Trump shreds Iran deal, along with U.S. credibility

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 490 words


America's credibility on the world stage suffered a severe blow Tuesday when
President Trump pulled out of the 3-year-old Iran nuclear deal, signaling that
the United States' word lasts only as long as its next presidential election.

America is now in violation of an accord it negotiated in good faith along with
China, the European Union, France, Germany, Russia and the United Kingdom, and
with which Iran has complied since the deal was ratified.

Trump's rationale for withdrawing the United States and reinstating economic
sanctions -- that the "horrible, one-sided deal" allowed Iran "to continue
enriching uranium and, over time, reach the brink of a nuclear breakout" -- is
unfounded.

His own intelligence chiefs say Tehran has honored an accord that extended
Iran's "breakout" time for building a nuclear weapon from three months to a
year. The deal, which eased sanctions on Tehran in return for curbs on Iran's
nuclear program, was working.

But Trump never liked the deal, saying so loudly during his election campaign
and since. For him, that was enough reason for ignoring the pleas of European
allies and disrupting unusually intrusive nuclear inspections.

Tuesday's announcement followed Trump's ill-considered decisions last year to
pull the United States out of the Paris climate accord and a Trans-Pacific
Partnership on trade. Imagine if average Americans conducted their personal
lives as capriciously as the president conducts foreign policy. It's as though
you bought a car, decided after the fact that you didn't like the color or the
gas mileage, tore up the sales agreement and walked away from the remaining
payments. Would anyone trust selling you another vehicle?

Trump has a lot of "cars" yet to buy, not the least of which is a new nuclear
deal with North Korea. In fact, Secretary of State Mike Pompeo was winging his
way there even as Trump was pulling out of the Iran agreement. It's hard to see
why dictator Kim Jong Un would agree to a similar accord with such an unreliable
negotiating partner.

To the extent that they have any sort of Plan B, Trump and his new hard-line
counselors -- Pompeo and national security adviser John Bolton -- seem to
believe that reimposing sanctions will isolate Tehran, forcing it to negotiate
improvements in the nuclear deal and extend, for example, sunset clauses on
developing and producing new centrifuges (2025) or stockpiling and enriching
uranium (2030).

But it took years of rigorous diplomacy by the Bush and Obama administrations to
persuade dozens of countries to participate in a broad sanctions program that
finally forced Tehran to the table. That kind of negotiation now would be even
harder.

By pulling out of the agreement, Trump effectively shreds a solution that
nations across the world were counting on to prevent a nasty, threatening regime
from acquiring the most terrible weapon. In so doing, his actions also shred
America's reputation as a reliable partner.

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Carolyn Kaster/AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2018 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              106 of 169 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              May 25, 2018 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Our view: Donald Trump, deal-breaker in chief

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 484 words


Thursday's collapse of a highly anticipated nuclear summit between President
Trump and North Korean leader Kim Jong Un was a stark reminder of the chasm
between what the president says he can do and reality.

Trump sold himself to voters as the great negotiator, the ultimate
problem-solver. But after 16 months as president, Trump has shown himself less
talented at making new deals than at breaking existing ones.

The list of broken or endangered agreements keeps growing: The Paris climate
accord. The Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) trade agreement. The Iran nuclear
deal. The North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA). The Deferred Action for
Childhood Arrivals (DACA) policy.

In other words, Trump's pretty good at deal-breaking. It's deal-making where he
stumbles.

Even as he pulled out of an agreement preventing Iran from acquiring a nuclear
bomb, Trump pushed for an even more ironclad deal stripping North Korea of the
same weapons. As enticements, he promised Kim major U.S. investments ("His
country will be rich") and safety and security ("He will be happy") -- strange
offerings for a dictator who operates one of the world's last, brutal gulag
systems.

On Thursday, the same day North Korea said it blew up a nuclear test site, Trump
blew up the summit planned for June 12 in Singapore. He was evidently upset
about renewed, tough rhetoric emanating from Pyongyang.

Walking away from the table can be an effective negotiating technique. Trump's
abrupt decision to cancel the meeting, however, throws into turmoil hopes of
denuclearizing North Korea after a year of painstakingly assembling the toughest
sanctions against the regime. It also provides more support for the idea that
major diplomatic breakthroughs are best achieved after months or even years of
lower-level negotiations and commitments.

Will the summit get rescheduled? To paraphrase the president, maybe it will,
maybe it won't. Who knows? All that's certain is that the giddy Nobel prize talk
was premature.

A similar pattern has played out on trade issues. Trump made campaign hay out of
America's trade deficit with China, correctly citing Beijing's large-scale
industrial subsidies and intellectual property appropriation as unfair
practices. But he inexplicably withdrew the United States from the TPP, a
multilateral agreement that excluded China and could have isolated Beijing on
trade, forcing reform. In its place, Trump threatened tariffs and a trade war,
which has yielded little but vague promises from China.

Closer to home, Trump's efforts to renegotiate NAFTA with Canada and Mexico,
again with threats of tariffs, have yet to succeed and will likely carry over to
next year. And speaking of our neighbor to the south, whatever happened to that
deal to get Mexico to pay for the proposed border wall?

As anyone who has watched a bully on the beach knows, knocking down sand castles
is easy. Building them is hard work.

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Evan Vucci/AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2018 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              116 of 169 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             October 8, 2018 Monday
                                 FIRST EDITION

#MeToo changed culture but few laws;
Lawmakers stall on sexual harassment fight

BYLINE: Cara Kelly and Aaron Hegarty, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1122 words


Although the #MeToo movement sparked a cultural reckoning on sexual harassment
and assault, few new laws  substantially remove the barriers for victims to
report and seek justice or  increase accountability for perpetrators, a USA
TODAY analysis reveals.

Congress has passed no laws related to sexual harassment in the workplace since
#MeToo, not even regarding its own handling of harassment and discrimination
claims against senators and representatives. This  lags  the standard set by the
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission  for private companies across the
country.

States passed a number of laws, but the majority are limited in scope. Others,
such as a pair of California bills aimed at making it easier to take sexual
harassment complaints to court, were vetoed.

"Everybody thinks some massive, massive change in laws has happened with the
#MeToo movement. But it hasn't," says Carol Moody, president of women's advocacy
group Legal Momentum. "Nobody will disagree something needs to be done, but the
devil's in the details."

USA TODAY examined more than 2,000 bills passed in the past 24 months by
Congress and by legislatures in all 50 states that contained the word "sexual"
and terms such as "me too," "rape kits" and "nondisclosure" using the
legislative tracking service LegiScan. Since #MeToo began, elected officials
passed 261 laws that directly addressed topics championed by the movement, just
a slight uptick from  238 the year before.

Congress considered two omnibus bills this year, one on sexual harassment and
another on sexual violence: the EMPOWER Act, which covers  nondisclosure
agreements and required filings of settlements with the Securities and Exchange
Commission,  and the Violence Against Women Act.

"I think that they just don't think that this is important. I just think it's
not about them," said Toni Van Pelt, president of the National Organization for
Women. "It's not on their agenda."

What have lawmakers done?

Though efforts in Congress hit roadblocks, statehouses made incremental
progress. Several laws are narrowly focused, including 8 percent that created or
renewed days or months designated for public awareness. Another 8 percent
involved training programs for government employees, contractors and lobbyists.

This year, Maryland, Illinois, Louisiana, New Hampshire and Delaware joined 15
other states in making it illegal for law enforcement to have sex with people in
their charge.

"I think that it is a ripe climate for low-hanging fruit to get passed," such as
making it mandatory to test rape kits, said Kristen Houser of the National
Sexual Violence Resource Center. "No one is going to argue with it. But that's
really different than passing a law mandating that elected state legislators and
their staff have to behave appropriately or there will be repercussions in the
statehouse. ... I am waiting to see significant changes. I'm waiting to see
things pass that seem like they would be common sense if this issue were a
priority."

States passed at least 35 bills related to sexual assault survivors' rights this
year. Those range from setting deadlines to test backlogged rape kits to
restricting a victim's gender or sexual orientation from being used as a defense
and entered into evidence in court.

Amanda Nguyen was nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize for her work with victims'
rights. The 27-year-old wrote  the Survivors' Bill of Rights Act in 2014 after
she said she struggled to preserve her own rape kit.

The bill, which includes access to  medical forensic exams, sexual assault
advocates and protective orders,  was signed into law in 2016 after unanimously
passing Congress.  It's passed in 18 states, seven after #MeToo.

Statutes of limitations

Testimonies by survivors of abuse in the Catholic Church and hundreds of
gymnasts who came forward against former USA Gymnastics coach Larry Nassar
sparked heated debate around statutes of limitations.

"Where I don't understand the statute of limitations is child sex crimes," said
Sunny Hostin, a former federal prosecutor specializing in child sex crimes and
co-host of "The View." "If you have someone who was sexually abused when he or
she was 5 years old ... who was living under an abuser's roof, that child is
going to be unable to go forward."

After Nassar's trial, Congress passed legislation extending the statute of
limitations for victims to sue alleged perpetrators to age 28 or up to 10 years
after the reasonable discovery of the violation.

States followed suit: Michigan extended its cutoff from the victim's 19th
birthday to 28th and provided a 90-day window for all Nassar victims to sue
retroactively. A version extending the same window to all victims of sexual
abuse failed to pass the state House. Representatives of the Catholic Church and
state universities publicly expressed concern over the  number of lawsuits that
could come from opening the window to all survivors.

"You have the Catholic Church lobbying heavily with state legislatures. You see
athletic departments lobbying their state legislature, and they're like a finely
tuned machine at this point. They've been doing it years and years and years,
really to save money from civil lawsuits, and it's shameful," Hostin said.

On Capitol Hill

Congressional policies lag  some states and the private sector, which led Rep.
Jackie Speier, D-Calif.,  to propose mandatory sexual harassment training in
2014. "It was rebuffed by the chair of the committee who wouldn't even take it
up as an amendment in the committee, let alone on the floor," Speier said.

When #MeToo came three years later, she saw an opportunity.

"I videotaped a short message about my own experience (of sexual harassment in
Congress), mostly so that women on the Hill would feel safe coming to me to talk
about it. Then I heard from many women, sitting in my office crying, shaking,
and I knew that the problem was even bigger than I thought."

The  House Administration Committee revealed that taxpayer money was used to
settle more than $342,000 in harassment and discrimination complaints involving
House members from 2008 to 2012.

Speier, Rep. Carolyn Maloney, D-N.Y., and several of their House counterparts,
including Rep. Bradley Byrne, R-Ala.,  worked to amend the 1995 Congressional
Accountability Act to strengthen victims' rights, require third-party
investigations and hold members personally financially liable for settlements.
It easily passed the House in February but hit a snag in the Senate. Provisions
for third-party investigations were stripped, as were aspects of those holding
members financially liable.

Negotiations  stalled, and there's been no movement  in five months.

"I think the average person in America has the right to expect more from us,"
Byrne said.

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2018 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              122 of 169 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 17, 2018 Monday
                                A CHASE EDITION

Depression and teens: Are devices to blame?

BYLINE: Ken Alltucker, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 901 words


Teens and college-age adults face pressures that past generations never did.

Spiraling college tuition leaves crippling student loan debt. Active-shooter
drills in schools warn students of a real and persistent threat. And political
division, the culture wars and climate change remind young Americans of the
fragility of the world they are inheriting.

But some experts are debating whether another phenomenon - smartphones, tablet
computers and social media - is responsible for the rising rates of depression
among children and young adults.

Major depression rates among teens and young adults are rising faster than among
the overall population. The authors of a 2016 study in the journal Pediatrics
found that rates of major depression among children ages 12 to 17 jumped to 11.3
percent in 2014, up from 8.7 percent in 2005. Major depression among young
adults also increased, but at a slower rate.

Ramin Mojtabai, the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health professor
who completed the study, says more research is needed on the causes of rising
depression rates among teens and young adults.

"One can speculate that increased use of digital devices and social media are
among the contributing factors," Mojtabai said. "There is some evidence that
cyberbullying puts children and adolescents at increased risk of depression."

San Diego State University psychologist Jean Twenge sees a direct link between
how much time teens spend on smartphones and troubling signs of mental health
distress.

In her 2017 book "iGen," she cited national health surveys and other statistics
to argue that a generation of teens have turned to smartphones as their
preferred social outlet, and teens who spend the most time on their screens are
more likely to be unhappy.

"What you get is a fundamental shift in how teens spend their leisure time,"
Twenge told USA TODAY. "They are spending less time sleeping, less time with
their friends face to face. ... It is not something that happened to their
parents. It is not something that happens as a world event."

Even tech pioneers have limited their children's use of digital devices over
concerns about the effects of technology on the developing brain. Microsoft
co-founder Bill Gates capped his kids' cellphone use, and longtime Apple CEO
Steve Jobs told The New York Times in 2010 that he did not allow his children to
use the then-newly developed iPad.

High-profile investors have asked Apple this year what the company is doing to
combat children's device overuse and the resulting mental- and physical-health
harms.

But others are skeptical about blaming smartphone use for depression in
adolescents and young adults.

"People are jumping to conclusions that there has been a cultural change with
the use of social media," says Anne Glowinski, director of adolescent and child
psychiatry at education and training at Washington University in St. Louis.
"There's a laundry list of things that can be impacting young people."

Sonia Livingstone, a social psychologist at the London School of Economics and
Political Science, said there's room for legitimate debate over potential harms
and benefits of teens' smartphone use.

But she said several other factors that could be contributing to rising
depression. Perhaps the biggest, she said, is that it's more socially acceptable
for kids to talk openly about mental health.

"What we have today is a greater degree of visibility," Livingstone told USA
TODAY. "It very easily looks like an epidemic in mental health problems, but 10,
15 years ago, these were shameful things that nobody mentioned."

She said teens and young adults face more pressure to achieve in school and in
extracurricular activities.

"It is becoming a more competitive world, and they have to play their part,"
Livingstone said. "It brings competition much earlier. So it is kind of an
undermining of childhood."

Varun Soni, a vice provost at the University of Southern California overseeing
the office of wellness and crisis intervention, has noticed a marked difference
in his conversations with college-age students over time.

A decade ago, he said, students were more apt to chat about big-picture
questions such as the meaning of life, purpose and how to live an extraordinary
life.

In recent years, conversations with post-millennials have taken on a more
pessimistic tone. Students now talk about a lack of meaning, and despondency.
Soni initially thought it was a sign that more vulnerable students were seeking
counseling. But he has heard similar feedback from  counterparts at other
universities.

He describes it as a "mental health crisis" in higher education. "At the root of
it is a sense of disconnection," Soni said. "These are students who are so
connected online but disconnected offline. These are students that may have
1,000 friends online but struggle to make friends in real life."

Mary Alvord, a psychologist and adjunct professor at George Washington
University School of Medicine, doesn't see a simple explanation for rise in
depression rates among adolescents and young adults.

If parents are concerned about their children's time on digital devices, she
said, they can limit their use before bedtime or require them to spend more time
outdoors without digital devices.

Rather than fixating on their kids' phone use, Alvord said, parents can help
children build resilience, encourage them to develop friendships and provide
social support.

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2018 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              123 of 169 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             January 5, 2018 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Reaching for the sky: Dow scales past 25,000;
New high continues a run nobody saw coming in '09

BYLINE: Adam Shell, USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 538 words


The milestone-busting Dow has done it again.

The Dow Jones industrial average topped and closed above 25,000 for the first
time Thursday, kicking off 2018 where it left off last year, with sizable stock
market gains.

Rising stock prices have been powered by a global economic recovery and optimism
that the Republican tax-cut bill will provide a fresh boost for U.S. growth and
help American companies make more money.

The 30-stock index, which includes leading U.S. companies such as Apple,
McDonald's and Walmart, closed up 152.45 points, or 0.6%, at a record high of
25,075.13, eclipsing Dow 25K for the first time in its 121-year history.

At its high point Thursday, the Dow was trading at 25,105.96.

The continued rise in stock prices in 2018 after a 25% gain last year extends a
bull market that began in March 2009 and is now the second-longest in Wall
Street history, trailing only the nearly 10-year rally in the 1990s.

"Welcome to the bull market," says Brian Belski, the chief investment strategist
at BMO Capital Markets who predicted at the start of the bull that it could last
15 to 20 years and now says the market is being driven higher by improving
business conditions.

"Dow 25K is just another milestone, not the top," Belski adds, noting that too
many investors are skeptical of the rally, keeping euphoria at bay. "Market tops
are not made just because a certain number is hit."

Many Americans, however, have not benefited from the stock market's multi-year
rise, as only 54% have investments in stocks, down from 62% before the 2008
financial crisis, according to Gallup.

Many Main Street investors got out of the market after it lost more than half
its value in the 2007 to 2009 bear market and never got back in.

The Dow closed higher for a third consecutive day to start the year. It is
coming off its best year since 2013.

It took the Dow just 35 calendar days to climb from 24,000 to 25,000, tying the
fastest 1,000-point climbs, including the rise to 11,000 in May 1999 and the run
to 21,000 in March 2017, S&P Dow Jones Indices data show.

This year's Dow leaders, however, were among its worst performers in 2017.
Heading into Thursday's trading, Walt Disney was the leading Dow stock, up 4.4%,
after edging up just 3.2% last year. Similarly, General Electric, which fell
nearly 45% last year and was the Dow's worst-performing stock, was up 4% this
year through two trading sessions, making it the second-best Dow stock.

The latest new high for the Dow continues a run nobody saw coming  in 2009.

"The most doubted bull market of all time continues to lay waste to the
skeptics," says Alan Skrainka, chief investment officer at Cornerstone Wealth
Management in Des Peres, Mo.

Investors' latest stock-buying binge comes amid Wall Street's positive reaction
to the Republicans' major reform of the U.S. tax code, which was signed into law
before Christmas by President Trump. The centerpiece of the bill is a steep cut
in the corporate tax rate to 21% from 35%.

That change, which the Trump administration says will make U.S. companies more
competitive globally, has boosted investors' so-called "animal spirits," or
willingness to take risk.

FOR INFORMATIONAL GRAPHIC PLEASE SEE THE ONLINE OR PRINT VERSIONS OF THIS STORY


LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2018 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              124 of 169 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             January 8, 2018 Monday
                                 CHASE EDITION

'Our new North Star' and magic moments;
Drama unfolds onstage minute by minute

BYLINE: Brian Truitt, USA TODAY

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 780 words


The 75th Golden Globe Awards begin the race to the Oscars March 4, with the
Hollywood Foreign Press Association honoring 2017's best in movies and TV.

Here's a minute-by-minute breakdown (ET) of Sunday night's festivities in
Beverly Hills, hosted by Seth Meyers.

9:21: Pixar's Coco wins for best animated movie, and director Lee Unkrich pays
tribute to the film's inspirations, the holiday of Dia de los Muertos and the
"beautiful people of Mexico."

9:17: Laura Dern gets the third win for HBO's Big Little Lies, nabbing
supporting actress in a limited series. She connects her "terrified" mother
character, who's worried about a bullied daughter, to women's  struggles with
harassment. "Many of us were taught not to tattle. It was a culture of silence,
and it was normalized. May we teach our children that speaking out without the
fear of retribution is our new North Star."

9:08: The Disaster Artist star James Franco wins best actor in a comedy or
musical and immediately calls up the man he plays in the movie, The Room
filmmaker Tommy Wiseau. "I'm very happy to share this moment with him today,"
Franco says, also calling out his brother/co-star Dave: "I love him more than
anything. Thank you to my mother for giving him to me."

9:00: Best original song goes to This Is Me from The Greatest Showman. It's the
second consecutive win for songwriters Benj Pasek and Justin Paul, who won a
year ago for City of Stars from La La Land.

8:58: Composer Alexandre Desplat gets best original score for The Shape of
Water, which came into the night with a field-leading seven Globe nominations.
Desplat honors the "humanity and passion" of his director, Guillermo del Toro.

8:55: Big Little Lies notches its second win, with Alexander Skarsgård named
best supporting actor in a limited series. He calls out fellow winner Kidman,
who plays his wife on the show: "Nicole, I love you. Thank you for making this
the greatest experience of my career."

8:46: The Handmaid's Tale gets its second Globe trophy of the night: a huge win
for best drama.

8:42: Sterling K. Brown of This Is Us snags best actor in a TV drama -- his
first Globes victory. He thanks writer Dan Fogelman for such a great role: "I'm
being seen for who I am and being appreciated for who I am, and it makes it that
much more difficult to dismiss me or anybody who looks like me."

8:32: The Handmaid's Tale gets its first Globe win with Elisabeth Moss taking
best actress in a drama. She  pays tribute to author Margaret Atwood and others
before and after her who "were brave enough to speak out against intolerance and
injustice and to fight for equality and freedom in this world."

8:29: Rachel Brosnahan takes best actress in a TV comedy for The Marvelous Mrs.
Maisel. "I'm going to have to write a whole bunch of thank-you notes. My brain
is scrambed eggs," she says. After saying hey to Oprah, she added that "there
are so many women's stories that need and deserve to be told."

8:19: Sam Rockwell takes the first big movie award of the night, supporting
actor for Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri. "I've been in a lot of
indies, and it's nice to be in a movie that people see," Rockwell says. He
thanks his "force of nature" co-star, Frances McDormand: "It was really fun to
be your sparring partner."

8:13: A pair of real superheroes, Gal Gadot and Dwayne Johnson, are out to
present the first award, and Big Little Lies' Nicole Kidman wins best actress in
a limited series or movie. Getting the trophy early "means my daughters are
still awake," she says. "I'm bringing this award home to my babies." Kidman
points out that her abused character on the show is very much a symbol of
today's climate, and by having projects like Big Little Lies, "I do believe we
can elicit change."

8:07: Meyers mentions Oprah Winfrey is getting the Cecil B. DeMille Award for
lifetime achievement: "What a tremendous honor for Cecil B. DeMille."

8:00: "Good evening, ladies and remaining gentlemen." Meyers kicks off talking
about the topics of the day, especially sexual harassment: "It's been years
since a white man was this nervous in Hollywood." He jokes about how they tried
to get a female host: "I'm a man with absolutely no power in Hollywood. I'm not
even the most powerful Seth in the room tonight." He points to Seth Rogen:
"Remember when he was the guy making trouble with North Korea? Simpler times."
Meyers also calls out Harvey Weinstein ("He'll be back in 20 years and will be
the only person to boo the 'In Memoriam')  as well as Christopher Plummer
possibly replacing Kevin Spacey in House of Cards as he did in All the Money in
the World: "I hope he can do a Southern accent, because Kevin Spacey sure
couldn't."

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Photos by Paul Drinkwater/NBC

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2018 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              126 of 169 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           January 31, 2018 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

'Biggest night' is dooming itself

BYLINE: Maeve McDermott, Columnist, USA TODAY

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 2D

LENGTH: 649 words


Another year. Another Grammys. Another telecast that extinguished fans' hopes of
a forward-thinking awards show in favor of a night that celebrated men, pop
music and not much else.

Several months ago we celebrated the Grammy nominees' slate for its impressive
diversity, with its major categories dominated by artists of color. In the
lead-up to the awards, we hoped that song or record of the year could be claimed
by a rap song, or a Spanish-language track via Despacito, for the first time in
modern-day Grammys history. And with such a strong hip-hop field, led by
Kendrick Lamar and Jay-Z, 2018 seemed like the Grammys where voters would
finally take the genre seriously, hopefully with a long-overdue win for album of
the year.

That's not what happened Sunday night. Bruno Mars swept the main categories with
his pop-friendly brand of R&B that shares much more of its DNA with Ed Sheeran
than Beyoncé. Jay-Z went 0 for 8 in his nominations, despite being honored with
the Recording Academy's Industry Icons award at Clive Davis' party the night
before. Alessia Cara won best new artist over SZA, a disappointing choice that
still managed to be the only solo award a female artist would take home during
the telecast. And the Grammys extended a shameful streak of awarding album of
the year to the obvious radio-friendly pop release over the category's more
critically acclaimed hip-hop nominee.

Just look at the dismal album-of-the-year trajectory since 2014, in which Daft
Punk, Beck, Taylor Swift, Adele and now Bruno Mars have beaten, in order,
Kendrick Lamar, Beyoncé, Kendrick Lamar, Beyoncé and, with Sunday's defeat of
Damn, Kendrick Lamar  again.

Yes, many of those pop releases deserved some sort of Grammys recognition. But
the pattern here is undeniable: The Grammys look at Kendrick Lamar, and by
extension hip-hop,  as music that isn't "album of the year" material.  It's a
confounding trend that continues to torture both the artists' fans and the music
critics that continually declare albums such as Jay-Z and Lamar's the best
releases of the year. The racial dynamics of the trend are also impossible to
deny; the snubbed artists are often people of color, with Mars ending an
all-white streak of album-of-the-year winners stretching back to Herbie Hancock
in 2008.

And yet  several months ago, when everything looked so rosy with the Grammys'
diverse nominees, there was an inkling that women, and particularly women of
color, were headed for a dismal night of little recognition in the major
categories. Watching the telecast, many of the night's strongest performances --
Lady Gaga, Maren Morris, Rihanna, Cardi B and particularly Kesha -- came from
female artists. Yet, there were few women even nominated for televised awards,
and considering all the additional ways the Grammys could've celebrated female
artistry amid the entertainment industry's Me Too-gripped climate, the first
real mention of the movement wasn't until a Janelle Monáe speech halfway through
the show.

Add the fact that Lorde, the only woman nominated for album of the year, was not
scheduled to perform at the Grammys. Instead, viewers got multiple performances
from Sting and Bono, with Grammys president Neil Portnow nevertheless claiming
after the show that there wasn't time for  Lorde.

That's extra-concerning,  considering that Portnow, along with the Grammys
producers and the Recording Academy, need to be tasked with modernizing their
dinosaur of an awards show.

It's 2018. Hip-hop is officially America's most-listened-to genre. Women have
mobilized across industries, declaring Time's Up on gender-based inequality in
their professional fields. If the awards show that claims to be "music's biggest
night," a slogan that becomes more of a joke with every passing year, isn't
willing or able to make the changes that its community of artists deserves, it's
time to declare the Grammys extinct.

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Robert Deutsch/USA TODAY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2018 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              135 of 169 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            March 28, 2018 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Loyola-Chicago raises the Missouri Valley

BYLINE: Dan Wolken, Columnist, USA TODAY

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 1014 words


The entire 111-year history of the Missouri Valley Conference is a story of
evolution, of being loved and then left behind by members whose athletic
ambitions outgrew the league.

All the way back to 1928 when a group of original members split off into a
conference that would eventually become the Big Eight, survival and change have
become defining characteristics of the Valley, whose basketball prominence often
has been threatened by events it couldn't control.

Another one of those seismic shifts occurred last year when Wichita State, the
league's biggest brand name, left for the American Athletic Conference. By
leaving the comfort of its longtime basketball home for a league whose primary
interest is football success, Wichita State essentially said it was tired of
being considered a mid-major and everything it includes, from lack of television
exposure to the frequent disrespect of the NCAA tournament selection committee.

For the Valley, and frankly for all of mid-majordom, losing Wichita could have
been a crushing blow to its standing in the landscape of college basketball. It
still might in the long run, as Gonzaga considers following the same model and
linking up with the Mountain West.

But under the circumstances, there rarely has been a more timely postseason run
than Loyola-Chicago rising up from its No. 11 seed to make the Final Four,
validating that the Missouri Valley is indeed still part of the conversation at
the very moment its cachet could have eroded.

"This was probably for me the most special (tournament run) in my 30 years in
the league," MVC Commissioner Doug Elgin said Saturday. "They answered the bell
in terms of, we needed to prove to the country the Missouri Valley was still
relevant. And we certainly are."

Loyola's rise, in fact, is itself a product of the treacherous ground mid-majors
have had to walk on since football-driven realignment shook up Division I in the
last half-decade.

When the Big East broke apart in 2012 and became a basketball-driven conference
of private schools anchored by the likes of Villanova, Georgetown and Marquette,
it had a trickledown effect on several conferences as it added members including
Creighton, which had been the MVC's other premier program opposite Wichita.

At the time, there weren't a ton of slam-dunk options, especially for a league
that has historically had a high standard of basketball and values geographic
congruity.

Loyola's selection, in many ways, was rooted in the idea that its program, which
hadn't been to the NCAA tournament or done much of anything worthwhile since
1985, would be able to parlay the Valley's brand into better recruiting, more
financial support and ultimately basketball success.

"There were cranes all over the campus," Elgin said. "It's the largest Jesuit
school in the country, and the potential for Loyola to become a relevant
basketball program in Chicago was there."

But even when that potential was realized this year with a team that went 28-5
and won at Florida in non-conference play, Loyola only earned a No. 11 seed. And
had the Ramblers slipped up in the conference tournament, the reality is they
almost certainly would have been left out of the NCAA field despite winning the
regular-season title by four games in the eighth-best conference according to
the Ratings Percentage Index.

Though the Valley undoubtedly became a less prestigious league when Creighton
and Wichita State left, it has had staying power in the bracket. Eight out of
the last nine years, an MVC team has won at least one tournament game. And
that's frustrating to someone like Illinois State coach Dan Muller, whose team
got denied a bid last season despite going 17-1 in the league (28-7 overall)
because it lacked big non-conference wins.

"The committee has and will always say, past success has no impact on this
year's current selection or seeding, and if you say that in a blanket statement,
I think that's appropriate in a lot of ways," Muller said. "But clearly you're
wrong about the quality of teams we have."

There's no doubt the mid-major conferences have gotten the short end of the
stick from the committee, a trend that will only accelerate should Gonzaga --
the one mid-major program that consistently has transcended its league schedule
-- join up with the Mountain West.

The selection committee has clearly put an emphasis on number of "big" wins,
which is reflected in the quadrant system that was put in this year. Naturally,
mid-majors get fewer opportunities to get those valuable wins, which is why
Middle Tennessee State and Saint Mary's got left out.

But a run like Loyola's, combined with other notable upsets in this year's
tournament such as Maryland-Baltimore County (UMBC) over Virginia, Marshall over
Wichita State and Buffalo over Arizona, certainly raises a question about
whether such a big emphasis on schedule is appropriate when the deck is so
stacked against the mid-majors.

Muller says the committee's overemphasis on the number of "Quadrant 1" wins
leads to mistakes. Loyola, for instance, went 1-1 against Quadrant 1 teams but
ends up in the Final Four after taking down Miami (Fla.), Tennessee, Nevada and
Kansas State.

"It's impossible to make it quote-unquote 'fair,'" he said. "If you have a team
that's 2-2 against Quad 1 and team that's 6-6 that's Quad 1, who's getting in?
It's going to be 6-6 every time, but it's the same percentage. They have more
wins, but they have more losses, too."

Maybe Loyola's success will plant a seed for next year that, perhaps, the
mid-majors need to be evaluated on a different basis. At the very least, it
re-establishes the MVC at the top of that group after realignment did a number
on a league that had had a lot to be proud of over the years.

"That's our history. We've always been resilient," Elgin said. "To have
(Loyola's run) happen this postseason, the timing was great. They come into the
league, they rise to the top in a year we lose a top-25 member, and I just think
on a bigger level, against the backdrop of the current climate in college
basketball, this is one of the great stories."

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2018 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              137 of 169 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              April 9, 2018 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

What to consider before downsizing your home;
Rule No. 1: 'Save as much as you can'

BYLINE: Tanisha A. Sykes, Special to USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 714 words


Tim and Tracey Kerin knew it was time to downsize soon after their grandson
Maximus was born.

"We started to re-evaluate what's important to us at this stage in life and
decided that our health and family were more important than a larger home with a
big backyard and pool," says Tim, 58, who along with Tracey, 59, operate a
commercial cleaning and construction business.

Last December, the Kerins packed up a two-story colonial replete with a
beautifully landscaped garden in Damascus, Md., and moved to New Smyrna Beach,
Fla., near their sons Justin, 35, and Jason, 33, and their families. And of
course, they get to see Maximus, now 2. "We usually see Max a couple of times a
week, and he spends one night every weekend, which we look forward to," Tim
says.

The Kerins are not alone in their quest for a simple life centered on happiness.
According to a recent TD Ameritrade Survey, 42% of pre-retirees are likely to
downsize if they haven't done so already. Some 25% of respondents are moving to
a warmer climate, and 17% are moving closer to loved ones.

Another critical consideration is cost. "Retiring with a lower mortgage payment,
(lower) property tax bill, (and) smaller place to clean and maintain can be
attractive," says Dennis LaVoy, CFP of Telos Financial in Plymouth, Mich.

Run the numbers

Before downsizing, homeowners should run the numbers to make sure it makes
financial sense.

"Look at costs associated with selling the primary home, such as preparing the
house for sale, agent's commission, moving and buying a smaller home to get an
idea of the fixed costs to relocate," says Aaron Galileo, senior loan officer at
Investors Home Mortgage in Howell, N.J.

Once a person decides to downsize, he or she must keep lifestyle in mind. "You
need to save as much as you can for retirement to keep your lifestyle intact,"
says Jeff White, a financial analyst at FitSmallBusiness.com."If you can lower
your monthly mortgage payment from $2,500 for the big home to $1,200 per month
for a nice condo that fits you and your spouse, why not leap and invest the
extra $1,300 into your retirement plan?"

The amount of space you have may also influence your decision to scale down. "If
the kids have moved out and you're an empty-nester, do you need all of that
space?" asks Brian Graves, co-founder of Everything But the House, an online
estate sale marketplace. He says factor in how much space you need based on your
family dynamic and the frequency of out-of-town guests.

For some homeowners, maintaining a property, especially an older one, is no
longer attractive.

That was the case for Sean Dougherty, age 51, and his wife, Juliana
Atinaja-Dougherty, 56. In February, they moved into a two-bedroom, two-bath
apartment in Manhattan after living for more than 20 years in the
2,000-square-foot single-family ranch house in Clifton, N.J., where his wife
grew up.

"The house was run down in small but noticeable ways, and we kind of lost the
emotional energy to fix it up for sale, so we priced it to sell," says Sean, a
senior vice president at a public relations firm, and Juliana, an attorney.

"Plus, we always wanted to move back to New York at some point, and having
reached a point where we are more financially comfortable, it made sense."

Factor in cost-of-living changes

Part of their decision was doing the math and figuring out they could afford to
do it, especially given that the move to New York would increase their
cost-of-living expenses substantially thanks to the rent they now pay. The other
part was wanting to enjoy the entertainment and cultural experiences of big-city
living.

"In my case, I wanted to do more in New York like seeing friends, taking in a
Broadway show or going to a book reading without worrying about the frustrating
commute back to New Jersey," Sean says. Even still, they are happy with the
move.

"I put a ceiling on what we could afford, and I could still keep my job as my
wife plans to retire soon," Sean says.

His best advice for those thinking about downsizing: "Don't wait too long. It's
easy to live in the status quo of your life, but then you deny yourself other
experiences."

While there is no one-size-fits-all answer for when it's time to downsize,
keeping these factors in mind will help pre-retirees and retirees make a smooth
transition.

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Tim and Tracey Kerin

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2018 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              141 of 169 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             May 9, 2018 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Unearth these sci-fi and fantasy gems

BYLINE: Kelly Lawler, USA TODAY

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 6D

LENGTH: 764 words


It's a great time to be a sci-fi and/or fantasy fan, with big-name series such
as  Game of Thrones,  Altered Carbon and Outlander booming on TV but also
superb under-the-radar shows available for every  kind of fan.  We rounded up 10
you might not have discovered  that are definitely worth your time. (We've left
out zombie and superhero shows, because they're genres all their own.)

If you miss Lost: Colony

Your (probably) favorite Lost star, Josh Holloway, and Walking Dead alum Sarah
Wayne Callies star in this alien-invasion  drama on USA that just started  its
third season. The series is set in a dystopian future where the aliens have
already won and humans live under military rule by human collaborators who serve
the alien "hosts."

Stream Seasons 1-2 on Netflix. Season 3 airs Wednesdays at 10 ET/PT on USA.

If you love J.K. Simmons: Counterpart

This Starz drama never rushes or drags. It's more of a spy thriller that is
lightly sci-fi, in part because Simmons sells its parallel-universe storyline so
well, doing double duty as men from two different worlds. He plays Howard Silk,
a low-level spy at a U.N.  agency in Berlin who discovers a doorway to another
dimension where the only person he can trust is his lookalike counterpart.

Stream it on Starz.

If you like something, well, dark: Dark

Often  compared to Stranger Things, this Netflix drama  starts off as a
straightforward mystery about two  children who disappear from a small German
town. As the 10-episode season unfolds, the mystery gets tangled up with the
supernatural and the personal secrets of four families involved.

Stream it on Netflix.

If you love martial arts fight sequences: Into the Badlands

A companion to AMC's The Walking Dead and Fear the Walking Dead, this mystic
tale is an  underrated, pulpy good time. Set in a dystopian U.S. ruled by
warring barons, it's just as violent as the Dead series,  with  more stunning
action scenes and beautiful sets and costumes.

Stream Seasons 1-2 on Netflix. Season 3 airs Sundays at 10 ET/PT on AMC.

If you miss Firefly: Killjoys

This series follows a trio of bounty hunters (known as "killjoys") in a system
of four planets called "The Quad."  It delivers on the drama, action and
(eventually) magic space goo, it's also a keen commentary on class, race and
climate change.

Stream it on Syfy.

If you want something genuinely wild: The Magicians

This Syfy fantasy, based on the novels by Lev Grossman, is probably the weirdest
show on TV.  It follows a group of magical grad students who discover that the
Narnia-like fairy land they read about in a  children's book is real, and it's
causing havoc on Earth. Things get even zanier from there.

Stream Seasons 1-2 on Netflix, Season 3 on Syfy.

If you like Black Mirror and Blade Runner: Philip K. Dick's Electric Dreams

This anthology series based on short stories by Blade Runner author  Philip K.
Dick is Amazon's answer to the Black Mirror craze.  The fantastic cast includes
Janelle Monáe, Terrence Howard and Steve Buscemi.

Stream it on Amazon.

If you love mythology and big feelings: Sense8

The Wachowski siblings (directors of the Matrix trilogy) have crafted something
vast, complex and intimate with this twisty sci-fi series about a group of eight
strangers across the globe who share  a psychic connection. The result  is
diverse, heartbreaking and moving, in addition to having a mythology so complex
it can leave  your head spinning.

Stream it on Netflix. A finale movie  premieres June 8.

If you're into the mermaid trend: Siren

This isn't your average mermaid tale. Yes, Siren has many of the hallmarks of a
Freeform series -- melodrama, attractive young stars, a trendy hook -- but it's
darker, bloodier and altogether more surprising. The series  trades  typical
teen romance for real horror as it follows a murderous, ravenous mermaid who
makes it onto land, to the dismay of  humans.

Stream on Hulu. Season 1 airs Thursdays at 8 ET/PT on Freeform.

If you want a female hero: Wynonna Earp

Syfy  captures the DNA of another great Joss Whedon series  with Wynonna, which
has strong Buffy echoes in its focus on a chosen one destined to save the world
who quips  at her enemies. Wynonna, played with acidic verve by Melanie
Scrofano, is more of an anti-hero than Buffy, balancing her calling with  bad
decision-making. The series also boasts a cheery cast of supernatural sidekicks,
and the relationship between  Waverly Earp (Dominique Provost-Chalkley) and
Nicole Haught (Katherine Barrell) has a boisterous fandom all its own. (Google
"WayHaught" if you dare.)

Stream Season 1 on Netflix; Stream Season 2 on Syfy.

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Netflix

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2018 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              142 of 169 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              May 22, 2018 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

In Texas, gun debate is 'starkly different';
Gun control advocate finds less receptive ground than in Fla.

BYLINE: Rick Jervis, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 678 words


AUSTIN - Days after a gunman killed 17 people at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High
School in Parkland, Fla., in February, Sandy Phillips -- who advocates for gun
restrictions -- traveled to the South Florida city and was encouraged by how
openly student survivors wanted to discuss the shooting and push measures to try
to prevent similar incidents.

The scene in Santa Fe, Texas, site of another school massacre, has been far
different since she arrived Friday: Phillips, whose daughter Jessica was among
the 12 people shot and killed in an attack on a theater in Aurora, Colo., six
years ago, said no one agreed to meet with her.

"This has been starkly different from Parkland in so many ways," said Phillips,
who has traveled to nine mass shooting scenes in the past six years, offering
support to survivors and victims' families. "It's almost jarring."

Unlike mass shootings that sparked  rallies calling for changes to gun rules,
the shooting in Santa Fe has delivered a much more muted response.

Gov. Greg Abbott said he will host a series of roundtable discussions, beginning
Tuesday, to find solutions to improve safety and security at Texas schools,
which will include parents, teachers, mass shooting survivors, legislators and
groups that advocate for and against further gun regulations.

In Santa Fe, some students and parents voiced support for gun rights over
stricter regulations, while leaders pointed to other solutions, such as
increasing school security, rather than tampering with gun laws.

"What law can you pass that stops someone who ignores the law?" said Galveston
County Judge Mark Henry, the county's top administrator. "We need to focus a lot
more attention on mental health."

Dimitrios Pagourtzis, 17, is accused of storming into the art complex at the
rear of Santa Fe High School early Friday with a pump-action shotgun and a
.38-caliber revolver and killing 10 people and injuring 13 in 30 minutes before
surrendering to police. He allegedly got the weapons from his father.

The fact that the guns were commonly owned weapons in Texas -- not assault-style
weapons such as the AR-15 used in other mass killings -- has made it trickier
for gun control advocates to point to stricter gun laws to prevent shootings.

Texas has some of the most gun-friendly laws in the USA, including the right to
openly carry handguns in some places for law-abiding residents and no background
checks required for private firearms sales.

Under Texas law, school districts could allow staff and/or board members,
including teachers, to carry firearms on school premises after passing a
training course. So far, 172 districts have opted to do so.

"We're already raising a generation entrenched in trauma," said Khary Penebaker,
a Wisconsin-based gun law activist. "They're asking, 'When will we be the next
one?' Increasing school safety is not going to solve that problem."

Alice Tripp, legislative director for the Texas State Rifle Association, said
Texas' laws should be studied -- instead of enacting new ones -- to see how
effective they've been and whether they should be strengthened. Texas lawmakers
don't meet again until 2019, making the quick passage of any state law unlikely,
she said.

Texas' vast expanses and frontier history have made guns an intricate part of
the state's culture, something not easily undone, Tripp said.
"Self-determination is ingrained in most of us," she said. "You put out your own
fires. You don't wait for the fire department to show up."

Bree Butler, 18, a senior at Santa Fe High, said she's well-aware of Texas'
gun-first culture, particularly in a place as rural and conservative as her
hometown. Though she supports strengthening gun laws as a way to prevent mass
shootings, Butler and other student advocates opted not to engage in such a
divisive debate while the city is in mourning.

Last month, a group of her friends staged a pre-class walkout in solidarity with
Parkland students. For now, they're not pushing the issue.

"I know the political climate. I didn't want to upset anybody," Butler said.
"Our community needs time to heal."

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Courtney Sacco/USA TODAY NETWORK

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2018 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              143 of 169 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             May 24, 2018 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

'Pope Francis' director had a lofty mission

BYLINE: Andrea Mandell, USA TODAY

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 6D

LENGTH: 451 words


CANNES, France - The pope came to the Croisette.

Not in person, but thanks to Wim Wenders' new documentary, Pope Francis -- A Man
of His Word, the Vatican had a big presence at the Cannes Film Festival.

Just before  the movie's premiere at the festival, USA TODAY sat down with
Wenders, the legendary German director who won the Palme d'Or in 1984 for Paris,
Texas, starring Harry Dean Stanton.

Wenders, who was raised Catholic, says he identifies today as an ecumenical
Christian. When the Vatican approached him with the idea of making a film about
the populist pope,  leaders were not bothered by his beliefs. "They said: 'That
is of no concern to us. We like the way you make movies, and we didn't ask you
because we thought you were Catholic.'"

They were more interested  in his ideas.  Wenders would have to  finance the
film and find distribution, the Vatican said, but in return it would open its
archives and make time available with the pontiff.

Wenders, a three-time Oscar nominee (The Salt of the Earth, Pina, Buena Vista
Social Club), was in -- with one stipulation. "I told them, 'Don't expect me to
make a film for Catholics.' And they said: 'Yes, exactly. The pope speaks to all
sorts of people in the world. And his message is of peace between religions. You
don't have to make a Catholic film for us.'"

And so, five years after  Francis ascended to the papacy, what A Man of His Word
does is convey the pontiff's message directly. In the documentary, the globally
popular pope  speaks directly to the camera in his native Spanish, sharing his
views on issues like tolerance among religions, the refugee crisis, climate
change and embracing the LGBTQ community.

The director spent four afternoons with the pope, and it was only when the
Catholic Church's  child sex abuse crisis was broached that Wenders saw him
truly angry.

"Each time, this was the most agitated and the most furious he got, and you
realized it was something that tormented him so much," Wenders says. "He really
got very adamant: 'Tolerencia cero' -- zero tolerance -- was really from the
heart. It was the angriest thing he said in the entire interview."

Just last month, the pope apologized for defending accused Chilean priests
during a trip  to the country in January, saying he had been misinformed. In the
film, Francis says he supports legal action against priests involved in
pedophilia.

Only one request from Wenders  made the Vatican nervous.

"I said I wanted to shoot at least once with him outside in nature," he says.
"The first answer was no, and I think it was strictly for security. ... Finally,
I realized in order to do so, I had to find a place inside the walls of the
Vatican that was a garden, and we found one."

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo FOCUS FEATURES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2018 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              145 of 169 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              June 4, 2018 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Clinton, Patterson fear for democracy;
Presidential page turner warns of cyber threats

BYLINE: Susan Page, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 885 words


WHITE PLAINS, N.Y. - At the end of a new thriller, the fictional president
issues a stark warning. "Our democracy cannot survive its current downward drift
into tribalism, extremism, and seething resentment," Jonathan Lincoln Duncan
declares. "Our willingness to believe the worst about everyone outside our own
bubble is growing, and our ability to solve problems and seize opportunities is
shrinking."

Does William Jefferson Clinton -- the actual former president who wrote those
words -- believe that in the real world, "our democracy cannot survive" without
changing its direction?

"Yes, if the trend continues," Bill Clinton told USA TODAY in an exclusive joint
interview with co-author James Patterson about their new book, The President Is
Missing. "The whole American Constitution and representative democracy is built
on sooner or later there coming a time of constructive compromise. You cannot
constructively compromise with someone if you feel that their identity is less
legitimate than yours and if you believe that your seething resentment makes
compromise a sellout."

The conclusion by U.S. intelligence agencies that Russia meddled in the 2016
election is drawing not constructive compromise but an increasingly partisan
reaction.

In the novel, the cyber threat posed is much broader, threatening not only
election systems and candidate emails but also the nation's electrical grid and
everything else that depends on technology. Consider this: The code name for the
case is "Dark Ages."

Could that actually happen?

"One hundred percent," Patterson said.

"With every advance in information technology, and the prospect of the
combination of nanotechnology, robotics, drones, this whole thing is just going
to continue to mutate," said Clinton, who conferred with cyber experts while
working on the book. "There's almost no aspect of our national life that cannot
be wrecked by this."

Stranger than truth?

Clinton and Patterson acknowledged that one problem they had collaborating on a
Washington thriller in the Age of Trump was that it's hard to devise fictional
turns that sound any stranger than reality.

A president threatened with impeachment? Check. Russian meddling in U.S.
affairs? Check. Congressional scheming over intelligence affairs for partisan
gain? Check. Beautiful Abkhazian super-assassin code-named Bach?

OK, that last one exists only in The President is Missing, being jointly
published Monday by Little, Brown and Knopf. But still.

"I think the danger of that is -- I saw this unfold -- something jaw-dropping
new happens every day; you have to report on it, and pretty soon, people get
pretty exhausted listening to it," Clinton said. "Then if you've got a false
attack the other way and you repeat it for 50 days, people remember what's false
and can't remember what's true."

Clinton's aside -- "I saw this unfold" -- is a somewhat oblique reference to the
2016 White House campaign that defeated wife Hillary Clinton and elected Donald
Trump.

Neither combatant is mentioned in the novel; this is no roman a clef with
characters standing in for them. But the repercussions of the real election echo
in the story of a center-left president from a Southern state (North Carolina,
not Arkansas) who goes missing from the White House to deal with a catastrophic
terrorist cyberattack.

"This book is not political," Patterson insisted. "The speech at the end, a
little bit, but mostly no."

He should talk to his co-author about that. "We hope you have a good time
reading this thriller; have a great time," Clinton said. "Then write your
congressman, regardless of party, to do more on cyber security."

Let's just say it's unusual for a thriller to conclude with the text of a
presidential address to a Joint Session of Congress in which he details the
dizzying drama that has just unfolded, then calls for a new kind of politics to
address election security, immigration reform, climate change, the opioid crisis
and more.

'Rollin', Rollin', Rollin'

The two men, both 71 years old and famous in their own spheres, had never met
when Robert Barnett, the Washington lawyer who represents each of them, proposed
the idea of collaborating on a thriller. They had outlined most of the story by
Election Day 2016, then wrote it over the next year. "We did a lot of paper,
quite a few phone calls, some meetings," Clinton said.

By now, they are comfortable enough with one another for Clinton to give
Patterson a bear hug during a picture-taking session and for the two men to sing
the theme from the vintage TV Western Rawhide ("Rollin', rollin', rollin' ") as
they tried to remember the names of the characters.

"Who was the guy with the mole?" Clinton asked.

In writing their novel, Clinton, the 42nd president, tried to offer the
authenticity that his political experience offered, from the practice sessions
before congressional testimony to the maze of corridors beneath the White House
that offered a potential secret exit -- albeit one he said he never took himself
to go missing.

Patterson, the world's best-selling author, tried to keep the storytelling on
track.

"Occasionally, the little side journeys got a little in the way," Patterson
said. "What was this book about again? I forget."

Clinton thanked him for the lessons learned. "I feel like I'm an old dog, and
this is a new trick," he said.

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Robert Deutsch/USA TODAY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2018 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              147 of 169 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             June 28, 2018 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Millennial Ocasio-Cortez strikes chord;
Changing district ousts 10-term top Democrat

BYLINE: Herb Jackson, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 468 words


The message 28-year-old Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez delivered in a web video last
month may not have been specifically about federal issues, but it went viral and
resonated in the diverse New York City district where she beat 10-term Rep. Joe
Crowley in Tuesday's Democratic primary.

"After 20 years of the same representation, we have to ask: Who has New York
been changing for?"  she said as Crowley was shown on the screen.

"Every day gets harder for working families like mine to get by. The rent gets
higher, health care covers less, and our income stays the same. It's clear that
these changes haven't been for us, and we deserve a champion," she said.

It's not that Crowley, 56, had ever been considered a conservative. He was  in
line to succeed California Rep. Nancy Pelosi as the Democrats' leader next term,
and in a tweet gloating about Crowley's loss, President Donald Trump called him
a "Big Trump Hater."

But in a climate where some liberals want Democrats to use every tactic
available to resist Trump - and were angered that Democratic lawmakers agreed to
end a government shutdown in January without ensuring protection for young
undocumented immigrants - Crowley, as the No. 4 Democratic leader in the House,
was painted as part of the establishment.

Ocasio-Cortez ran on a platform promising paid family leave, Medicare for All, a
universal government jobs guarantee, justice reform to "demilitarize our
police," and abolishing ICE, the Immigration and Customs Enforcement office.

"I was the only candidate in the race that did not take corporate money in a
time when economic marginalization is really increasing in New York City,"
Ocasio-Cortez said Wednesday on the program "CBS This Morning."

Though Ocasio-Cortez had been an organizer on Sen. Bernie Sanders' 2016
presidential campaign, it was her first run for office. Many of her campaign
workers were also new to the process, inspired by Trump to get involved through
grass-roots organizing efforts such as the Indivisible Project.

"They were new to the political system, and that mindset is really important to
this moment. The knocked on doors, they made phone calls. They reached out to
people who are often dismissed as infrequent voters," said Ezra Levin,
co-executive director of the Indivisible Project.

The district also changed since 1998, when Crowley was first tapped by his
predecessor to run for the seat. Back then, the 14th District was 28 percent
Hispanic, according to the Almanac of American Politics.

Under  lines drawn after the 2010 Census, that figure was more than 50 percent.
More than 45 percent  is also younger than 35. Ocasio-Cortez, if she wins in
November, would be the youngest woman ever elected to Congress.

"The future of the Democratic Party isn't old white men, it's people of color,
it's youth," Levin said.

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Mark Lennihan/AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2018 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              148 of 169 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              June 29, 2018 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

'GLOW' gives female power high wattage;
Gilpin is glad to see on-set sexism losing its grip

BYLINE: Carly Mallenbaum USA TODAY

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 775 words


Betty Gilpin describes  the set of her Netflix comedy "GLOW" as "a feminist
monastery biodome."Yes, that's a positive description.Gilpin and her character,
newly single mom and former soap star Debbie "Liberty Belle" Eagan,  return
Friday for a second season of the colorful show about the "Gorgeous Ladies of
Wrestling," a real 1980s series.  The new "GLOW" was created by women and
features  mostly women as directors, actors and writers.

But Gilpin notes that the show, with its many and layered female roles,  is
something of an anomaly in Hollywood. "Once we wrap, I go back in the world
(and) it's back to auditioning for mute blow-up doll No. 7," she says.

Gilpin, 31, is only half-joking about the tribulations of being a woman in
Hollywood. Throughout her acting career (which  includes "The Good Wife," "Nurse
Jackie" and "Fringe"), she has auditioned  for parts she saw as one-dimensional,
like "the sexy nurse who the guy just sort of sexually harasses  and you're
supposed to find the male character hilarious." And she has been mistreated on a
set: "I've had many experiences where you realize at the beginning of the job
that the male presence on set is establishing a dynamic with you that you do not
want any part of: 'Oh here comes a hand on my back, there it is. There's the
(back) rub, there it starts.'

Gilpin's character, Debbie, can relate.

Last season, Debbie joined a wrestling show, left her husband and struggled to
repair her friendship with her in-the-ring enemy, Ruth "Zoya the Destroya"
Wilder (Alison Brie). In 10 new episodes, she confronts rampant sexism  as she
becomes the All-American star and producer of her  wrestling show.

Debbie plans meetings with  male co-producers who don't show up, makes
suggestions that are  ignored and is told "that's the longest that I've ever let
a woman who I'm not sleeping with speak" by  her show's director, Sam Sylvia
(Marc Maron).

Debbie becomes so accustomed to the chauvinistic culture of show business that
she chastises Ruth for ditching an exec who was about to make a move on her.

"You're supposed to make him think that you might (have sex with) him," Debbie
cries. "This is how the business works, Ruth. You have to pretend to like it
until you don't have to anymore!"

Gilpin can  relate to that scene: "Particularly for being an actress when you're
getting sexually harassed, every job is kind of an island of time that you just
have to get through the (awful) parts of that so you can check the 'my dream'
boxes," she says.  "What's laughing at a few more jokes at the craft table if it
means you're not going to get fired?"

"GLOW" creators Carly Mensch and Liz Flahive, former playwrights turned TV
writers, don't have the same connection with Gilpin's character.

"Betty has been telling a lot of stories that are very enlightening to us," says
Mensch, who worked as a writer on "Weeds," created by Jenji Kohan.  And in their
second season of "GLOW," they've added to their mostly female  crew, which now
includes a woman-led stunt department and two female assistant directors.

"Frankly, it wasn't an anomaly for us to have women leading this show," Mensch
says. "We stand on the shoulders of women like Jenji. We came up in their
(writers) rooms and on their sets. We're a part of that change (and) never
tolerated (bad behavior)."

But to Gilpin, spending time on the set is like being part of an "experimental
futuristic society" where  men don't leer at her  in a skin-tight wrestling
costume  and she doesn't feel the need to compliment a director to ensure an
extra take.

Though most sets aren't like  "GLOW,"  the #MeToo and Time's Up movements have
improved the climate at many. "There is something to prey on and use to our
advantage that people are so terrified of appearing exclusionary (in today's
age)," Gilpin says. "It's the Salem Witch Trials of being woke."

In fact, just a month ago while filming the horror movie "The Grudge," Gilpin
considered her young male producers' fear of ignorance and did something she
wouldn't have.

Gilpin plays a woman who's older and five months pregnant. "There were a bunch
of lines about it being a geriatric pregnancy," Gilpin says.

The actress worried that a  thirtysomething female viewer would be offended. So
she complained to the young male filmmakers,  who were surprisingly receptive,
she says, and cut the dialogue.

"If it was five years ago, I never would have said anything. I was way too
scared and way too cognizant and would've played the part (as is) because jobs
are hard to get," Gilpin says. But because of "what's globally happening in
terms of gender and the world ... it kind of culls you out of your own fear."

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Beth Dubber/Netflix

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2018 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              158 of 169 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          September 5, 2018 Wednesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Set the DVR so you catch every episode

BYLINE: Kelly Lawler USA TODAY

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 1231 words


This fall is going to be a very good season for television.  Thomas Magnum is
back. So  are the Charmed Ones, Murphy Brown and Sabrina Spellman. Jennifer
Garner has a new series, as do Penn Badgley, Leighton Meester, Brad Garrett,
Taran Killam, Maya Rudolph and Fred Armisen. Movie stars Julia Roberts, Michael
Douglas, Benicio del Toro, Emma Stone, Jonah Hill, Sean Penn and Jim Carrey are
joining the small-screen ranks. Dozens of new shows with A-List cast members and
familiar characters are fighting for your attention, not to mention returning
favorites such as "This Is Us." It can be overwhelming. But we're here to help
you sort through the clutter of gritty dramas, peppy sitcoms and miniseries.
Here are 10 shows (listed chronologically) that are absolutely worth your time.

'You' (Lifetime)

Sept. 9 (Sundays, 10 EDT/PDT)

Lifetime's forays into scripted series have been a mixed bag, from the flameout
of "UnREAL" to the off-kilter "Mary Kills People," but with "You" the network
might have found a story that fits perfectly into its lineup. An expanded
version of a Saturday night  thriller, "You" follows a disturbed bookstore clerk
(Penn Badgley, building on his "Gossip Girl" character's creepiness) who stalks
(in person and online) a  woman he meets (Elizabeth Lail), subtly worming his
way into her life. Badgley deftly walks the line between charming and
terrifying, and his performance anchors the series, a gripping mystery where you
already know most of the answers.

'Maniac' (Netflix)

Sept. 21

"Superbad" co-stars Emma Stone and Jonah Hill reunite 11 years later. Both are
bigger stars, but they  still have great chemistry and  capitalize on it in one
of Netflix's weirdest series  yet. Developed and directed by Cary Fukunaga
("True Detective"), "Maniac" is set in an alternative world with  1980s
technology but modern clothing and hairstyles. The trippy miniseries follows
Annie (Stone) and Owen (Hill), two damaged young adults who are looking for
answers (or just a fix) from a pharmaceutical drug trial led by an eccentric
researcher (Justin Theroux) that promises to cure any mental ailment. As you can
imagine, things don't go according to plan.

'Manifest' (NBC)

Sept. 24 (Mondays, 10 EDT/PDT)

This series opens with a plane that mysteriously disappears one night, only to
show up unscathed at its destination five years later. For the passengers, it
was an uneventful flight in which  no time passed, but their friends and family
have aged, grieved and moved on with their lives. The subtle supernatural powers
and connections between the passengers aren't helping their re-entry. The
high-concept drama may seem like broadcast TV's umpteenth attempt to recapture
the magic of "Lost," but "Manifest" has enough charisma to  seem like more than
a knockoff.

'A Million Little Things' (ABC)

Sept. 26 (Wednesdays, 10 EDT/PDT)

An alternative title for this drama might be "This Is Thirtysomething," and
that's not necessarily a bad thing. With the emotional heft of NBC's "This Is
Us" family  and the problems and friendships of ABC's own late '80s series,
"Million" follows a group of friends (James Roday, David Giuntoli and Romany
Malco),  their wives and partners as they reel from the  suicide of their de
facto leader (Ron Livingston). Like "Us," "Million" mixes deep emotion with
intrigue and mystery as the group tries to figure out why their friend took his
life.

'Murphy Brown' (CBS)

Sept. 27 (Thursdays, 9:30 EDT/PDT)

Murphy Brown (Candice Bergen) can't escape the world of fake news any more than
you can. The legendary broadcaster is back in CBS' revival of the hit 1988-98
series, and the media and culture have changed drastically since we last saw
her.  Now the host of a morning show, Murphy tries to be the voice of reason  in
a chaotic climate  with the help of her original team: Corky Sherwood (Faith
Ford), Frank Fontana (Joe Regalbuto), Miles Silverberg (Grant Shaud). They're
joined by  Phyllis (Tyne Daly), the sister of former barkeep Phil, who now runs
his  bar, Pat Patel (Nik Dodani), a social media expert trying to keep Murphy
relevant, and Murphy's  son Avery (Jake McDorman), now all grown up and a
journalist at a rival network.

'Charmed' (CW)

Oct. 14 (Sundays, 9 EDT/PDT)

The power of three will set you free all over again. Sort of.  CW's reboot of
the 1998-2006 witchy series still calls its central sisters the "Charmed Ones,"
and they still fight demons with the help of a mentor "whitelighter" and the
magic "Book of Shadows," but the similarities mostly end there. Gone are the
rhyming couplets, the Halliwell surname and the  mechanics of the sisters'
powers. It may be tough for fans of the original to stomach the changes, but the
new version of the show, from "Jane the Virgin" creator Jennie Snyder Urman, has
its own charming story to tell, even if it looks and sounds a bit different.

'Camping' (HBO)

Oct. 14 (Sundays, 10 EDT/PDT)

Jennifer Garner returns to TV in this sunny and delightful HBO comedy, but she's
playing a woman who's quite different from "Alias" hero  Sydney Bristow. Based
on a British series,  "Camping" follows a group on a weekend birthday retreat
for Walt (David Tennant), set up my his extreme Type-A wife, Kathryn (Garner),
where the delicate balance of personalities is always on the brink of collapse.
The cringe comedy was created by Jenni Konner and Lena Dunham ("Girls") and also
stars Juliette Lewis and Brett Gelman. The series gets close to being too
cringey, particularly with Garner's character, whom you'll soon love to hate,
but it's smart enough not to go too far.

'Chilling Adventures of Sabrina' (Netflix)

Oct. 26

The new incarnation of the Archie Comics favorite has no talking cats or cheesy
puns but  takes the supernatural tale back to its pulpy horror roots. Kiernan
Shipka ("Mad Men") takes on the role of the famous teenage witch, with a cast
that includes Lucy Davis (U.K.'s "The Office) and Miranda Otto ("The Lord of the
Rings"). Netflix's adaptation doesn't look much like ABC's  Melissa Joan Hart
version,  but what it lacks in kitschy  comedy it makes up for in a commitment
to the creepy. Sabrina faces mythic challenges at the same time she deals with
the same thing all teens do, whether they have magic powers or not: a search for
identity.

'Escape at Dannemora' (Showtime)

Nov. 18 (Sundays, 10 EST/PST)

This ripped-from-the-headlines miniseries chronicles the 2015 prison break by
two inmates in upstate New York. Ben Stiller directs the propulsive project,
which stars Benicio del Toro and Paul Dano as the escapees and a nearly
unrecognizable Patricia Arquette as Tilly, the prison employee who had sex  with
both men and helped them escape. The first-rate series shows new perspectives on
a story that will be familiar to many viewers, making the most of its
stranger-than-fiction source material.

'The Little Drummer Girl' (AMC)

Nov. 19-21 (Monday-Wednesday, 9 EST/PST)

If you enjoyed AMC's adaptation of John le Carre's "The Night Manager," the
network has another of the author's spy-filled treats for you. Like "Manager,"
"Drummer Girl" follows a civilian, this time a young British actress recruited
by Israeli intelligence officers to help infiltrate a Palestinian terrorist
group in the late 1970s. Alexander Skarsgard, Michael Sheen and Florence Pugh
star in the slick adaptation, which has all the outrageous costumes, classic
rock and  wavering loyalties you'd expect.

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Diyah Pera/Netflix

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2018 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              159 of 169 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           September 14, 2018 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

'Civil war' divides world's Catholics;
Sex abuse, cover-up allegations jolt Vatican

BYLINE: Eric J. Lyman, Special to USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1051 words


VATICAN CITY - The latest - and most serious - wave of pedophilia and cover-up
allegations to hit the Vatican is shining a new light on the gap dividing the
world's 1.2 billion Catholics. And almost none of it is about the charges of
widespread clerical abuse scandals.

Dozens of commentators and Vatican watchers have pointed to the wide gap between
the views of conservative, traditional Catholics in the mold of Pope Benedict
XVI and those of reform-minded Catholics like Pope Francis. Many media have
referred to what is happening as a kind of "civil war."

Though he is widely popular among non-Catholics, Francis has been a polarizing
figure among the faithful since he was  elected five years ago.

The latest sex abuse allegations, specifically those raised by Archbishop Carlo
Maria Viganò, former nuncio to the United States, have only increased public
pressure on Francis to resign in order to save the church.

Viganò named more than two dozen current and former Vatican and U.S. officials
and accused them of knowing about and covering up for former Cardinal Theodore
McCarrick, who is accused of sexually molesting and harassing minors as well as
adults. He accused Francis of rehabilitating McCarrick from canonical sanctions
imposed on him by  Benedict  in 2009 or 2010. The Vatican has known since at
least 2000 that McCarrick slept with seminarians.

Adding to the crisis within the Vatican was a grand jury report in Pennsylvania
that detailed the specter of more than 1,000 alleged underage victims of abuse
by more than 300 priests over the span of seven decades.

On Thursday,  Francis accepted the resignation of a U.S. bishop and authorized
an investigation into allegations he sexually harassed adults, adding awkward
drama to an audience with U.S. church leaders over the abuse and cover-up
scandal roiling the Catholic Church. The resignation of West Virginia Bishop
Michael Bransfield was announced just as the four-member U.S. delegation was
sitting down with Francis in his study in the Apostolic Palace.

Earlier this week, Francis summoned the presidents of Catholic bishops
conferences worldwide to the Vatican in February to discuss protecting children
and preventing sexual abuse by priests. The meeting is believed to be the first
of its kind and comes amid the growing criticism over the pope's handling of sex
abuse cases dating back decades.

But Robert Mickens, a veteran Vatican analyst who is now the editor of La Croix
International, said the scandal masks a major rift in the church about its
direction under the current pope. "The trouble calling what is happening with
these scandals and the church a 'civil war' is that these two camps have existed
since the start of Francis' papacy, plus the fact that the situation has very
little to do with the sex scandals," he said. Mickens maintained that strong
critics are a small minority among Catholics, albeit a loud one adept at using
social media.

Though the pope's trip to Ireland Aug. 25-26 sparked protests there, Mickens'
views have mostly been reflected by other papal crowds - including those at the
Vatican this month. Both events were full and all but free of placards
criticizing Francis. While those on hand were outraged by the pedophilia
scandals, they were  mostly supportive of the Argentine pontiff.

"The church needs to clean up its act, but if a man like Pope Francis cannot do
it, I don't know who can," said Vivian Hanson, 49, a  paralegal visiting Italy
from Jacksonville, Florida.

Sandro Manna, 34, a food distributor from Rome, agreed:  Francis "is obviously a
very holy man, and we have to have faith he will take the right steps."

Kathy Olberding, 61, a  nurse on vacation in Italy from Cincinnati, said she
thought the Vatican had to know these problems would emerge.

"People are outraged at all these terrible stories of sex abuse," she said. "I
wish the stories weren't true, but they are, and someone has to be held
responsible. The pope is in charge, and so the question is whether he can fix it
or whether it will have to be someone else."

After the 2013 conclave that made Francis pope, he said his first words to the
College of Cardinals that elected him were: "May God forgive you for what you
have done."

Many traditional Catholics may have wished the cardinals selected someone else
even early on. In the weeks and months after his election, critics opined that
Francis was not scholarly enough, too eager to reach out to non-Catholics, too
willing to take on the status quo in the church, willing to embrace secular
figures on issues like alleviating poverty and confronting climate change, and
far too forgiving to groups including homosexuals, divorcees and women who have
had abortions.

Francis has not been shy about his frustrations. "Reforming Rome is like
cleaning the Sphinx in Egypt with a toothbrush," Francis joked to church leaders
in the Vatican last December. The crowd on hand, which including many of
Francis' critics, elicited only a few mild chuckles.

"It seems strange to use the problem of clerical sex abuse to attack the pope,"
Mickens said. "Abuse is a disease that cuts across the church. Many of the
victims came from dioceses run by papal critics. But that isn't the problem:
They don't like the pope because of his political views."

Alberto Melloni, a history of Christianity professor from Italy's University of
Modena and Reggio Emilia, echoed those views.

"What we are seeing are not attacks against the pope," Melloni said. "In
reality, they are attacks against the church, and they are aimed at dividing
it."

To some extent, the critics are succeeding.

Cardinal Raymond Burke, who was archbishop of St. Louis until his retirement in
2008, is one of Francis' most vocal detractors. Burke is one of four authors of
a June letter that was openly critical of Francis' view that individual priests
could decide on an ad hoc basis whether to allow divorced Catholics to receive
communion. Burke has publicly praised  President Donald Trump and has frequently
conferred with former Trump strategist Steve Bannon on ways to oppose Francis.
Now, a rising number of clergy are reportedly following Burke's lead.

"Catholics are at a crossroads, as they have been many times before," said
Alistair Sear, a retired church historian living in London.

Contributing: The Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2018 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              167 of 169 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 11, 2018 Tuesday
                                A CHASE EDITION

Teen refugees find home on soccer field;
In a new land where they don't always feel welcome, young Africans forge a
kinship in Texas

BYLINE: Monica RhorUSA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1417 words


HOUSTON

The boys in royal blue huddled in the middle of a soccer field, arms locked,
heads bowed, their lucky hot pink socks a sharp contrast to the browning grass
and storm-threatening sky striated with slate and gray.   In a few minutes,
members of the reVision Football Club would play their final match of the fall
season. If they won, they would qualify for a state soccer cup for the first
time by beating last year's champions.  They would defy the odds - as they have
been doing all their lives.

Most of the teenage players were born in refugee camps in Africa and arrived in
this country with nothing, save a few phrases in English and the yearning for a
better life.

Here, they found a different kind of struggle: new languages and unfamiliar
cultures, classrooms where they are bullied for their accent and skin color,
hardscrabble apartment complexes where street gangs fish for fresh recruits --
and now, a president whose policies are no longer welcoming for refugees.

But one thing has remained constant. From Africa to America, they have found
ways to keep playing soccer.

In the beautiful game, they discovered strength and self-confidence. In this
team, which came together almost by accident, they forged a brotherhood. In
their stories, they offer a glimpse into the challenges confronted by refugee
children - who in 2016 made up about 44 percent of those resettled in the United
States.

Now, on the Sunday before Thanksgiving, the reVision FC squad gathered in a
scrum on Field 26 in Bear Creek Pioneers Park in northwest Houston, ready to
face Cedar Stars Academy-Green.

No matter what happens, team captain Francois Elize,  18, who was born in Congo,
told the others, we will not hang our heads down.

"ReVision on three!" they yelled. "One! Two! Three! ReVision!"

A place to belong

Iluta Shabani, who came to the USA  three years ago and dreams of playing pro
soccer, heard about the games from a friend passing by on a bicycle.

Every Sunday, he told Iluta, a group of boys converge to play pickup soccer on a
grassy expanse behind St. Luke's United Methodist Church Gethsemane, a church in
the heart of the city's refugee enclaves.

Iluta grew up in the vast Nyarugusu refugee camp in Tanzania, where he used
plastic bottles and wadded bags as makeshift balls. The 17-year-old followed his
friend to the church campus - running behind him for more than  2miles.

Erick Musambya, whose parents are from Congo, soon became a regular. So did
Amani Godfrey, who left Tanzania when he was 3 and used the impromptu games as a
way to distance himself from a crew that did little but hang out and smoke.

These were the kids Charles Rotramel, who runs reVision, a nonprofit that works
with  young people  in the juvenile justice system, had hoped to draw when he
turned the swatch of grass behind St.Luke's into a soccer pitch.

Most were refugees from Africa who didn't quite fit in with Spanish-speaking
Latino classmates or English-speaking African American peers. Their parents
worked long hours for meager wages, leaving them alone for stretches of time.

They were looking for a place to belong - making them ripe targets for gangs
like the Southwest Cholos and MS-13 that plague the southwest Houston
neighborhood.

Soccer, Rotramel thought, could be a way to keep them from getting entangled in
street life.

He quickly realized how good the ragtag bunch of players were. How they
delighted in the touch of the ball. How the boys, who barely knew one another,
seemed to move in harmony.

It was a team waiting to be formed.

That, two years ago, was the start of reVision FC - and the birth of something
bigger than soccer.

Band of brothers

With more than a week to go before the match against Cedar Stars-Green, the game
room inside the reVision offices was brimming with tumult - noise and laughter,
the clatter of pool balls and the clacking of a foosball game, snatches of
singing and snippets of Swahili. As it always is on practice nights.

Above a row of red and black lockers, a single word was painted high on the
wall: Familia.

Family.

That is what this team has become.

"They were looking for a safe place and found it in each other," Rotramel said.
"They are creating a magical space of family for each other."

It was here that Iluta, who has had to be the man of his family - looking after
younger siblings, helping his  mother in her wheelchair with errands and
household chores, serving as translator - found a support system of his own.

A few months back, after his mother, a single parent of five left who was
severely disabled during the civil war in Congo, fell short of rent money,
reVision stepped in to cover the costs.

"They are like my brothers," said Iluta, an 11th-grader at Margaret Long Wisdom
High School, where refugee students come from 29 countries. "When I don't have
something, they give it to me. When they don't have, I give it to them."

It was here that Amani soaked in stories about refugee camps in Tanzania, the
country he can't remember. Here that the teenager learned Swahili (at home, his
mother speaks Kirundi, the language of her native Burundi).

The Wisdom High School junior, who has a 3.65 GPA, a talent for art and a path
to college, looks back now at his old friends and sees where he might have ended
up: "smoking, getting shot, or shooting."

It was here that Rotramel had to counsel his team after an especially ugly
soccer match in which opposing players and their parents hurled racial epithets
at the reVision players. "It is not OK,"  Rotramel consoled them. "But it's
America. This is the reality."

Here where they talk about a political climate increasingly hostile to refugees.

Only 22,491 refugees were admitted in the  past fiscal year, the second-lowest
level on record. This year, the U.S. State Department plans to cap refugee
admissions at 30,000.

They worry that the drastic cuts will make it nearly impossible for family
members still in Africa - like Iluta's grandparents - to join those already
here. They worry that accepting any public benefits will hurt their chances of
becoming U.S. citizens, a possibility under a regulation change proposed by the
Trump administration.

Then there's the rhetoric painting refugees as safety threats or drains on the
system, despite numerous studies that show neither is true.

Erick, who  arrived in the United States five years ago knowing no English,
knows what it is like to be judged by his accent and appearance. He also knows
how to plow ahead.

After fleeing Congo for Tanzania, Erick's family spent 10 years in the Tongogara
refugee camp in Zimbabwe, where he had to steal food and eat wild birds  to
survive.

Last winter, he came home after soccer practice to find the apartment empty. His
mother, looking for work, had moved with his siblings to Kansas City, Missouri.

Rotramel offered encouragement. Iluta offered a place to stay. Soccer offered a
purpose.

"Some people judge me for the way I look, but they can't pull me down," shrugged
Erick, 18, an aspiring medic who plans to go on to community college. "I always
keep going."

'Hungry' for a win

As soon as reVision took the field against Cedar Stars, they were pushing to the
goal.

In the 18th minute, a kick by reVision's  No. 9 - 18-year-old Antoine Kamengele,
who is from Congo - that seemed to be off the mark was somehow deflected and
ambled into the net.

Goal! ReVision FC, 1. Cedar Stars-Green, 0.

"Simba zina njaa," Amani, who turned 18 that day, called to his teammates. The
Swahili phrase, which he says whenever reVision scores a goal, means "The lion
is hungry."

The other team, now flustered, earned fouls and yellow warning cards. The
reVision players continued to press, communicating in their own patois, a mix of
English, Spanish and Swahili.

At halftime, with the score still standing at 1-0, Rotramel rallied his team. If
reVision could keep up the pressure, the game could be theirs.

As storm clouds rolled in and rain droplets began to fall, the second half
brought more yellow cards for rough play for Cedar Stars players.

More jeers directed at reVision from Cedar Stars fans.

The clock ticked toward the closing whistle. Rotramel paced  the sideline.

"Please," he murmured to himself, "don't let them score on the last play."

They didn't. Final score: 1-0. A victory for reVision.

Smiles spread across the faces of the reVision players. Iluta jumped high in the
air.

They had proven their opponents wrong. By playing their way. By heeding his
favorite Swahili proverb, the one he says sums up the reVision bond:

Umoja ni nguvu. Unity is strength.

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2018 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved
