
                               5 of 141 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   January 31, 2002, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Oscillating rhythm's got weather on the go

BYLINE: Jack Williams

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 9D

LENGTH: 469 words

National Weather Service forecasters, who are looking far out over the Pacific
Ocean, say this time next week, the western USA should be warming up while cold
air is shoving aside this week's record warmth in the East.

The forecast is based on a growing ability to predict changes in large-scale
ocean-atmosphere patterns and understand how these patterns affect faraway
weather, says Wayne Higgins, the principal climate scientist at the Weather
Service's Climate Prediction Center in Camp Springs, Md.

Higgins says next week's weather flip will be back to a pattern much like the
one in December that brought the East its only real taste of winter this season.



Among other things, the change should make the weather clearer and warmer in
Utah than it has been this month, but it's too soon to say how this will affect
the Winter Olympics in Salt Lake City, which start Feb. 8.

Higgins is confident about the pattern shift because the Weather Service's
computer forecasting models "are really on to the situation. They have done well
this season, including the transitions between patterns."

The change won't be sudden, but a slow cooling of the East and warming of the
West over the coming week.

The particular global pattern that Higgins and other forecasters are closely
watching this winter is called the Madden-Julian Oscillation, after Roland
Madden and Paul Julian of the National Center for Atmospheric Research, who
first detected it in the early 1970s.

The oscillation is a huge, slow-moving atmospheric wave that stretches at least
halfway around the globe on both sides of the equator. As one phase of the wave
passes over a region, air is slowly rising, which triggers showers and
thunderstorms.

During the other phase, air is slowly sinking, which inhibits rain. For any
particular location, phases change around each 40 to 45 days.

Since early January, the phase of the wave that enhances showers and
thunderstorms has been over the Pacific roughly from the Philippines and
Indonesia, stretching east more than 2,000 miles.

Thunderstorms here are pumping huge amounts of air high into the atmosphere,
which affects the path and strength of the west-to-east jet stream.

"It's somewhat like putting a rock in the middle of a fast-flowing stream,"
Higgins says. Its path -- in this case, the stream of wind called the jet stream
-- changes.

These changes, in turn, affect the pattern of large areas of high and low air
pressure along the jet stream's path across the Pacific and the USA.

The result in November and again for much of January has been low air pressure
with cold air, rain and snow parked over the northwestern corner of the USA,
while high air pressure with mostly clear skies and warm air has dominated the
East.

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2002 Gannett Company, Inc.


                               6 of 141 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   November 19, 2002, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

States fill leadership vacuum

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 20A

LENGTH: 491 words

In Texas, where politics has long been captive to the oil and gas industry, the
state is pushing the development of wind, solar and other renewable power
sources to combat global warming, largely attributed to fossil fuels. As a
result, wind-power production alone has jumped sixfold in three years.

Texas, which launched its effort when President Bush was governor, is among an
increasing number of states that are tackling climate-change problems in the
absence of action from Washington. Their initiatives represent sensible measures
that don't cause economic harm or impose harsh penalties on industry -- concerns
the Bush administration raises to justify doing nothing.


Some examples:

 * California is demanding sharp reductions in carbon dioxide and other
greenhouse gases emitted by vehicles.

 * Massachusetts has ordered its older power plants to curb harmful pollutants.

 * Nebraska is ordering farmers to change planting practices so crops and soil
retain more carbon, a way to reduce carbon-dioxide emissions that help trap heat
in the Earth's atmosphere.

Polluting industries -- including coal, oil, autos and utilities -- and their
allies in Washington continue to dispute mounting evidence that human-generated
pollution contributes to global warming. They've showered more than $ 300
million on both parties since 1990 to block federal action, according to federal
records compiled by the non-partisan Center for Responsive Politics.

That has created a vacuum states are filling. A new report from the Pew Center
on Global Climate Change, a research group with business backing, documents
initiatives during the past decade, even in states not known for environmental
zeal. One is New Jersey. Worried that climate change will cause seas to rise and
engulf its popular coastal islands, the state has adopted a plan to curb
greenhouse-gas emissions from in-state sources. And traditionally laissez-faire
New Hampshire has ordered its power plants to roll back carbon-dioxide emissions
to 1990 levels because of evidence of climate change that could threaten the
maple-syrup industry, skiing and trout fishing.

Some states are even copying each other's good ideas. Illinois, North Dakota,
Oklahoma and Wyoming have enacted farm laws similar to Nebraska's. Other
windswept states are eyeing Texas' example in wind power.

As the movement grows, the same industries that have blocked legislation in
Washington are fighting a rear-guard action in the states. Auto companies, for
example, are trying to kill California's drive for tighter standards, while the
coal industry in West Virginia persuaded the legislature to bar greenhouse-gas
initiatives.

More often, Republicans and Democrats have united in statehouses to overcome
business resistance and show how efforts to combat global warming can be good
for the environment -- and the economy. If only Washington would catch on.

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: DEBATE

                      Copyright 2002 Gannett Company, Inc.


                               9 of 141 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                      July 22, 2002, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Carmakers balk at Calif. bill to cut global warming

BYLINE: James R. Healey

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 536 words

California Gov. Gray Davis plans to sign a bill into law today that
environmentalists say will reduce global warming and that the auto industry says
is a camouflaged attempt to regulate fuel economy, something only the federal
government legally can do.

The governor's signature will ignite yet another furious battle between the auto
industry and the environmental lobby over how much cars and trucks can be
improved without boosting prices too high for buyers.

The auto industry is expected to sue to stop enforcement of the law, citing the
fuel-economy argument. Automakers already have temporarily halted full
enforcement of California's zero-emissions, electric-car mandate by convincing a
federal judge that parts of it amount to back-door fuel-economy regulation.


The new law directs the California Air Resources Board (CARB) to come up with
rules by the end of 2005 that "achieve the maximum feasible reduction of
greenhouse gases" beginning in 2009. The main greenhouse gas is carbon dioxide
(CO[-2]), and the only way to reduce emissions of it is to burn less fuel.

Vehicles contribute a minority of the CO[-2] in the atmosphere, but in
California that's a significant 40%. Most CO[-2] around the world comes from
factories and refineries.

"By and large, it's true" that increasing fuel economy is the way to decrease
CO[-2], acknowledges Jon Coifman, spokesman for the Natural Resources Defense
Council. "But our argument is that by whatever means they choose to meet the
standard, it's a tailpipe standard, and California absolutely has the right to
regulate it."

Traffic-choked California legally can -- and has -- set exhaust-emission
standards different from the rest of the USA.

Environmental groups say cutting fuel consumption should be easy using
"off-the-shelf" parts and technologies that don't require expensive, lengthy
development. Among them: overhead-camshaft engines instead of old-tech, push-rod
designs; low-rolling-resistance tires; and continuously variable transmissions
(CVTs).

But real-world experience is more complex. Ford Motor, for instance, uses
sophisticated, overhead-camshaft V-8 engines in its big sport-utility vehicles
and pickups. But those typically get worse, not better, fuel economy than
General Motors' push-rod V-8s.

Easy-rolling tires, already on some economy cars, typically have less traction,
sacrificing some braking, steering and cornering prowess for fuel efficiency.

Current CVTs aren't made for more-popular and less-fuel-efficient trucks. Truck
CVTs would make the biggest difference the most quickly. Another problem: When
CVTs are tuned for best fuel economy, tests show, consumers don't like how they
drive. When tuned to satisfy consumers, they do little for fuel economy.

The federal Environmental Protection Agency does not consider CO[-2] a regulated
exhaust emission. CO[-2] is expelled by all living things and is not poisonous.
In fact, green plants need it to survive, and the planet needs a certain amount
to remain warm enough to inhabit. Too much, though, and Earth becomes a
greenhouse, trapping heat that will change the climate adversely,
environmentalists warn.

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2002 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              25 of 141 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    June 12, 2002, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION
                              Correction Appended

How did business get so darn dirty?

BYLINE: Gary Strauss

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 1975 words

Double-dealing Wall Street analysts. Sleazy accounting. Cooking the books to
goose corporate profits. Bogus stock trades.

Greed and corruption have always lingered at the edges of Corporate America,
from Civil War profiteers to inside-trading scandals of the '80s. Yet the new
millennium has ushered in a wave of fraud, corporate malfeasance, investment
scams, ethical lapses and conflicts of interest unprecedented in scope.

Whether business is more corrupt or whether the post-Enron scandals are the
inevitable rotten fruit of a 27-month bear market is debatable. Some things are
clear: The fallout is a prime reason stocks continue to founder. And despite
calls among politicians, regulators and Wall Street for sweeping reforms, little
is being done to change rules for corporate conduct.


Unlike the '80s, there's no Gordon Gekko, greed-is-good villain. There are a
number of high-profile, real-life legal cases. Take Baltimore currency trader
John Rusnak, indicted for bank fraud for allegedly hiding nearly $ 700 million
in losses from Allfirst Financial to enhance his own pay. Or Alan Bond -- a
former regular on Wall Street Week with Louis Rukeyser -- convicted Monday of
defrauding clients of $ 56 million.

"Business is dirtier now than before," says Marjorie Kelly, publisher of
Business Ethics magazine. "There's a nuttiness that we're seeing: Boost
performance by any means. The temptation to cash in grabbed lots of people."

Almost daily, corporate stars are crashing. Enron's Kenneth Lay resigned as
shady limited partnerships pushed the energy-trading giant into bankruptcy
protection. Dennis Kozlowski -- who pocketed more than $ 300 million in
compensation as Tyco's CEO the past three years -- was forced out over an
indictment for tax evasion.

"There is always greed and misconduct in the business world. But in today's
society, more people tend to believe they can get away with it," says Seth
Taube, a former SEC enforcement chief who heads the securities litigation and
business crimes practice at law firm McCarter & English.

Why now?

Corporate governance experts cite a confluence of factors for today's sullied
business climate. Essentially, it boils down to greed -- particularly among
senior managers, says management guru Peter Drucker.

"That extreme greed at the top is new, and what it has done is to destroy the
trust of operating management in top management," says Drucker, author of
Managing in the Next Society, due out in July.

For much of the 1980s and 1990s, fortunes were made in corporate mergers, stock
speculation and IPOs. In Wall Street parlance, scores of investors and
financiers were coining money, especially during the late stage of the Internet
boom.

Software provider MicroStrategy was trading at $ 333 in March 2000. Then the
company said it was restating results for the previous three years. CEO Michael
Saylor and other executives later paid $ 350,000 in fines to settle SEC
allegations of accounting fraud and paid $ 10 million to settle shareholder
lawsuits. MicroStrategy's close Tuesday: $ 1.15.

Executives at other companies enriched themselves with huge stock option grants
-- cashing in even as shares fell. Enron executives sold millions of shares
ahead of the stock's precipitous decline.

Meanwhile, rule bending became more pervasive as Wall Street expected continued
gains. And the speed and complexity of business heightened dramatically,
especially with program trading and the use of derivatives. "With infinitely
more complex securities, accounting practices and business transactions, it's
much easier to hide fraud," Taube says.

The Internet allows fraud to be perpetrated by almost anyone. Jonathan Lebed, a
New Jersey 15-year-old, bought low-priced stocks, hyped them on Internet message
boards, then sold as the shares rose, netting about $ 800,000. Lebed later
settled fraud charges with the SEC, paying a $ 285,000 fine.

Once Wall Street's bubble burst and the economy staggered, corporate profits and
stock prices plummeted. Problems inevitably surfaced.

Columbia University law professor John Coffee says independent accounting firms
and corporate lawyers provided lax oversight over highfliers like Enron. "There
once was a strong culture of professions performing a specialized service. Now
business seeks to maximize profits, such as accounting firms extending into
consulting," he says. "In that kind of world, lower standards prevail."

A culture where laws and ethical boundaries are flouted is also to blame, says
Charles Elson, head of the Center for Corporate Governance at the University of
Delaware. Elson cites President Clinton's affair with Monica Lewinsky and the
relative lack of damage to his administration as a watershed event that
empowered people to lie, cheat and stretch the truth.

Honor and trust continue to falter elsewhere. The reputations of major
institutions are under fire: the FBI for ineffectiveness, baseball for illegal
steroids, the Catholic church for child-molesting priests and the Olympics for
biased judges.

Trouble abounds

Nowhere, though, are troubles as pervasive as they are in the business world.
Consider:

 * The Securities and Exchange Commission is on track to investigate a record
number of companies this year. Plunging stock prices at just Enron and Tyco have
cost thousands of employees their jobs and clipped investor stock portfolios by
$ 170 billion.

 * It could be a banner year for stock-related litigation, with Wall Street
brokerages forking out millions to settle complaints that their independent
analyses of companies were tainted by potential investment-banking fees. Merrill
Lynch will pay $ 100 million to settle with New York Attorney General Eliot
Spitzer.

 * Credit Suisse First Boston paid $ 100 million to settle charges that it
improperly split Internet IPO profits with customers.

 * Xerox paid $ 10 million to settle financial-reporting violations.

 * And accounting firm Arthur Andersen -- whose fate is in the jury's hands in
its trial on obstruction of justice charges for shredding Enron documents --
earlier paid $ 110 million to settle a shareholder lawsuit alleging fraud in its
Sunbeam audit.

It's not just investors who feel as if they're being scammed. Even favorite
brands are under fire. In Dallas, Coca-Cola employees recently accused the
soft-drink giant of repackaging nearly out-of-date soda and selling it in
minority neighborhoods for years. Coca-Cola denies the allegations.

Last week, fast-food king McDonald's issued an apology to Hindus and vegetarians
for failing to disclose that the oil used to cook french fries contained beef
flavoring. McDonald's will donate $ 10 million to Hindus and other groups to
settle related suits.

Restoring confidence

If there's a silver lining, it's that corporate directors are beginning to ask
tougher questions about company finances, potential conflicts of interest and
executive compensation.

So far, lobbyists have thwarted congressional efforts to tighten controls and
curb fraud. But SEC Chairman Harvey Pitt and market officials are proposing
tougher regulations and guidelines for faster corporate disclosures and stock
transactions.

To renew investor faith, the New York Stock Exchange just issued recommendations
for a range of conditions companies would have to meet to remain listed on the
NYSE, such as refining the definition of independent directors on corporate
boards.

Even Wall Street investment banks are pausing for introspection. In a rare
display of public reflection, Goldman Sachs CEO Henry Paulson last week urged
corporations to reform and said the accounting system should be overhauled so it
can no longer be ripe for manipulation.

Still, restoring credibility and trust among investors won't come easily.
Despite signs of economic growth, investors remain skittish about the market.

A recent Brookings Institution poll found that public support of corporations
has waned since fall. "Enron and Arthur Andersen confirmed Americans' suspicions
not to trust big business," says Brookings Executive Vice President Paul Light.
Most proposed reforms aren't enough, either, says Russell Mokhiber, editor of
the Corporate Crime Reporter. "Historically, corporate crime has been a big
problem. It's not going to change, unless the rules change."

Even Merrill Lynch's settlement with Spitzer doesn't go far enough to satisfy
some corporate governance experts. For example, Merrill Lynch can still make
stock recommendations on firms that it helped launch IPOs.

Spin control

New York public relations firm TowersGroup suggests that a "chief reputation
officer" be appointed by publicly held companies to monitor business practices
that threaten a company's reputation.

Given that it may take some time before investors take an analyst's "buy"
recommendation seriously, Merrill and other brokerages are on a public-relations
blitz with ad campaigns designed to make investors more comfortable dealing with
them. Discount broker Charles Schwab is trying to capitalize on investor
distrust with ads that stress its brokers work commission-free. TD Waterhouse's
latest ads maintain that "you're in control."

Merrill -- whose market capitalization has dropped by almost $ 12 billion since
Spitzer's probe was announced in early April -- is even considering hiring
former New York City mayor Rudy Giuliani as an image-burnishing spokesman.

Some CEOs scoff at such efforts and say the solution boils down to simply doing
the right thing.

William Hickey, CEO of Sealed Air, a $ 3 billion packaging company best known
for Bubble Wrap, calls it the "front-page-of-the-newspaper test."

Says Hickey: "If you're in doubt about your action or decision, think about
whether you would be embarrassed to see it in the newspaper."

---

Contributing: Bruce Rosenstein


Corporate highfliers who tumbled from grace

At one time, these powerful corporate highfliers were lauded for their business
acumen and management prowess. Three left their corner offices in disgrace,
while two others served prison time.

Ivan Boesky

Then: Wall Street arbitrageur convicted of insider trading in 1987. Served
two-year prison term and paid $ 100 million to settle civil lawsuits.

Now: Has $ 20 million, a $ 2.5 million home and $ 180,000 a year for life in a
divorce agreement with heiress Seema Silberstein. He has remarried.

Michael Milken

Then: Drexel Burnham junk-bond king pleaded guilty to fraud in 1990. Spent 22
months in prison and paid a $ 600 million fine.

Now: Chairs the Milken Institute, a non-profit economic think tank. Active with
the Association for the Cure of Cancer of the Prostate (CaP CURE), which he
founded after a bout with the disease.

Al Dunlap

Then: Turnaround specialist, CEO at Sunbeam until accounting irregularities
forced ouster. Accused by SEC of manipulating Sunbeam earnings.

Now: SEC civil lawsuit charges Dunlap and others with fraud. Trial to begin next
year. Dunlap maintains innocence; earlier paid shareholders $ 15 million to
settle separate lawsuit.

Kenneth Lay

Then: CEO of energy-trader Enron during its heyday. Quit in January, one month
after company filed for bankruptcy protection.

Now: Took the Fifth Amendment before Congress to avoid self-incrimination. SEC
investigating Lay and other company executives for fraud.

Dennis Kozlowski

Then: Built multifaceted conglomerate as CEO of Tyco since 1992. Resigned last
week under pressure from directors.

Now: Pleaded innocent to 11-count felony indictment on tax evasion for failing
to pay New York state sales tax on artwork worth $ 13 million.

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: June 14, 2002, Friday

CORRECTION:  The fine that former Drexel Burnham junk bond king Michael Milken
paid to settle his 1990 fraud case was incorrectly reported Wednesday. Milken
paid $200 million.

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, Color, Quin Tian, USA TODAY (PHOTO ILLUSTRATION); PHOTO,
Color, PhotoDisc; PHOTO, B/W, 1987 AP file photo; PHOTO, B/W, 1990 USA TODAY
photo; PHOTO, B/W, 1998 AP photo; PHOTOS, B/W, Reuters (2)

TYPE: COVER STORY

                      Copyright 2002 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              27 of 141 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     April 2, 2002, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

AMC explores era that sent Hollywood reeling

BYLINE: Dennis Hunt; Special for USA TODAY

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 3D

LENGTH: 511 words

During the volatile 1960s, the nation was rocked by dramatic social, cultural
and political upheavals.

In that climate of explosive change, movies didn't exactly stand pat. The
two-hour documentary Reel Radicals: The Sixties' Revolution in Film, airing
tonight on AMC (10 ET/7 PT), explains how, in that tumultuous decade, Hollywood
was turned upside down.


Traditions were trampled. Instead of tiptoeing around topics such as sex, drugs,
racism and anti-war passions, movies started to tackle them head on. Nudity and
swearing became commonplace in films. The studio system was crumbling, setting
the stage for a new Hollywood, where the director reigned.

At the beginning of the decade, Hollywood was still cranking out sanitized
movies that sidestepped controversy. But by the late '60s, most taboos had
toppled. Young anti-heroes -- such as Benjamin Braddock (Dustin Hoffman) in The
Graduate (1967) -- were in vogue.

"What we try to do in this film is explain what changes happened in '60s
Hollywood in terms of themes, influences and the studio system, and zero in on
what forces caused the changes," explains co-producer/director Lewis Bogach, who
was assigned the project by AMC about a year and a half ago.

Using film clips and trailers, Reel Radicals, which is narrated by Woody
Harrelson, dissects Hollywood of the 1960s, aided by the commentary of icons
such as Dennis Hopper, who directed, starred in and co-wrote the trendsetting
Easy Rider (1969).

"In the '60s, there was so much unrest in the country that Hollywood finally had
to take notice and deal with it," Hopper says. "It wasn't a Pillow Talk world
any more. There were so many changes, with hippies, drugs, the sexual
revolution, civil rights movement, the women's movement. Hollywood had to get
into realism and get away from the fantasy world. But that couldn't happen in
that rigid studio system, where the producers were in charge.  . . .  Hollywood
needed freedom. Hollywood needed a new kind of movie, with the director in
charge."

Hopper says that when Easy Rider was being made, those involved "were tapping
into what was happening in the country. Hollywood was changing, so a film like
Easy Rider was possible. We shot it on the road, changing it as we went along,
with the freedom to make it what we wanted, with no studio looking over our
shoulder. In the studio system, we couldn't have made Easy Rider the way we made
it."

In Reel Radicals, other prominent directors, such as Norman Jewison (In The Heat
of the Night) and John Schlesinger (Midnight Cowboy), not only discuss the
drastic upheaval in '60s Hollywood and what caused it, but also the result of
that revolution.

"What happened in the '60s was so important because it set the stage for the
'70s, for directors like Coppola, Spielberg and Scorsese," Hopper says. "Without
the freedom that was created in the '60s for directors, these guys couldn't have
done what they did in the '70s, and movies might not be the same today."

LOAD-DATE: April 02, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, AMC; Easy Rider: Peter Fonda, foreground, and Dennis Hopper
went in search of America in the 1969 classic.

                      Copyright 2002 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              28 of 141 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    April 11, 2002, Thursday, FIRST EDITION

A climate of unacceptance

BYLINE: Mike Dodd

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 3C

LENGTH: 1791 words

As fans filed into Tampa's Ice Palace for an NHL game last month, a speedboat
buzzed along the adjacent channel in sunny, 86-degree weather.

Inside the Tampa Bay Lightning's home, three banners hang from the rafters. Two
commemorate NHL single-game attendance records set when the Lightning played at
the ThunderDome, the stadium now known as Tropicana Field. A third represents a
hockey jersey with the No. 1, for the fans. There are no division or conference
championships to honor, no retired jerseys.

The scene illustrates the challenge facing the Lightning and seven other NHL
franchises that have settled in non-traditional, warm-weather climates the last
10 years. The sun is the principal competition for the customers' time, and the
hockey tradition runs about as deep as the annual snowfall accumulation.


When the NHL closes its regular season Saturday, it will mark the end of the
first decade of its foray into the southern half of the USA. Eight franchises
have relocated or been formed in the Sun Belt, Southwest and Southern California
since the 1992-93 season. The results are mixed.

 * On the ice: Two of the eight would make the playoffs if the season ended
today. The Phoenix Coyotes and Southeast Division-leading Carolina Hurricanes
are seventh and eighth in their conferences in points. Five others have been
eliminated. The Dallas Stars, who won the Stanley Cup in 1998-99, entered
Wednesday's games four points out of the eighth and final playoff spot in their
conference with three games to play.

 * In the stands: Seven of the eight are in the bottom half of the NHL in
attendance, including five in the bottom seven. Dallas is the only team in the
top half, ranking sixth with an average of 18,532 and a 189-game sellout streak.
The Anaheim Mighty Ducks, owned by Disney, are drawing a league-low 11,873 a
game to the 17,174-seat Arrowhead Pond.

 * In the marketplace: Seven of the eight are in the bottom half of the league
in franchise value, according to a study in the Feb. 4 issue of Forbes magazine.
Again, Dallas is the exception.

Measuring the sunshine initiative's success is more subjective. Part of the
strategy was an attempt to make hockey a national game, rather than a niche
sport in Canada and northern regions of the USA.

"They needed a national footprint and I think it was accomplished," said Jim
Lites, who last month was named the Coyotes president after nine years with the
Stars and 11 with the Detroit Red Wings. "I really don't think it's been a
failure at all. We've got 30 teams, and that may be too many."

NHL Commissioner Gary Bettman reacts strongly to any suggestion the new
franchises are problematic.

"The strategy has been enormously successful," Bettman said, adding that the
clubs have comparable attendance records to NBA teams in the same markets. "All
of these teams, we believe, strengthen the league. All these teams are in
stable, good condition."

Some observers believe the jury is still out on the initiative.

"That's probably a pretty accurate assessment," said Jeff Phillips, senior vice
president of Houlihan Lokey Howard & Zukin, an investment services firm that
advises sports teams. "Dallas is doing quite well. The move there from a value
perspective was pretty significant.  . . .  The Florida teams probably are still
kind of figuring out whether that will work or not."

"It has had some success, but has not achieved its primary goal," said Marc S.
Ganis, president of the Chicago-based consulting firm Sportscorp Ltd. He said
the principal aim was to boost national broadcast revenue by opening a broader
television market. "It has been a mild success at best as it relates to
broadcast goals."

Ownership changes that have occurred with these teams are another sign of
problems, Ganis said. The Miami, Phoenix and Dallas franchises have been sold
once, and Tampa Bay is on its third ownership in 10 years.

Bettman declined to say which of the sunshine markets are profitable, but
various outside sources indicate Dallas might be the only one in the black this
season.

Forbes reported that three of the eight teams -- Tampa Bay, Nashville and
Atlanta -- finished in the black last season before interest, taxes and
depreciation. But officials of all three told USA TODAY the clubs lost money,
and Lightning owners put their deficit at about $ 10 million. (Nashville, in its
fourth season, reported modest earnings the first two seasons.)

Dallas, which Forbes said lost $ 4.3 million last season, moved into a new arena
this season and is profitable, Lites said. The Stars turned a modest profit the
two seasons they reached the Stanley Cup Finals. "If we'd been bounced in the
first round, we would have lost double digits (in millions)," he said.

The Stars, who have sold out every home game since October 1998, are one of pro
sports' more remarkable success stories. Lites said they lead the NHL in ticket
revenue and he believes they'll finish the regular season second to the New York
Rangers in overall revenue.

The Coyotes are struggling, in part because their home, America West Arena, was
built for the NBA's Suns and has about 4,000 obstructed-view seats for hockey.
Asked how deep into the playoffs Phoenix would have to go to break even this
season, Lites joked, "about 20 rounds."

Other sunshine teams have enjoyed some success: Atlanta set a season attendance
record for a first-year NHL expansion team in 1999-2000. Florida advanced to the
Stanley Cup Finals in 1996. Tampa drew 27,227 for a regular-season game its
first year at the ThunderDome and 28,183 for a playoff game in 1996; both are
NHL records.

Not up to capacity

But it has been difficult to sustain the good times. As a group, NHL teams play
to 90% of arena capacity, according to Bettman. Besides Dallas, none of the
other seven sunshine markets hit that figure and, as a group, those seven play
to 79.8% of capacity. Both Florida franchises fired their general managers this
season, and the Panthers traded superstar Pavel Bure and his $ 10 million-a-year
contract to the Rangers.

Since hockey's national television ratings and revenue are lower than those for
pro football, baseball and basketball, ticket revenue is more important. NHL
teams receive about $ 5 million annually per club in national TV revenue; NBA
teams get more than $ 20 million.

Five NHL games on ABC-TV this season drew a 1.4 rating, meaning they were
watched in 1.4% of TV households in the USA. This season's NHL All-Star Game
produced a 2.0 rating, placing behind two regular-season NBA games and the third
round of the PGA Tour event the same day.

NHL games are producing a 0.51 average cable rating on ESPN (437,000 households
watching) and a 0.23 cable rating on ESPN2 (187,000). The ABC and ESPN2
viewerships are up from last season; the ESPN viewership is down.

"The money they're spending in today's game, you have to fill the building,"
said Duane Sutter, who was fired as the Panthers coach this season. "And it's no
different (in Florida) than anywhere else: If you're not winning, not in the
playoffs, it's hard to draw."

"The attendance problems we're seeing in these markets have less to do with the
temperature and more to do with the won-loss column," said Dean Bonham, chairman
of the Bonham Group, which has done consulting work for the NHL.

So, to draw, a team must win. To win, it must have a competitive payroll. To
have a competitive payroll, it needs to draw.

"It's like a Catch-22 right now," said Hall of Famer Phil Esposito, one of the
Lightning's founders and its former general manager.

Tampa Bay has a $ 27 million-$ 30 million payroll, about $ 8 million less than
the NHL average and half that of the Red Wings and the Rangers. "My old man used
to say, 'You can't make chicken salad out of you-know-what,' " Esposito said.
The Lightning's owners "figure if they put more money into it and nobody comes,
they're going to lose more."

No foothold

The dilemma is not unique to sunshine states or to hockey. But several observers
feel the competition for leisure time and the lack of hockey tradition make
consumers in the new markets, yes, fair-weather fans.

"Hockey doesn't have a foothold in these markets, and that's going to be a
problem," said University of Victoria economics professor J. Colin H. Jones,
whose articles on the NHL have been published in economic journals.

"The fans in Canada put up with a lot of crap for a long time. In areas like the
American South, fans are going to give up on them pretty quickly."

If the team starts losing, "You may see a quicker and more precipitous drop than
you would in Boston or Chicago," Bonham said.

"It's a much more competitive environment for the entertainment dollar," said
Ron Campbell, the Lightning's president. "If your team is not performing well .
. .  you can go fishing, or golfing, or boating or play tennis."

Added Bettman: "That's not just applicable to us (in warm climates). It's
applicable to anything that goes on in the arena. The fact that it's ice is
irrelevant."

Campbell said the Lightning now have ownership stability and are sticking to
their plan to build player talent from within. Attendance has increased each
season in the new ownership's three-year regime.

Bonham said the Catch-22 points up a more fundamental problem for all of hockey:
the revenue disparity among teams. The NHL must come up with more significant
revenue sharing and cost containment, like a salary cap, he said.

Said Lites, "As a percentage of our revenues, we pay players more than baseball
and significantly more than football or basketball."

Ganis said the league will reach a critical point over the next three years. The
league's labor agreement with the players union expires in 2004. "There needs to
be a direct connection between revenues and player salaries," Ganis said.

With that connection, the NHL's expansion will give it the platform to skyrocket
in popularity, Ganis said. Without it, hockey could again become a regional
sport, he said.

Bettman and his new team owners said they are bullish on the future of the warm-
climate clubs. "We're very comfortable with these franchises, and we have no
issues with them whatsoever," Bettman said.

The Coyotes, who have added Wayne Gretzky as managing partner, last week broke
ground for an arena that will be ready for the 2003-04 season.

"All of these teams, under the right circumstances, can be successful,"
Thrashers President Stan Kasten said.

"It's up to us to find the right formula."

Contributing: Mike Walter

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, b/w, Marcy E. Mullins, USA TODAY, Sources:National Hockey
League, USA TODAY research(Map); EAR PHOTO, color, Bob Jordan, AP; PHOTO, b/w,
James A. Finley, AP; PHOTO, b/w, Gregory Smith, AP; Carolina goaltender Arturs
Irbe.<>Birds of prey: Atlanta Thrashers goalie Pasi Nurminen, left, and Todd
Reirden, attempt to block a shot by the Blues' Keith Tkachuk. <>Weathering well:
Nikolai Khabibulin has been the bright spot for the Lightning, but the team has
lost money.

                      Copyright 2002 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              30 of 141 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   December 26, 2002, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

New Congress is a new start for Bush agenda

BYLINE: Judy Keen

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 810 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

WASHINGTON -- President Bush will move quickly next year to advance an agenda
friendly to business, but changes in Social Security won't be an early priority.


Bush will propose limits on class-action lawsuits and on awards in medical
malpractice cases, White House officials say.

He also will seek new tax breaks for businesses and revive his plan to expand
oil exploration in the USA, including drilling in the Alaskan wilderness.

Those objectives have been on Bush's agenda since he took office, but
administration officials revealed for the first time specific plans to
accomplish them when Congress returns in January.


The proposals, all priorities for business, have a better chance of passage in
the new Congress because Republicans will control both chambers. Until the Nov.
5 elections, Democrats controlled the Senate. Democrats still retain enough
power to delay or thwart many of Bush's initiatives.

Despite the hospitable climate on Capitol Hill, Bush won't press in the first
months of 2003 for swift votes on Social Security reforms. Bush promised during
the 2000 campaign to give younger workers the option of putting a portion of
their Social Security taxes in stocks through individual investment accounts.

A senior Bush adviser says that Social Security reform is "a difficult issue,
and the appetite on the Hill is probably in question."

Although he's holding off for now, Bush remains committed to making changes in
Social Security, aides say. Prospects for reform seemed to improve in last
month's elections when several Republican candidates who endorsed his proposals
won despite rivals' criticism.

White House officials are discussing whether to adjust their priorities in the
wake of the controversy over racially insensitive remarks made by Sen. Trent
Lott, R-Miss., which forced Lott to resign as Senate majority leader. Lingering
concerns about the long-term impact on the GOP may prompt the administration to
consider more tax cuts for low-income Americans. Bush also may rethink some
judicial nominations, culling out conservatives with records that could offend
minorities.

Planning for Bush's 2003 agenda began the day after Congress adjourned. Details
are still being debated and refined, but these proposals are taking shape:

 * Energy. Legislation calling for more domestic oil production and more nuclear
power died this fall amid disagreement over drilling in Alaska's Arctic National
Wildlife Refuge. Instead of resuscitating that broad bill, the administration
plans to break it up and work for passage of its individual components. Senate
Republicans may attach a provision allowing drilling in ANWR to a budget-related
bill that needs a simple majority of 51 votes for passage. That would negate the
threat of a filibuster by opponents, which requires 60 votes to overcome.

 * Liability limits. Bush will propose allowing defendants in class-action
lawsuits filed in more than one state to move the cases to federal courts.
Business leaders contend that some state courts, which now hear such cases, are
too generous in awarding damages. Bush also will try to limit awards in medical
malpractice lawsuits, a priority for insurance companies and doctors groups.
Bush supports limiting damages for pain and suffering, which now are
unrestricted, to $ 250,000. He didn't even attempt the changes when Democrats
ran the Senate.

 * Health care reform. Bush is expected to say in his State of the Union address
on Jan. 28 that repairing Medicare is a top goal. He'll propose overall changes
in programs and eligibility intended to make the government-run health insurance
for seniors more stable and add prescription-drug benefits. Specifics still are
being worked out, but Bush "wants to get it done, and he wants to get it done
early," a senior White House official says. "We've got to strengthen the system,
particularly if we want to provide a drug benefit."

 * Taxes. Bush will ask Congress to make permanent the 10-year, $ 1.35 trillion
tax cut passed in 2001. It is set to expire in 2010. He may seek to accelerate
the gradual increases in the per-child tax credit. The credit is now $ 600 and
is scheduled to climb to $ 1,000 in 2010. To spur investments, he's considering
cutting taxes on dividends paid to shareholders and allowing companies to write
off capital investments more quickly.

Bush's emphasis on domestic issues is meant to demonstrate that he's not
neglecting concerns at home while fighting the war on terrorism and preparing
for a possible war with Iraq, aides say.

"Bush wants some victories on domestic priorities to build momentum," says a
Republican strategist who advises the White House. "They know that when voters
start thinking about the next election, they'll calculate what he's accomplished
for them."

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Eric Draper, White House via AP; A brand new year:
President Bush makes calls to members of the armed forces from Camp David on
Christmas Eve. The president is not expected to make a push for Social Security
reforms early in 2003.

                      Copyright 2002 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              36 of 141 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    February 18, 2002, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Bush to discuss reforms in Japan

BYLINE: Laurence McQuillan

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 485 words

DATELINE: TOKYO

TOKYO -- President Bush said early today he is confident that Japan Prime
Minister Junichiro Koizumi will lead his country out of a recession, and he
thanked Japan for its support in the war on terrorism.

"I believe the U.S.-Japanese alliance is the bedrock for peace and prosperity in
the Pacific," Bush said after meeting with Koizumi. "This enduring partnership
benefits both our counties."


The president, who arrived in Japan on Sunday for a weeklong, three-nation Asian
tour that will include South Korea and China, said his talks in Japan would
focus on the country's economic woes and reforms needed to overcome them.

In a news conference this morning, he was questioned about his naming of Iran,
Iraq and North Korea as an "axis of evil."

Bush refused to soften his stand and said world leaders are behind the U.S. war
on terrorism. He said the world had a "unique opportunity" to stamp out
terrorism and thanked Japan for its help.

"I've explained to the prime minister that there are some nations in the world
that want to hurt the United States, and we've got to prevent them from doing
so," the president said.

Koizumi said he believed the expression "axis of evil" reflected the firm
resolve of Bush and the American people to fight terrorism.

"This fight against terrorism is not going to be a short one," Koizumi said. "I
understand it is going to be a drawn out and tough fight. Japan shall continue
to support the United States."

Japan has sent navy ships to the Indian Ocean in support of the U.S. war in
Afghanistan, and last month held an international aid conference on Afghanistan.


Bush began his day with a visit to the Meiji Shrine, where emperors were once
worshiped as divine. He, first lady Laura Bush and Koizumi watched an exhibition
of archery from horseback there.

Elected last year, the prime minister vowed to take on Japan's political and
business elite, clean up bank debts and shake up protected industries. But the
pace of reforms has been slow.

"We'd like to see further efforts on the part of the United States," he said.

During the talks, the Japanese prime minister said he will outline a new round
of economic reforms he plans to seek in order to pull Japan -- the world's
second largest economy -- out of its third recession in a decade. Japan's
unemployment rate is 5.6%, the highest since the 1950s, and fear is growing that
some major banks may collapse because of billions of dollars in bad loans.

On the issue of global warming, Bush said the question of whether he would
support the Kyoto climate change treaty, named for the Japan city where it was
drawn up, was "moot." Bush opposed the treaty, saying it would cause too much
harm to the economy, and last week called for voluntary reductions in greenhouse
gasses. Koizumi said a strong economy and clean environment can go hand in hand.


LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2002 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              37 of 141 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     April 22, 2002, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Bush, Gore offer 2 takes on Earth Day

BYLINE: Jill Lawrence

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 633 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

WASHINGTON -- Dueling speeches with a deja vu feel to them mark Earth Day today.
President Bush is headed to Upstate New York's Adirondack Mountains to discuss
environmental stewardship, while Al Gore, his rival in 2000 and perhaps 2004,
takes aim at Bush's policies at Vanderbilt University in Nashville.

Bush's trip comes four days after a major setback, the Senate vote killing his
plan to drill for oil in Alaska's Arctic National Wildlife Refuge. The Sierra
Club planned to stage protests at the Bush appearance and at one by Vice
President Cheney in Fort Lauderdale.


Bush planned to chat with volunteers working to improve a hiking trail near
Whiteface Mountain before giving a talk on conservation and stewardship, White
House aides said. He was expected to promote his "clear skies" initiative, a
voluntary plan he says would reduce polluting emissions 70%.

The environment has been one of Gore's signature issues since 1992, when he
published the best-selling Earth in the Balance.

Gore had not criticized Bush's environmental policies publicly until Sunday,
when he had an op-ed piece published in The New York Times. Aides said it was a
preview of today's speech. Among other things, Gore scores Bush for:

 * Rejecting the Kyoto Protocol, a treaty that requires nations to reduce the
greenhouse-gas emissions believed to be responsible for global warming.

 * Canceling an agreement to require car companies to make cars that use less
fuel.

 * Installing an administration Gore says is dominated by oil and chemical
executives "who are trying to dismantle America's ability to force them to
reduce" pollution.

"Other acts of sabotage are taking place behind the scenes," Gore wrote. He said
the White House withdrew support for Robert Watson, head of the
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, after receiving an ExxonMobil memo
critical of Watson. He said the administration instead supported an
anti-American, "let's drag our feet" candidate. The administration has denied it
withdrew support for Watson, who says governments must do more to reduce
fossil-fuel emissions. He lost his post Friday.

Under the White House "clear skies" plan, companies would need licenses for each
ton of pollution they emit and could trade the licenses among one another. Bush
said in February that the new system "would bring better and faster results in
cleaning up our air." Some Upstate New York environmentalists support the plan
because it targets sulfur dioxide emissions that cause acid rain, which plagues
their area.

Bush also has proposed tax incentives for companies to gradually reduce carbon
dioxide emissions associated with global warming. He said the reductions
required by the Kyoto treaty would have cost the U.S. economy up to $ 400
billion and 4.9 million jobs.

"Voluntary measures aren't going to work," Sierra Club spokesman David Willett
says. "They don't create the level playing field where everyone is cleaning up."


Gore's speech comes a little more than a week after a high-profile address to
Florida Democrats, which suggests he plans to continue his opposition role. But
his speech today comes well after comprehensive critiques of Bush's energy and
environmental policies from several of his prospective rivals for the Democrats'
2004 presidential nomination.

Democrats have been divided over requiring higher fuel standards for cars;
lawmakers from car manufacturing states worry about lost jobs. But potential
rallying points for the party are on the horizon, including an energy-bill
provision that would require companies to report annual emissions to the federal
government and a bill that would require reductions in major pollutants. The
Senate debates energy legislation this week.

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, b/w, Lee Celano, AP; For Earth Day: From left, Ava, John and
Jessie Tarnoff plant a tree Saturday along the Los Angeles River in L.A.'s
Glassell Park neighborhood.

                      Copyright 2002 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              38 of 141 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     May 30, 2002, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Respite from hurricane may soon blow over

BYLINE: Deborah Sharp

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 1221 words

DATELINE: MIAMI

MIAMI -- Atlantic hurricane season starts Saturday, and the U.S. mainland is
overdue for a hit.

The past several years have been more active than average in terms of the number
of hurricanes forming at sea. Yet more than 21/2 years has passed without one
hitting the U.S. coastline.

Forecasters say the uncommon streak of good fortune, due in part to a stubborn
weather trough steering storms away from the East Coast, can't hold forever.


"We've basically been lucky. And we shouldn't expect to go on being lucky," says
Hugh Willoughby, hurricane research division director for the National Oceanic
and Atmospheric Administration.

The last hurricane to hit the U.S. mainland was Hurricane Irene, which struck
Florida in October 1999. The longest period on record without a U.S. landfall is
from 1980 to 1983 -- three years, seven days.

NOAA experts say the Atlantic hurricane season will have a normal to slightly
above-normal level of storm activity: nine to 13 tropical storms, six to eight
of which becoming hurricanes. They predict two or three major storms. The season
lasts through Nov. 30.

On Friday, hurricane forecaster William Gray of Colorado State University is
expected to revise downward his April 5 forecast, which called for 12 named
storms, including seven hurricanes. Gray says cooler-than-expected Atlantic
Ocean temperatures may be less favorable for storms.

Hurricane forecasters for the Central Pacific region, which includes Hawaii,
also expect above-average activity: six or seven storms forming, instead of the
average four or five.

Meteorologists, who speak of hurricane trends over decades, say they believe
we're in a heightened storm period. Regular changes in ocean temperatures and
climate patterns help shape these active and slower cycles. Since 1995, the
number of storms in every season but one has exceeded the average.

Typically, 10 tropical storms form during the Atlantic hurricane season. Six of
those intensify into hurricanes, storms with winds of at least 74 mph. On
average, two become major hurricanes with winds greater than 111 mph.

The powerful storms inspire both fear and fascination. The Arawak tribes of the
Caribbean called them hurakan, for evil spirit. William McKinley, while
president from 1897 to 1901, said a hurricane was more fearsome than the Spanish
Navy.

Forecasters worry about the potential for more damaging storms because the
coastal population has mushroomed in the past two decades from 40 million to 50
million people. Many coastal residents are hurricane novices.

Yet, one of the biggest hurricane myths is that only coastal residents should be
concerned. Even though storm surge is historically the biggest killer during
hurricanes, far more people have died inland in the past three decades as a
result of flooding triggered by heavy rains associated with hurricanes.

National Hurricane Center researchers studied 600 U.S. hurricane deaths from
1970 through 1999 and found:

 * Flooding from rain claimed 351 lives.

 * High winds killed 71.

 * Six drowned in storm surge.

Another myth is that a tropical storm is a hurricane's puny cousin and easy to
ignore. Last June's Tropical Storm Allison caused 41 deaths in six states.
Damage topped $ 5 billion. The hardest wallop was in Houston, where 45,000 homes
and businesses were devastated. Then Allison, which never became a hurricane,
drenched areas from New Orleans to Boston.

Given such destruction, it's no surprise humans have long yearned to curb
hurricanes. Ancient tribes made offerings, and atomic scientists dreamed of
busting them up with nuclear bombs.

Hurricanes release energy equivalent to a 10-megaton nuclear bomb exploding
every 20 minutes, experts say. Dropping a bomb into the maelstrom would be like
tossing marshmallows to stop a freight train -- not to mention the radioactive
fallout. The bomb notion was eventually discarded, as was the idea of towing in
icebergs to cool the warm oceans where hurricanes gain strength.

Homeowners also have some misguided hurricane notions. They crisscross windows
with masking tape, a process that doesn't prevent shattering glass but does
produce sun-baked Xs that are impossible to remove. They stock up with steaks
and other supplies, not realizing power failures mean spoiled refrigerated food.


Throwing hurricane parties as a storm approaches grew less common after the
devastation caused a decade ago by Hurricane Andrew, which hit southern Florida
and Louisiana, flattened 125,000 homes and claimed 26 lives. But such parties
are becoming fashionable again.

The National Hurricane Center's director, Max Mayfield, points to "hurricane
amnesia" if a few years pass without a destructive storm. "It just takes one
hurricane over your community to make it a very bad year," he says.



Be prepared

The benefits of evacuation plans, hurricane shutters and emergency supplies are
obvious. But lesser-known steps also boost safety and comfort during a
hurricane:

* Agree beforehand on a local meeting point if family members get separated.
Appoint a contact outside the storm zone so everyone knows who to check with for
messages.

* Take "before" pictures of home and belongings for insurance.

* Outfit hurricane kit with a whistle to alert rescuers.

* Rely on battery-powered lanterns and flashlights if power is out. Candles can
cause fires.

* Fill your car with gas before the storm hits. Pumps won't work without
electricity.

* Store a minimum of 3 gallons of drinking water per person. Fill bathtub with
water for toilet-flushing and other uses.

* Everyday food and drinks become yearned-for luxuries after power lines go
down: Ice. Brewed coffee. Tuna on toast with mayo. Seasonings and condiment
packets can break the monotony of dry and canned foods. Don't forget the manual
can opener. And instant coffee with water boiled on an outdoor grill has
comforted many storm survivors.

TEXT WITHIN GRAPHIC BEGINS HERE

Atlantic season outlook for 2002

The Atlantic hurricane season is forecast to produce nine to 13 named storms.
Six to eight are expected to reach status (winds of 74 mph or more), according
to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. The long-term annual
average from 1950 to 2000 for the Atlantic Basin is 10 named storms and six
hurricanes.

Atlantic hurricane names

Hurricanes carried only women's names until 1979, when male and female names
began alternating. Names for the 2002 Atlantic hurricane season that starts
Saturday:

Arthur

Bertha

Cristobal

Dolly

Edouard

Fay

Gustav

Hanna

Isidore

Josephine

Kyle

Lili

Marco

Nana

Omar

Paloma

Rene

Sally

Teddy

Vicky

Wilfred

Hurricane-related terms

* Tropical disturbance: Unorganized mass of thunderstorms; very little, if any,
organized wind circulation.

* Tropical depression: Sustained winds of 23-38 mph circulate around a center
that later could turn into the eye of a hurricane.

* Tropical storm: Sustained winds are 39-73 mph. A storm is named once it
reaches tropical storm strength.

* Hurricane: Sustained winds of 74 mph or more.

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Rob O'Neal, The Key West Citizen, via AP; GRAPHIC, B/W,
Julie Snider, USA TODAY, Sources: National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration; world Meterological Organization; research by Chris Capella and
Chad Palmer, USA TODAY (LINE GRAPH); PHOTO, B/W, Scott Eslinger, Beaumont
(Texas) Enterprise, via AP; Worst storm: Larry and Sandra Donald of Beaumont,
Texas, wade through their flooded driveway in the aftermath of Tropical Storm
Allison in June. Allison was the costliest tropical storm ever to strike the
USA. It caused 41 deaths but never reached hurricane status.<>Breaking the
waves: A Key West, Fla., resident tests the water coming ashore Nov. 4 as winds
from Hurricane Michelle brush the area. The late-season storm packed 135 mph
winds and forced the evacuation of the Florida Keys, but it did not make a
direct hit on the U.S. mainland.

                      Copyright 2002 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              43 of 141 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    November 1, 2002, Friday, FINAL EDITION

New 4Runner: Unattractive but fabulous to drive

BYLINE: James R. Healey

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 5D

LENGTH: 1476 words

DATELINE: ENGLEWOOD CLIFFS, N.J.

ENGLEWOOD CLIFFS, N.J. -- Toyota knew its 4Runner had to become bigger,
smoother, quieter and more powerful to become a credible, mainstream, midsize
sport-utility vehicle. Mission well and fully accomplished.

The redesigned, 2003 model 4Runner is marvelous to drive, if not sweet to view.
It delivers a harmonized experience that'll light up a grin on the most mundane
errand.

Along with the Lincoln Aviator reviewed last week, it proves that truck chassis
can be comfortable and responsive without surrendering the firm, no-nonsense
personality that lets you know you're at the wheel of the real deal, not some
tarted-up station wagon posing as an SUV.


One potential problem: Toyota has tuned its traction control system to intrude
aggressively, first braking spinning wheels, then cutting engine power. Toyota
views that as a safety benefit because it slows you on slick surfaces. It can be
a disaster if you're trying to make way in slush or on icy roads. The test drive
included heavy rain, and the traction control was unobtrusive. Full-blast
acceleration uphill on wet pavement in a 4x4 model resulted only in fast
acceleration uphill on slick pavement.

If that's how it'd behave on snow or ice, great. But if the truck comes to a
near halt on wintry terrain, very bad. Not the right approach, no matter what
Toyota or anybody else says. You buy an SUV to go in muck, not be nannied to a
standstill.

The outside's ugly. From a distance, the silhouette's engaging. Up close, not.

Reasonable people often disagree on matters of taste, but, please, ax the
cladding, running boards and overwrought details. Toyota says the look is
neither silly nor evocative of the Pontiac Aztec. No, Toyota says, 4Runner is
"rugged."

The high-end Limited version has body-color cladding, instead of the contrasting
gray on SR5 and Sport models, and the body-color treatment minimizes the visual
impact. There's no way, though, to change how the silly cladding squares off the
top of the wheel openings, in the fashion of the Chevy Avalanche.

The running boards are absurd. The truck is low enough that hardly anyone would
need them. All they do is force you to step over them, dragging pant leg, coat
or long skirt over the filthy nuisances.

Ah, well. Inside is where you'll spend quality time. From there, 4Runner is a
sweetie. It's hard to imagine a better all-around SUV companion in the 300-mile
ramble from the banks of the Hudson River in New Jersey, through Pennsylvania,
Maryland and back home to Virginia.

Everything felt just about right. The steering was especially pleasant. 4Runner
tracked true mile after mile, never requiring maddening twitches of the steering
wheel to go straight. A lot of vehicles have overly sensitive steering nowadays,
palming it off as "responsive." Bogus. Even the leather-wrapped steering wheel
itself was a delight. It was slightly thinner than the current fashion, making
its lovely hide easier to hold.

Brakes felt strong and stopped the truck in proportion to how hard they were
pushed. Simple and too rare. Toyota has been subpar on brakes. Even when they
stop OK, they've often felt mushy.

Handling was a delight. The test model sported X-REAS suspension. It links shock
absorbers at diagonally opposite corners of the vehicle via a system that helps
balance cornering forces and limits body lean. A person can corner in an X-REAS
4Runner in ways a person wouldn't want to admit.

The 4.7-liter V-8 engine was a high point. It's also used in the Tundra pickup
and in Lexus SUVs. Characteristically, there's a jump in power at about 3,000
rpm, but the V-8 has enough scoot at low speed that you needn't wait around
eating cake until then.

The V-8 is the only engine now. A smooth, quick, pleasing V-6 should be
available next month as the standard engine. It feels and goes so good that many
folks might ignore the V-8. The V-6 has more horsepower than the V-8 but less
torque.

Preproduction 4Runners with the V-6 were on hand for short drives. Excellent
engine. No complaints. Toyota expects 70% to 80% of buyers to take the V-6.

The main test truck was a 4x4 Sport with cloth seats. They were good on the buns
and back on that meander home, though the bolsters would seem a bit tight for
some physiques.

Back seat was easy to reach, easy to fold, comfortable for anybody short of XXL
adults. Rare; good work.

Attention to detail is exceptional.

 * Cup holders are adjustable, lighted for nighttime convenience and big enough
for sport-drink bottles. Door panels have their own bottle holders.

 * A clever flip-over panel in the console arm rest creates a burger tray.

 * Outside mirrors are extra-large for exceptional rear visibility and
engineered for unusually low wind noise.

 * The ignition key automatically stays at "start" until the engine's running,
without being held there by the driver.

 * Small mirrors on the inside of the rear roof pillars expand peripheral vision
when backing.

 * Tailgate has a power window that raises or lowers when the driver taps a
button.

Lack of a third-row seat is a big disappointment. The mechanically similar Lexus
GX 470 has one, crowding you into Lexus prices if you need three rows.

If the traction control intrudes on some surfaces as much as Toyota suggests,
that'd change 4Runner's grade from pass to fail. But it's innocent until proved
otherwise.

All told, 4Runner was one of the hardest test vehicles in memory to give back.


2003 Toyota 4Runner

* What is it? Redesign of Toyota's truck-based, midsize sport-utility vehicle to
be bigger, more refined, more powerful. Available with rear-wheel (4x2) or
four-wheel (4x4) drive, in SR5, Sport and Limited versions. A truck-based
complement to car-based Highlander to blanket the midsize SUV market.

* How soon? On sale since early October.

* How much? SR5 4x2 starts at $ 28,515, including $ 510 destination charge. SR5
4x4 starts at $ 30,790. Sport 4x2 is $ 30,310; 4x4 is $ 32,585. Limited 4x2 $
34,715; 4x4, $ 36,990. Those are V-8 prices; V-6 will be priced next month when
it hits dealerships.

* What's the drivetrain? 4-liter V-6 (available next month) rated 245 horsepower
at 5,200 rpm, 282 pounds-feet of torque at 3,800. 4.7-liter V-8 is 235 hp at
4,800 rpm, 320 lbs-ft. at 3,400. V-6 comes with four-speed automatic
transmission; V-8 has five-speed automatic.

The 4x4 models are full-time systems with Torsen center differentials and
low-range gears for off-road. Normal power split is 40% to front wheels, 60% to
rears. When front wheels slip, up to 70% of power goes to rear wheels. When
rears slip, up to 53% goes to front wheels. The 4x4 has Downhill Assist Control,
similar to Land Rover's, that limits downhill speed in low-range to 7 mph or
less, depending on terrain.

Traction control and Hill Assist Control (HAC) are standard on all models. HAC
is to prevent rolling backward when stopped on steep hills.

* What's the safety equipment? Anti-lock brakes with brake-force distribution
and brake assist; skid control; dual-stage front air bags.

* What else is standard? SR5: automatic climate control; tilting, telescoping
steering column; cruise control; power steering, brakes, locks, windows;
remote-control locks; trip computer; auto-off lights; cargo cover; P265/70R-16
tires on steel wheels; full-size spare.

Sport adds or substitutes X-REAS shock absorber system for less body lean in
corners; leather-covered steering wheel; fog lights; outside mirror defrosters;
hood scoop; P265/65R-17 tires on alloy wheels.

Limited adds or substitutes body-color cladding; dual zone climate control;
leather upholstery; heated front seats; power driver's seat; rear-seat audio
controls; auto-dimming inside mirror; auto-on lights; HomeLink remote control;
double-deck cargo shelf; 115-volt plug.

* Who'll buy? 38-year-old married men, $ 80,000 household income, no kids at
home.

* How thirsty? V-8 4x2 is rated 16 miles per gallon in town, 20 on the highway;
4x4 is 15/19 on regular gas. Test truck got 11.4 in vigorous town driving, 22.1
on the highway. V-6 4x2 is rated 18/21; 4x4 is 17/20 on premium.

* Overall: Looks bad, drives great; needs third-row seat option.

---

More online

* Chat online with James R. Healey at 2 p.m. ET today at talk.usatoday.com.

* To ride along for part of the Test Drive, and to read current and past columns
online, go to usatoday.com. Click the green Money button, then Autos, then Test
Drive. Or use this address: www.usatoday.com/money/columns/healey/index.htm

* E-mail testdrive@usatoday.com

* Check for crash-test scores at www.nhtsa.dot.gov and www.iihs.org. Find out
about incentives at www.nadaguides.com and www.edmunds.com.

LOAD-DATE: November 01, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W

                      Copyright 2002 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              45 of 141 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                      April 5, 2002, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Civic's nice -- for a hybrid

BYLINE: James R. Healey

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 9D

LENGTH: 1218 words

Hybrid power -- the blend of a small gasoline engine and a big electric motor as
a way to save fuel -- is inching into the mainstream.

Honda has just begun selling a hybrid-power Civic, making the gas-electric combo
available in one of the country's best-selling cars. Until now, the only hybrids
have been outside the mainstream: Honda's Insight sci-fi two-seater introduced
December 1999 and Toyota's small Prius sedan, on sale since July 2000. Neither
has sold as well as hoped.


The minute you mention electric, the first question is about plugging it in. No.
No. No. Hybrids don't plug in. The gasoline engine recharges the batteries that
power the electric motor. And the motor itself functions as a generator to help
recharge whenever the car decelerates. Hybrids are self-sustaining, as long as
you keep putting gas in the tank.

That's the appeal, of course. Hybrids drive and fuel conventionally.

But they are a somewhat-unhappy medium, Civic Hybrid no less so. They have only
modest power, and don't give eye-popping fuel economy in return. The '03 Civic
Hybrid is supposed to get close to 50 miles per gallon. The test car's
fuel-economy gauge showed 34 mpg. Honda expects most drivers to get about 40.

The discrepancy is typical. Test Drive's Insight, rated 60-plus, got 47. Prius,
rated about 50, got 38.

Gas-power Civics and Toyota Corollas are rated 30 to 39 mpg, depending on
equipment and conditions, and achieve close to those ratings. They generally are
peppier and cheaper than the $ 20,000 Civic Hybrid.

Overall, though, Civic Hybrid is a nice car, as all Civics are. It drives pretty
normally and calls little attention to the fact it's a hybrid. Nice attributes
for a vehicle with mainstream intentions. And as the first '03 Civic, the
Hybrid's styling and features telegraph those of gas-power '03 Civics coming
late August. Highlights from the test:

 * Batteries. The battery pack has shrunk remarkably vs. those in previous
hybrids. It's combined with the electric motor control computer, and tucks
between the back seat and front wall of the trunk, seeming to eat no space from
either. It's covered, and you'd never suspect if you didn't already know.
Civic's battery pack: 144 volts from 120, 1.2-volt, nickel-metal hydride
batteries.

Batteries are under warranty for eight years, which is how long Honda expects
them to last. After that, $ 2,000 or so to replace them.

Toyota's warranty also is eight years; replacements, about $ 1,000.

 * Performance. Sluggish from a dead stop, but picks up quickly until about 20
mph or so, then tapers. You'll have to drive it hard to keep up with most
traffic, which will hurt fuel economy. Honda's hybrid systems rely mainly on the
gas engine, smoothly adding the electric for a boost when needed.

Toyota's hybrid favors the electric motor, kicking in the gas for extra scoot.
That's peppier in town because electric motors deliver tremendous torque
instantly.

 * Transmission. Five-speed manual is standard. The only automatic is a
continuously variable transmission, or CVT. That's a belt-drive system favored
for its fuel-saving properties. The test car was a CVT. Under hard acceleration,
it lets the engine rev fast -- 5,000 to 6,000 rpm -- and keeps it spinning that
fast until the car has enough momentum that lower engine speeds will propel it
sufficiently. Works fine; sounds odd, as if a clutch is slipping.

 * Styling. An improvement, but not a huge change from the '02.

 * Auto-stop. It shuts off the gas engine at stops, cutting fuel use and
pollution. Pushing the gas restarts the engine immediately.

 * Suspension. Honda's stiffened it a bit, to return the sporty character that
Civic lost in the '01 redesign. The test car was built before regular production
began and was unrepresentative, but the suspension changes are at least
theoretical improvements.

 * Furnishings. Quite nice. Civic hybrids come decked out the same, save for the
choice between manual or CVT shifting and the color. Presentation is
upper-middle class: No sunroof, but an in-dash CD player; no leather, but very
nice cloth; no navigation system, but power windows so you conveniently can ask
directions.

Hybrid's gauges are a nice touch. The lighting is lovely blue. And the
hybrid-specific instruments are few and simple, tucked into one of the three
round instrument pods, alongside the conventional gauges.

One bar graph shows how full the battery pack is. Another shows whether the
electric motor is helping, or is running as a generator to charge the batteries.
That one's probably unnecessary, and glancing down at it is a distraction.

Hybrids have proved easy to use, but they've not fully kept their fuel-economy
promise. More choices might spur competitive improvements.

Ford Motor promises a hybrid Escape sport-utility vehicle in 2004. General
Motors expects hybrid versions of its full-size, V-8 trucks about then. Chrysler
Group promised a hybrid SUV late next year but is waffling.

Putting both a gas engine and an electric motor into a vehicle is too expensive
unless automakers can sell a lot of them.

And unless hybrids, Civic included, become significantly more fuel-efficient,
they won't.



2003 Honda Civic Hybrid

* What is it? Gas-electric hybrid-power version of the popular front-wheel-drive
small sedan. Hybrid also is the first 2003-model Civic; gas-engine '03s aren't
due until late August.

* How soon? On sale since late March.

* How much? $ 20,010 for the five-speed manual model, including $ 460
destination charge; $ 21,010 for the continuously variable transmission (CVT)
automatic model. Edmunds.com forecasts that the CVT version will be most popular
and that both versions will sell for full window-sticker price.

* What's the package? Integrated Motor Assist (IMA) powerplant consisting of
1.3-liter gasoline engine, rated 85 horsepower at 5,700 rpm and 87 pounds-feet
of torque at 3,300 rpm, and 10-kilowatt electric motor rated 13 hp at 3,000 rpm
and 46 lbs.-ft. at 1,000 rpm. Five-speed manual's standard; CVT optional. Also
standard: Anti-lock brakes, side-impact air bags for front occupants; automatic
climate control; AM/FM/CD stereo; power steering, brakes, windows, locks,
mirrors; remote-control locks; fuel-economy computer and display; adjustable
steering column; interval windshield wipers; rear-window defroster; rear-seat
heater ducts; alloy wheels; P185/70R-14 low-rolling-resistance tires.

* How big? Compact, same as a conventional Civic. Hybrid is 174.8 inches long,
67.5 inches wide, 56.3 inches tall, on a 103.1-inch wheelbase, weighing roughly
2,700 pounds. Passenger volume is listed as 91.4 cubic feet, trunk as 10.1 cubic
feet.

Hybrid manual will carry 959 pounds of people and cargo; CVT, 888 pounds.

* How thirsty? Manual is rated 46 miles per gallon in town, 51 mpg on the
highway. CVT is 48/47. However, the fuel-economy display on the CVT test car
read 34 mpg in mostly suburban driving. Engine uses regular-grade gasoline.

* Overall? Nice car, but it doesn't appear to make the fuel-economy argument
convincingly. A gas-engine Civic or Toyota Corolla could do nearly as well, and
would be peppier and cheaper.

LOAD-DATE: April 05, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, b/w, Honda(Diagram); PHOTOS, b/w, Honda(2); Exterior: Civic
Hybrid is the first '03 Civic, showing minor styling changes. The car drives
pretty normally and, unlike Honda's sci-fi-looking Insight, calls little
attention to the fact it's a hybrid. However, its gas mileage doesn't live up to
the hype. Meanwhile, Honda's 2003 gas-powered Civics are due late August.
<>Battery pack: The Civic Hybrid's computer and battery pack are tucked between
the rear seat and the front wall of the trunk.<>Gauges: Just two gauges, in pod
at right, monitor hybrid functions. One tells how full the battery pack is, the
other shows whether the electric motor's powering the car or charging the
batteries

                      Copyright 2002 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              48 of 141 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                      May 10, 2002, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Other states still suffer in dry spell

BYLINE: Traci Watson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 346 words

Though rain has pelted much of the East Coast for the past two months, much of
the West has been dry.

The National Weather Service's Climate Prediction Center reported Thursday that
drought has spread from the Great Plains to the beaches of Southern California
and from Canada to Mexico.

The El Nino climate pattern, which is starting to appear near the equator in the
Pacific Ocean, could bring more rain to southern states this winter but result
in less for northern states that are suffering.


* Northern Rockies. The drought is at its worst here. A high-pressure system has
been dawdling over the region, keeping out storms. This has exacerbated
conditions in parts of Wyoming and Montana, which are into their fifth year of
drought.

In a section of northern Montana, ranchers are selling cattle, and blowing
topsoil is filling ditches and burying fences in scenes reminiscent of the Dust
Bowl. The drought there has a federal rating of "exceptional." An exceptional
drought is one that is likely to occur only once in 50 years.

 * Southwest. Large sections of the region are facing a drought that federal
officials rate "extreme." Forest fires have hit New Mexico, and the city of
Santa Fe took the first step this week toward adding water restrictions to those
already in place.

Large areas of Arizona's Grand Canyon National Park are experiencing extreme
drought. Officials say vegetation in the park is as dry as it usually is in late
May or early June.

 * Central Rockies. Colorado got so little snow this winter that it had only
half its normal snowpack for April. The state also had its third-driest April in
the 108 years that records have been kept. Water officials predict that many of
the state's major rivers will have record low flows this year.

In late April, Gov. Michael Leavitt of Utah declared a drought emergency and
launched a voluntary water-conservation campaign. At Grand Staircase-Escalante
National Monument, there's less forage for cattle and wildlife, and the spring
wildflower bloom was poor.

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2002 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              50 of 141 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                      July 1, 2002, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Markets were too crazy for even experts to predict

BYLINE: Adam Shell

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 1639 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK

NEW YORK -- Investors in search of winning stock picks and reliable market calls
may be better off visiting a fortuneteller than relying on the advice of Wall
Street's top gurus.

At midyear, the Standard & Poor's 500 index, a proxy for the overall stock
market, is down a hefty 13.8%, its third-worst first-half performance ever,
according to S&P.

A pileup of corporate scandals has left investor confidence in tatters. And to
add to investors' growing anxiety, the U.S. stock market is headed for its first
three-year losing streak in more than 60 years.

Yet, at the start of the year most of Wall Street's top strategists painted a
far more optimistic picture. While some skeptics warned of impending doom, most
of the perennially bullish prognosticators expressed confidence that stocks,
helped by an improving economy and rebounding profits, would break out of their
doldrums.


Only one of eight strategists polled by USA TODAY in December predicted the S&P
500 would finish 2002 down. And while there's still six months for stocks to
play catch-up, it looks like that call, made by J.P. Morgan's ex-guru Douglas
Cliggott, may prove prescient.

The other market forecasts ranged from conservative to wildly bullish.

A sober year-end price target of 1200 -- just a 4.5% rise from the S&P 500's
2001 close of 1148 -- was served up by Merrill Lynch's Rich Bernstein and Tom
McManus of Banc of America Securities. The most bullish call was 1570, a
moonshot gain of 37%, from Ed Kerschner of UBS Warburg.

In response to the steep losses suffered in the first half of the year, five
strategists have slashed their year-end targets.

The gurus' stock picks also fared poorly. Investors who acted on the tips doled
out by Wall Street's top guns are likely to be staring at some pretty sizable
losses.

Of the strategists' 35 top picks, only 9, or about 25%, are up for the year. The
average performance: a loss of 16%, a full 2 percentage points worse than the
S&P 500.

Good, sound advice, it turns out, is tough to come by on Wall Street these days
-- despite a growing chorus of investors asking the $ 64,000 question: "What
should I do?"

Forecasting the direction of stocks is always a dangerous proposition, given
investors' sharp mood swings and the volatile nature of financial markets. But
it's an even tougher job in the new climate of fear, suspicion and mistrust of
anything corporate.

Even the pros are shaken by the market's nose dive. "I feel like I'm a director
at a 24-hour mortuary," says Tom Galvin, Credit Suisse First Boston's top
strategist.

To be sure, grading strategists on a six-month time frame is a tad unfair, given
the sharp price swings in the short run. It's also a stretch to think that
anyone could have predicted that so many corporate scandals would have erupted,
sparking a crisis of confidence among investors that has put a further dent in
stock prices.

Still, not all the calls were bad. Some hit the bull's-eye.

Bernstein predicted correctly that the market would retest its September lows.
McManus warned of a tepid economic recovery. John Manley of Salomon Smith Barney
said stocks would snap back early in the year but could hit trouble if profits
didn't recover fast.

Jeff Applegate of Lehman Bros. correctly predicted a post-recession rally, only
to watch it evaporate. Galvin got it right, predicting better performance from
small and midsize companies. Alan Skrainka of Edward Jones was on target, saying
the recession would be less severe than many feared.

But most still overshot to the upside.

"There have been a lot more minefields than normal," says Manley, private client
strategist at Salomon. "We all feel the pain. If you don't, it's because you are
numb."

The biggest minefield to date? Amdocs, a billing software firm and a Galvin
pick, which has plunged 78% year-to-date. Another big loser is Tyco
International, one of Manley's picks, down 77%. The bulk of the losses occurred
after Tyco's former CEO, Dennis Kozlowski, was indicted in early June on charges
of sales tax evasion.

Applegate bagged two big winners: money management firm Franklin Resources, up
21%, and carpet maker Mohawk Industries, up 12%.

Cliggott and McManus picked the only other 12%-plus winners. Cliggott's was
Procter & Gamble, a defensive play that's built to weather any economic storm.
The maker of Tide detergent, Pampers diapers and producer of the soap operas
Guiding Light and As the World Turns, has risen nearly 13% in 2002. McManus
recommended ConAgra Foods, up 16%. The No. 2 U.S. food company behind Kraft
Foods includes such well-known brands as Butterball, Armour, Banquet and Chef
Boyardee.

The year is only half over, and investors need to hang in there, Skrainka says.
"Too many are focusing on the short term. What they need is courage and
patience.


Prognosticators update their advice for investors

Jeff Applegate, Lehman Bros.

Second-half rally helps market finish in black. Avoid pricey techs. Buy consumer
stocks. For every bad Apple there's a winner like home builder Lennar. Retest of
September lows offers opportunities.

Rich Bernstein, Merrill Lynch

Still cautious. Says stocks still haven't hit bottom. Worries: P-Es still too
high. Profits not rising fast enough. Capital preservation gains followers. Best
defense: Diversify.

Doug Cliggott, B&P Research

Stocks still in downtrend. Risk: Stock prices will fall when rosy earnings
outlook fails to materialize. Fair value on S&P 500 from 800 to 900. Adding to
cash/bonds makes sense. Top sectors: energy and aerospace.

Tom Galvin, Credit Suisse First Boston

Admits hitting year-end target of 1375 is "a stretch." Scandals and geopolitical
issues threaten economic recovery. After small-cap and value run-up, favors
multinationals with growth bent. Bank leadership key. Likes high-yield bonds.

Ed Kerschner, UBS Warburg

Expects nice profit recovery in second half. Key to market? The consumer!
Sobering thought: "Decade of Normal" has arrived. So get used to 5% to 10%
annual gains.

John Manley, Salomon Smith Barney

Still aggressive. Favors stocks over bonds because bond outperformance, biggest
since '70s bear, is unlikely to continue. Key dates: First few weeks of July;
expects second-quarter profits to surprise on upside.

Tom McManus, Banc of America

Market vulnerable to 5%-10% slide. But plus-20% quarter is out there; question
is when? Second-half profits may disappoint. Buy economy-resistant consumer
stocks. Use cash stash to buy stocks at lower prices.

Alan Skrainka, Edward Jones

Won't rule out third down year. Recovery of '90s "glamour" stocks a long shot.
Profit estimates still too high. Keys to success: Ignore scandals. Be patient.
Survival tip: Build plain vanilla portfolio mixing stocks/bonds.

Where will S&P 500 end 2002?

Most predictions back in December for where the S&P 500 would end 2002 are
looking way too optimistic halfway through the year. And with the S&P closing at
990 on Friday, even some of the current, scaled-back 2002 targets for the S&P
would mean a big rise from here. Strategist

Old S&P target

Change from Friday

Current target

Change from Friday

Ed Kerschner

1570

59%

1360

37%

Tom Galvin

1375

39%

1375

39%

Jeff Applegate

1350

36%

1200

21%

John Manley

1300

31%

1200

21%

Alan Skrainka

1240

25%

1000

1%

Rich Bernstein

1200

21%

1200

21%

Tom McManus

1200

21%

1150

16%

Doug Cliggott

950

-4%

850 (1)

-14%

1 -- middle of 800-900 range

Lessons for investors:

* Forecasts are often wrong. Often, the market itself can tell you more about
where stocks are headed than expert opinions. Tip: Rather than relying on the
wisdom of just one strategist, cull all the key points, both bullish and
bearish, to get a fuller understanding of the risks and opportunities.

* Beware the blowup. Stock-specific risk is huge in these scandalous times. Of
the gurus' 35 stocks, eight plunged more than 40%. Tip: Own a big basket of
stocks, or invest in diversified mutual funds, so a single stock meltdown won't
wipe you out.

* A new oxymoron: safe blue chips. There was a time when investors could find
refuge in the safety of top-tier stocks with a blue-chip pedigree. No more. In
the past six months, tech titans IBM and Intel are down more than 40%. Citigroup
has lost 23%.

2002 change for experts' picks

The performance of strategists' stock picks this year shows even the pros have
trouble in this market.

Tom McManus

BJ Services 4.4%

Freddie Mac -6.4%

Pfizer-12.2%

Gillette-15.2%

ConAgra Foods 16.3%

Average-2.6%

Tom Galvin

Amdocs-77.8%

FEI-22.2%

GlobalSantaFe-4.1%

Lab Corp. of America -43.5%

J.P. Morgan -6.7%

Average -30.9%

Alan Skrainka

Pfizer-12.2%

Equity Office Properties 0.1%

MBNA-6.1%

Microsoft-17.4%

Wal-Mart -4.4%

Average-8.0%

Jeff Applegate

Mohawk Industries 12.1%

Best Buy -51.3%

Citigroup -23.2%

Franklin Resources 20.9%

Concord EFS -8.1%

Average-9.9%

John Manley

IBM -40.5%

Bank One -1.5%

Tyco -77.1%

AOL Time Warner -54.2%

GolbalSantaFe -4.1%

Average -35.5%

Doug Cliggott

Bristol-Myers Squibb -49.6%

Procter & Gamble 12.9%

Valero Energy -1.8%

Deere9.7%

Marathon Oil -9.6%

Average-7.7%

Ed Kerschner

Alcoa -6.8%

Clear Channel Comms. -37.1%

Dow Chemical 1.8%

Intel -41.9%

Union Pacific 11.0%

Average -14.6%

LOAD-DATE: July 01, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W; Cliggott: Predicted trouble for S&P.

                      Copyright 2002 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              52 of 141 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     August 26, 2002, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Drought likely to spare U.S. economy as whole

BYLINE: Martin Kasindorf, Patrick McMahon and Traci Watson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 2962 words

This summer's drought is shaping up as one of the worst since the Dust Bowl
years of the 1930s. More than a third of the USA is in the most severe stages of
dryness, well above the average year's 15%.

Luckily, in a season of excessive sunshine, the nation's economy is finding a
shady spot. It is likely to dodge catastrophe as the specter of doubling food
prices, failing farms and the elderly dying in heat waves fails to materialize.

But though the drought appears to be falling short of national disaster, for
many communities it's a local disaster. Parts of 45 states from Maine to Hawaii
are sweltering through an abnormally arid year -- in some places, the fifth
straight year of disappointing rains and mountain snowpacks. The 21 hardest-hit
states, mostly in the Southeast, the Great Plains and the West, are suffering
what the government calls "extreme" or "exceptional" drought.


The Colorado River is flowing at 14% of normal, the lowest figure in 150 years
of record-keeping. Hundreds of cities across the USA are imposing water-use
limits. Ranchers are selling off cattle at distress prices because there's no
water or forage.

As gloomy as it is, the concern over climatic trends could be a lot worse.
Countering the bad news:

 * Most Americans not living on farms or ranches are suffering no major
inconvenience. Homeowners with swimming pools in Los Angeles and Phoenix can
ignore the Colorado River's trickle because there's enough water in reservoirs
to avoid restrictions.

 * In many water-short communities, the bans on sprinkling lawns and washing
cars have no teeth. They're voluntary.

 * Agriculture, the No. 1 victim in every drought, has winners as well as
losers. Although times are the most discouraging in memory for cattle ranchers
in the parched Rocky Mountain West, Texas expects a record cotton crop. New
Mexico is rejoicing in a vintage year for its famous green chiles.

 * The drought's impact on food prices is modest. Keith Collins, the Agriculture
Department's chief economist, predicts a small increase that won't show up until
next year. Vegetable oils, cereals and baked goods will see most of the rise.
Retail beef prices are dropping and won't rise until "later 2003 and 2004," says
former Agriculture undersecretary John Schnittker, an economic consultant in
California.

Researchers at the National Drought Mitigation Center say the drought's duration
and geographic reach may have vaulted it past the last big one, that of 1988. It
"now sits behind the droughts of the '30s and '50s," they say.

If so, this drought is still comparatively puny. At the height of the eight-year
Dust Bowl, skies darkened with blowing topsoil and 63% of the nation was in the
most severe stages of drought. This week, that figure is 37%.

As a human and economic catastrophe, the 1988 drought is likely to remain in a
modern-day class of its own. In inflation-adjusted dollars, the drought and heat
wave 14 years ago in the Midwest and East cost $ 56 billion. It caused as many
as 10,000 deaths.

There have been few deaths in this summer's heat. The dryness has contributed to
what may end as a record season for wildfires. Monstrous fires have rampaged
through Colorado, Arizona, California, New Mexico and Oregon. Firefighters have
managed to save most endangered homes. Tourism dropped when some national
forests were closed because of fire, but the hit wasn't a bad one, Western state
officials say.

The firefighting is expected to cost $ 2 billion, the National Interagency Fire
Center says. Also, the drought has damaged forests with pine beetle
infestations. And it has hatched swarms of grasshoppers and crickets that have
devoured Western crops.

It's too early to add up agriculture's loss because not all of the crops have
been harvested.

Losses to farmers and ranchers, and to dependent local businesses, are likely to
fall well short of 1988 figures while exceeding the $ 9 billion of 1998.

In six states where officials are willing to offer estimates, the total exceeds
$ 9 billion, including a $ 1.8 billion bite out of South Dakota's annual $ 23
billion economy. The Agriculture Department forecasts wheat harvests down 14%,
corn 7% and soybeans 9%.

But lost crops don't always mean out-of-pocket losses for farmers. They'll get
higher prices for crops that survive, and losses are covered in many cases by
the Federal Crop Insurance Corp. So far this year, farmers have filed insurance
claims for $ 590 million. Claims at the same time last year were much higher: $
2.9 billion.

Despite demands by Western governors for more federal action, President Bush
said on Aug. 15 at Mount Rushmore National Memorial in drought-stricken South
Dakota that to combat deficit spending, he won't support any special emergency
funding for drought relief.

Some thirsty communities fear that worse is yet to come.

Hal Shepherd, city manager of Cortez, Colo., says residents won't be able to
water lawns next year unless there's a good snowpack. "If we don't have a real
wet winter, we're in serious trouble," he says.

Weather forecasters say there is long-term hope. A Pacific Ocean cold-water
condition called La Nina started in 1998 and triggered the drought, some experts
say.

Now, a warm-water El Nino is "sputtering to life," Agriculture Department
meteorologist Brad Rippey says. The phenomenon may bring much-needed winter
wetness to some regions, he says.

<>Northeast <>

Spring rain skips 4 states in dire need

Most areas got normal or above-normal rain from April through June, easing long
droughts in Maine and other states. But the rain skipped southeastern
Pennsylvania, southern New Jersey and most of Maryland and Delaware.

There, farmers are watching crops bake and suburbanites are coping with water
restrictions. Southeastern Pennsylvania and southern New Jersey moved into the
"extreme" category Thursday.

Pennsylvania Gov. Mark Schweiker recently extended a drought emergency
declaration for 14 counties. In normally fertile Lancaster County, the corn is
brown and pastures are empty as farmers dump livestock. "The crops are for the
most part dying a very, very slow death," says Bob Anderson, an agronomy agent
in the county.

Frederick, Md., tightened limits on water use in July and is considering
trucking in water. "There's no end in sight unless we get some pretty intense
rain," city spokeswoman Nancy Gregg Poss says.

Government forecasts don't brighten the picture. They predict below-normal rain
through November in much of the region.

--Traci Watson

<>West Coast <>

Drought not equal in states

It's the driest year since 1883 in Idyllwild, Calif., a mountain town near Los
Angeles that depends on wells. There's a ban on watering landscaping.

Elsewhere in California, the drought doesn't rank with the major bout in
1987-92, says Jeanine Jones of the Department of Water Resources.

Washington state has few problems, and the Oregon water picture is "fairly
normal," says David Cassel of the state emergency management department. Only
watermelon-growing Umatilla County has been declared a disaster area this year.
As indicated by the fire ravaging southern Oregon, fires are "worse this year
because of the dryness last year," when 18 counties were on the disaster list,
Cassel says. El Nino is considered likely to dampen dried-out Southern
California.

-- Martin Kasindorf

<>Great Plains <>

So dry, it 'looks like the moon'

"It's as bad as it was in the Dust Bowl," Nebraska Gov. Mike Johanns says. He
estimates his state's economic losses at $ 1.3 billion and growing. In
west-central Nebraska's Sand Hills, he says, "it looks like the moon." Ravenous
grasshoppers are "the worst in memory."

Farmers "just don't spend money," Johanns says. "Kids will go to school in the
same clothes they wore last year."

More than 20 Nebraska communities are rationing water. The state has a list of
185 milk haulers who could transport water to dried-out towns in a pinch. As
farmers pump groundwater from irrigation wells to make up for lack of rain,
local water levels drop and cities complain that their wells are sucked dry.
Sidney, Neb., city manager Gary Person wants the state to step in to ensure
towns' supplies.

In Nebraska and Colorado, more than 90% of pastures are listed in poor or very
poor condition for livestock. Some parts of South Dakota are drier than in the
1930s Dust Bowl.

On parts of the Missouri River, water levels have dropped so low that most
barges can't run. Part of the reason is that the Army Corps of Engineers has
held back water behind some dams to protect birds nesting on sandbars. The
excursion vessel River Explorer canceled outings. Meteorologists don't expect
much short-term relief.

-- Patrick McMahon

<>Southeast <>

People pray for relief, but rain to help only slightly

Nearly every county in Virginia and the Carolinas suffers from severe drought.
Towns are ordering businesses to cut water use. One water system is testing
stagnant water in quarries, hoping it will be safe for home use.

South Carolina's lakeside marinas are closing, their docks high and dry. Large
patches of state forest are brown, thanks to drought and $ 93 million in damage
from the Southern pine beetle. Brackish seawater infiltrating South Carolina's
Waccamaw River is bringing dolphins inland.

North Carolina Gov. Mike Easley has ordered state agencies to cut
"non-essential" water use, including washing patrol cars. He has asked towns to
cut consumption 20%. Statesville, N.C., has ordered major businesses to cut
water use 40%. Residents are collecting rainwater in jugs and using paper plates
to save dishwashing water.

Drought has damaged North Carolina's pepper crop, and corn has been
"devastated," says Mike Blanton, a spokesman for the state's agriculture
department.

In Shelby, N.C., officials declared last Thursday a "day of prayer for drought
relief." The town has had to buy water from a private pond. Monticello, Ga.,
south of Atlanta, has banned outdoor watering.

Federal officials have declared 20 cities and counties drought disaster areas,
enabling farmers and others to seek federal aid.

Forecasters say South Carolina is likely to get adequate rain in the next few
months.

Drought is predicted to ease only slightly in Virginia and North Carolina.

-- Traci Watson

<>Rocky Mountain <>

Years-long dry spell drives states to water rationing and restrictions

In a fast-growing, naturally arid region, booming populations are running into
the limits of water resources.

After enjoying the wettest decade in Colorado history in the 1990s -- during
which 1 million people moved into the state -- at least a dozen Colorado cities
have ordered water rationing. Denver, Aurora and Boulder have water cops
checking for running lawn sprinklers and wet streets.

Denver allows watering every third day for three hours before 9 a.m. and after 6
p.m. Tighter restrictions are being considered. An ad campaign for conservation
urges residents to "Only Wash the Stinky Parts." City reservoirs hit a historic
low July 1. Gov. Bill Owens signed into law this month a $ 1 million emergency
fund so farmers and ranchers can buy water.

The lark bunting, Colorado's state bird, is vanishing because of dwindling food
and water. Out on the range, antelope are having fewer fawns. Cattle ranchers
are selling herds or moving them out of state.

In Walsenburg, Colo., the Cachero River, the city's principal drinking-water
source, is dry. The city has banned outdoor watering and is pumping water from a
nearby county park. The county is offering residents free non-potable water
pumped from abandoned coal mines.

The Boysen Reservoir in Wyoming, nearly empty, has cut off irrigation water to
farms. Montana Lt. Gov. Karl Ohs, a cattle rancher who chairs the state's
drought committee, says drought has been "unprecedented for the last three to
four years." But there has been some improvement this summer. To the relief of
fishing and river-rafting guides who hardly worked last year, most river and
lake fishing restrictions have ended.

Utah Gov. Mike Leavitt says state farm and ranch losses total $ 400 million,
including grasshopper and cricket depredations. U.S. Agriculture Secretary Ann
Veneman has declared the state a disaster area. Ranchers are pulling steers off
arid federal rangeland and talking about quitting the business.

"We need a good winter all the way from the Gulf of Mexico to the Canadian
border in the intermountain West," U.S. Bureau of Reclamation Commissioner John
Keys says.

A good winter means snow. In the Four Corners area of Colorado, Arizona, Utah
and New Mexico, at least, El Nino might bring rain.

-- Patrick McMahon

<>Southwest <>

Both dry, wet conditions hit region hard

In 39 Texas counties that have been declared flood disaster areas, the problem
is too much water. But torrential rains didn't reach fruit and vegetable fields
in the lower Rio Grande Valley or West Texas cattle land. It has been "hit
pretty hard," says Allen Spelce of the Texas Department of Agriculture.

In Arizona, annual monsoon rains didn't happen this month. Worried northern
cities of Flagstaff and Williams aren't hooked to Colorado River pipes that have
bailed out Phoenix and Tucson.

With rainfall 25% of normal, Santa Fe is under tight water rules. Residents can
water yards only once a week. Car lots wash vehicles once a month. Repeat
violators can lose water service. City officials failed to plan for population
growth by buying enough private water rights, says Beatriz Rivera, who heads
Gov. Gary Johnson's drought task force.

Nevada wildfires have stayed in remote mountains, but it's a tough year for
animals and alfalfa, says Paul Iverson, the state's agriculture director. Ranked
on a 1-to-10 scale, the 3-year-old drought is "definitely a 9," he says.

-- Martin Kasindorf

<>Florida <>

'We got rain': Mother Nature turns Sunshine State around

By Deborah Sharp

CLEWISTON, Fla. -- Drought? What drought? The record-setting dry spell that
brought wildfires and water restrictions as recently as last year to Florida now
seems a dim memory.

And the reason for the recovery is pretty simple. "We got rain," says David
Zierden, assistant state climatologist.

Not every corner of the state is out of the woods: Some rivers and lakes,
particularly in north central Florida, remain low. And a handful of 67 counties
continue mandatory restrictions on lawn watering and other outdoor uses.
Nevertheless, the return of routine rains, especially along the heavily
populated southeastern coast, has replenished underground aquifers from which
90% of Floridians' drinking water is drawn.

With an average 53 inches of rain a year, Florida can top a desert state's
annual precipitation with one heavy storm. Last year, three tropical storms
helped erase the rainfall deficit. In addition, the "wet" half of Florida's
normal wet and dry cycle returned with average rains in the summer season.

Among the most dramatic examples of nature's restorative power: Lake Okeechobee,
which is full and healthy after dropping to its lowest level ever in May 2001.

The second-largest lake, after Lake Michigan, in the continental United States,
Lake Okeechobee is 33 miles long and 30 miles wide. Its name comes from the
Seminole Indian word for "big water."

The lake, now slightly above average at 14.72 feet above sea level, had
plummeted to a record low of 8.97 feet by the end of a drought that gripped
parts of Florida for three years. "It was dry as a bone right here," says boat
captain Terry Garrels, pointing at now-brimming waters. "People thought it would
take years to recover. But the good Lord and Mother Nature really turned things
around."

And just in time, too, according to those whose livelihood is the lake. Mary Ann
Martin, who founded Roland Martin's Lakeside Resort with her former husband, a
fishing legend, says the drought cut her marina and lodging business by 70%.
With losses totaling more than $ 1 million, she had to reduce her staff by
two-thirds. Martin and other lake-linked concerns applied last year for federal
disaster loans.

"How do you run a marina without any water?" asks Martin, who gave a tour last
summer to Florida Gov. Jeb Bush of 100 high-and-dry boat slips at her resort.

The docks at Martin's marina are now comfortably afloat. Despite business
setbacks, the drought brought environmental benefits. The lake is cleaner, as
the sun burned bottom sediment and enabled light-loving grasses and other
underwater plants to grow.

And, locals say, the fishing is better. "That rain saved a lot of us," Garrels
says. "We're pretty happy."

<>Midwest <>

From haves to have-nots fast

Slammed in 1998 by the last large-scale drought, this region has been "spared
from the current drought's devastating effects," says Brad Rippey, an
Agriculture Department meteorologist. But since mid-June, it has "been hit
pretty hard, especially the corn and soybean crops," he says.

In the Ohio River Valley, the change has been dramatic, says Mark Svoboda,
climatologist for the National Drought Mitigation Center. Fields that had
standing water in June "went from the haves to the have-nots pretty fast."

At St. Patrick parish church in Grand Rapids, Ohio, this month, the congregation
prayed for rain. Trends point toward more downpours like those of last Thursday,
but not in the Ohio River Valley.

-- Patrick McMahon

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Color, Matt York, AP; GRAPHIC, Color, Adrienne Lewis, USA TODAY,
Source: U.S. Drought Monitor (drought.uni.edu) (MAP); PHOTO, B/W, Doug Kapustin,
The (Baltimore) Sun, via AP; PHOTO, B/W, Chuck Liddy, The (Raleigh, N.C.) News &
Observer, via AP; PHOTO, B/W, Kevin Moloney for USA TODAY; Lake bottom: John
Williams, owner of a trail rides business, shows impact of drought on Mormon
Lake, Ariz.<>Reservoir near Baltimore: Maryland and surrounding states pray for
rain to fill reservoirs, drench crops and allow officials to lift water
bans.<>Boat high and dry: A lake north of Hillsborough, N.C., shows its cracked
bottom from the drought.<>Rescuing fish: Paula Demopoulos of the Colorado
Division of Wildlife helps transfer fish from a reservoir that's drying up in
South Park.

TYPE: COVER STORY

                      Copyright 2002 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              56 of 141 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    January 18, 2002, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Bush has more challenges lined up in 2002

BYLINE: Jill Lawrence

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 988 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

WASHINGTON -- President Bush's first year could not have been more dramatic nor
his job approval ratings any higher. He has already signed into law his two top
domestic priorities -- sweeping tax cuts and education reforms -- and turned out
to be a resolute wartime leader. What can he possibly do for a second act?

The capture or killing of Osama bin Laden would be a defining moment,
presidential scholars say, one that could carry Bush into the 2004 campaign on
impressive performance ratings. But beyond that, Bush's second year in office is
shaping up as a challenge.


First and foremost, it's an election year for all 435 House members and a third
of the Senate. Both chambers are nearly evenly divided, guaranteeing intense
competition for control until November. "Bush faces the 'permanent campaign,' "
says James Thurber, director of American University's Center for Congressional
and Presidential Studies. He says Congress will be a yearlong stage for
Democrats and Republicans using issues to position themselves to win in the
fall.

A certain level of conflict is guaranteed by Bush's priorities. Democrats
strongly disagree with his energy plan, which would promote nuclear power and
open Alaska's Arctic National Wildlife Refuge and other lands to oil drilling,
and his economic revival plan, which would reduce business taxes and create more
income tax breaks for individuals.

The Democrats say energy policy should put more emphasis on conservation and the
economic revival plan should tilt spending more toward the unemployed.
Massachusetts Sen. Edward Kennedy, citing budget deficits on the horizon, wants
to delay some tax-rate cuts. Wrenching philosophical debates also would be
inevitable if Bush decided to broaden the war on terrorism to Iraq, for
instance, or got the chance to name a Supreme Court justice.

Some of Bush's campaign goals now seem unattainable. The idea of allowing
workers to invest part of their Social Security taxes in stocks, already
undermined by a sagging stock market, may have taken a deathblow with the fall
of Enron and the financial ruin of its employee stockholders. A
prescription-drug plan to help senior citizens pay for their medications looked
more feasible when the government was projecting budget surpluses rather than
deficits.

James Pfiffner, author of The Strategic Presidency, says Bush should "try for
some quick victories in the center" of the political spectrum, such as a
bipartisan patients' bill of rights. "He is not going to have easy going this
year except for things related to national security," Pfiffner says.

Bush's first year was historic in several ways. He lost the popular vote in a
deadlocked election that took five weeks and a Supreme Court ruling to resolve.
His party lost control of the Senate in May when one senator, Jim Jeffords of
Vermont, switched from Republican to independent. Then came the terrorist
attacks of Sept. 11, a crisis that promised to change his role the way states
seceding changed Abraham Lincoln's first year or the closed banks and misery of
the Great Depression did Franklin Roosevelt's.

Those attacks, for Bush, were instantly transforming. On Sept. 10, his job
approval rating was 51%, and there were still murmurs about his abilities. Five
days later, he was at 86% and proving his mettle. "It's almost as if there are
two presidencies," Princeton scholar Fred Greenstein says.

The change was foreshadowed with Bush's address Aug. 10 on stem-cell research,
says Greenstein, author of The Presidential Difference. "He seemed to be growing
into the notion that you don't run a delegated presidency," he says. "You may
have a very strong team, but you sometimes have to come to terms with issues
yourself."

Bush found an awkward middle ground on stem-cell research, giving the green
light to research, but only on already existing cell lines. Other examples of
compromise include airport security, when he agreed to have passenger screeners
become federal employees, and education reform, on which he scrapped his desire
for taxpayer-funded tuition assistance to help parents send children to private
schools.

Sidney Milkis, author of Presidential Greatness, says Bush proved with those
compromises that he could transcend partisanship. He predicts Bush will have to
be just as practical this year to accomplish anything. "Even in the midst of the
war when his ratings were very high, he couldn't simply have his way with
Congress" last month on the economic stimulus bill, Milkis says. "That might be
a microcosm of what he faces as he tries to use his political capital. It
doesn't readily extend to domestic policy."

Also unclear is whether Bush's capital will help in widening the war on
terrorism or strengthening his party in Congress. Only twice in nearly 70 years
has the president's party gained seats in the middle of his term: in 1934 during
the Depression, and in 1998 during the Clinton impeachment.

National polls show congressional Republicans gaining favor now, but Thurber
calls such numbers meaningless. Even if the economy is bad, he says, the outcome
of the several dozen competitive House and Senate races will hinge on local
issues and the quality of the candidates running.

The question on many political minds, particularly those of Democrats with White
House aspirations, is how long Bush can sustain his record-shattering approval
ratings. Most analysts expect them to start dropping as the war winds down and
the crisis climate abates, especially if the economy stays in the doldrums.

But they also say Bush may continue to get credit for the country's initial
response to the emergency. And "if they can capture bin Laden," Milkis says,
"that would be huge. That would really be an exclamation point on the events
since Sept. 11. Bush would be somebody to reckon with throughout his term."

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Quin Tian, USA TODAY, Sources: USA TODAY/CNN/Gallup Poll;
USA TODAY research (LINE GRAPH); PHOTO, B/W, Doug Mills, AP; Trip to Ground
Zero: Bush puts his arm around firefighter Bob Beckwith Sept. 14 at the site of
the attack on New York's World Trade Center.

                      Copyright 2002 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              57 of 141 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   February 14, 2002, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

How does 'just the two of us' go?

BYLINE: Marilyn Elias

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 16B

LENGTH: 1260 words

Breaking up is hard to do.

That rock refrain from their youth echoes with new meaning as middle-age boomers
bid adieu to their beloved babies -- babies who grew up in the blink of an eye.
The generation that shed lovers and spouses with apparent ease is finding out
that it's not so easy to let go of their children.

"Many of them have been wanting a quiet evening -- but not that quiet," says
marriage educator Claudia Arp, co-author with her husband, David Arp, of the new
book Empty Nesting: Reinventing Your Marriage When the Kids Leave Home
(Jossey-Bass, $ 17.95).

Becoming an "empty nester" is just as much a dive into ice water as becoming a
parent, says marriage and family therapist Anthony Jurich of Kansas State
University. "It's a massive change for a couple," says Jurich, who often
counsels new empty nesters.


With no more games or performances or kids' activities to rush around to
anymore, a couple often loses the buffer that has shielded them from their
marital problems, David Arp says. Sometimes they're no longer friends, their
interests have diverged or their sex life has withered in the busy tumult of a
two-career family with active kids.

The Arps have spoken with thousands of couples in their "Marriage Alive"
seminars across the USA. One middle-aged wife recently told them: "By the time
we'd gotten to an empty nest, we'd forgotten how to have a sexual life."

The book offers specific suggestions for how to get back on the same wavelength,
develop new interests together and refocus each other.

 Snipping the cord in stages

The earliest months and years of empty-nest-hood are hardest for many, the Arps
agree. Kids tend to circle in and out of parents' lives, insisting on their
independence but showing up often enough to throw a wrench into newfound
household routines. The umbilical cord usually is cut in stages, the Arps
emphasize.

Even very close couples may disagree on which stage is hardest.

Los Angeles attorney Sandra Slon, 53, hardly minded when her 26-year-old
daughter, Deborah, started college at Stanford. "You could run up there in an
hour. It felt like she was just around the corner." But Slon's husband, Dave,
had a harder time adjusting to the loss of his adored daughter.

After graduation, Deborah Slon worked in Sacramento -- away, but not far away --
for a couple of years. Then, two years ago, a big promotion took her to
Washington, D.C.

"Dave already had made the break, so it wasn't so hard for him. But that's when
it really hit me -- she might never come back. It would be difficult, almost
impossible, to have holidays together," says Sandra Slon. Holidays aren't that
important to her husband, she says, "and of course I'm the one who makes the
holiday celebrations, and I'm the one who gets depressed now as holidays come
around."

They remain in frequent contact with their daughter, even taking a week's
vacation with Deborah and her boyfriend last year in Northern California. "We
had a fabulous time. We were all very compatible, lots of warmth and laughter.
. . .  I felt that we could be adult friends," Slon says.

The healthiest outcome parents can hope for is a close friendship with their
adult children, says Theresa Foy DiGeronimo, author of the new book How to Talk
to Your Adult Children About Really Important Things (Jossey-Bass, $ 17.95).

The book covers staple topics such as moving out, careers, finances, kids'
marriages and divorces (your own and theirs). But it also touches on topics
sometimes overlooked, such as cohabiting and how to keep an open dialogue with
children who marry outside their religion or choose atypical lifestyles.

DiGeronimo, who teaches English at The William Paterson University of New Jersey
in Wayne, compiled the book with several key consultants. Among them: Jurich,
the Kansas marriage therapist; Marion Usher, a clinical psychiatry professor at
George Washington University Medical School; and Gail Gross, a child development
specialist who hosts a Houston call-in radio show and weekly education segment
on PBS.

No matter how hard parents try to accept changes in their formerly small kids,
the adult kids usually adapt more easily, Gross says. "Children grow up; parents
stay parents."

And a lot of parents have trouble shedding their previously powerful role. They
try to force their opinions or will on young-adult offspring, Jurich says.
There's a big problem with that approach: no club.

Parents don't have the leverage of timeouts, weekend grounding, loss of
allowance or car privileges. That doesn't mean parents can't voice their
feelings, but they must respect their adult child's right to make her own
decisions. Otherwise, Jurich says, kids are apt to tell parents to mind their
own business -- or worse.

Silence is golden

Parents who want a loving relationship with their adult children won't shower
them with unsolicited advice, judgmental criticism and preaching, the book makes
clear. It's a prescriptive book, telling how to avoid crossing needed boundaries
and suggesting healthy ways to express concern.

For example, parents shouldn't let adult children take advantage of them. Many
"kids" do return home. In 1990, 18 million adult children lived with parents;
21.5 million did by 1998. In today's economic climate, those numbers are rising,
Gross says.

When kids come back home temporarily, a new relationship based on mutual empathy
must be negotiated, she adds. For example, youths may be out clubbing till 3
a.m.; they're too old for curfews. But they must come in quietly, and they must
do their own laundry.

Whether he lives at home or thousands of miles away, a youngster's stormy
adolescence is by no means a harbinger of the future.

Linda Seckelson, 56, an art librarian at New York's Metropolitan Museum of Art,
despaired at times during son Evan's rebellious teen years. Now the relationship
is terrific.

"My parents are as much friends as parents now," says Evan Simpson, 25, who
directs major fund raising for a regional Planned Parenthood affiliate in
Portland, Ore.

Seckelson bites her tongue to keep that friendship strong. "Oh, there's a lot
I'd like to say to him, like what is your ultimate career goal and why don't you
take the GREs (graduate record exams) already? He's still trying to figure out
his career. But I don't say any of that, because my values shouldn't drive him."


Simpson, who majored in African-American studies at college, enjoys his job and
is still mulling long-term career plans. He says he appreciates his parents
backing off.

"I never want them to think I don't need them, because they're like mentors now.
But it's an emotional and intellectual need, not with a lot of expectations and
rules," he says.

Parents who can keep on decent terms with adult children often get a platinum
payoff -- grandkids and the joy of mutual adoring, Usher says. Or maybe not.
Sometimes grandparents want freedom, when adult kids expect them to put out time
and energy.

Even before the new kids are born, "it's important to decide if you want to be
an 'FAO Schwarz' kind of grandparent or a hands-on one. All this should be
talked about with your child," Usher says. "Don't assume anything. Ask them how
you can be helpful."

Also, she can't resist a bit of unsolicited advice: "If you want to have
difficulty, hand out advice." Even if advice is requested, "err on the side of
caution. You already raised your children."

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Todd Plitt, USA TODAY; PHOTO, B/W; PHOTO, Color, Todd
Plitt, USA TODAY; Just the three of us: The family had a recent get-together in
New York when Evan, 25, came home for a visit. Echoes of the sounds of silence:
Empty-nesters Linda Seckelson and her husband, Charlie Simpson, who live in New
York, enjoy playing the flute together now that their son, Evan Simpson, has
moved across the country to Portland, Ore.

                      Copyright 2002 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              58 of 141 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                      March 1, 2002, Friday, FINAL EDITION

10 great places to get a greenhouse effect

BYLINE: Shawn Sell

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 3D

LENGTH: 717 words

When late winter's chilly gray days get you down, warm and lush conservatories
provide the perfect antidote. Popular in Victorian times, glass plant houses
were believed to have restorative powers. Today, interest is back, with good
reason. "Attendance is up since Sept. 11," says Anne Cunningham, author of
Crystal Palaces: Garden Conservatories of the United States (Princeton
Architectural Press, $ 45). "Especially in the cities, there's a need for green,
peaceful places." Cunningham shares favorite public conservatories with USA
TODAY's Shawn Sell.


Longwood Conservatory, Longwood Gardens

Kennett Square, Pa.

Continuing Pierre du Pont's dream of Old World extravagance in the garden,
Longwood Conservatory offers "consistently gorgeous presentations and 100,000
square feet of theatrically beautiful garden possibilities." 610-388-1000;
www.longwoodgardens.org.

The Dorothy Chapman Fuqua Conservatory, Atlanta Botanical Garden

Atlanta

Finishing touches are underway at the Orchid House, opening March 23. "With
tropical lowlands, a formal garden with tropical orchids, a naturalistic jungle
and terrestrial orchids, the orchid complex pairs education with technology,
conservation and research." 404-876-5859; www.atlantabotanicalgarden.org.

The Lucille Halsell Conservatory, San Antonio Botanical Garden

San Antonio

"Sunk mostly below ground to protect against heat and cold, the environmentally
conscious architecture supports several creative biomes," including a fern room
and palm house, plus a rare and thriving collection of alpine plants. "All
that's visible above ground is the conservatory's glass towers." 210-207-3255;
www.sabot.org.

The Enid A. Haupt Conservatory, New York Botanic Garden

New York

Opened in 1900, "this conservatory treats itself as a museum. Visit the 11
galleries (housed under an acre of glass) that reflect more than a century of
plant appre-ciation, exploration and science." 718-817-8700; www.nybg.org.

Mitchell Park Conservatory

Milwaukee

"An excellent job of blending flowers and education with community appeal. About
4,000 plants rotate through three conoidal domes. Both the arid and tropical
domes have permanent displays; the third has shows that change regularly."
414-649-9830; www .countyparks.com/horticulture.

Volunteer Park Conservatory

Seattle

Opened in 1912, this Victorian-style greenhouse was renovated in 1999. "The
conservatory's mission has always been to collect and conserve threatened
plants. Plus, they have incredible community spirit and support." 206-684-4743;
www.cityofseattle.net/parks.

The U.S. Botanic Garden Conservatory

Washington

First opened in 1933, the USBGC just completed a major restoration. In addition
to new cooling and heating systems, "the displays convey concepts (including
plant protection and rescue) understood by all, instead of botanically precise
exhibits that may have limited appeal in literal interpretation." 202-225-8333;
www.aoc.gov.

The Climatron, Missouri Botanical Garden

St. Louis

A scholarly place of research, "the 40-year-old Climatron is based on the
drawings of futurist R. Buckminster Fuller and was the first U.S. building to
use his geodesic dome." The lush, tropical rain forest inside "serves as a haven
for rare and endangered species." 800-642-8842; www.mobot.org.

Crystal Bridge Conservatory, Myriad Botanical Gardens

Oklahoma City

"I.M. Pei's innovative architecture, with a conservatory serving (literally) as
a bridge over a lake, makes a strong statement in the city's skyline" and in
this 17-acre botanical garden. Inside, "the south end holds lush rain-forest
plants, while the north end represents the dry tropics." 405-297-3995; www.ok
c-cityhall.org.

Conservatory of Flowers, Golden Gate Park

San Francisco

"Although the oldest (opened in 1878) and only remaining wood and glass
conservatory in the U.S. now is closed for renovation until 2003, no list of
conservatories is complete without it." The conservatory's valuable plant
collection (which includes a 100-year-old philodendron) will be moved or
protected until restoration is complete. 415-666-7017; www
.conservatoryofflowers.org.

LOAD-DATE: March 01, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Kay Wheeler; PHOTO, B/W; Longwood Gardens: Pierre du Pont
went to great lengths to impart architectural elegance to the buildings. Enid A.
Haupt: The fruit of the chocolate tree (Theobroma cacao).

                      Copyright 2002 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              61 of 141 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     March 12, 2002, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Tech start-ups abandon hype, get back to basics

BYLINE: Jon Swartz

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 8B

LENGTH: 490 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO

SAN FRANCISCO -- High-tech start-ups are tiptoeing through a financial minefield
to avoid a repeat of the Enron fiasco.

Executives, investors and academics are rethinking basic concepts on such issues
as reporting financial results and composing a board of directors.

"It's a conservative age, a time for back-to-basics business," says John Girard,
CEO of e-publisher Clickability. "Enron has leveled the playing field.  . . .
Companies are now rewarded based on real results -- not hype."


Tech upstarts face new challenges in addition to the headaches of raising
venture capital and developing products, including:

 * Potential changes to stock-option accounting. Legislation penned by Sens.
Carl Levin, D-Mich., and John McCain, R-Ariz., would end tax write-offs given to
companies whose employees exercise stock options.

Stock options are heavily used in the tech industry to compensate employees --
and are especially important to start-ups who often lack the revenue to pay
employees as much as bigger firms can.

If passed, the law would "heavily damage the ability of start-ups to recruit and
retain top management," says Patricia Thornton, a management professor at Duke
University.

 * More attention to the books. Only 3% of high-tech CEOs have finance
backgrounds compared with 30% of CEOs at Fortune 500 firms, says David Kixmiller
of executive recruiting firm Heidrick & Struggles.

So, the engineer-educated tech management is going to have to pay more attention
to unfamiliar subjects. "They need to closely watch revenue recognition,"
Kixmiller says.

Software companies, in particular, face more scrutiny because of how they
recognize quarterly revenue from long-term contracts. Most divide the contract's
value equally over its duration, but some still count all of the revenue upfront
in one quarter.

 * More board scrutiny. The boards of start-ups tend to be dominated by people
with an interest in the company: founders, friends and investors. Start-ups
typically cannot pay enough to attract top outside talent. In addition, the
prospect of lawsuits and subpoenas over corporate shenanigans could scare away
potential veteran candidates.

"If board members are held liable for whatever happens at companies, no one will
join," says eLoan CEO Chris Larsen.

"Enron puts the onus on board members to be involved in their companies and to
be accountable," says Erik Lassila, managing director of venture firm Clearstone
Venture Partners.

 * Tighter scrutiny of business practices. Tech start-ups are being more
cautious in hyping their products, prospects and strategic relationships to
investors, say software and Internet executives.

"Everyone is taking the extra step to be aboveboard and not arouse suspicion,"
says James Segil, president of consulting company Knowledge Base Solutions. "The
business climate is too conservative these days."

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2002 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              62 of 141 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    March 20, 2002, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Rates stay the same -- for now

BYLINE: Barbara Hagenbaugh

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 363 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

WASHINGTON -- Saying the economy is growing at a "significant pace," the Federal
Reserve left interest rates unchanged Tuesday but signaled rate increases may be
coming soon.

Many analysts expect the first rate increase in late June.

Fed officials unanimously voted to leave the target for short-term interest
rates -- which affect borrowing costs for everything from cars to credit cards
-- at 1.75%, a 40-year low. The Fed cut interest rates 11 times last year to
boost the recession-hit economy.


But with signs building that the economy is on the mend, the Fed signaled it may
raise rates soon to take away some of the stimulus.

In its closely watched, post-meeting statement, the Fed dropped wording that the
biggest risk was economic weakness, a phrase that has been in place since
December 2000. Instead, the Fed said risks were "balanced" between inflation and
weakness.

While the change appears minor, it's a big shift in Fed lingo. "They're
basically setting (the public) up for tightening this year," says Anthony Chan,
chief economist at Banc One Investment Advisors in Columbus, Ohio.

After the Fed announcement, investors erased some of the gains posted by stocks
earlier in the day. The Dow Jones industrial average ended up 0.5% at 10,635
while the tech-heavy Nasdaq ended up 0.2% at 1881.

The Fed expressed cautious optimism about the economy but warned the outlook for
business and consumer demand was "still uncertain."

With the outlook still cloudy, most economists expect no change in rates at the
Fed's next meeting on May 7, to give policymakers time to make sure the recovery
is on course.

Analysts say the Fed this year won't come close to reversing the 4.75 percentage
points of rate cuts it enacted in 2001.

Because inflation is low and the recovery is expected to be much slower than in
other post-recession periods, the Fed will not be forced to press firmly on the
brakes, economists say.

"They'll be gradual and careful," says William Dunkelberg, chief economist at
the National Federation of Independent Business.

By year's end, most economists see short-term rates around 3%.

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2002 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              63 of 141 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     March 22, 2002, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Like your favorite shoes, redone Saab 9-5 fits

BYLINE: James R. Healey

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 6D

LENGTH: 1541 words

Some cars are like your favorite weekend shoes. Step in and -- ahhh --
everything is dandy.

The best are as comfortable as a warm bath, as bracing as a cold shower. The
Saab 9-5 is like that.

Introduced in 1998 as a replacement for the who-wants-it 9000 hatchback, the 9-5
sedan and station wagon have grown to 51% of Saab's U.S. sales.


Saab, owned by General Motors, is about to get very aggressive -- big ad budget,
bold marketing, rapid launch of models starting with a clean-sheet redo of the
9-3 this fall -- and a freshening of the 9-5 for 2002 sets the stage.

The 9-5 gets the customary rejiggered grille and rump with new lights. Mainly,
though, enhancements are unseen but quite felt.

The model lineup nomenclature's been simplified, if not exactly made artful.

Base model is Linear. Luxury version is Arc. High-performance scooter is Aero.

Each comes as a sedan or a wagon.

Springs and shock absorbers are stiffened 10%, so the Linear and Arc feel like
last year's sporting model, and Aero is sportier still -- a hair too firm,
perhaps. Weight was cut from front-end components to make steering more
responsive. Anti-skid control -- new for Saab -- is standard on Arc and Aero.

The automatic transmission has five speeds instead of four.

Leather upholstery is softer and richer. Heated front seats are standard. Air
bags sense a passenger's height and deploy accordingly.

And Aero's eager, turbocharged, four-cylinder engine has been boosted to 250
horsepower and 258 pounds-feet of torque, from 230 hp and 243 lbs.-ft.

There's more, but you get the point. The serious money and sweat went into
changes where they count, not where they can be seen. That's integrity.

From the beginning, 9-5s have been distinctive without stupid gimmicks; sporty
without harshness; quick without hair triggers or high-strung high jinks.

It's baffling that Saabs are associated with the fringe element when, in fact,
9-5s are a lovely blend of mainstream attributes: practicality, comfort, safety,
smoothness, quality, elan.

The Aero is deliciously quick. The test car's automatic shifted so well, it was
tough not to floor the gas just to feel -- almost not feel -- the gearbox snick
through the ratios. The turbocharged, four-cylinder is well-tuned to run hard
when spurred and also handle moderate prodding gracefully.

The 17-inch-diameter, high-performance tires and stiffer suspension handle most
bumps nonchalantly but might be annoyingly stiff for soft rumps.

Aero seats, a new design for '02, have big side bolsters to keep you behind the
wheel when you fling the machine about, as surely you will. Yet they are not
difficult to enter or exit, nor hard on the tush or back.

Dropping down into the 9-5, any version, is a bit of a plop and reminds you why
high-seat trucks are so deservedly popular.

The Arc test car raised the pulse less than Aero did and had an off-idle
hesitation that made scooting into traffic dicey. But it was frisky underway.

Arc has fan-cooled seats. The system, available since '98, really works. When
your backside and spine are dry, you needn't chill the interior into a meat
locker to stay comfortable. Seat fans have been loud, though. They still are,
but less so. Saab's working on it. The heater fan whined annoyingly on the test
Arc station wagon.

Arc has a V-6 engine with what Saab calls an asymmetrical turbocharger. That
means it works off the exhaust on one side of the engine, not both sides. Less
hardware, less trouble, less heat, less noise.

Works fine, though the transmission isn't tuned as finely as when mated to the
Aero engine. There's more lag before downshifts, for instance.

The '02s retain many of the original 9-5's good and bad points. Good:

 * Common sense. Gauges and controls are about where you want, about the size
you want and operate with the feel you expect. Saab hasn't been seduced by the
complexity siren, as German automakers have. Applause for that.

 * Funky features. They are what keep a Saab from being a generic-mobile. The
ignition switch still is on the floor, near the gearshift, where it and your
10-pound ring of keys won't take off your kneecap in a crash. A "night panel"
button shuts off most gauges and dashboard lights, improving your night vision.

 * Safety. Saab seats reduce whiplash. A lever inside the seat reacts in a crash
and pushes the head restraint close to the occupant's head, limiting whipsawing
of the head and neck. The '02's collapsible steering column is less likely to
injure your chest. Air bags size up a passenger and deploy accordingly in a
crash.

 * Sound. There stereo's very good, crisper and more intelligible than most. And
the radio pulls in stations better than many.

Bad:

 * Noises. No way around it, the seat fans and the heater fan are just not quiet
enough. And the engines sound unpleasant at idle. The Aero's four-cylinder also
vibrates more than expected at idle.

 * Space. Not enough. The car itself is adequate for midsize demands. But the
area around the driver lacks cubbies, bins, nooks and notches for cellphones,
checkbooks, PDAs, notebooks and the other detritus of modern life. The principal
cup holder is a simple ring that pops out of the dashboard. It's fine for
standard cups and cans, insufficient for sports drinks and bottled water and
useless for stashing phones, etc. The center console is small and largely
occupied by an auxiliary cup holder. A slot in front of the gearshift is blocked
by the shifter and is too shallow for serious storage anyway.

 * Details. Console lid slides back and forth, which is OK for an armrest but
dangerous when you lean on it for support getting into and out of the car; it's
like trying to stabilize yourself on ice.

The turn signal and headlight levers clack like breaking a chicken bone.

 * Four-wheel drive. You can't get it. Saab's working on four-wheel-drive
models. But Volvo, Audi, Mercedes-Benz, BMW already have it.

What good's a nice car when it's in the ditch?

The 9-5 remains an attractive machine, though it's begun to lag rivals in
refinement and features. Helping compensate, Saabs sell for less than the dealer
invoice cost, Edmunds.com says, making the '02 9-5 pretty tempting.



2002 Saab 9-5

* What is it? Freshening of Saab's flagship front-wheel-drive car, available as
a sedan or a station wagon.

* How soon? On sale now.

* How much? Linear sedan starts at $ 34,620 including $ 625 destination charge;
Arc sedan starts at $ 39,275; Aero sedan starts at $ 39,275. Station wagons are
$ 700 more. Edmunds.com says 9-5s typically sell for $ 1,300 or so less than
dealer invoice. Typical deal, according to Edmunds: 9-5 Aero priced $ 41,370
costs the dealer $ 38,600 and sells for an average $ 37,203. Saab also typically
offers among the best lease deals in the industry, according to IntelliChoice.

* What's the package? Linear comes with 2.3-1iter turbocharged four-cylinder
engine rated 185 horsepower at 5,500 rpm, 207 pounds-feet of torque at 1,800;
five-speed manual transmission; traction control; anti-lock brakes; automatic
climate control with dual-zone temperature controls; leather upholstery and
walnut trim; AM/FM/CD stereo; sunroof; heated front seats; cruise control;
tilting and telescoping steering column; front and rear fog lights; pop-up
headlight washers; power steering, brakes, windows, mirrors, seats, locks;
remote control locks; mirror defrosters; refrigerated glove box for food
storage; folding rear seat; 215/55R-16 all-season tires on alloy wheels.

Arc has these features in addition to or instead of Linear's: 3-liter,
turbocharged, V-6 engine rated 200 hp at 5,000 rpm, 229 lbs.-ft. at 2,500 rpm;
five-speed automatic transmission; anti-skid system; heated rear seats;
fan-cooled front seats; memory setting for driver's seat and mirrors;
Harman/Kardon stereo; auto-dimming rearview mirror.

Aero has these features instead of or in addition to Arc's: 2.3-liter,
turbocharged, four-cylinder rated 250 hp at 5,300 rpm, 258 lbs.-ft. at 1,900
rpm; sport suspension; high-bolster sport seats; 225/45R-17 tires. Arc's
fan-cooled seats are not available on Aero.

* How big? Midsize; sedan and wagon are the same: 190 inches long, 70.5 inches
wide, 57 inches tall on a 106.4-inch wheelbase. Wagons have 37 cubic feet behind
the rear seat, 73 cubic feet when the seat's folded. Sedan has 15.9-cubic-foot
trunk.

* How thirsty? Here's a twist: The hot-rod is the fuel-sipper. Aero with manual
is rated 22 miles per gallon in town, 30 mpg on the highway; with automatic,
20/28. Test-car computer showed about 21 mpg in suburban driving. Worst is Arc:
18/26 mpg. Premium fuel is recommended for all models.

* Overall? Still a champ, though lags rivals in refinement.

---

More online

* Chat online with James R. Healey at 2 p.m. ET/11 a.m. PT today at
talk.usatoday.com

* Go to usatoday.com to read columns online. Click the green Money button, then
autos, then Test Drive. Or use this address:
www.usatoday.com/money/columns/healey/index.htm

* E-mail testdrive@usatoday.com

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS, B/W, Saab (2); New 9-5: The serious money and sweat went into
changes where they count, not where they can be seen. For instance, seats in the
high-performance Aero have big side bolsters to keep you snug during quick
turns.

                      Copyright 2002 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              64 of 141 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                      April 5, 2002, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Extremist voices drown out all others in Mideast

BYLINE: Kathy Kiely

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 2484 words

DATELINE: JERUSALEM

JERUSALEM -- Just two weeks ago, Gershon Baskin performed an act that today
would be unthinkable. He drove to Tel Aviv's Ben-Gurion International Airport
and boarded a flight for Brussels with a group of business leaders -- Israelis
and Palestinians.

Baskin's think tank, the Israel/Palestine Center for Research and Information,
organized the trip to the headquarters of the European Union, where they
discussed plans for economic development projects to benefit both Israel's 5.9
million citizens and the 4.4 million Palestinians living in Israel and the
Palestinian-controlled West Bank and Gaza.

"It all seems surreal now," Baskin said this week as Israeli tanks rolled deeper
into the Palestinian territories, fighter jets dropped bombs near the Lebanon
border and heavy fighting broke out in Bethlehem, the city of Jesus' birth.
Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat remains under siege at his headquarters in
Ramallah. At least 1,700 people have been killed since the latest Palestinian
uprising, which began in September 2000.


There have been worldwide calls to end the hostilities, from President Bush, the
United Nations, leaders of major Arab states including Egypt and Jordan -- the
only two that have diplomatic relations with Israel -- newspaper editorial pages
and Pope John Paul II. But those voices find few echoes here. Even Israeli
Foreign Minister Shimon Peres, who once shared a Nobel Peace Prize with Arafat,
is backing the military assault on the Palestinian territories.

Arafat refuses to cede to Israeli and U.S. demands that he make a call, in
Arabic, for an end to the suicide bombings that have killed scores of people in
Israel during the last month alone.

A decade during which both Israeli and Palestinians leaders felt obliged to pay
at least lip service to the promise of peace in the Holy Land appears to be
over. Hard-liners on both sides of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict are calling
the shots.

"It does seem like all the moderates have disappeared," says Isabel Kershner,
senior editor of The Jerusalem Report, a biweekly news magazine here. That seems
unlikely to change any time soon.

Each side's excesses strengthen the hand of extremists on the other. Palestinian
suicide bomb attacks on civilians have left Israelis who supported peace talks
stewing in mortified silence. "They're smarting and angry and feeling the anger
of the rest of the country," Kershner says.

In the Palestinian community, Israel's aggressive military assault has
reinforced the message of Islamic fundamentalists who insisted that peace was
impossible with the Jewish state and that Israelis would never consent to giving
Palestinians a homeland of their own. "It has given them the upper hand,"
political analyst and pollster Ghassan Khatib says. "They can tell people: 'We
told you so.' "

One respected Palestinian moderate, Hanan Ashrawi, worries that the outbreak of
hostilities and the "humiliation" of Arafat "have destroyed the constituency for
peace," not only in the Palestinian territories but throughout the Arab world.
The Israelis, she says, "have unleashed pent-up forces in the region and done
the Americans a great disservice. The ramifications will be felt for generations
to come."

Radicals control agenda

For would-be bridge-builders such as Baskin who continue to believe that
Israelis and Palestinians can live together in the Holy Land, it is a lonely,
frustrating time.

It's hard to press for continued contact between the two communities, says Sarah
Kreimer, director of the Center for Jewish-Arab Economic Development, "when you
don't know if you send your kid out to buy eggs at the grocery store whether
he'll come back alive."

Kreimer says the entrepreneurs who have met under her group's auspices "feel
they have more in common with each other than they do with extremists in their
own communities." But they're frustrated. "They don't feel they have any
influence on the politicians." Their voices have been drowned out by the roar of
explosives and the cries for revenge.

In Jerusalem on Monday, when a car bomb exploded and killed a 19-year-old
Israeli police officer near a religious neighborhood, a crowd of young men in
the distinctive coats and wide-brimmed hats of the Orthodox Hasidim rushed to
the scene and chanted in Hebrew as police held them back. "They are saying,
'Death to Arabs,' " confided Menache Rotnemer, one of the few bystanders willing
to speak to an American reporter.

In Nazareth the week before, a dozen Muslims sat under makeshift tents on a
construction site in the shadow of the Basilica of the Annunciation, which marks
the site where Catholics believe an angel told Mary she would give birth to the
son of God. They treated an American visitor to sweet Arabic coffee and bitter
complaints about the Israeli government's refusal to let them build a mosque
there and the U.S. government's refusal to rein in the Israelis.

"Bush is with the Israeli side and leaving Palestinians behind," Nasser Raucha
said. One man, who declined to give his name, said he lost his 24-year-old son
last year in fighting on the West Bank. "He has no hope for peace because of the
loss of his son," said Mohammed Abu Rahal, a 44-year-old spice dealer who sat
near the man and translated. Abu Rahal doubles as the sheik of the unbuilt
mosque.

It's hard to imagine a more dramatic wreck of two people's hopes than the one
that has taken place here. Less than two years ago, Arafat was dining at the
home of then-Israeli prime minister Ehud Barak. For the past seven days, he has
been living on whatever provisions Israeli troops send into the besieged
headquarters building where Arafat and top aides are holed up, surrounded by
tanks.

Fighting for half their lives

Some blame the impasse on personalities: Arafat and the current Israeli prime
minister, Ariel Sharon, are septuagenarian warriors who have been fighting each
other for half their lives.

Sharon is a retired general who once expelled the Palestine Liberation
Organization from Lebanon and now seems determined to do the same with many of
its leaders in the Palestinian territories -- including Arafat himself.

Arafat, a cagey old guerrilla warrior, insists he now wants peace. But he has
been unable or unwilling to control suicide bombers who are blowing up any
chance for it, along with hundreds of Israelis.

But if Sharon and Arafat can't end the hostilities between themselves, much less
their peoples, their possible successors don't seem any more likely to do so.

In Israel, polls show Sharon's most powerful rival to be former prime minister
Benjamin Netanyahu, who has called for Israel to "dismantle the Palestinian
Authority and expel Arafat." He calls Sharon's military action "half-hearted."

On the Palestinian side, the question of who might succeed Arafat is shrouded in
mystery and fear. The Palestinian political system is in a shambles, in part
because of Arafat's authoritarian style of governing and in part because
Israel's virtual blockade of the territories has prevented the Palestinian
legislature from meeting for more than a year and a half. Some likely candidates
are local warlords; others are leaders whom the Israelis suspect of secretly
backing suicide bombers.

There's little indication that the next Palestinian leader will be any more
inclined to compromise than the current one.

The Israelis "are going to rue the day if anything ever happens to Arafat," says
Ashrawi, a Palestinian legislator and sometimes Arafat critic who nonetheless
insists, "He's their best chance for getting peace."

Part of the landscape

There have always been extremists on both sides of the Israeli-Palestinian
conflict. In the Palestinian territories, the radicals are Hamas, the Islamic
Jihad and other fundamentalist religious groups that see suicide and the
slaughter of civilians as legitimate tactics in a holy war. The Al-Aqsa Martyrs
Brigade, affiliated with Arafat's Fatah militia, also have turned to suicide
attacks to achieve their aim. In Israel, there are the far-right and
ultra-religious political parties that see any ceding of territory to the
Palestinians as a breach of a divine contract with the Jewish people.

Both Arafat and Sharon have ties to the hard-liners: Sharon's governing
coalition hinges on the support of several Orthodox parties. Arafat has seen his
sagging popularity resurrected by a wave of support for the suicide bombers,
whom he has refused to condemn. He has gone so far as to adopt their rhetoric,
praising the "martyrs" of the intifada.

But the key political dynamic operating in the Middle East right now is violence
and brute force, which are threatening to drive members of the moderate middle
into the angry, frustrated fringes of civic life -- and away from each other.

"I don't see a culture of peace. I see a culture of war. I feel a culture of
resentment," says Mahdi Abdul Hadi, the founder of a Jerusalem-based Palestinian
research center. He has been trapped in a Ramallah hotel for the past week,
subsisting on rice and canned food.

Abdul Hadi fumes about the travel restrictions that recently forced him to drive
from Jerusalem to an airport in Amman, Jordan, and spend 15 hours traveling to
an academic conference in Florence, Italy. "They don't see us as equals," he
says of the Israelis. "It's a de facto apartheid society."

On the Israeli side, there's a widespread feeling that the government had no
choice but to react to the non-stop killing of civilians. Many Israelis
acknowledge that "a military solution can be no solution," says Yaffa Ben-Ari,
spokeswoman for one of the Cabinet's least hawkish members, Shimon Peres. But
Ben-Ari echoes the feelings of many of her fellow citizens when she adds:
"Something had to be done. We are desperate."

Polls reflect the growing polarization between Israelis and Palestinians.
Eighteen months ago, fewer than 15% of Palestinians identified themselves as
supporters of the region's Islamic fundamentalist groups, according to the
Jerusalem Media and Communication Center, a Palestinian polling group. Now, more
than 26% do.

Polls in Israel also show a "slide to the right," according to The Jerusalem
Report's Kershner.

In a poll published Friday in the Jerusalem Post, 72% of Israelis support the
war, 36% favor Arafat's expulsion, and 23% believe he should be "eliminated."
Only 15% favor more negotiations with Arafat.

Charges of duplicity

Each side accuses the other of betrayal. The Palestinians ask why the 1993 Oslo
Accords, which promised them a homeland by 1999, were never fulfilled and why
Israel continued to place thousands of new settlers on land slated to become
part of the Palestinian homeland.

Israelis cite the suicide bombings and the proliferation of arms in the
Palestinian territories. The more authority Arafat received to govern, they say,
the less secure Israeli civilians have been.

Within Israel, there are moderates who are convinced that Sharon's hard-line
military strategy will backfire. But in the current climate, they are finding it
hard to gain any political traction.

"The opposition is very small right now," says Yossi Sarid of the Meretz Party,
who leads the small legislative opposition in Israel's Knesset.

Sarid says violence will only beget more violence, but he thinks Israelis aren't
ready to listen.

"When people are living under constant, terrible trauma, they are not ready to
absorb a more complicated message."

Yossi Beilin, an architect of the Oslo peace deal that won Arafat, Peres and the
late Israeli prime minister Yitzhak Rabin the Nobel Peace Prize, says it's only
a matter of time before "people understand how stupid this war is."

Some Israelis believe peace is further away than ever.

"I don't think we can talk about resumption of the peace process," says Gerald
Steinberg, director of the conflict-management program at Bar-Ilan University.
"We are going to have to think this through from the beginning."

Sharon adviser Dore Gold promises that negotiations will begin "once we have
quiet," but he refuses to speculate about when that might be. "This is going to
be a long process," he says.

Peace also seems a long way off to a Palestinian-American in besieged Ramallah.
"I came to build Palestine," says Sam Bahour, who moved here from Youngstown,
Ohio, in 1995 and was working as general manager on a major construction project
when hostilities broke out. Bahour says he got an MBA degree at Tel Aviv
University several years ago, "not so much for the degree but for the
opportunity to network with Israelis."

Now he wonders why he bothered. "It seems all of the thinking about how we can
build bridges has been shattered," he says.

But there are others who insist they won't give up on the idea of a peaceful,
prosperous Holy Land. Baskin says the members of his Israel/Palestine Center
haven't given up on the plan to build a society based on cooperation between
Israelis and Palestinians.

"They're all there; they're all committed," he says. "They're all waiting for
the violence to slow down a little so they can start meeting again."



File on the conflict

The latest Palestinian intifada, or uprising, began Sept. 28, 2000. Angered over
the recent collapse of negotiations aimed at creating a separate Palestinian
state, Palestinians rioted when Ariel Sharon, at the time the leader of Israel's
right-wing opposition, visited a Jerusalem holy site known to Jews as the Temple
Mount and to Arabs as the Noble Sanctuary. In the 18 months since then, the
uprising has escalated to a near state of war. Facts about the conflict:

Death toll

Israelis: 419

Palestinians: 1,269

Others: 15

Israeli population

5.9 million in July 2001 (includes 375,000 in West Bank, Golan Heights and Gaza)


Palestinian population

4.4 million (2000 estimate)

Military strength

* Israeli army (2001): 172,500 active duty, plus 20,000 reserves

* Palestinian organizations:

Palestinian security forces: 41,000 (2001 estimate)

Al-Aqsa Martyrs Brigade, Hamas, Islamic Jihad, Popular Front for the Liberation
of Palestine: These militias claim tens of thousands of members.

Israeli settlements:

West Bank: 231

Golan Heights: 42

East Jerusalem: 29

Gaza: 25

Palestinian-controlled areas where Israeli forces staged incursions this week:

Bethlehem

Jenin

Nablus

Ramallah

Salfit

Tourists visiting Israel and Palestinian territories

2000: 2.4 million

2001: 1.2 million

Sources: CIA World Factbook, Israel Central Bureau of Statistics, Center for
Strategic International Studies, U.S. Department of State, Israeli Defense
Forces

LOAD-DATE: April 05, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Color, Khalil Hamra, AP; PHOTO, B/W, Orel Cohen, Agence
France-Presse; PHOTO, B/W, Awad Awad, Agence France-Presse; GRAPHIC, B/W, Dave
Merrill, USA TODAY (MAP); Perpetual hostilities: Assault rifle in hand, a
Palestinian woman participates in a demonstration Thursday in support of
Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat in the Rafah refugee camp in the southern part
of Gaza.<>Sharon: The prime minister does have critics within Israel, but in the
current climate, they haven't found much political traction.<>Arafat: Even if
Palestinian leader were replaced, there's little chance his successor would be
any more moderate in dealing with Israel.

TYPE: COVER STORY

                      Copyright 2002 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              70 of 141 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                      June 7, 2002, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Big, bold Marauder: Drive it with passion

BYLINE: James R. Healey

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 4D

LENGTH: 1672 words

DATELINE: SUMMIT POINT, W.Va.

SUMMIT POINT, W.Va. -- What a hoot. Mercury, searching for an icon from the past
on which to base the future, settled on Marauder, a 1960s big sedan with a big
engine and big performance.

The 1963 version was a knockoff of the corporate near-twin, Ford Galaxy 500,
with a sloping roof called a fastback. Ford and Mercury competed in stock car
racing, and the fastback was more aerodynamic and faster than the squared-off
roofs most cars had. But automakers couldn't run it on the track unless they
sold it for the street.

Forty years later, the 2003 Marauder is a boatload of modern technology applied
to the dusty corpse of the full-size Grand Marquis sedan. Grand Marquis has been
resuscitated by a full-going overhaul under the skin for '03. The goodies
include a stiff, new hydro-formed frame, better springs, shock absorbers, brakes
and a change to precise rack-and-pinion steering instead of the
recirculating-ball system.


Marauder was to have been part of the '02 lineup, in fact, but was delayed to
take advantage of the improved chassis and other hardware that's the foundation
not only of the '03 Grand Marquis, but also its relatives, the Ford Crown
Victoria (mainly sold for police and taxi use) and the Lincoln Town Car.

Marauder doesn't stop with the generic upgrades.

It also has an alloy V-8 engine rated 302 horsepower and 318 pounds-feet of
torque that's a combination of the Lincoln Aviator V-8 and the Ford Mustang
Cobra V-8. Most power available in other Grand Marquis models is 239 hp, 287
lbs.-ft.

Inside, seats are upholstered in what's called Nudo leather, an unusually smooth
and soft hide that's almost a sin to see and touch. Cibie brand fog lights are
borrowed from Ford Motor's Jaguar brand. AutoMeter gauges, a brand favored by
driving enthusiasts, sit on the console and add information that you don't get
in a standard Grand Marquis. Mercury's negotiating to have AutoMeter make the
entire instrument panel on the '04 models, Marauder engineer William Dear says.
Stainless steel dual exhaust pipes are polished their final 3 1/2 feet, so no
dirty gray finish shows under the car, and the exhaust pipes are capped with
Megs brand tips, another name that'll resonate with the passionate.

It adds up to quite a whee of a buggy. If you think Detroit is the epitome of
evil excess and should be run out of business by those cute little economy cars
from other nations, well, you won't like Marauder. If you love what Detroit once
stood for -- power, boldness, comfort -- you've found a home.

A day at the racetrack here showed how well a big, traditional sedan can handle,
accelerate and stop. Days around town showed how nicely such a nimble,
responsive large car fits into real life.

Note that Marauder's respectable handling, ride and steering are achieved in
spite of the car's old-fashioned, solid rear axle. Marauder would be even better
with a more-precise, modern, independent rear suspension (IRS). Funny thing:
Ford Motor's latest big sport-utility vehicle, Expedition, has IRS. But its
latest big cars, including the Lincoln Town Car luxury model, have solid axles
in back. Guess where all the development money is going.

Hot-rod high points (with a low here and there):

 * Engine. It's strong, willing and sonically pleasing hustling hard for the
next tight corner. It feels a bit sluggish under full throttle coming out of
second-gear corners. More torque at lower engine speed wouldn't hurt. Marauder's
oft-mentioned rival, 1994-96 Chevrolet Impala SS, has less horsepower (260) but
more torque (330 lbs.-ft.), so might feel a bit stronger at low speed.

 * Transmission. It's still the old, hydraulically operated Ford four-speed, but
shifts better in Marauder than in other applications. It'll be replaced in '04
models by one with electronic controls, Mercury says. The floor-mounted
gearshift -- big change for a Grand Marquis -- is too easy to shift into a gear
you didn't want when changing gears manually.

 * Suspension. Who'd have thought a big guy could move so gracefully? Special
shock absorbers keep the body from pitching over in tight corners, and
air-spring devices retain the comfort you usually sacrifice with good-handling
shocks.

The car's 40-foot turning circle diameter is as big as a pickup's, hampering
maneuverability.

 * Wheels. 18-inch diameters, among the biggest factory-installed wheels on the
road, fill the wheel wells nicely and accommodate seriously grippy tires. Fronts
and rears are different sizes, giving the car a slight slant, known as rake,
popular with hot-rodders.

 * Exterior. Black only. Dark blue joins this fall, and other colors roll out
later. Black's the right color, though (if impossible to keep clean). It gives
Marauder a dangerous presence appropriate for a big, powerful car. Polished
wheels are the perfect accent

Normal-use niceties (and flubs):

 * Interior. Those leather bucket seats are bun-lovely and back-friendly. The
back seat's pretty roomy, but the big center tunnel makes it almost impossible
to ride comfortably in the middle. Power-adjustable pedals help the driver find
that just-so position. Gauges are easy to read, and most controls are handy and
logical, though the radio needs a big, fat tuning knob instead of a switch and
the climate control could use some fine-tuning. Too, the driver's left foot
needs a so-called dead pedal to push against when getting frisky in corners.

 * Trunk. It's big, though sacrifices some room to a full-size spare on a raised
shelf. An optional organizer fits a well under the floor and is both simple and
useful. Partitions in the organizer are easily moved to hold grocery bags,
sports equipment, emergency gear or whatever you don't want sliding around.

 * Driving feel. The hotshot hop ups on the chassis not only give the car
racetrack aplomb but also improve the sprint to the convenience store, the daily
commute and the highway cruise. Steering's no longer sloppy, for instance. And
brakes feel strong. You feel connected to the road instead of isolated from it,
without the harsh ride sometimes baked into a tight chassis.

 * Music. We're talking about the kind that comes from those Megs pipes in back,
and it's nice. Subdued enough to idle through the school drop-off zone without
raising eyebrows, but forceful enough to remind you that Marauder is, in fact, a
muscle car when you nail the gas.

 * Doors. Four of them make getting in and out a lot easier than if Mercury
tried to execute Marauder as a coupe, which, by definition, has but two doors.

In the end, it matters little whether Marauder is the right icon. It only
matters that Mercury has done a wonderful thing that provides tons of fun
without sacrificing practicality. Great formula; let's have more.



2003 Mercury Marauder

* What is it? Full-size, four-door, five-passenger, rear-wheel-drive,
high-performance sedan, made at the factory in Canada that also manufactures
Mercury Grand Marquis and Ford Crown Victoria full-size sedans.

* How soon? On sale late this month.

* How much? $ 34,495, including $ 705 destination charge. Dealer pays $ 30,617,
according to Edmunds.com, after subtracting extra profit called holdback from
dealer invoice cost.

Two factory options are available: trunk-mounted six-CD player, $ 350 (dealer
cost, $ 302); trunk organizer, $ 200 (dealer, $ 172). Dealer costs are according
to Edmunds.com, which predicts Marauder will sell for full window-sticker price.


* What's the package? 4.6-liter V-8, combining features from Lincoln Aviator
sport-utility vehicle and Ford Mustang Cobra muscle car, rated 302 horsepower at
5,750 rpm, 318 pounds-feet of torque at 4,300 rpm; four-speed automatic
transmission; anti-lock brakes with front-rear brake-force proportioning system;
limited-slip differential; seat-mounted, side-impact air bags for front
occupants; air conditioning; power steering, brakes, windows, seats, mirrors,
locks; remote-control locks; leather upholstery; AM/FM/CD stereo; dual,
stainless-steel exhaust with Megs tips; Cibie fog lights; AutoMeter auxiliary
gauges; P235/50WR-18 front tires, P245/55WR-18 rear tires on polished aluminum
alloy wheels.

* How many? 18,000 a year.

* Who'll buy? 50-year-old men who used to own muscle cars, or wish they did.

* How big? Fulsome; 211.9 inches long, 78.2 inches wide, 56.8 inches tall, on a
114.7-inch wheelbase with 20.6 cubic feet of trunk space.

* How thirsty? Rated 17 miles per gallon in town, 23 on the highway, on premium
fuel.

* Overall: Hot-shoe fun, practical accommodations, reasonably polite manners.
Thumbs up.

 Marauder vs. Impala

Mercury Marauder often is compared with the 1994-96 Chevrolet Impala SS.

Why you might prefer a Marauder:

* It's new. No denying the appeal of being the first owner and getting a
warranty.

* It's quicker. Mercury predicts 0-60 mph in about 6.5 seconds vs. Impala SS'
7.1 to 7.5 seconds (depending on who's testing).

* It's more sophisticated. The V-8, for instance, has four overhead camshafts
vs. Impala SS' single cam and pushrods operating overhead valves.

Why you'd hunt down a used 1994-96 Impala SS:

* It's cheaper. $ 10,000-$ 17,700 in top condition, depending on year, according
to various used car price guides.

* It has a built-in support system. The Internet is abristle with Impala clubs,
chat sites, parts sellers and repair help. No telling if that much support will
galvanize around Marauder.

* It uses regular-grade fuel vs. Marauder's premium.

---

More online

* To ride along for part of the Test Drive, and to read current and past columns
online, go to usatoday.com. Click the green Money button, then Autos, then Test
Drive. Or use this address: www.usatoday.com/money/columns/ healey/index.htm.

* E-mail testdrive@usatoday.com

* Check for crash-test scores at www.nhtsa.dot.gov and www.iihs.org.

LOAD-DATE: June 07, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Wieck; PHOTO, B/W, Ford Motor; Fancy stuff: AutoMeter
gauges, favored by driving enthusiasts, provide extra information.

                      Copyright 2002 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              71 of 141 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    June 19, 2002, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Time fails to lessen Title IX furor

BYLINE: Erik Brady

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 2470 words

Sunday will mark 30 years since Title IX became the law of the land. So how come
it still makes Americans crazy after all these years?

If every school had begun earnest efforts to obey the law when Richard Nixon
signed it -- six days after the third-rate burglary that would lead to the end
of his presidency -- presumably all would be in compliance today. Instead,
culture wars still rage over it.

Title IX forbids sex discrimination in all programs at schools that get federal
aid, although most of its continuing controversy relates to athletics. The
nation's medical schools and law schools, among the original targets, have long
since embraced it by opening doors to men and women equally.


Proponents of Title IX wonder what it says about American culture that women are
more easily accepted as doctors and lawyers than as pitchers and point guards.

Author Jessica Gavora thinks that's the wrong question. She argues in a new book
that Title IX causes sex discrimination instead of ending it. A coalition of
coaches that agrees is in federal court challenging Title IX's regulations.

Proponents laud the law as life-altering and empowering. Opponents say its
enforcement regulations are a blunt instrument used to kill men's teams. The
Clinton administration backed Title IX; the Bush administration says it will,
although women's groups say they are worried.

"There is this anger, this angry backlash that truly did not exist about a year
ago," says Donna Lopiano, executive director of the Women's Sports Foundation.
"There are four stages of change: anger, retribution, acceptance and
celebration. I see a return to anger, a pitting of men vs. women, and that's not
what the public wants. They don't want it to be a fight between their sons and
their daughters."

Each side resorts to name-calling. The Independent Women's Forum, which opposes
Title IX's regulations, calls groups such as Lopiano's and the National Women's
Law Center "feminist special interest groups." Lopiano says the women's forum
uses "far-right rhetoric."

How is it that Title IX still hits a national nerve 30 years later? It isn't
just that men's sports have a long history and women's sports a shorter one: The
history of the law itself also helps explain why dozens of schools, if not
hundreds, remain out of compliance.

The broadly worded law needed written regulations to give it teeth, and these
came along slowly, in 1975 and 1979. The Supreme Court ruled in 1984 that the
law did not apply to programs such as athletics that were not direct recipients
of federal aid; Congress restored the law's full authority in 1988. (Timeline,
3C.)

"There wasn't much enforcement until about 10 years ago," says Jeffrey H.
Orleans, who helped write the original regulations and now is the Ivy League's
executive director. "It took years to come up with standards for enforcement.
The process is designed to take a long time" to try to get it right.

Even now, as supporters celebrate the law's birthday -- and the birthright they
say it represents -- the coalition of coaches led by the National Wrestling
Coaches Association is in federal court trying to get the standards struck down.
The coalition says it is not against Title IX as law. (Who, after all, is for
discrimination?) The coaches instead are against Title IX's underlying
regulations, particularly the one that proponents call proportionality and
critics call a quota.

Title IX supporters worry that President Bush, who campaigned against "strict
proportionality," will want the regulations rewritten. They point to his recess
appointment of Gerald Reynolds to run the Office for Civil Rights, the branch of
the Department of Education that enforces civil rights law. Reynolds, who
declined several interview requests, has a record of opposing gender and racial
preferences.

"We would be outraged if the Bush administration tried to rewrite the rules or
simply didn't enforce them," says Marcia Greenberger, co-president of the
National Women's Law Center. "Voters would be outraged, too."

Gavora doesn't think so. She took a leave from the Bush administration, where
she was a senior policy adviser in the Justice Department, to write Tilting the
Playing Field. In it she argues that Title IX has been turned on its head --
that it has become an anti-discrimination law that discriminates.

"The evidence is no longer ignorable," she says. "Title IX has created a new
class of victim." She says some colleges bar walk-ons from men's teams at the
same time coaches of women's teams sometimes struggle to fill out rosters.

Gavora says fewer women than men have an interest in sports so it is only
natural more men would want to play on college teams. Brown University tried a
similar argument in court a decade ago and lost. The wrestling coaches are
making a similar argument now except for this: They are challenging not an
individual school but the law's underlying regulations.

Compliance complex

Title IX as a concept is simple. The rules governing it are not.

Most of the 11 aspects of it -- governing such things as scholarships,
facilities and practice times -- are understood easily enough. But wrap your
mind around the three-part test the Office for Civil Rights uses to see if a
school passes the participation aspect. (A school needs to pass only one part of
this test to be in compliance.)

 * The first part, commonly called "proportionality," says the number of
athletes from each sex should be roughly equivalent to enrollment percentages.
If women make up half of a school's student body, about half of its athletes
should be women. Much of the controversy surrounding Title IX comes from this.
About one-third of schools where complaints were filed use this part to pass.

 * The second part says a school should show a history and continuing practice
of adding women's sports. Schools that have recently done so are probably in
compliance, though perhaps not for long. If a school uses this test to pass for
long enough, theoretically it will pass one of the others eventually. Few
schools where complaints were filed use this part to pass.

 * The third part says a school should be able to show the athletic interests
and abilities of women on campus are being fully and effectively accommodated.
This often requires an extensive survey to prove a school is offering all of the
women's sports its students want and can play and that its region can support.
About two-thirds of schools where complaints were filed use this part to pass.

Critics attack proportionality as a quota -- or, as Gavora puts it, "affirmative
androgyny." Proponents say it can't be a quota because there are other ways to
pass.

"Calling it a quota makes for a good campaign slogan, but it is simply not
true," says Valerie Bonnette, who runs a consulting firm on Title IX issues.
"You can have an enrollment of 55% women where only 35% of the athletes are
women and still be in compliance as long as you can show you've met the
interests and abilities."

Attorney Larry Joseph, who represents the coalition of coaches challenging the
regulations, says many athletics directors worry that the second and third parts
are difficult to quantify: "How do you fully accommodate if you can't be sure
what 'fully' means?"

In its 1996 clarification, the Office for Civil Rights called proportionality a
"safe harbor." Some athletics directors have come to think of it as the safest
way to pass. Joseph says schools that can't pass the first test are only a
lawsuit away from finding out if they pass one of the others.

"Colleges are risk-averse places," Gavora says. "They want to run peaceful,
tidy, unassailable programs. They want to shield themselves from lawyers and
lawsuits. Brown is a famously liberal Ivy League school that ran a generous
sports program for women. When Brown challenged the proportionality quota, it
lost. You don't think colleges noticed that? The message was clear: Get in
proportion."

Teams terminated

More than 400 men's teams have been dropped in the Title IX era, about 170 in
wrestling. Greenberger says blaming that on Title IX is "a misinformation
campaign."

Greenberger says men's teams in other sports have been added over the years to
more than offset the teams dropped. She says schools that drop men's sports
often give reasons other than Title IX. And she points out that of the 948
schools that added one or more women's teams between 1992-2000, 72% did so
without dropping any teams, men's or women's.

All that is of little consolation to men in Olympic sports such as wrestling who
have seen teams become endangered species.

Miami (Fla.) will drop its men's swimming and diving team, the one that produced
Olympic gold medal diver Greg Louganis, after next season. This year, for the
first time, Miami had more female athletes than male: Almost 53%, close to its
55% female enrollment. But male athletes got about $ 641,000 more in
scholarships.

"Women get about 46% of our athletic financial aid," Miami athletic director
Paul Dee says, and under Title IX's regulations, "we need to get within 1% of
the 52.7% of our athletes who are women."

At the average NCAA Division I school, spending on men's sports is significantly
higher than on women's in terms of scholarship money, recruiting expenses and
coaches' salaries (see chart, this page). Discrepancies often arise from
football and men's basketball.

Miami is a football powerhouse. How does a football school, with as many as 85
scholarships for that program alone, even up its scholarship opportunities for
women? Dee says one example is in Miami's track program, where men get two
scholarships and women 18.

"The nutshell version is we try to do the right thing for men and women at
Miami," Dee says. "We don't like to eliminate opportunities for men. Sometimes,
though, it is unfortunate but necessary."

Greenberger says it is important to note that most schools don't cut men's
sports: "Title IX doesn't put a gun to the head of a school and say, 'You must
cut wrestling.' It doesn't say you must cut anything."

But athletic departments that want to cut spending can only do it on the men's
side, Gavora says, without risking a lawsuit.

"No one likes it when a men's sport is cut," Bonnette says. "But people usually
forget this: Schools that cut men's teams are doing it because they have a
history of discriminating against women."

Money tight

When Title IX began, women's collegiate sports were not played under the
umbrella of the NCAA, which at first tried to limit the law's scope in a series
of legal challenges. About 10 years later, the NCAA figured if you can't beat
them, join them -- or, in this case, have them join you.

The NCAA swallowed up the Association of Intercollegiate Athletics for Women and
recently celebrated 20 years of its own women's athletics. But the Ivy League's
Orleans thinks great opportunities for growth in women's athletics were lost in
those early years.

He points out that big TV money poured into the athletic coffers of colleges in
the power conferences, such as the Big Ten and Pacific-10, at the same time the
law was awaiting regulations (much of the 1970s) or was sidetracked by the
Supreme Court (much of the 1980s). But in the past dozen years or so, as federal
and state funding of colleges has lessened, the pressure to comply with Title IX
has increased. "New opportunities cost money," Orleans says, "and money is hard
to come by" these days.

Lopiano proposes a Robin Hood method of funding -- take from the rich (football
and men's basketball) and give to the poor (women's sports and the other men's
sports).

"Football is the elephant in the room no one wants to talk about," she says. It
brings in big money at the power schools but loses money in most places, she
says. She suggests taking some of the scholarships from football and giving them
to wrestlers and women.

"Football is a great sport, and it will stay strong," Lopiano says. "It would be
just as strong with 60 scholarships as it is today. And it would be healthier
and more compact, and more schools would make money on it."

Instead, she says, big-time colleges are in a big-bucks arms race.

"What are we doing? Look at this: We're siding with the wrestlers on the wrong
question. We're preoccupied with quotas, and we're not looking at the elephant."


Issue divides

Conventional wisdom says liberal Democrats love the law and conservative
Republicans loathe it -- fitting for a statute born the same week as Watergate.
But the more complex truth is that how you feel about Title IX is not determined
by ideology alone: Some Republicans are soccer moms, and some Democrats are
wrestling dads.

Title IX turns 30 amid celebration and controversy. The law that helped
popularize women's sports is in some respects more politically polarizing than
ever.

For that Lopiano grudgingly credits Gavora's book, the wrestling coaches'
lawsuit and the Independent Women's Forum. "This climate," she says, "has
resulted in a new aggressiveness on the part of administrators not to make
progress, to say, 'Forget it. We think there's going to be a change here. And we
think this administration is going to do what we want.' "

Gavora hopes that's the case. "I can't speak for the administration," she says.
"But I have hopes for common-sense reform."

Partisans on both sides of the issue will watch closely in the days and weeks
ahead to see what moves, if any, the Bush administration will make on Title IX
and what the court will decide in the case of the wrestling coaches, who want
the three-part test dismantled.

Title IX, which has made so much history, has much history yet to be written.


Much more than sports

While Title IX has become linked in public consciousness with athletics, the law
actually covers many more areas. Since 1994, the Department of Education's
Office for Civil Rights, which is charged with enforcing Title IX, has received
at least 4,571 complaints each year. A fraction deal with athletics. The
majority cover such issues as sexual harassment in schools, unavailability of
spots in various academic courses and different discipline based on gender.

Title IX complaints to the Office for CivilRights:

Year........Total received....... College athletics........High school,
elementary school athletics

1994........5,273................................19.............................
...................49

2001........4,571................................26.............................
...................73

Source: U.S. Department of Education

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Karl Gelles, USA TODAY, Source: NCAA (BAR GRAPH)

TYPE: COVER STORY

                      Copyright 2002 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              72 of 141 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   September 17, 2002, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

United, unions dig in for deal to dodge Chapter 11

BYLINE: Marilyn Adams

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 1544 words

United Airlines' deadline is approaching.

One month ago, its parent, UAL, announced the company would file for Chapter 11
protection this fall unless it had won big contract concessions from its unions
by now. The airline, which has lost more than $ 3 billion since January 2001,
demanded the cost cuts to help it qualify for a crucial federal loan guarantee
and raise $ 2 billion in emergency cash.

"We do not see bankruptcy as inevitable," United Chief Financial Officer Jake
Brace said Monday.

United's unions have spent weeks crunching numbers to propose several billion
dollars' worth of painful givebacks. But as union leaders present their
counteroffer to UAL this week, the airline and labor appear to be far apart on
what United said it needs and what the unions say they can give in the next
several years.


While United says it's encouraged, many who have watched the airline's stormy
labor relations in recent years question whether a deal can be signed or
ratified by workers in time to avert a crisis. Out of caution, United is
preparing for Chapter 11.

The prospect of the largest airline bankruptcy in history is spreading alarm.
Based on 2001 revenue, United is the world's second-biggest airline, with 83,000
employees, nearly 600 jets and 1,900 flights a day. Experts worry that a UAL
bankruptcy would put severe pressure on already-weakened creditors and
competitors. Coupled with low ticket revenue and the possibility of higher fuel
prices if the U.S. attacks Iraq, a UAL filing could squeeze other cash-strapped
carriers, too.

A United filing -- if it occurs -- probably wouldn't come until October or
November. The airline would keep flying under bankruptcy-court protection, and
labor-management talks could continue. Nor would United be the first U.S.
airline to enter bankruptcy court; some have been there repeatedly and kept
flying. US Airways, which filed Chapter 11 last month, still operates, though
with a reduced schedule. A post-bankruptcy United likely would be healthier.

United's passengers, however, would feel an impact. "If United files, it's going
to involve substantial cuts in the routes it serves," says Boston lawyer Jon
Schneider, who represented creditors in the bankruptcies of Eastern Airlines and
Continental Airlines. "There's a fundamental problem here: They are losing money
. . .  and they have to stop that."

People familiar with United's problem estimate the shrinkage would be at least
10% as it shed unprofitable routes. The airline probably would park more planes,
especially Boeing 747s, which are the most expensive to operate and hardest to
fill in this economy. Though it's not clear which United routes would suffer, US
Airways after its bankruptcy filing dropped one city, cut 13% of its flying
capacity and discontinued 36 routes. It also tried to change the rules on its
non-refundable tickets and frequent-flier program but later rescinded the most
drastic changes.

United's immediate hurdle is an $ 875 million debt payment due in November.
Saying it won't have enough cash and that it has been shut out of the capital
markets, United has applied to the federal Air Transportation Stabilization
Board for a $ 1.8 billion loan guarantee so it can borrow $ 2 billion. The
guarantee is assurance to lenders that the loan would be repaid. The board, made
up of representatives from the departments of Transportation and the Treasury
and the Fed, has taken a skeptical view of applicants and has insisted on sharp
cost cuts in airline business plans before it will consider aid.

Other concerns loom

The upcoming debt payment isn't United's only worry. The travel climate remains
grim a year after the attacks. And thanks to vicious competition, fares are at
15-year lows, pummeling revenue. The post-Sept. 11 recovery of passenger traffic
stalled months ago, and traffic at big network carriers plummeted again the
first week of September this year, off 15% on average from a year earlier.
Although airlines suspect passengers were avoiding the terror-attack
anniversary, they aren't sure bookings will firm this fall.

United's big creditors are taking stock of their exposure. Boeing Capital, the
airplane builder's financing subsidiary, recently warned of a "material adverse
effect" if UAL were to default on its $ 1.27 billion in loans and leases on
airplanes. United is Boeing Capital's single biggest customer and represents
nearly 12% of the company's outstanding loans and leases.

Airbus is also exposed. It has firm orders from United for 45 planes, worth
about $ 2.25 billion based on list prices. Three of the planes are in
production.

"This is all secured by aircraft," says Boeing Capital spokesman Russ Young. But
since airlines already have parked many planes and there's a glut, aircraft
aren't worth what they were last year. "The question of exposure would be how
much the airplanes . . .  are worth now," he says. "We're watching that very
carefully."

The first creditors to see payments disrupted would be unsecured creditors, such
as United's big hub airports dependent on airline fees and service companies
such as aircraft maintenance, catering and fuel firms.

Competitors are bracing themselves, too. "We are taking this seriously," says
Elise Eberwein, a vice president for Frontier Airlines, a Denver-based discount
carrier that competes with United there. Frontier could benefit if United cuts
routes or flights but would be hurt "if United decided to compete against us
with irrational pricing," Eberwein says. "You don't know which scenario to plan
for. They are so big, and we have 35 planes."

At a time when raising cash has become extremely tough, some United competitors
are worried about a United bankruptcy for other reasons. Airline executives "are
very concerned about two things this fall: a war with Iraq and a United
bankruptcy," says Gerry Pasciucco, a senior Morgan Stanley investment banker who
specializes in airline financing and is advising United. "A bankruptcy would
send a negative signal to the markets about airlines' ability to get labor
concessions short of bankruptcy."

The fear, he says, is that a United Chapter 11 filing in this environment could
dry up already-tight credit during the slow fall and winter travel period and
put cash-strapped, highly leveraged carriers at risk.

A UAL filing "would probably do further damage" to airlines' access to cash,
adds Standard & Poor's bond analyst Phil Baggaley. If United returned planes to
creditors, it would worsen the glut of unwanted planes and make lenders wary of
them as collateral.

Bankruptcy talk and the industry's other ills have taken a toll on airline
shares. Last week, FMR Corp., parent of Fidelity, the nation's largest
mutual-fund company, disclosed to the SEC that it had dumped virtually all its
stock in United parent UAL, whose shares are trading under $ 3. FMR dropped its
stake to a few hundred UAL shares from 3.1 million, a 5.6% stake, a month
earlier. It also disclosed it had slashed its stake in Continental Airlines, to
3% from 12.8% four months ago. Last month, FMR disclosed it cut its stake in
Delta Air Lines to 7.5% from 12.5% last Dec. 31. Fidelity declined comment on
the moves.

Preparing the papers

While it works to stay out of bankruptcy court, United is methodically preparing
for a bankruptcy filing. Experts say advance work for such a filing, including
lining up debtor-in-possession financing, can take weeks or months for a big
company. United hired law firm Kirkland & Ellis last fall. It recently signed on
financial adviser Rothschild North America. New York-based Rothschild is known
on Wall Street for advising companies on restructuring and bankruptcy.

Union leaders acknowledge that they, too, have hired bankruptcy specialists to
protect their interests in court. United is 55% owned by employees, and
representatives of the mechanics and the pilots unions have seats on the board.
In a bankruptcy, that equity likely would be wiped out. Employees fear losing
their huge personal investment and their board votes.

Employee ownership at United adds a peculiar complexity to talks. United's
former president and COO, unpopular with the unions, recently resigned. New CEO
Glenn Tilton, an oil executive hired by the board two weeks ago with the support
of the mechanics and pilots unions, now must negotiate with them for cuts in
pay, benefits and work rules.

Those unions have been down a similar road before: In 1994, the International
Association of Machinists (IAM) and the Air Line Pilots Association agreed to
major contract concessions over six years in exchange for stakes in the company
and seats on the board. Monday, UAL shares closed at $ 2.68.

Tom Buffenbarger, international president of the IAM, United's largest union,
says he believes bankruptcy can still be avoided.

"If it isn't avoided, all parties have failed to do their jobs," he said. Asked
if he thinks his union's members will vote to ratify pay cuts after receiving
hard-won contracts and raises a few months ago, Buffenbarger didn't commit. "I'm
not going to predict that. There's too much that's unpredictable in this
industry."

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, Color, Sam Ward, USA TODAY (ILLUSTRATION); GRAPHIC, B/W, Marcy
E. Mullins, USA TODAY, Source: United Airlines (BAR GRAPH)

TYPE: COVER STORY

                      Copyright 2002 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              76 of 141 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    October 25, 2002, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Aviator a beauty to drive, but not to behold

BYLINE: James R. Healey

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 10D

LENGTH: 1401 words

DATELINE: HOT SPRINGS, Va.

HOT SPRINGS, Va. -- Ford Motor has given buyers a dreadful choice.

Buy the handsome, no-nonsense Explorer and get a pretty darn good all-around
SUV, or pony up some $ 10,000 more for the gauche Lincoln Aviator and luxuriate
in one of the best-driving SUVs on the road. Not fair.

Can't we have an option on the Explorer that would give it the chassis changes
that make Aviator feel so sweet?

Aviator goes on sale next week, and if you can stomach its overbearing grille,
mandatory running boards, overdone rump and somewhat tacky interior -- or if,
for goodness sakes, you like those things -- Aviator rewards you with a roomy
package that'll sprint athletically, corner as if dancing and doesn't force you
into maddening jiggles of the steering wheel just to go straight.


In fact, Aviator seems nicer to drive than the Mercedes-Benz M-class, BMW X5 and
Acura MDX SUVs, all on hand here for comparison. Each of those fancy machines
can come up with a dominant point, but none felt as good overall as Aviator did
in the Shenandoah Mountains along the Virginia-West Virginia border, some of the
sweetest countryside there is.

Aviator is dynamically delectable, doing the devil's work forcing you to
compromise on aesthetics to get the Lincoln's spirit. It's tailored to resemble
somebody's idea of a big, overdone Detroit luxury vehicle. "Expressive" is
Lincoln's term. The interior harkens to the 1961 Lincoln Continental, considered
a high-water mark by some.

The truck's dumb stuff, however, blunts the powerful allure of Aviator's driving
behavior.

 * The standard third-row seat -- got to have one nowadays, whether you'll use
it or not -- is similar to Explorer's optional back-row seat, and is a bear to
rise. Folds forward with ease: Lift a latch on the top edge and push. But just
try to reach that same latch to pull up the seat back. You need basketball arms,
or a stepladder, or you must crawl inside the truck. Lincoln says nobody's
complained, so why bother making it easier? (How about because the arrangement
is aggravating?)

 * Door-panel power-switch pods take up too much space. They won't let you splay
your legs comfortably the way some people like to when cruise-controlling down
the highway. Other SUVs mount the switches differently and feel roomier because
of it.

Lincoln says nobody complains about the arrangement, also used on Explorer and
Mercury Mountaineer, so why change? (Because it would improve comfort.)

 * Most of the power windows don't open or close fully with one tap of the
switch. You have to hold the switches in place on all but the driver's window
and the sunroof. That's downscale on a $ 40,000-plus machine. Lincoln says
people don't seem to mind, so why spend money on one-touch mechanisms? (Because
they're handy and a mark of luxury.)

 * Space for keeping a cellphone and other necessaries handy is gone, swiped by
the floor-mounted gearshift lever. Lincoln says OK, but what truck does it
better? (The $ 20,000 Kia Sorento SUV.)

 * Satin-tone interior trim looks chintzy. Lincoln says it's tested to be sure
it'll never wear off. Good, because chintzy stuff that's worn looks wretched.

 * You must keep an access panel raised to fiddle with the stereo. Ugly. Some
stereo controls are duplicated on the steering wheel, helping minimize the
problem.

 * The rocker panels, in an attempt to integrate the running boards into the
styling, have what resembles the kind of gouge you'd get if you turned too
sharply and dragged the side of the truck along a stubby, sturdy post. The
effect comes off much better than the same approach on the larger Navigator SUV,
but it still looks wrong.

A lot can be forgiven when a vehicle drives as nicely as Aviator does. Aviator
overcomes its handicaps to leave a positive impression after nearly 400 miles.

Not only does it handle exceptionally well, it's:

 * Generally comfortable. Seats seem well-formed and -- miracle -- the lumbar
support is well-positioned and easy to fine-tune. Noise is minimal. Extra-thick
side windows and careful attention to noise sources and paths promote quiet.

 * Fun. Strong acceleration is an obvious reason. But the same interior schlock
that's off-putting can, when you're in a forgiving mood, make you feel as if you
really are inside something special -- or a replica of something special -- with
history and breeding.

 * Secure. Ford's optional all-wheel drive distributes power to all four wheels
for sure-footed dry-road handling as well as sloppy-weather traction. Some
four-wheel drives wind up sending all power to just one or two wheels in
challenging conditions. Ford's is a good system for conventional use.
Unfortunately, it lacks low-range gears for crawling through mud or up steep
boat ramps.

Rollover protection and other safety gear offers peace of mind.

 * Responsive. That's not just a reference to the crisp way it handles or the
quick way it follows the steering wheel movements or the prompt way it halts
when braked. It's a general reference to how the truck feels, everything from
knobs that seem precise to a body that doesn't heel over and scare you when you
enter a turn too fast.

Whether you love the look or hate it, it's probably wise not to get too hung up
on the styling. You'd be focusing on the wrong part. Despite its kitschy
presentation, Aviator's a sophisticate where it counts.


2003 Lincoln Aviator

* What is it? Midsize, four-door, six- or seven-passenger, luxury sport-utility
vehicle loosely based on the Ford Explorer and meant to fill a gap in Lincoln's
lineup; available with rear-wheel (4x2) or all-wheel (AWD) drive.

* How soon? On sale next week.

* How much? 4x2 models: luxury, $ 39,995, including $ 740 destination charge;
premium, $ 42,915. AWD models: luxury, $ 42,945; premium, $ 45,865. Dealer costs
are available on Edmunds.com and many other car-shopping Web sites.

* What's the powertrain? 4.6-liter V-8 rated 302 horsepower at 5,750 rpm, 300
pounds-feet of torque at 3,250 rpm; five-speed automatic transmission.
Limited-slip differential is optional on 4x2 models. AdvanceTrac anti-skid and
traction-control system optional on AWD, beginning in December.

* What's the safety gear? Front safety-belt pretensioners and force limiters;
dual-stage front-impact air bags; so-called Safety Canopy head and thorax
side-impact air bags for first and second rows, which stay inflated a few
seconds in rollovers; Park Assist backup alarm.

* What else? Luxury model comes with leather upholstery and authentic wood trim;
automatic climate control; power steering, brakes, windows, locks, mirrors,
seats; power adjustable pedals; memory settings for driver's seat, outside
mirrors, power pedals; remote-control locks; AM/FM/CD/cassette stereo;
tilt-adjustable steering column; cruise control; outside-mirror defrosters; fog
lights; automatic headlights; P245/65R-17 all-season tires on painted aluminum
wheels; full-size spare. Premium model adds or substitutes enhanced stereo with
six-CD changer; heated and cooled front seats; machined alloy wheels.

* How big? About the same size as Ford Explorer. Aviator is 193.3 inches long,
76 inches wide (83.9 inches with mirrors), 71.4 inches tall on a 113.7-inch
wheelbase. Weight is listed as 4,805 pounds (4x2) or 4,957 lbs. (AWD). Rated to
carry people and cargo totaling 1,195 lbs. (4x2) or 1,247 (AWD). Tows 3,500 lbs.
in standard trim or 7,100 lbs. (AWD) or 7,300 lbs. (4x2) with towing option.

* How thirsty? Rated 13 miles per gallon in town, 18 mpg on the highway (all
models) on premium fuel. Test truck recorded about 12 mpg in town, 15 mpg in
50/50 mix of suburban/highway driving, 18 mpg in mostly highway driving.

* Overall: Amazingly pleasant to drive. Too bad about that styling.

---

More online

* Chat online with James R. Healey at 2 p.m. ET today at talk.usatoday.com.

* To ride along for part of the Test Drive, and to read current and past columns
online, go to usatoday.com. Click the green Money button, then Autos, then Test
Drive. Or use this address: www.usatoday.com/money/columns/ healey/index.htm

* E-mail testdrive@usatoday.com

* Check for crash-test scores at www.nhtsa.dot.gov and www.iihs.org. Find out
about incentives at www .nadaguides.com and www .edmunds.com.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS, B/W, Ford Motor (2); Ahhh factor: With its smooth-yet-quick
handling, Aviator seems nicer to drive than the Mercedes-Benz M-class, BMW X5
and Acura MDX.

                      Copyright 2002 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              77 of 141 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    November 5, 2002, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Church sex-abuse policy praised, panned

BYLINE: Cathy Lynn Grossman

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 9D

LENGTH: 749 words

In the searing glare of public outrage, Catholic bishops made a public pledge in
Dallas last June: zero tolerance for sexual abuse of minors by priests.

They hammered out a tough-sounding policy for dealing with abuse but were vague
on specifics.

The Vatican held back approval of the changes in church law proposed to
implement the policy until a joint committee of U.S. bishops and Vatican
officials could work out the acceptable language. They worked out revisions last
week in Rome, and on Monday, the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops released
the details. If bishops accept this version when they meet next week in
Washington, D.C., the Vatican's final approval is assured.


Many bishops praised the changes as a welcome path to clarity, with a
step-by-step set of procedures and the lines of bishops' and Vatican authority
spelled out.

The bottom line is still "zero tolerance," says Cardinal Francis George, who
served on the revision committee in Rome.

"It's not significantly different from what we did in June," says Bishop Joseph
Galante of Dallas. "But it was not done in the supercharged emotional climate of
Dallas in June. This was done in a calm, deliberative way. The insistence on the
protection of children and young people has been strongly safeguarded, and the
desire to reach out to victims and bring healing reaffirmed."

Victims, however, called it a "Rube Goldberg" contraption that would frighten
victims into silence, allow abusive priests to stall while their cases wind
through new layers of bureaucracy, and let bishops off the hook for ignoring or
sheltering pedophiles.

Critics object to provisions that:

 * Cut laypeople out of the process by keeping allegations secret and setting up
church tribunals, judged by clerics, to investigate and rule on disputed cases.

"It's arguably worse than the Dallas version because it gives more control to
the church and less to laypeople," says David Clohessy of the Survivors Network
of those Abused by Priests.

"The Vatican's underlying concern may not be protecting children but preserving
the privilege and status of priests and bishops," says Linda Pieczynski,
spokeswoman for Chicago-based Catholic reform group Call to Action.

 * Revive the church's statute of limitations requiring victims to file
complaints by age 28. That had been lifted in the Dallas document.

Although bishops can proceed to remove a priest with the Vatican's approval even
in the case of a single allegation that's decades old, it appears now to be a
matter of discretion between the bishop and Rome. That's a disaster for victims,
says Boston attorney Carmen Durso. "Not one of the 70 victims I represent is
younger than 30. It takes many years before someone can face these terrible
experiences in their childhood."

 * Muddy accountability. What does a bishop have to do and who keeps track
whether he did it? asks the Rev. Thomas Reese, editor of the Catholic magazine
America. He says four canon lawyers he consulted Monday were all confused.

Stephen Pope, chairman of the department of theology at Boston College, says the
policy "is still 'one strike and you're out' once someone is clearly labeled an
abuser. But it isn't really asking the bishops to accept full accountability for
their own actions."

TEXT OF QUOTES BEGINS HERE

Bishop Joseph Galante of Dallas:

"In Dallas we said, 'We get it!' Now, not only do we get it, but we can say
'Rome supports it.' The Vatican never rejected the policy. They fine-tuned it.
They took everything we had done and even added to it. The basic principle
remains: The safety of children and reaching out to victims remains our primary
concern."

David Clohessy, director of the Survivors Network of those Abused by Priests:

"No matter how you slice and dice it, they have created a cumbersome and
confusing process, controlled by guys with collars. The bishops may be saying,
'Come on down and we'll listen to you,' but the fine print will deter survivors
from coming forward and bishops from acting promptly."

Stephen Pope, chairman of the Theology Department, Boston College:

"The revisions provide very healthy checks and balances for new cases. But this
policy, like (the policy approved in) Dallas, doesn't really ask the bishops to
accept full accountability for their actions. They are talking about the
violation of trust by priests, but not the violation of trust by bishops."

LOAD-DATE: November 05, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Evan Vucci, AP; PHOTO, B/W, Ron Heflin, AP; PHOTO, B/W, Lee
Pellegrini, Boston College

                      Copyright 2002 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              78 of 141 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    November 29, 2002, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Nissan's Murano crosses over nicely

BYLINE: James R. Healey

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 8D

LENGTH: 1386 words

Nissan is launching Murano to join one of the industry's biggest parties --
so-called crossover sport-utility vehicles. Those are based on car chassis for
comfortable ride and agile handling, but they have the jacked-up look, high
seating position and generally roomy cargo areas that mark an SUV.

Murano -- $ 33,000 to $ 37,000 with popular options -- went on sale earlier this
month. It's smaller than Acura MDX and has no third-row seat as MDX does, and
it's bigger than Lexus RX 300.

Murano is built on a modified version of the car platform that Nissan introduced
in the latest Altima. Named after fancy Italian glass, it's available with
front-wheel or four-wheel drive.


Marquee features are oddball styling and a continuously variable automatic
transmission (CVT). All Muranos come with CVT; neither conventional automatic
nor manual transmission is available.

CVT is a type of heavy-duty belt drive. A reinforced steel belt runs between two
pulleys. One is hooked to the engine. As the engine turns that pulley, the belt
transfers power to the other pulley that powers the drive wheels.

The pulleys vary their diameters according to driver demands and other
conditions. Varying the diameters is the same as changing the gear ratios, but
it happens in a flow, instead of in four or five or six steps.

The obvious benefit is smoothness because there's no shifting. But CVTs are more
efficient, too, and thus save a little fuel.

A typical CVT's performance is mildly marred by reluctance to get going. Step on
the gas, and there's a sluggish response for a moment, then things wake up
nicely. Nissan's seems to be the least sluggish.

The other quirk is that CVTs can keep the engine revved longer than usual. Nail
the gas, and the engine zooms to near its red line and stays there until the
vehicle picks up quite a bit of speed. Once a CVT vehicle is rolling along
briskly, the CVT ratios begin to change and the engine speed eases back.

You get used to a CVT's personality quickly, but you might never come to like
it.

Murano's styling is unusual because there are so many crossover SUVs and "we
wanted to stand out from the get-go," says Mitch Davis, senior marketing manager
for SUVs at Nissan North America. One nice touch: 18-inch-diameter wheels and
tires are standard, rather than 16-inchers.

Compared with the two vehicles it most resembles in appearance and philosophy --
MDX and RX 300 -- Murano comes out reasonably well. Its biggest weakness is
price. While the $ 29,000 base number sounds alluring, almost everything you
want is extra. It's easy to boot the sticker price past $ 37,000. At that point,
you could buy an MDX or RX 300. The Lexus, especially, is more nicely furnished
and seems far classier than the Murano.

But the Nissan is more fun to drive than others, having a sportier-feeling
suspension and agreeable chemistry with brisk driving on curvy roads. That's
supposed to be the beauty of crossover SUVs -- car-like handling. Murano is
unusual in keeping that promise as well as it does.

Other notables from the test drive of a preproduction model in the daily grind:

 * Sprightliness. It's hard to dislike a machine that gets right to work when
you ask it to. Murano uses Nissan's lively 3.5-liter V-6 that's rated 245
horsepower (vs. 220 hp in RX 300, 260 hp in the MDX).

It seems a good match with the CVT. The transmission is well-tuned to keep the
engine zipping along. The powertrain also gets you up to safe speed on the big
roads without stress.

 * Details. Murano uses the same unattractive, watered-down orange color for
instrument panel lighting. Easy enough to read, but so are the better-looking
greens and blues that rivals favor.

One of the cupholders can be modified for taller or shorter beverage containers,
but can't be adjusted to hold fat ones.

 * Affectation. Murano has a faux feel inside. Metallic-finish plastic trim is
supposed to look modern and expensive, but it just looks like silvered plastic.

The stack of stereo and climate controls are in a center pod. They seem a
contrivance, done for fashion, not convenience. The controls work fine and are
handy enough, but the pod is a gimmick.

 * Styling. Conservative colors such as silver look better than bold ones. The
copper-tone test machine was jarring, like a jumble of mismatched styling
details.

The styling is not just a taste issue. It actually interferes with the vehicle's
usefulness. Upswept rear panels reduce outward visibility by slicing the
rear-most side windows into small triangles. Those overdone pillars also creep
into the driver's periphery enough to give the false impression that a big
vehicle is lurking close to your blind spot. You find yourself turning your head
to the side to double-check.

The hood bulges at the center, then falls forward, making it hard to know when
the pointy front end is about to get bent.

Nevertheless, attributes outweigh disappointments -- except for that troubling
issue of price. Is Murano best? No. Is it a fresh and welcome alternative among
crossover SUVs? You bet. It's a rare blend among such machines: fun, feisty and
distinctive.



2003 Nissan Murano

* What is it? Midsize, four-door, five-passenger sport-utility vehicle based on
Nissan Altima sedan; available in front-wheel drive (fwd) or four-wheel (4x4)
drive; manufactured in Japan.

* How soon? On sale just now at most Nissan dealerships.

* How much? SL fwd model starts at $ 28,739, including $ 540 destination charge.
SE fwd is $ 29,539. SL 4x4 is $ 30,399. SE 4x4 is $ 31,139. Edmunds.com says
typical Murano would be an SE 4x4 priced at $ 34,638 -- and expect to pay full
window-sticker price.

* What's the powertrain? 3.5-liter V-6 rated 245 horsepower at 5,800 rpm, 246
pounds-feet of torque at 4,400 rpm; continuously variable automatic transmission
(CVT).

4x4 system is front drive until front wheels slip, then sends up to 50% of power
to the rears. Driver can lock the system so that, at low speed, half the power
goes to each end, regardless of wheelspin.

* What's the safety gear? Front-seat, side-impact air bags and side-curtain,
head-protection bags; anti-lock brakes with electronic brake-force distribution
and brake assist.

* What's the rest? SL comes with dual-zone automatic climate control with rear
seat ducts; power steering, brakes, driver's seats, windows, locks, mirrors;
AM/FM/CD stereo; steering wheel audio controls; trip computer; cruise control;
leather-covered steering wheel; tilt-adjustable steering column; rear-window
defroster; auto on-off headlights; auto-dimming inside mirror; fog lights;
HomeLink remote control; three 12-volt outlets; 235/65R-18 tires on five-spoke
alloy wheels; mini spare tire.

SE adds or substitutes high-intensity-discharge headlights; six-spoke alloy
wheels; different bumper trim and interior trim.

* How big? Longer, taller, wider than Lexus RX 300; shorter, narrower and lower
than Acura MDX. Murano is 187.6 inches long, 74 inches wide, 66.5 inches tall on
a 111.2-inch wheelbase. Passenger compartment is listed as 109.9 cubic feet.
Cargo space is listed as 32.6 cubic feet behind rear seat, 81.6 cubic feet when
seat's folded. Weight ranges from 3,801 to 3,960 pounds, depending on model.
Rated to carry 1,057 to 1,098 pounds of people and cargo, depending on model.
Rated to tow 3,500 pounds.

* How thirsty? Rated 20 miles per gallon in town, 24 (4x4) or 25 (fwd) on the
highway, on premium fuel. Regular is OK but causes slight power loss. Test
model's trip computer showed an average of only 13.5 mpg in vigorous,
short-trip, suburban driving.

* Overall: Surprisingly sporty and expensive.

---

More online

* To read current and past Test Drive columns online, go to usatoday.com. Click
the green Money button, then Autos, then Test Drive. Or you can use this
address: www.usatoday.com/money/columns/ healey/index.htm.

* E-mail testdrive@usatoday.com.

* Check for crash-test scores at www.nhtsa.dot.gov and www.iihs.org. Find out
about incentives at www.nada guides.com and www.edmunds.com.

* No chat today, but you can chat with James R. Healey at 2 p.m. ET most Fridays
at talk.usatoday.com.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS, B/W, Nissan (2); Sporty vehicle: Nissan's Murano, at a base of
$29,000, is a mean, lean machine. Extras can add thousands of dollars to the
cost. Shiny new: Metallic-finish trim can't disguise the center pod's plastic
feel, but the controls are fine and handy.

                      Copyright 2002 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              79 of 141 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    December 23, 2002, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Investors need federal help

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 518 words

A year and a half ago, federal regulators and Congress had stock analysts in
their cross hairs. Mounting evidence suggested the analysts were behaving more
like used-car salesmen eager to peddle lemons than as thoughtful researchers
intent on helping investors choose the best stocks. The Securities and Exchange
Commission (SEC) found that analysts often unloaded the very companies they were
touting to investors, and Congress threatened action if the industry didn't
clean up its act.


The result: nothing. Congress bowed to Wall Street lobbying against reforms. The
SEC let the matter drop. Even after the collapse of Enron and WorldCom, whose
stocks were being promoted by analysts almost to the end, major investment
companies successfully fended off comprehensive changes.

In the absence of action from Washington, New York Attorney General Eliot
Spitzer waged his own campaign against the corrupt practice. On Friday, he
announced a $ 1.4 billion settlement with investment banks that improves the
reliability of stock analysis. His much-needed effort serves as a model for a
federal government reluctant to crack down on corporate abuses to ensure that
small investors get a fair deal from Wall Street. Such pressure is needed to
curb an industry that has shown it cannot exercise self-restraint in pursuit of
its own gains.

Spitzer issued his first complaint against Merrill Lynch in April, and broadened
his investigation to other major firms. It revealed that investment banks
pressured their stock analysts to issue positive reports on companies whose
business the banks were trying to lure. The practice produced a series of upbeat
assessments that often misled investors who were relying on the analysts'
expertise to make stock picks.

The embarrassing evidence Spitzer accumulated forced the industry to agree to
several reforms it had blocked in Congress. Among the provisions agreed to
Friday, investment banks will:

 * Pay $ 450 million to buy stock research from independent companies and send
it to clients along with their in-house reports.

 * Publicize their analysts' performance each quarter.

 * End bonuses to analysts for bringing in business to their banks.

These fixes will help average investors gain access to quality research on
stocks vital to making sound decisions.

Much as these changes are needed, they won't wring out all the abuses that can
still occur on Wall Street. Research and banking departments will continue to be
housed under one roof, leaving in place the temptation by the banks to use their
analysts to attract business. A better fix would be to completely separate
research work from banking. The reforms also try to stop banks from offering hot
new stock issues to favored corporate clients. A fairer approach would be to
replace the current system, which lets banks pick who gets in on new stock
issues, with an auction that is open to all.

Still, ordinary investors have more protections today thanks to Spitzer. They'll
feel even safer when Washington follows his lead, instead of Wall Street's.

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: DEBATE

                      Copyright 2002 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              81 of 141 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    January 11, 2002, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Hyundai Sonata strikes a chord

BYLINE: James R. Healey

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 8D

LENGTH: 1434 words

Those quiet footsteps are South Korean automaker Hyundai sneaking up behind the
famous Japanese brands.

Well, maybe the approach isn't so quiet. Hyundai's U.S. sales last year exploded
41.7% from the 2000 numbers, in a market down 1.3%.

The enormously successful Santa Fe sport-utility vehicle is a notable example of
Hyundai's recent success, selling so fast that the boats from South Korea can't
get here fast enough to keep the pipeline filled.

Less sexy, but possibly more important, is the Sonata sedan. Restyled inside and
out for 2002, and outfitted with premium features, it is the car Hyundai puts
head-to-head against the titans: Honda Accord and Toyota Camry. If buyers begin
to think of it as equal to those, Hyundai's success is pretty certain.


One definition of "sonata" is the first movement of a symphony, and that's the
sense you get, that the cleaned-up '02 Sonata is hint of big improvements to
come from Hyundai.

Here are new items of note and how they play.

 * Styling. It's the biggest difference between '02 and earlier models. Main
changes are the front and rear fenders, lights and bumpers, hood, grille and
trunk lid.

While South Korean stylists seem to be moving closer to what mainstream America
likes, they still can't help torturing the metal and plastic here and there,
instead of artfully shaping it. If anything marks Hyundai as a pretender, it's
that big, toothy, chrome-rimmed grille. And details seem overwrought on the area
beneath the grille and bumper. Sonata's new rump is pleasingly free of
affectation.

The car's amorphous headlights are as modern as any, not to say good-looking.
The globule lights everybody seems to use suggest designers don't know what to
do with them, so just slap them onto the ends of the fenders and mold them to
fit. Sleek, they'd argue. Tasteless, others might say. The cheapest Jeeps have
the right idea on headlights: round, period. They're distinct, functional,
front-end illumination.

 * Features and equipment. That's where Sonata ventures nicely into the premium
realm.

For example, the trunk lid has what are called link hinges, once the province of
luxury cars. They let the lid yawn wider for easy access to the trunk
compartment, which is 14.1 cubic feet -- up 1.1 from the previous model and a
match for Accord's, though shy of Camry's 16.1.

Flipper handles that release the trunk and gas-door latches are electric,
instead of the previous model's cable-operated mechanisms. They operated slickly
in the test car.

The top two models have 16-inch-diameter alloy wheels with Michelin tires,
considered a premium brand and used on some upmarket vehicles. The wheels looked
snappy, and the test car tires gave a quiet, untroubled ride.

Optional anti-lock brake system (ABS) and its integrated traction control now
come from Bosch, supplier to the stars.

Side-impact air bags are standard. You have to pay extra for them on many other
vehicles. The test was blessedly free of air bag opportunities.

Let's take a moment to question the logic of making extra air bags standard, to
help protect you after a crash, but making ABS optional, though it could save
you from a crash in the first place.

 * Delightful surprises. Perhaps the best selling point of any vehicle is that
it gives you grins you didn't expect. Sonata's were mainly inside.

Front seats were quite comfortable, despite the off-putting appearance of the
coarse cloth upholstery in the test car. And the back seats were a paragon. The
door opening was wide enough to let big folks in and out without stumble. The
back of the seat was angled enough for inviting comfort. And all three rear
seating slots had lap-shoulder combination safety belts.

Something as simple as the steering wheel was nicely done -- handsome and
pleasant to grab.

The fake wood trim was a downer but did manage to justify its existence by
serving as a welcome relief from the black interior's dreariness.

The automatic transmission lever had a manual-shift gate -- the good kind, where
one tap forward shifts up a gear, one tap back shifts down. That's easier and
more precise than manually shifting an automatic by dragging it through the
D-3-2-1 gear-position detents on the console. It's too easy to overshoot in that
type.

Of course, Sonata isn't heaven sent. It had its disappointments and
mediocrities.

The V-6 engine, standard on the top two models, felt only adequately powerful
despite being bigger than the one it replaces and rated 181 horsepower, up 11 hp
from previously.

The automatic, left in automatic, shifted just OK. Now that General Motors has
unleashed its delightful, European-made, five-speed auto box in the Cadillac
CTS, the bar's raised quite high. GM proves than an automatic can shift almost
seamlessly without any shock or jerk or slop. Hyundai's far from that standard.
But so are some bigger names, too. (Have you driven a Ford lately?)

Hyundai, and its Kia affiliate, try to calm nervous buyers uncertain about their
cars' longevity by offering longer-than-normal warranties. The one that gets
noticed, 10 years or 100,000 miles, is for the powertrain only. The
bumper-to-bumper warranty of five years or 60,000 miles is excellent, better
than luxury cars typically offer.

Sonata is the best-quality Hyundai, according to surveys by consultant J.D.
Power and Associates, but that's still a bit below the industry average.

The car's safety scores are encouraging. Sonata was rated "acceptable" in a
violent, 40-mile-per-hour crash test by the Insurance Institute for Highway
Safety (IIHS). On IIHS' dour scale, "acceptable" is second best. "Good" is top.

IIHS bases that on tests of a 1999 Sonata, which it says is mechanically the
same as the '02. IIHS says the results also apply to 2001-02 Kia Optima, based
on the same underpinnings.

Best car in the class, IIHS says, is Subaru Legacy. An IIHS "best pick," it got
"good" in all categories, except an "acceptable" for the foot well, which caved
in enough to probably injure a driver's right foot and leg. The federal
government, which assigns scores based on a 35-mph head-on crash, hasn't tested
the Sonata or Optima.

No, Sonata isn't as good as a Camry or an Accord. But it's a heck of a lot of
well-furnished, comfortable, smooth-driving car for $ 18,000, plus or minus. And
now it even looks decent.


2002 Hyundai Sonata

* What is it? Freshening of Hyundai's midsize car; a four-door, five-passenger,
front-wheel-drive sedan meant to rival Honda Accord and Toyota Camry.

* How soon? On sale now.

* How much? Base Sonata is $ 16,494, including $ 495 destination charge. Dealer
pays $ 14,806 after subtracting extra profit, called holdback, from dealer
invoice cost, according to Edmunds.com.

Midlevel GLS starts at $ 17,494 and costs the dealer $ 15,568, Edmunds.com says.
Top model, LX, is $ 18,819 and costs the dealer $ 16,649, Edmunds.com says.

Best bargain: Anti-lock brakes. Sticker price is $ 550; dealer cost is $ 515,
Edmunds.com reports.

* What's the package? Base model, called Sonata, comes with 2.4-liter,
4-cylinder engine rated 149 horsepower, 156 pounds-feet of torque; five-speed
manual transmission; side-impact air bags for front-seat occupants; air
conditioning; power steering, brakes, windows, mirrors, locks; AM/FM/CD stereo;
cruise control; variable-interval wipers; rear-window defroster; P205/65R-15
tires on steel wheels.

GLS adds or substitutes 2.7-liter V-6 rated 181 hp, 177 lbs.-ft.; cassette
player; upgraded carpet and upholstery; map lights; outside-mirror defrosters;
leather-wrapped steering wheel; power antenna; additional storage bins and cup
holders; 205/60R-16 tires on alloy wheels.

LX adds or substitutes leather upholstery; automatic climate control; power
driver's seat.

* How big? 2.5 inches shorter than Honda Accord, otherwise very close. Sonata is
186.9 inches long, 71.7 inches wide, 56 inches tall, on a 106.3-inch wheelbase,
with 100 cubic feet of passenger space and 14.1 cubic feet of trunk room. It
weighs 3,200 pounds, plus or minus, depending on model.

* How thirsty? 4-cylinder is rated 22 miles per gallon in town, 30 mpg on the
highway with either manual or automatic transmission. V-6 is rated 20/27.

* Overall? Pleasant to drive, easy to buy; the auto equivalent of that fabled
but unfound good 5-cent cigar.

---

More online

* To read online columns, go to usatoday.com, click on Money, then Autos, then
Test Drive.

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS, B/W, Hyundai (2); PHOTO, B/W; Success in waiting: Hyundai hits
a good note with its redesigned Sonata, which sells for about $18,000.
Delightful surprises: The Sonata's interior offered the most unexpected grins,
including comfortable seats.

                      Copyright 2002 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              84 of 141 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    February 4, 2002, Monday, FIRST EDITION

Tagliabue optimistic

BYLINE: Tom Pedulla

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 7C

LENGTH: 939 words

DATELINE: NEW ORLEANS

NEW ORLEANS -- The NFL is a robust league that can continue to prosper despite
present national economic problems, NFL Commissioner Paul Tagliabue says.

"I'm reasonably optimistic that we'll get through the current recession pretty
well and that we'll be able to work with the networks to deliver tremendous
value in the future," Tagliabue told owners, players and the media during the
weekend in his annual "State of the Game" address at the Super Bowl.

"I think the key for us is that our programming still stands far and away above
all other sports programming at the pinnacle of television in terms of the size
of our audience, the diversity of audience strength and the demographics.

"So we have some concerns, but they're balanced with a good deal of optimism and
confidence."


Among the NFL's concerns is the need to deliver value to networks that have made
massive investments. With the league halfway through its eight-year, $ 17.6
billion television contracts, that return is about to be tested. Those deals
call for rights fees to increase in the last three years of the contracts
beginning with the 2003 season.

According to Tagliabue, revenue generated through the first four years of those
agreements has allowed "most" of the networks to show a profit on their NFL
coverage in that span.

Still, he acknowledged during an extended question-and-answer session that
creativity would be needed to combat a pattern of declining ratings for all
major sports as viewers choose from a greater array of entertainment
opportunities than ever before.

"Do we have big concerns?" Tagliabue asked in response to a question about
television profitability. "No. Are we in discussions with the networks about the
future of their place with the NFL and television? Yes. Very much so.

"We're working closely with them, talking about the future, not just in terms of
the economics, but in terms of emerging technologies that can bring new and
better services to the fans."

'Monday Night' a concern

Another concern is the condition of Monday Night Football, which is no longer
the attraction it once was. Although ABC tried to pump up that slot by bringing
comedian Dennis Miller into the broadcast booth two years ago, there is no
indication that his commentary, often criticized for its obscure references, has
helped.

A more flexible form of scheduling might be a way to enhance television
packages, including Monday Night Football, suggested Tagliabue. Because of the
advanced nature of the current arrangement, the compelling story lines of the
AFC champion New England Patriots and resurgent Chicago Bears never enjoyed
Monday night exposure this season.

Tagliabue said that if flexible scheduling is implemented, the intent is to
benefit all networks.

"It's not going to be a cure-all," he warned.

Commenting further on Monday Night Football, he said: "The issues we face on
Monday night are not so much the quality of the game as they are the
fractionalization of the audience, the explosion of channels in the last decade,
and the explosion of viewer choices, which is sometimes called the wilderness of
choice on television, which is a much more direct factor in terms of our
audience size on Monday night than it is Sunday, when our product is
concentrated on NFL football."

Concerning expansion, Tagliabue indicated Los Angeles remains an area of great
interest to the NFL. Though a previous attempt to place an expansion team in Los
Angeles failed and the league is instead welcoming the fledgling Houston Texans
this year.

Tagliabue insists a fan base exists in the Los Angeles market, although there
was little expressed willingness to use public funds to help establish a team
when the issue was last explored in 1999.

"We want to leave no stone unturned to respond to that interest in the NFL, in
Los Angeles," he said. "We were disappointed that we were not able to solve it
in the last decade, and we will continue to go forward and try to respond to
that interest. It's a great area for football at all levels and, at some point,
we need to be there."

Another key to the future will be maintaining a commitment to youth football.
The league and NFL Players Association have pledged $ 150 million to that cause,
including grants that already have surpassed $ 20 million. Programs range from
rebuilding fields in every NFL city to assisting players with academics through
tutoring.

The NFL also is considering taking the Super Bowl to Northern cities with
open-air stadiums, specifically the New York/New Jersey area and Washington D.C.


"The idea that there would be a limited number of Super Bowl locations, focusing
perhaps on Miami, New Orleans, and southern California, I think it's passe in
our league," Tagliabue said.

Other topics discussed

* The death of Minnesota Vikings tackle Korey Stringer last summer prompted a
review of training camp policies. Tagliabue voiced general satisfaction with
what was previously done but said recommendations will be made during a league
meeting scheduled for March. He emphasized, however, that a standard approach is
impossible because of vast differences in climate and training camp regimens.

 * No significant change in the replay system is anticipated, though some
coaches have suggested that a successful challenge should not count against a
team. "I think it's working well. It's working as it was conceived, and the
ultimate safeguard is that replay is unlimited in the final two minutes when the
official comes in," the commissioner said.

LOAD-DATE: February 04, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Win McNamee, Reuters; New territory: Commissioner Paul
Tagliabue says the NFL is considering making the Super Bowl available to
Northern cities with open-air stadiums, such as the New York/New Jersey and
Washington, D.C. areas.

                      Copyright 2002 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              85 of 141 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   February 6, 2002, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

How go-along boards jam up firms

BYLINE: Jeffrey Sonnenfeld

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 1550 words

This past weekend, Enron's board of directors issued a report admitting that it
failed to provide leadership and oversight in a tragedy that could have and
should have been avoided. What many executives, employees, regulators,
politicians and investors now want answered is: How could Enron's board,
supposedly responsible to the firm's stakeholders, not have seen what was going
on earlier?

A close look at Enron's directors finds that its board was well equipped with
financial acumen to untangle the corporation's confusing financial report. The
prestigious outside directors of this moderate-sized board included a global
financier, a former top national financial regulator, an economist, a Stanford
accounting professor and business school dean and some prominent former CEOs.
The board's members even had an ethics code -- which they voluntarily suspended.



Enron directors had generally good attendance at meetings and large
shareholdings. One, Robert Belfer, reportedly burned through $ 2 billion of his
family's fortune as a loyal Enron investor. Enron director Frank Savage's firm,
Alliance Capital, so loyally purchased Enron shares through the fall that it
became the firm's largest shareholder, with 43 million shares at the time Enron
filed for bankruptcy protection.

Enron's board was a model of good governance -- at least based on the generally
accepted but antiquated definition of a successful board. A better one would
include:

 * A climate of trust and candor. Enron directors apparently were not told by
now-former CEO Kenneth Lay about the internal whistleblowers' warnings about
misleading financial reports. Nor were they trusted with the nervous
accountants' deliberations about related parties' third-party transactions.

In more ways than one, it pays not to run a business this way. New research from
the Chief Executive Leadership Institute at Yale shows top management teams that
share similar temperaments enjoy 4% to 6% higher market-adjusted earnings per
share than firms at which management lacked cohesiveness. The best ways to
counter suspicions and harmful factions are through a timely exchange of vital
reports to directors and by mixing directors to work on special projects for the
board and changing committees assignments.

 * A culture of open dissent. This enables firms to break down the dysfunctional
pressures of conformity. Dissenters at Enron were not given access to the board.
Board members themselves, perhaps eager to be good team players, seemed never to
question obvious warning signals, such as who their unnamed outside "major
financial institution" partners were or why their law firm was even involved in
reviewing auditors' work or financial machinations.

Yale's Irving Janis studied the triumphant and tragic decisions made by U.S.
presidents. He blamed many of the bad decisions on "groupthink. " The better
results, he found, came when advisers were most contentious.

Ken Langone, a board member of GE and The Home Depot, two admired firms, says
conformity "has nothing to do with money. It's got to do with the mind-set of an
individual who doesn't want to be a skunk at a lawn party." Instead, he said,
"the mind-set should be that they are the boss and the CEO works for them."
Similarly, Home Depot co-founder Bernie Marcus says he tells other firms, "I
don't think you want me on your board. I am contentious. I ask a lot of
questions, and if I don't get the answers, I don't sit down."

 * A fluid portfolio of roles. Enron board members seemed to happily wear their
ceremonial roles around the table -- government official, professor -- without
putting their skills to work, let alone switching their perspectives. The
chairman of the audit committee, for instance, held this position for more than
15 years.

The chairman, lead directors and other directors should be vigilant in getting
typecast directors to consider alternative perspectives and values. Otherwise,
directors tune out in board meetings, expecting replays of old, scripted
exchanges.

 * A belief in individual accountability. This is essential to prevent a
diffusion of responsibility. Astoundingly, following whistleblower revelations,
Lay could proclaim last August, while the firm was imploding: "I can honestly
say I've never felt better about the company, its business model, its
prospects." No directors acted to learn about the genuine nature of the
concealed money-losing assets through off-balance-sheet partnerships that they
-- at best, naively -- blessed. Nor did the board meet with employees who could
have revealed the truth.

A director's responsibility, says Home Depot's Marcus, is "more than to hire and
fire a CEO.  . . .  You must have the intelligence and courage to say that this
is wrong and that is right. Before we have a board member join our board, (he or
she) must agree to visit anonymously at least eight stores a quarter, and out of
state."

 * A system to evaluate performance.  No one can learn without feedback, but
congeniality appeared to be the Enron board's main performance criteria.
"Troublemaking" types with divergent views such as former executive Rebecca
Mark-Jusbasche were not retained. Few of the senior executives listed in Enron's
1999 annual report survived.

Shockingly, a National Association of Corporate Directors commission on which I
served found that 63% of CEOs say they have never been part of a board
evaluation as a director on an outside board. And 40% admit their own firms do
not have regular board-performance assessments.

"Board governance has become a cottage industry of superficial thought," says
William Donaldson, the former New York Stock Exchange chairman. "The most
important part of the board is the least examined; that is, that it's a social
entity."

The secret of good governance is that it cannot be decreed by structural rules.
If we do not change the internal dynamics of boards, we will continue to see
costly meltdowns of once-great firms.

 Jeffrey Sonnenfeld is associate dean of the Yale School of Management and
president of the Yale Chief Executive Leadership Institute.

LOAD-DATE: February 06, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Adrienne Lewis, USA TODAY (ILLUSTRATION)

                      Copyright 2002 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              87 of 141 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   February 14, 2002, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Cupid combat rages on campus

BYLINE: Laura Vanderkam

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 676 words

A Valentine's Day pop quiz: What is controversial about advocating "mutual
respect and a dash of romance" on this holiday?

I don't know, either. But that's the reason Penn State's Daily Collegian gave
for initially rejecting an ad with that message from the Independent Women's
Forum (IWF). The ad features a sad ball-and-chained Cupid outside a performance
of Eve Ensler's The Vagina Monologues, an off-Broadway hit turned campus cult
phenomenon. It urges young women to avoid the "victimology" of the play's
feminist promoters and restore more genteel relations between the sexes.


That, says IWF's Shannon James, was too much for the Collegian's business
manager, who told her the ad wouldn't run because it "might be too
inflammatory."

Promoting Valentine's Day and romance -- inflammatory?

You bet. Welcome to the latest battle in the campus wars that pit Valentine's
Day against V-Day, the name The Vagina Monologues' followers have given Feb. 14.
Each year, they celebrate by performing Ensler's play on hundreds of campuses.
The show is a combination of Ensler's inane prose paying homage to female
anatomy and horror tales of burqa-style repression, liberally sprinkled with
inflated rape and domestic-violence statistics. Admission fees help fund
battered women's shelters.

What romance?

The play is killing romance, traditionalists moan. After all, Valentine's Day is
about boy-girl love, which V-Day says is intimately bound to violence, or at
least bad sex. But romance is fairly comatose on campuses anyway, replaced by
drunken one-night stands. The Kaiser Family Foundation found that 31% of
sexually active 18-to-24-year-olds had gone further than they intended while
drunk or high (many of the others, I suspect, are lying). Lame hook-ups with
disrespectful guys who don't call will turn any girl off the idea of love.

Valentine's Day is more chick holiday than equal-expectation event anyway, as a
current Budweiser ad underscores: A woman spends hours picking the perfect card
while her boyfriend grabs one by the convenience-store counter on a beer run.

Part of V-Day's appeal is a visceral reaction against both the lack of respect
in meaningless sex and this traditional candy-hearted silliness. Why not do
something meaningful instead, like help women's shelters? Today's young women
rebel against the terrible notion, bred in junior high, that pleasing boys is
more important than achieving in school, sports or life. And sex no longer needs
to be wrapped in roses to be socially acceptable.

Monologues miss the mark

But V-Day isn't the solution, either. The Monologuers' righteous recitation of
the names they call their vaginas and the constant labeling of abusive behavior
as a conspiracy to keep women down do little to bring peace to the gender wars.

So it's a relief that the Collegian had a last-minute change of heart and told
the IWF the ad would run, because the ad hints at a compromise between
Pleasantville and the militant Monologuers. Readers are directed to
www.SheThinks.org, a Web site that tries to carve a third way. It urges women to
have lives and goals outside of boys, but also to reject victim feminism and
instead see men as lovers and, most importantly, people. Women can take the
initiative and "buy someone flowers," the ad says, but the Web site also urges
women to demand that their beaus spend time with them and treat them as equals
if they want any action. It's self-esteem, modesty and respect -- a perfect
combination for a holiday about real love.

That the folks at the Collegian worried that women would rise up in fury over
this concept shows how testy the campus climate is these days. But there is hope
for a Valentine's Day truce. Smith College's student newspaper, run by and for
women, accepted the "controversial" ad without getting hot and bothered enough
to melt a heart-shaped box of chocolates.

Laura Vanderkam, a 2001 graduate of Princeton, is a Collegiate Network intern at
USA TODAY.

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Danny Johnston, AP; Left by wayside? Road sign for Romance,
Ark.

                      Copyright 2002 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              94 of 141 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    April 3, 2002, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Risk-taking is not a crime

BYLINE: Merrill Matthews Jr.

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 400 words

Today's debate: White-collar criminals

Opposing view: And country must be careful that 'reform' efforts don't make it
so.

The driving force behind the economic boom of the 1990s was risk-taking, the
willingness to go out on a limb in the hopes of making a profit and doing
something that no one had ever done.

Many of those risk-takers did well, and millions of Americans profited from
their entrepreneurship.


But, occasionally, risk-takers fail. They make bad decisions or are caught short
by changes in the economic climate. Some may even break the law either before or
after the fall.

The consequences of those failures can also affect millions of Americans. When
risk-takers fail, what should we do? We should let the laws punish lawbreakers,
but let the markets deal with risk-takers.

While Enron executives were certainly risk-takers, it remains unclear whether
they actually broke any laws. If they did, they should be punished. What is
clear is that the national support for tarring and feathering Ken Lay and other
Enron executives arises from the sympathy that millions of Americans feel for
Enron's employees, many of whom lost both their jobs and retirement savings. We
join in that sympathy.

But too often laws are passed in a crisis and repented in reflection. That's
because democracies thrive on emotion rather than reasoned reflection.

The first law pushed through as a result of the Enron fall was campaign-finance
reform, not because it had anything to do with Enron, but because politicians
thought they had to do something.

The more pressing threat is that Congress will pass laws that effectively
criminalize risk-taking. We don't want lawbreakers, but this country and the
economy depend on risk-takers.

The collapse of Enron and shake-up of Arthur Andersen have sent countless other
companies scurrying to re-evaluate their practices and their accounts.

No law could have had the same impact as quickly or as efficiently. Both
risk-takers and Wall Street have learned important lessons.

Ken Lay and the Enron executives have lost everything and have suffered national
disgrace. If they have broken laws, they should be punished. If their only crime
is taking too much risk, they are already being punished.

Merrill Matthews Jr. is a visiting scholar with the Institute for Policy
Innovation in Dallas.

LOAD-DATE: April 03, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: DEBATE

                      Copyright 2002 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              96 of 141 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    April 17, 2002, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Sex between adults an children

BYLINE: Karen S. Peterson

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 1637 words

Sex researchers and academics are tussling over a topic that most Americans
don't even want to think about: sex between adults and children. Some of these
experts are making the startling assertion that not all sexual activity between
adults and minors is necessarily harmful. The result is a questioning of one of
the country's most strongly held taboos.

Parents and others may gasp at the concept, especially in the current climate of
scandal over sexual abuse by priests. But some serious researchers and academics
want to review the term "child sexual abuse," preferring a more neutral term
such as "adult-child sex."

They do not say coerced sex is acceptable. Rather, they debate questions such as
whether a 25-year-old man should be prosecuted for statutory rape if he has sex
with his eager 17-year-old girlfriend. Laws vary by state.


How about if an older woman provides a sexual initiation for a teenage boy? It's
a fantasy dear to the hearts of many young men and a frequent theme of TV shows
and movies, including the classic Summer of '42.

Experts debate whether sex with an adult is more damaging for an adolescent girl
than for a boy, as some research indicates. Also being discussed is whether it's
really possible for a minor to initiate sex with an adult. However, if the older
lover is an authority figure, such as a teacher, coach or priest, most respected
social scientists say the power imbalance is clear.

The controversy is engaging some researchers at top universities. "I think the
evidence has been clear for some time that child and adolescent sexual abuse
does not always do harm in the long term," says David Finkelhor of the
University of New Hampshire, one of the nation's foremost researchers on the
sexual abuse of children. "That is the good news." One question now, he says, is
determining if some youngsters are more mature and "able to consent to sexual
relationships with older partners."

The belief that children can truly consent to sex with an adult horrifies
critics across a wide spectrum. "Our major task is trying to figure out how to
stop this nonsense, this justifying and encouraging adult-child sexual
behavior," says Paul Fink, past president of the American Psychiatric
Association.

"Is it open season on our children?" asks Stephanie Dallam, a researcher for the
Leadership Council for Mental Health, Justice and the Media, a non-profit
advocacy group for children that focuses on pedophilia.

The issue should not be blurred by talking about sex with a 17-year-old vs. a
younger child, Dallam says. "That is just one hill in the battle" pedophiles are
waging, she says. "Once they have the 15- to 17-year-olds, then it will be OK
with the 12- and 13-year olds."

There is still "a lot to be cleared up," Finkelhor says. The adult-child issue
would be easier to deal with, he says, if America had fewer children who had
been victimized and "so badly hurt by the imposition of adult sexual
activities."

Alarmed critics often quote a list of negative effects Finkelhor has catalogued.
His inventory includes depression, post-traumatic stress disorder, substance
abuse, an earlier entry into sexual activity, a larger number of partners and a
greater tendency to be sexually victimized later in life.

Discussions about adult-child sex are appearing in professional journals,
including a special issue last month of the AmericanPsychologist, a journal of
the American Psychological Association (APA).

Researchers are not trying willy-nilly to turn traditional American values
upside down, says APA spokesman Rhea Farberman. There is no drive among
mainstream mental health professionals or social science academics to
"legitimize adult-child sex." But she says there are reasonable questions for
research, including analyzing types of sexual activity that include everything
from fondling to rape.

Defining terms is one of the problems researchers face, she says. "Your
definition, mine and the researcher's down the hall can all differ. Are we
talking about homosexual or heterosexual sex? What is sex? How old is a 'child'
?"

The APA thinks child sexual abuse is by definition abuse and is "immoral and
wrong," she says. But "we can all agree it is a much more serious and
potentially harmful situation when a 9-year-old is raped than when a 16-year-old
has 'consensual sex' with a 19-year-old. We need to be very careful of what we
talk about."

The adult-child theme has been picked up on TV shows such as Boston Public, Once
and Again and Dawson's Creek.

Actor Peter Krause's character on Six Feet Under recently revealed his sexual
initiation occurred when he was 15 with a woman 20 years older. And a sequel to
the 1971 movie Summer of '42, in which an older woman pleasures a teenage boy,
reportedly is in the works.

The debate has spilled over into a public battle over a book due May 1 on
children and sexuality. Harmful to Minors: The Perils of Protecting Children
From Sex is from the University of Minnesota Press, a noted academic publishing
house. The author, Judith Levine, is a respected journalist and activist who has
been writing about sex and families for 20 years.

The book has prompted bitter attacks from critics who say its publication should
be stopped. The University of Minnesota, which provides 6% of the Press' budget,
responded to the criticism in early April by announcing an independent review of
how the Press chooses what it publishes.

Contrary to what some critics say, the book does not advocate pedophilia, says
Douglas Armato of the University Press. Instead, it makes a case for open and
honest discussion about adolescent and children's sexuality. "We published a
300-page book, and people are paying attention to four pages of it," he says.

E-mails are running 2-to-1 against the book, Armato says, but a corner has been
turned. "We are beginning to hear favorable things from those who say these
topics must be addressed."

A number of respected groups including the Association of American University
Presses released a statement Tuesday in support of the Minnesota Press and its
decision to "enrich the public debate."

Levine's book focuses on the need sex educators feel to get solid sexual
information to adolescents. Frightening them, overemphasizing the dangers from
pedophiles and from predators on the Internet, and overprotecting them does more
harm than good, she writes.

"In my book, I deplore any kind of non-consensual sex between persons of any
age," she said in an interview. "But teens deserve respect for their decisions,
and they need from us the emotional and practical tools to make good decisions."


Levine had sex with "a man in his 20s" when she was "about 17" and believes such
sexual contact is not always harmful. But in her book, Levine goes much further.
She applauds a Dutch age-of-consent law that permits adult sex with a child ages
12-16 if the young person consents. Either the child or the child's parents can
file charges if the sex is coerced.

Reaction has been swift. "We are really appalled," says Fink, who also is
director of the Leadership Council for Mental Health, Justice and the Media.
"Children need to grow up unencumbered and unused by adults. This whole movement
is justifying the needs of adults by utilizing children in a negative way."

Dallam says: "Children should be off-limits sexually. There is a concerted
effort among certain academics to change society's basically negative attitude
toward sex with children. They try to say scientific data show some children are
not harmed, therefore society is wrong in thinking that this is harmful."

Others object passionately to Levine's book. Robert Knight of the Culture and
Family Institute calls the book "evil." The institute takes its guidance from
God and the Bible, its Web site indicates. "The book makes a case for
pedophilia," he says. "I have not read it cover to cover, but I am familiar with
its themes. She is drawing on quack science. It gives a scientific gloss to the
arguments that child molesters use."

The American Psychological Association is once again coping with the hot-button
issue of adult-child sex. A 1998 article in one of its more obscure
publications, the Psychological Bulletin, created a firestorm that included a
denunciation by Congress. Now a March 2002 special issue of the American
Psychologist published by the APA examines how it handled what turned into a
debacle of criticism and counter-criticism.

In the 1998 article, three authors analyzed 59 studies of college students
recalling sexual abuse. The researchers reported that despite what many think,
child sexual abuse "does not cause intense harm on a pervasive basis regardless
of gender in the college population," although boys fared better than girls. And
they concluded that some children experienced positive reactions in "willing"
sexual encounters with adults, according to the March APA analysis of what
happened after publication and why.

One of the authors -- researcher Robert Bauserman, who was with the University
of Michigan in 1998 -- now says, "I have the feeling that if you don't say
anybody under 18 is permanently psychologically harmed by any type of sexual
experience," then you are called a supporter of pedophiles by critics. He has
never, he says, called for lower age-of-consent laws or "changing social norms."
Instead, he says, researchers "need to identify the situations and circumstances
that produce the most harm."

Researcher Finkelhor says that, as a society, "We seem to have an extremely
difficult time recognizing the need for boundaries. We will be talking about
this subject for some years" to come.

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: COVER STORY

                      Copyright 2002 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              98 of 141 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     April 29, 2002, Monday, FINAL EDITION

How to have a green campus

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 6D

LENGTH: 240 words

* Buy local.  After students at Bates College in Lewiston, Maine, demanded that
campus food waste be composted, the dining director sought out farmers who could
supply local organic foods. Nearby Bowdoin and Unity colleges and several area
hospitals are joining Bates to form a buyers group.

 * Eco-dorms. Northland University in Ashland, Wis., created a $ 4.1 million
residence hall four years ago featuring "green" materials such as countertops
made of soybean hulls, a wind tower and solar panels, and composting toilet.

 * Community outreach. Students at Johnson C. Smith University in Charlotte,
N.C., and Warren Wilson College, near Asheville, N.C., collaborated on an
environmental justice program that combined chemical testing and policy
analysis. One project involved testing for lead in home drinking water in a
minority neighborhood.

 * Reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The student government at Lewis & Clark
College in Portland, Ore., voted to spend $ 17,000 in student fees on projects
-- such as planting trees -- that would offset carbon dioxide emissions. The
goal is to bring the campus into compliance with an international agreement
called the Kyoto Protocol.

 * Educate. Florida Gulf Coast University in Fort Myers requires all students to
take a course called "University Colloquium: A Sustainable Future." The students
are urged to apply ecological principles to their future field.

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHICS, B/W (ILLUSTRATION) (5)

                      Copyright 2002 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              100 of 141 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                      May 17, 2002, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Asteroid blast called beginning and end for dinosaurs

BYLINE: Dan Vergano

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 369 words

Live by the asteroid, die by the asteroid: Scientists today report that space
rock collisions not only ended the age of dinosaurs but opened the door for the
creatures to dominate Earth in the first place.

In a report in the journal Science, researchers led by Paul Olsen of Columbia
University's Lamont-Doherty Observatory in Palisades, N.Y., point to an asteroid
impact as the trigger for the age of the dinosaurs 200 million years ago. They
believe it had to have been a 15-mile-wide asteroid to have wiped out the
reptiles that dominated Earth before dinosaurs.


"The kind of dinosaurs we are most familiar with, the large ones, appear only
after this period of decimation," Olsen says. His team bases the new theory on
fossils and a suspicious spike in the element iridium, not normally found in the
Earth's crust, a sign it was delivered from space.

Scientists have theorized an asteroid impact in the Gulf of Mexico 65 million
years ago, and the resulting climate change, killed the dinosaurs. A similar
scenario took place 200 million years ago, Olsen suggests: Before the impact,
massive crocodile-like predators occupied the top rungs of the food chain;
within 30,000 years, small two-legged dinosaurs evolved into giants to fill the
big-predator niche.

To prove this, his team examined the "Newark Supergroup" rock deposits in the
northeastern USA, which formed 200 million years ago. Before the impact,
dinosaur footprints were small and afterward grew increasingly large, they
report. They also found heavy growth of ferns, which are often the first plants
to be re-established after natural calamities.

Such a blast "would have caused major disruption in marine and terrestrial food
chains," but then would have led to a rapid spread of new plants and animals,
says paleobiologist Brian Huber of the Smithsonian's National Museum of Natural
History. Mammals replaced dinosaurs in much the same fashion.

Huber says proving the asteroid theory will require others finding similar
evidence in ancient basins worldwide. The iridium increase measured by Olsen's
team is less than the increase from the 65 million-year-old impact, perhaps a
weakness in the theory.

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS, Color, Paul Olsen (2); Growth spurt: Small print, left, is
pre-impact. Large print is from after it. Scientists studied these prints to
prove their theory.

                      Copyright 2002 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              105 of 141 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     July 16, 2002, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

TRUST -- Scandals shake public

BYLINE: Bruce Horovitz

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 2363 words

Trust isn't dead -- even in the aftermath of Sept. 11 and amid the current
climate of corporate tomfoolery. But Americans are feverishly rejiggering whom
and what they trust.

They trust each other -- and the federal government -- significantly more than
they used to, even as they trust CEOs, stockbrokers, Roman Catholic priests and
HMOs less, a USA TODAY/CNN/Gallup Poll found.

Two years ago, 35% of Americans said "most people" could be trusted. Now, 41%
have that trust in others, according to the national poll of 1,013 people.


By contrast, trust in Corporate America is in shambles. More than seven in 10
Americans say they distrust CEOs of large corporations. Nearly eight in 10
believe that top executives of large companies will take "improper actions" to
help themselves at the expense of their companies.

In the past nine months, the percentage of Americans who say they see Big
Business as an actual threat to the nation's future has nearly doubled, to 38%.

Americans appear to be relying more on themselves -- and the advice of family
and friends -- and less on employers, organizations and institutions. Especially
about money. In pocketbook matters, 69% of Americans say they are relying less
on the advice of professionals and more on their own judgment. Only 23% say they
trust most stockbrokers.

The statistics bear that out. During the month of June, people took $ 19 billion
more out of domestic stock mutual funds -- run by experts -- than they put in,
reports Banc of America Securities. Mutual funds have suffered net redemptions
for five consecutive weeks for the first time since a similar five-week outflow
after Sept. 11.

Cash is currently king. A net $ 32.7 billion went into plain vanilla money
market funds the week ended July 9, iMoneyNet says.

Beyond business, America's moral compass of trust has been heading south on many
of its institutions. Forty-eight percent of those surveyed say "you can't be too
careful" when dealing with Catholic priests -- though 66% say Protestant
ministers can be trusted. Only 20% say most HMO managers can be trusted.

But the good news is the trust that Americans have in each other. It is
approaching historic highs.

That's of more than academic interest. Trust matters. It is society's Super
Glue.

Experts say an abundance of it can lead to spurts of energy that benefit the
common good -- such as the euphoric growth that followed the end of World War
II, when the nation learned it could work together.

Despite Wall Street's trust implosion, Sept. 11 appears to have triggered
something much more important and long lasting: a great national sense of
connection, says Robert Putnam, a Harvard professor. He is the author of Bowling
Alone, which traces a steady decline in trust for four decades.

Since Sept. 11, there is a new belief "that you can trust other people to help
you," says Putnam, even as the Wall Street mess has convinced many that "you
sure as heck can't trust CEOs." That flowering of trust in each other presents
"a civic opportunity that comes along once in a century," he says.

In fact, Americans seem almost defiantly unwilling to let the terrorist attacks
sow seeds of mistrust of each other.

"To let it change the way we relate to others is to give the terrorists more
control than I am willing to concede," says Chuck Kelly, a sales director from
Quincy, Ill. "My job allows me to interact daily with customers and associates
in all countries -- and from all faiths. I have not found any example of people
treating me differently or acting in any way that would cause me to treat them
differently."

This has persisted, even as every day, it seems, Corporate America lets loose
yet another ethical grenade that explodes in the faces of investors and
employees.

At one time, the financial shenanigans of Enron and its accounting firm Arthur
Andersen seemed unfathomable. Then, WorldCom came along.

Even President Bush has been pulled into the fray. While some of his own past
actions as a businessman are being questioned, Bush took the offensive last
week, proposing laws that would double executive jail time for fraud.

 Trust is personal

Granting trust is a matter of degrees. It is often a question of how something
affects us personally.

"I don't trust anyone except my mother and my wife, in that order," says Chuck
Bowser, a quality control manager from Lakeland, Fla. Three years ago, he was an
outside contractor working as project manager for the installation of phone
wiring at WorldCom's corporate headquarters.

His job requires him to fly every other week or so, and Bowser now finds himself
uncharacteristically chatting with other passengers. It's a "nervous
friendliness," he says. But one with a motive: to find out who is sitting next
to him.

If we can't sit on airplanes and have a basic trust in the person seated next to
us -- or, for that matter, trust that the airplane won't become a missile aimed
at the White House -- where can we place our trust?

Former New York mayor Rudy Giuliani says tough times only point out the need
people have for trust. "You can get through good times on your own," says
Giuliani, Time's Person of the Year. "But you need a sense of trust when you're
going through difficult times."

After the recent corporate scandals, "people aren't trusting less," Giuliani
says. Instead, he says, society at large has raised the bar on what it will put
up with. The nation's "standards of acceptable behavior have improved in
business and politics," he says.

Giuliani, who won the nation's trust with his leadership after Sept. 11, says
the corporate chicanery that resulted in the Enron and WorldCom meltdowns has
been going on "for hundreds of years." But 100 years ago, says Giuliani, a
former federal prosecutor, "No one would have found out about someone cooking
the books."

But trust has its limits.

Americans say they trust CEOs and HMOs even less than they trust lawyers,
according to the poll. But they have strong trust in small business owners
(75%), teachers (84%) and youth sports coaches (68%). Even in the shadow of the
Enron and WorldCom scandals, accountants, whom 51% say they trust, were still
found to be more trusted than Catholic priests.

Clearly, most don't trust Wall Street. More than half of those surveyed say they
believe the stock market unfairly benefits the rich.

But for society to function, trust is essential.

"People who didn't trust anyone over 30 are now, themselves, over 30," says
psychologist Joyce Brothers. "You have to trust someone or you live in a state
of terror."

Harvard ethicist Sissela Bok says trust "is a social good to be protected as
much as the air we breathe or the water we drink. When it is destroyed,
societies falter and collapse."

Then again, too much trust can be a bad thing, Bok warns. "We have to learn when
to balance trust and distrust," she says. "Too much trust can be lethal."

Surely, President Ronald Reagan had that sense back in the mid-1980s, when he
was negotiating nuclear arms reduction with Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev.
Reagan's comment at the time: "Trust, but verify."

Corporate America left out

The quest for trust begins at birth, experts say. "Trust is probably the most
basic human value," says Fred Rogers, the PBS children's television host, whom
millions of parents have trusted since 1968.

"The ultimate models for whom we trust in our lives come very early -- it's our
mothers and fathers," Rogers says. "The people we trust most become our heroes."


Academics who have studied the issue say trust had been on a steady decline
domestically for nearly 40 years. The reason: We have less face-to-face contact.


During the 20 years from 1975 to 1995, Americans' trust in each other fell 0.5
percentage points a year -- or 10 points overall -- to 40%, says Pamela Paxton,
a professor at Ohio State University whose study was published in 1999 in the
American Journal of Sociology.

Then, along came Sept. 11, and the trust factor performed a U-turn.

"Like Pearl Harbor, 9/11 seems to have triggered a sharper sense of community
and a great national wave of connections," says Putnam, the Harvard professor.

The bad news for Corporate America is that it has been excluded from this wave
of trust.

And nothing may be harder to regain than lost trust. Just ask new Kmart CEO Jim
Adamson, whose job is to restore trust in the retailing icon, which is now in
bankruptcy proceedings.

"No issue is more central to my job than restoring trust," Adamson says. "But
rebuilding trust takes a long time when so many people have been hurt."

Few know that lesson better than Adamson. He's the guy who was brought in to
clean house at Denny's after a group of African-American Secret Service officers
in 1993 waited for more than an hour to be served breakfast at a Denny's in
Annapolis, Md. The group filed a class-action lawsuit against Denny's parent
Advantica Restaurant Group. The suit was eventually settled for $ 54 million.

"It took five years to get African-Americans to go back to Denny's," says
Adamson, who oversaw such a house-cleaning at Denny's that Fortune magazine in
1999 ranked Denny's second in its listing of the 50 best employers for
minorities. "But there are still African-Americans who believe Denny's is The
Great Discriminator."

Now, Adamson is in charge at Kmart -- where he is striving to persuade
employees, vendors, investors and customers to trust him. But when he looks at
himself in the mirror each morning, he says, "I don't feel trusted. I wish I
could say that wasn't the case."

Adman Jeff Goodby says few in his profession "ever feel trusted." The CEO, whose
San Francisco ad agency Goodby Silverstein recently brought back Isuzu's fibber
extraordinaire, Joe Isuzu, says he has lost his own sense of trust in big
cities. "There's a peril that looms in our urban areas that wasn't there
before,' " he says. "They have taken on the feeling of targets."

The actor who plays Joe Isuzu, David Leisure, says he has a short list of people
he trusts. He trusts his closest friends and his wife, but that's about it. He
deeply distrusts the stock market. And he especially distrusts advertisements.

"Advertising is all hype," Leisure says. "We're all just trying to show up the
other guy."

Yet people seem to trust him. He doesn't know why. But he suspects it's because
the character he plays seems to wink at the viewer even as he fires off his
whoppers.

"What they don't realize is that I have no acting ability whatsoever, and I'm
actually playing myself," he says with a giggle. "Trust me."

***

Contributing: Jim Norman, Adam Shell and Bruce Rosenstein

TEXT OF INFO BOXES BEGINS HERE

Distrust of Big Business grows

Question: Which of the following will be the biggest threat to the country in
the future -- big business, big labor or big government?

Sept. 18-21, 1981

Business: 22%

Labor: 22%

Government: 46%

May 13-16, 1983

Business: 19%

Labor: 18%

Government: 51%

June 7-10, 1985

Business: 22%

Labor: 19%

Government: 50%

Aug. 11-14, 1995

Business: 24%

Labor: 9%

Government: 64%

Dec. 4-6, 1998

Business: 24%

Labor: 7%

Government: 64%

Aug. 24-26, 1999

Business: 24%

Labor: 8%

Government: 65%

Oct. 25-28, 2000

Business: 22%

Labor: 7%

Government: 65%

July 5-8, 2002

Business: 38%

Labor: 10%

Government: 47%

Source: USA TODAY/CNN/Gallup Poll, July 5-8

Cronkite: Trust is 'individual thing'

If America has an unofficial guru of trust, it has to be Walter Cronkite.

The 85-year-old CBS special correspondent, who stepped down from the news anchor
slot in 1981, is known for many things, but one label seems to have stuck: the
Most Trusted Man in America.

That slogan wasn't born out of marketing machinery but out of research. An
Oliver Quayle survey in 1972 gave him a "trust index" of 73%, which was 17
points higher than then-president Richard Nixon's. In a 1974 Phillip-Sindlinger
survey, Cronkite was chosen most trusted of television newsmen.

Whom does Cronkite trust? "Trust is such an individual thing. I don't think it's
definable."

But Cronkite scoffs at the notion of trusting his neighbor. "I live in a New
York apartment, which means I don't even know my neighbor," he says.

Democracy, he says, "demands a sizable amount of trust." And capitalism "demands
trust in those who invest our money." Yet he's wary, especially in light of the
corporate scandals. "My advice in these days of deepening suspicion and lack of
trust is simple: Double-check everything."

While Cronkite says he's honored to be trusted by so many people, he is not
entirely comfortable with the label. "The thing I fear most," he says, "is the
little old lady on the street who might come up to me and say, 'I believe
everything you say.' "

His response to her: "Please don't."

TEXT WITHIN GRAPHICS BEGINS HERE

More trusting

Since Sept. 11, there has been an increase in the percentage of Americans who
say that most people can be trusted:

1990: 38%

1991: 38%

1993: 36%

1994: 34%

1996: 34%

1998: 38%

2000 35%

2002: 41%

Source: USA TODAY/CNN/Gallup Poll

USA TODAY/CNN/Gallup Poll

More than 500 adults were asked which groups they trusted:

Teachers: 84%

People who run small businesses (1): 75%

Military officers: 73%

Police officers: 71%

Coaches of youth sports: 68%

Protestant ministers: 66%

Doctors: 66%

Accountants: 51%

Professional athletes: 48%

Catholic priests: 45%

Rich people: 43%

Journalists: 38%

Government officials: 26%

Lawyers: 25%

Stockbrokers: 23%

CEOs of large corporations: 23%

Managers of HMOs: 20%

1 - asked of 1,013 adults; margin of error: +/- 3 percentage points

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, Color, hand illustraiton by Web Bryant, USA TODAY
(ILLUSTRATION); PHOTO, Color, photo by St. Patrick's Cathedral by Robert
Deutsch, USA TODAY; GRAPHIC, Color, Angie Wyatt, USA TODAY, Source: USA
TODAY/CNN/Gallup Poll, July 5-8 of 1, 013 adults: margin of error: +/- 3
percentage points (BAR GRAPH); GRAPHIC, B/W, Karl Gelles, USA TODAY, Source: USA
TODAY/CNN/Gallup Poll, July 5-8; margin of error: +/- 5 percentage points. (BAR
GRAPH)

TYPE: COVER STORY

                      Copyright 2002 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              107 of 141 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     August 5, 2002, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Post-9/11 security hinders access at capitols

BYLINE: Kathy Kiely

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 2408 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

WASHINGTON -- They are political cathedrals. Lavishly decorated with native
woods, indigenous stone and precious metals, lovingly packed with artwork and
historic artifacts, they were built to celebrate democracy's promise.

Today, the U.S. Capitol and the state capitols represent democracy's dilemma.
The lawmakers who work in them say they are "the people's houses." Yet these
days, the people are having a harder time finding an open door.

From Juneau to Tallahassee and from Honolulu to Hartford, government officials
and the citizens they represent are reluctantly coming to grips with one of the
grim realities to emerge from Sept. 11: Democracy's most important icons are
also terrorists' most likely targets.


"Capitol buildings are symbols of government, and the people who inhabit them
are symbols, too," says Tony Beard, chief sergeant-at-arms for the California
state Senate.

But if the capitols symbolize something, so does the security that's being
erected around them. It represents "a move away from a symbol of free and open
government to one that needs to protect itself," says Charles Goodsell, author
of The American Statehouse: Interpreting Democracy's Temple. "It's going to have
a big subconscious effect on how we see ourselves."

Welcome to Fortress USA.

Checkpoints, fences and concrete barricades now interrupt the serene vistas that
famed landscape architect Frederick Law Olmsted designed for the leafy grounds
of the U.S. Capitol. Construction is underway on a massive underground visitor
center that will double as a remote screening facility, where visitors can be
checked for explosives and weapons before they get close enough to do any damage
to the historic building.

In the meantime, they are carefully watched. The House of Representatives just
voted a $ 219 million budget for the Capitol Police, a 39% increase that will
swell the ranks protecting the 280-acre campus to 1,900, larger than the police
force in most midsize cities.

The scene at the U.S. Capitol is being repeated across the country in varying
degrees. Officials at state capitols are deploying more police and surveillance
cameras, mulling the need for barricades and metal detectors, and struggling to
strike a balance. "You don't want to restrict access to government," says Bill
Morgan, chief of Connecticut's state capitol police. "But you do want to make it
as safe as you can."

The threat to the nation's capitols is real, and it predates Osama bin Laden.
Beard's staff began beefing up security in Sacramento after a disgruntled
citizen did $ 20 million in damage by driving an 80,000-pound truck into the
capitol building in January 2001. Four years ago, a deranged gunman ran through
a security checkpoint at the U.S. Capitol and killed two policemen. Last year,
for the first time, tours at the U.S. Capitol were halted for two months after
anthrax-laced letters contaminated several adjacent office buildings.

Those dangers are being carefully weighed against equally grave concerns about
appearances. While "every state has evaluated security since Sept. 11,"
according to Kae Warnock of the National Conference of State Legislatures, not
all have opted for the highest security. Lawmakers from Washington, D.C., to
Washington state are worried about intimidating or inconveniencing citizens who
want to call on representatives.

"Folks in Wyoming pride themselves on open government," says Frank Galeotos,
director of the state's Department of Administration and Information. "Just
about anybody can get in to see the governor or at least talk to him on the
phone."

A few state capitols have rolled back some of the security measures that were
put in place after Sept. 11. But even those capitols have beefed up police
forces and installed more surveillance cameras around their capitol buildings.
Others are taking more overt measures. According to a survey by the state
legislatures group, 26 have shut some doors to the public since Sept. 11 and 15
are requiring visitors to pass through metal detectors and X-ray machines.

'It looks like a war zone'

Nowhere is the added security more painfully obvious than in the nation's
capital. Last month, the National Capital Planning Commission acknowledged the
ugliness of Washington's makeshift fortifications by unveiling an $ 800 million
blueprint for improving them. Strategically placed and fortified benches and
lampposts and subtle landscaping tricks are among some of the changes the
commission is recommending. The goal, said chairman John Cogbill, is to protect
the nation's landmarks in a way that "doesn't make it look like you are sitting
in Beirut."

Meanwhile, it does. Concrete barricades known as "Jersey barriers" ring the
Washington Monument and the Lincoln Memorial. For months, they have cluttered
the Capitol grounds and Lafayette Square, the pretty park across the street from
the White House. The White House, which once allowed about 1 million visitors
each year to take daily guided tours, now opens its doors only for pre-arranged
visits by school groups.

President Bush has not reopened the two blocks of Pennsylvania Avenue in front
of the White House that President Bill Clinton closed after the 1995 bombing of
the Oklahoma City federal building. After Sept. 11, the Secret Service
barricaded the street behind the White House as well. "It looks like a war
zone," frets Bill Hanbury, CEO of the Washington convention bureau. "All those
barriers send a very negative message to our visitors."

One of those visitors recently was Iowa Gov. Tom Vilsack, who came away
convinced his state capitol should not copy the nation's. "I traveled to the
U.S. Capitol recently, and there's nothing . . .  about that experience that
suggests that this is an open and free government," he says. Vilsack rejected a
proposal to put a fence around his official residence.

Even the security officials who installed the barriers admit they're making a
mess of some of the country's prime tourist attractions. Capitol Police Chief
Terry Gainer is pleased to report that "the ugly sewer-pipe planters" around the
campus he guards are being replaced with more discreet -- but even more
formidable -- metal bollards. Painted a tasteful dark green and looking like
decorative hitching posts, they're built to stop trucks full of explosives
before they get close enough to do any damage. Similar bollards are being
installed around the White House.

City officials say they're having to do battle with federal agencies that wanted
to close streets in front of their buildings after Sept. 11. "We fight for every
inch of pavement we can get," says Tony Bullock, a spokesman for Washington
Mayor Anthony Williams.

There are those who fear that the barriers and checkpoints are becoming a
perverse new status symbol that will further distance the government from the
governed. Bob Peck, president of the Greater Washington Board of Trade, is
convinced that many of the barriers around D.C. are due to "security envy."

"You're nobody unless you're threatened," says Peck, who helped manage federal
buildings for the General Services Administration under the Clinton
administration. After the Oklahoma City bombing, he had to fend off requests for
tighter security from even the most obscure federal agencies. "I had to tell
them, 'I really don't think they're out to get the agricultural economic
research service,' " he recalls.

Starting to scale back

Similar skepticism is being expressed in some statehouses, where lawmakers have
decided that the threat isn't grave enough to risk inconveniencing or
intimidating constituents:

 * Mail to the Alaska state capitol is being inspected before delivery, and more
uniformed and plainclothes security officers are patrolling the premises. But
members of a legislative committee decided against checking visitors at the
door. "We've never had any problems, and they didn't want to turn it into a
fortress," says Pam Varney of the Legislative Affairs Agency.

 * Colorado's Legislature decided last month to remove metal detectors installed
in the capitol building after Sept. 11 and reopen its dome for carefully
supervised tours. The action followed protests from some lawmakers.

 * Forty of 45 Nebraska lawmakers who responded to a survey by the Omaha
World-Herald just before the session started in January said they opposed
restricting public access to their capitol and other public buildings. "No, no,
no, no," state Sen. George Coordsen said. "The secret of the USA is freedom, not
a police state."

There are some misgivings about increased security at the U.S. Capitol, too.
Even as they have authorized heavy new security, image-conscious lawmakers have
fought measures that they consider too restrictive. "They want their
constituents in the building," House Administration Committee Chairman Bob Ney,
R-Ohio, says.

Ney says he has pressed Capitol security officials to increase the number of
visitors allowed. The pressure has yielded results: Eerily empty during the fall
and winter, the Capitol's halls are bustling with tourists this summer. But the
era when 18,000 visitors a day had the run of the place seems to be over.

The number now is limited to "several thousand," says chief Capitol tour guide
Ted Daniel; he can't get more specific because of security. Visitors can't just
walk in as before. They must either reserve places on staff-guided tours through
their senators or members of Congress, or line up in the morning for daily tour
passes. The ticket window opens at 8:15 a.m.; tickets are often gone by 9. On
one recent morning, Jason Slaughter of Lincoln, Neb., secured the first place in
line at 6:30 a.m. By 7:45, more than 300 people were queued up behind him.

The irony was not lost on those standing in line. Peter Sweeney of Mansfield,
Mass., found the highly visible security around the nation's capital
"comforting" but added, "I don't like the restrictive access. This is our White
House and our Capitol building."

TEXT OF INFO BOX BEGINS HERE

States tighten security

Some states began tightening security at their capitol buildings after the
bombing of the Oklahoma City federal building in 1995. In the wake of Sept. 11,
most other capitols followed suit. Capitols that have implemented the most
visible security measures:

X = Metal detectors at entrances

(and/or)

X = Restricted public access

(and/or)

X = Barriers/bollards/fences

Alabama

XXX

Arizona

X

Arkansas

XX

California

XXX

Colorado

X

Connecticut

XX

Delaware

X

Florida

XXX

Georgia

XX

Idaho

XX

Illinois

XXX

Iowa

XX

Kansas

X

Kentucky

XXX

Louisiana

XX

Maine

X

Maryland

XX

Massachusetts

XX

Michigan

X

Minnesota

X

Mississippi

X

Missouri

XXX

Montana

X

Nevada

X

New Hampshire

X

New Jersey

XX

New York

XX

North Carolina

X

North Dakota

XX

Ohio

X

Oklahoma

X

Pennsylvania

XXX

Rhode Island

X

South Carolina

XXX

South Dakota

X

Tennessee

XXX

Texas

XX

Utah

X

Vermont

X

Virginia

XX

Washington

XX

Source: National Conference of State Legislatures

Building of $ 335M visitor center clutters Capitol

WASHINGTON -- For those who haven't visited the U.S. Capitol lately, it's a
shocking sight.

Congress' leafy backyard has been denuded of stately trees. The velvety lawn is
turning to dust. Lawmakers' Capitol-side parking spaces are being chipped into
rubble. Behind a maze of security barriers and orange-and-white plastic fencing,
construction has begun on a controversial visitor center.

It will be a three-story building underground. The 580,000 square feet of
exhibit and office space is the largest expansion of the Capitol since the
1850s. Congress planned the center after the 1998 shooting of two Capitol Police
officers by a gunman who ran through a security checkpoint. Plans changed only
slightly after Sept. 11.

But the groundbreaking has coincided with other security measures put in place
because of terrorist attacks and anthrax-laced letters that arrived on Capitol
Hill in October. "The aesthetics of the Capitol right now couldn't be much
worse," acknowledges Senate Majority Leader Tom Daschle, D-S.D.

Of the 346 trees on the East Front of the Capitol, 68 were cut down. But the
Capitol architect's office has gone to great pains to preserve others; eight
"memorial trees," planted by or in honor of lawmakers or given by other VIPs,
were transplanted to other spots on the Capitol grounds.

Supporters say the improvement is long overdue. Scheduled to be done for the
next presidential inauguration in January 2005, the Capitol Visitor Center is
billed as a state-of-the-art reception area. Tourists will wait to enter the
Capitol in climate-controlled comfort while enjoying movie theaters and
historical displays, not to mention basic amenities such as restrooms and a
cafeteria.

Officials say it will provide a more gracious reception for visitors, who now
wait in line outdoors, no matter what the weather, for a chance to enter the
building. "It's a great nation's capitol," House Administration Committee
Chairman Bob Ney, R-Ohio, says. "Let's not torture people to get in it."

Still, the main reason for the Capitol Visitor Center is to provide a way to
screen visitors before they enter the Capitol and to evacuate them from the
building should disaster strike.

The taxpayer watchdog group Citizens Against Government Waste insists it's a
boondoggle that is costing more than anticipated. The price tag jumped from $
265 million to $ 335 million because lawmakers decided to add office space for
themselves. The group's president, Tom Schatz, says the center is too costly and
"could wind up replacing the halls of democracy with a 580,000-square-foot
information desk."

Ney retorts: "I don't care if these groups get angry. Security of the visitors,
our Capitol Hill police, our staff and the members is going to be paramount. And
this provides security."

LOAD-DATE: August 05, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Color, Tim Dillon, USA TODAY; Necessary precautions? A sign on
the Senate side of the Capitol restricts access after terror attacks.

TYPE: COVER STORY

                      Copyright 2002 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              117 of 141 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   October 2, 2002, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

U.S. versus Saddam

BYLINE: Susan Page; John Diamond, Judy Keen, Dave Moniz and Barbara Slavin

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A - 5A

LENGTH: 4694 words

<>Confronting Iraq<>

War is on the horizon.

President Bush has vowed to topple Iraq's Saddam Hussein, and the Senate is
scheduled to begin debate today on backing the president. The U.N. is weighing
whether to pass a tough new resolution. The Pentagon is moving troops and
equipment to the Persian Gulf region.

***

Why is war looming, and why now? How would it be fought? What are the risks for
American troops, U.S. allies and the economy? And what would happen after the
war?

USA TODAY reporters in Washington and the gulf region interviewed U.S. and
foreign officials, independent experts and Iraqi opposition leaders to try to
answer these and other key questions. U.S. officials describe a conflict that
could start as early as December and end, they hope, within weeks. If Saddam
were captured, he would face prosecution for war crimes, but where isn't clear.
His ouster could stabilize the region, or inflame it.


Many of the questions defy easy answers -- and, in fact, will be answerable only
with the hindsight of history.

FIGHTING THE WAR

Q: Is war inevitable?

A: If not a certainty, war is clearly likely. President Bush has set a goal not
only of eliminating Iraq's suspected weapons of mass destruction, but also of
"regime change" -- and Saddam Hussein isn't expected to step aside voluntarily.
The CIA is working with opposition groups and seeking potential allies within
Iraq in hopes of encouraging a coup, but that's seen as a distant prospect.

Bush says he hasn't made a final decision on going to war. But only Saddam's
demise or departure, or some unexpected development, is likely to deter Bush
from acting.

Q: Why go to war now?

A: Bush says Saddam's regime poses "a grave and gathering danger" because of the
risk that he is developing weapons of mass destruction -- chemical, biological
or nuclear arms -- and might provide them to terrorists. The administration has
outlined a strategic doctrine of pre-emption: striking potential enemies before
they attack. That's a fundamental philosophical shift by U.S. policymakers in
the wake of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. But some critics dispute Bush's
argument that the threat from Saddam is imminent.

Q: When would the war start?

A: As soon as early December, when the Muslim holy month of Ramadan has ended
and hot weather has moderated, analysts say. High temperatures make it difficult
for U.S. troops to travel in heavy armored vehicles, which can become
dangerously hot inside, and to wear the bulky gear that protects against
chemical and biological weapons.

TEXT WITHIN GRAPHIC BEGINS HERE

Baghdad's average high temperatures

(By month, in degrees Farenheit)

January: 58 degrees

February: 64

March: 73

April: 84

May: 96

June: 105

July: 110

August: 108

September: 103

October: 91

November: 74

December: 62

Q: How long would the fighting last?

A: Defense analysts believe that Saddam could be out of power within weeks,
assuming most of the Iraqi army steps aside, as thousands of Saddam's troops did
during the 1991 Gulf War. But they acknowledge that it's possible the battle
could last longer if the regular army fought and Saddam's elite Republican Guard
dispersed in Baghdad and other large cities. U.S. forces have trained for urban
warfare, but such fighting carries a greater risk of civilian casualties and
minimizes the advantages of a high-tech arsenal. U.S. war planners want the
fighting to be over by the end of April, the start of the hottest part of the
year.

Q: How hard would the Iraqis fight?

A: U.S. officials are banking on a repeat of the 1991 conflict, when tens of
thousands of Iraqi troops chose to surrender rather than die. The Pentagon would
launch a massive campaign of leaflets and radio broadcasts -- called "psyops"
for psychological operations -- to weaken Iraqi resolve by arguing that the war
wasn't aimed at the Iraqi people but rather their tyrannical leader.

A more tailored psyops campaign would target the officers who control Iraq's
missiles and its suspected stocks of chemical and biological weapons. The
message: Defy Saddam's orders to fire those weapons, or be considered a war
criminal.

Q: What sort of war would it be?

A: Very different from the Gulf War. Then, the goal was to defeat the Iraqi army
and liberate Kuwait. Now, the goal would be to oust Saddam but not necessarily
defeat his military, especially if most Iraqi forces could be persuaded not to
fight.

In this war, the United States would deploy high-tech weapons -- including
pilotless surveillance drones and satellite-guided "smart bombs" -- but not a
massive invasion force. Instead, a bombing campaign would be followed by
fast-moving U.S. ground forces, including elite special operations troops.

Military historians compare the prospective war to a combination of the 1989
invasion of Panama, which removed dictator Manuel Noriega from power, and the
recent war in Afghanistan.


Units expected to have a role

1st Cavalry Division, Fort Hood, Texas

3rd Infantry Division, Fort Stewart, Ga.

101st Airborne Division, Fort Campbell, Ky.

Army Ranger Regiment, Fort Benning, Ga.

***

Q: Is it possible that Saddam would flee rather than fight?

A: Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld suggests that the United States would
accept his exile: "There are a lot of dictators living in various countries
around the world in quite quiet splendor." He mentions Haiti's Jean-Claude
Duvalier, who fled to France, and Idi Amin of Uganda, who sought refuge in Saudi
Arabia. U.S. and diplomatic officials cite Algeria, Mauritania and Morocco as
possible homes for an exiled Saddam.

But there are no indications that Saddam would be interested. Since the end of
the Gulf War, he has built more than 50 fortress-like structures he calls
presidential palaces. He conceals his movements, uses doubles to make it harder
to know where he is and rarely sleeps in the same place two nights in a row.

A third possibility: Rather than fight or flee, he could, like Osama bin Laden,
disappear without yielding power.

Q: Has the bombing campaign begun?

A: Not officially, but Rumsfeld acknowledges that the United States has changed
its response when U.S. aircraft are targeted by radar or anti-aircraft guns
while patrolling zones in northern and southern Iraq that have been off-limits
to Iraqi aircraft since the end of the Gulf War. Instead of firing back at
anti-aircraft batteries or radar sites, the warplanes have begun to bomb
air-defense hubs such as command-and-control centers. Pentagon officials say
they're taking advantage of the opportunity to weaken Saddam's air-defense
network.

Q: Does Saddam have weapons of mass destruction -- and would he use them?

A: Intelligence officials believe that Saddam has stores of sarin nerve gas,
anthrax and perhaps botulinum toxin. But they say he still can't produce the
plutonium or enriched uranium needed to make a nuclear weapon.

Whether he would use such weapons is the wild card, and a bigger risk now than
it was during the Gulf War. Then, the United States threatened massive
retaliation if Iraq used weapons of mass destruction, and Saddam held back. This
time, he might believe that he has nothing to lose. Iraqi missiles have a
maximum range estimated at 400-550 miles. Officials worry that Iraq could arm a
Scud missile with a chemical or biological warhead and fire it at Israel, or
pack artillery shells with chemical or biological agents and use them against
U.S. forces. A drone aircraft with crop-dusting equipment could spray biological
agents on Israeli or U.S. forces. Or a terrorist could smuggle a biological or
chemical weapon into the United States.

Crippling Saddam's ability to launch weapons of mass destruction would be a top
priority, says Gen. Richard Myers, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
Airstrikes would target anti-aircraft systems, missiles and aircraft. Pentagon
officials also envision commando raids on the places most likely to conceal
chemical or biological arsenals.

One scenario that concerns policymakers is the possibility that the United
States could topple Saddam but not gain control of all his biological and
chemical weapons, which are believed to be widely dispersed. That would be a
hollow victory, they acknowledge.

Q: How reliable is U.S. intelligence in Iraq?

A: It has been circumstantial at best since U.N. weapons inspectors left in 1998
amid a dispute over access to suspected weapons sites. Since then, intelligence
officials suspect that Iraq has hidden biological weapons labs in schools,
mosques and elsewhere. The Iraqis monitor the orbit schedules of U.S. spy
satellites and have become adept at timing suspicious activity when the
satellites aren't overhead.

Q: Could U.N. weapons inspections be an alternative to war?

A: Probably not. The Bush administration has vowed to block the return of
inspectors unless they are backed by a new Security Council resolution that
demands access "anytime, anywhere" to Iraqi facilities, including Saddam's
presidential palaces. Iraq is unlikely to meet those conditions. The
administration believes that a dispute over inspections would bolster the case
for war.

Besides, Rumsfeld and Vice President Cheney say that only Saddam's exit, not
inspections, can ensure the end of Iraq's program to develop chemical,
biological and nuclear weapons.

Q: So what would be the role of the United Nations?

A: The Bush administration would like the Security Council to approve a tough
new resolution and authorize serious "consequences" if Iraq doesn't comply with
it. But Bush has made it clear that the United States is prepared to move ahead
without such action by the United Nations.

TEXT OF INFO BOX BEGINS HERE

1990-91 Persian Gulf conflict

U.S. forces deployed: 532,000

Other coalition forces: 312,650

Cost: $ 61 billion

Key events:

* Aug. 2, 1990: Iraq invades Kuwait

* Jan. 17, 1991: U.S. bombing begins

* Feb. 28, 1991: United States declares hostilities over

* April 6, 1991: Iraq accepts cease-fire.

U.S. casualties/missing

* 148 battle deaths

* 145 non-battle deaths

* 1 missing in action

Source: USA TODAY research

REACTION IN IRAQ, AROUND THE REGION AND AT HOME

Q: How would the Iraqi people respond to an attack?

A: Public opinion is difficult to gauge in a dictatorship, of course. Shiite
Muslims, who are a majority in a country ruled by minority Sunni Muslims, have
long been oppressed by Saddam and are likely to welcome his ouster. Iraqi Kurds
also have suffered under Saddam but want to make sure they don't lose the
relative autonomy they have had in northern Iraq, protected by U.S. and British
warplanes, since the Gulf War.

The Sunnis are likely to be nervous about losing their supremacy. And if an
attack led to extensive Iraqi casualties or the war was prolonged, public
opinion could turn against the United States.

Q: Would a U.S.-led invasion touch off demonstrations or violence elsewhere in
the region?

A: Amr Moussa, secretary-general of the Arab League, warns that a U.S. war in
Iraq would "open the gates of hell" in the Middle East. There could be violent
protests throughout the region, especially if Israel became involved in the war.
The toughest challenge could come in Jordan, which has a majority Palestinian
population and a young, pro-Western king. "The street is going to be very
angry," Jordanian Foreign Minister Marwan Muasher predicts. "The street will
look at this as a war between Americans and Arabs and between Americans and
Muslims."

Arab reaction will depend in part on whether the attack has U.N. backing, how
long the war lasts, how many Arab casualties there are and how the Iraqi people
respond if Saddam is overthrown. If Iraqis are seen celebrating in the streets,
that would dampen Arab protests elsewhere.

Q: How would Arab leaders respond?

A: Most Arab leaders don't like Saddam but oppose an attack unless it is
sanctioned by the United Nations. Even then, they are nervous about popular
unrest. Leaders of Iran, a non-Arab neighbor that fought a long war with Iraq in
the 1980s, would be ambivalent -- pleased by Saddam's ouster but perhaps worried
that their country might be the next U.S. target.

Q: If Israel were attacked, would it retaliate?

A: Probably. Israeli officials say they reserve the right to retaliate, and the
United States has shared with Israel the identification codes needed for Israeli
aircraft to take part in the campaign without shooting at U.S. warplanes. That's
a shift from the Gulf War, when the United States asked Israel not to retaliate
to avoid splintering a coalition that included many Arab states. Israel
complied, even though it was hit by 39 Iraqi Scud missiles.

This time, there is no coalition to splinter, and Israeli officials complain
that their restraint last time was seen as a sign of weakness. Nevertheless,
U.S. officials still worry that Israeli retaliation could inflame Arab
sentiments and widen the war.

Q: What would our closest allies do?

A: Only Britain is likely to contribute a significant number of troops or
aircraft. Germany has ruled out participating, and the dispute over action
against Iraq has soured relations between Berlin and Washington. Chancellor
Gerhard Schroeder's ruling coalition won a narrow victory last week -- and
infuriated the White House -- after Schroeder campaigned fervently against
Bush's stance.

Q: What about the American people and Congress?

A: Americans traditionally rally around the president when the nation goes to
war. Congress seems poised to pass resolutions authorizing the president to take
action. All the likely contenders for the 2004 Democratic presidential
nomination who are now in Congress are expected to vote yes, although Bush's
2000 opponent, former vice president Al Gore, says the United States should
focus first on battling the al-Qaeda terrorist network.

However, polls show that the public is skeptical of a go-it-alone approach and
would prefer that Bush first get backing from Congress and the United Nations.
And if a war dragged on, U.S. casualties mounted or terrorists struck Americans
in retaliation, public support could wane.

Q: Would a war provoke terrorist attacks against Americans?

A: The Gulf War itself didn't spark terrorist attacks, but the war led to a
bigger U.S. presence in the Persian Gulf, particularly in Saudi Arabia.
Expelling Americans from Saudi Arabia, with its sites sacred to Islam, became a
rallying cry for bin Laden and a recruitment tool for his al-Qaeda network. This
time, war planners envision a long-term U.S. military presence in Iraq after
Saddam is ousted. Those troops could be subject to attacks. Their presence and
the war itself could fuel anti-American feeling and prompt more terrorist
attacks.

TEXT OF INFO BOX BEGINS HERE

Helping the United States

U.S. officials are counting on Britain to join an attack on Iraq with troops and
aircraft. Middle East countries that are also cooperating:

Bahrain: Regional base for U.S. Navy.

Israel: Storage sites for military equipment; intelligence cooperation.

Kuwait: Hosts largest contingent of U.S. troops now in the region.

Qatar: New U.S.-built base, Al-Udeid, with a 15,000-foot runway, the longest in
the Persian Gulf region. An alternative to Saudi Arabia as a command-and-control
center.

Saudi Arabia: Command-and-control facilities at air base near Riyadh might be
used if U.S. action is sanctioned by United Nations.

Turkey: Air bases already in use to patrol no-fly zone -- an area in which Iraqi
aircraft are banned -- in northern Iraq.

WAR'S POTENTIAL AFTERMATH

Q: What would the United States do with Saddam if it captured him?

A: Try him for war crimes, although just how it would do so isn't clear. The
State Department is financing a group preparing a case to indict Saddam for
crimes against humanity, such as his use of chemical weapons against Iraqi Kurds
in the 1980s. But that effort could be awkward, given the Bush administration's
opposition to the new International Criminal Court. The United States might ask
another country to host a tribunal, like the one in the Netherlands that is
trying former Yugoslav leader Slobodan Milosevic. Some Iraqis would like to set
up a court within the country to prosecute Saddam and his top aides.

Q: Who would govern Iraq if Saddam were ousted?

A: So far, there's no obvious person to replace Saddam. Possibilities from the
Iraqi exile community include Hatem Mukhlis, a surgeon from Binghamton, N.Y.,
who is a native of Saddam's home village of Tikrit and comes from a prominent
Arab family, and Najib Salhi, a former general who lives in Virginia. In London,
Sharif Hussein Bin Al-Ali, a cousin of the last king, ousted in 1958, leads an
exile group that wants a referendum to reinstate the royal family.

Ahmed Chalabi, leader of the Iraqi National Congress, an umbrella group also
based in London, has close ties with Pentagon officials. But the former banker
lacks a following in Iraq.

Analysts say foreign troops would be needed to police Iraq for at least a year
and perhaps much longer after Saddam was ousted. Ranking government ministers
loyal to Saddam would have to be removed -- U.S. officials are debating just how
many -- but most civil servants probably could remain in place.

Q: What role would Iraqi opposition leaders now in exile play?

A: U.S. officials are divided about the role of opposition groups and whether
they could help fill a power vacuum in Baghdad and guard against chaos if Saddam
was ousted. There is talk of trying to create a transitional government in
exile. The State Department has sponsored meetings over the past six months with
the six main opposition groups to discuss aspects of governing Iraq after
Saddam. But opposition sources complain that there is still no coherent plan.

The Pentagon is considering training about 1,000 Iraqi opposition members to be
used as translators, guides and scouts for U.S. military units.

Q: What would be the U.S. role in establishing a new government?

A: The administration has begun some planning for a post-Saddam Iraq. But Bush
has little patience for "nation building," a concept he scorned during the 2000
campaign. He would be inclined to hand off much of that responsibility to the
United Nations. The costs of postwar reconstruction could be substantial. After
World War II, the United States contributed $ 1.3 billion -- nearly $ 11 billion
in today's dollars -- under the Marshall Plan to rebuild Germany.

Deputy Defense Secretary Paul Wolfowitz says Iraq, which has an educated
population and a ready revenue source through oil, could become a flourishing
democracy in an Arab world devoid of democratic governments. But some question
whether the Bush administration would care who ultimately governed, as long as
the leadership was pro-American.

Q: Could Iraq splinter into several countries?

A: U.S. officials endorse a united Iraq, but there is concern that the Kurds in
the north and Shiites in the south might try to break away. Turkey, a key U.S.
ally, vehemently opposes an independent Kurdistan that could act as a magnet or
a model for its own Kurds, who make up about a fifth of Turkey's population.
Iran has similar worries. The region's Kurds have long aspired to have their own
state.

Q: What would be the impact of a war on the region?

A: Many opponents of war with Iraq fear that it would unite Arab nations around
the world against the United States and its allies. Brent Scowcroft, national
security adviser to the first President Bush during the 1991 Gulf War, says
Iraqi attacks on Israel could provoke Israel to respond with nuclear weapons,
"unleashing an Armageddon in the Middle East." Other Arab governments might
become unstable, setting the stage for decades of unrest in the Middle East and
inciting terrorists who would see the war as one between Americans and the
Muslim world.

Those who support a war say a new, democratic government in Iraq could become a
model for the rest of the region. A dangerous dictator would be vanquished.
Repressive governments that are havens for Islamic fundamentalism might feel
compelled to move toward democracy and root out terrorists if they were
convinced that the United States wouldn't tolerate their current situations.

Q: After a war with Iraq, would the United States launch pre-emptive attacks on
other countries?

A: Bush has made it clear that he intends to make pre-emptive action a
cornerstone of his foreign policy, and he has labeled Iran and North Korea,
along with Iraq, as members of an "axis of evil." But there have been no signs
that the administration contemplates pre-emptive military action against North
Korea. The administration is pushing instead for inspections to verify that
North Korea has abided by its 1994 agreement to abandon a nuclear weapons
program in return for two civilian nuclear reactors. On Iran, administration
officials hope a younger generation will break the grip of the Islamic clerics
now in charge.

Of great concern, however, is the possibility that other nations will cite
pre-emption as a rationale for military action against old foes -- that Russia
might attack Georgia, China might attack Taiwan, or India and Pakistan might go
to war over Kashmir.

Despite the questions about a war with Iraq, Bush says he's prepared to act.
"There's doubt in people's minds, I understand that," he said last month. But he
said he has no doubt that the United States shouldn't "allow the world's worst
leaders to hold America hostage, to threaten our peace, to threaten our friends
and allies with the world's worst weapons."

THE ECONOMIC IMPACT

Q: How much would the war cost?

A: Lawrence Lindsey, Bush's chief economic adviser, estimates the cost at $ 100
billion to $ 200 billion. Even $ 100 billion is more than the combined annual
budgets for the Education and Veterans Affairs departments. Democrats on the
House Budget Committee put the cost at $ 48 billion to $ 93 billion for a war
that lasts 30 to 60 days, depending on how many U.S. troops are deployed.

The non-partisan Congressional Budget Office says that waging the war would cost
$ 6 billion to $ 9 billion a month. Deploying the forces would cost $ 9 billion
to $ 13 billion, the CBO says; returning U.S. forces home afterward would cost $
5 billion to $ 7 billion.

In 1991, allied governments paid most of the Gulf War's $ 61 billion cost ($ 80
billion in today's dollars). This time, the United States would have to pick up
most of the tab.

Q: What would be the war's impact on the U.S. economy?

A: Concern about the prospect of war already has weighed on the fragile
recovery. The S&P 500 has fallen 29% this year, in part because of worries about
Iraq. The stock market has taken the effect of a war into account, some analysts
say. Economic anxiety might even be eased once the war began. While the market
might dip immediately after the war began, it could soon return to pre-attack
levels or even rise.

When Iraq invaded Kuwait in 1990, fueling talk of war, the S&P 500 dropped 15%
in two months. But as soon as the U.S. bombing campaign began, the index climbed
and was 3% above the pre-attack level when the cease-fire was declared.

Q: What about oil production?

A: The loss of Iraqi oil during a war wouldn't cause serious shortages, experts
say, and U.S. diplomats have sought promises from other oil-producing countries
to make up for lost Iraqi production. Iraq now produces 1.7 million barrels of
oil a day, 3% of world production. There could be trouble, though, if another
major oil-producing country was affected, for political reasons or because the
conflict had widened. Economists worry that a sustained spike in oil prices
could push the country back into recession.

After the war, installation of an Iraqi government friendly to the West could
attract outside investment that would increase Iraqi output, lower the cost of
oil and boost the U.S. economy.

TEXT WITHIN GRAPHIC BEGINS HERE

Rise and fall of oil prices

Highest monthly price, per barrel, of light, sweet crude oil during the 1990-91
Persian Gulf crisis:

January 1990: $ 17.51

August 2: Iraq invades Kuwait

October 1990: $ 41.07

January 17, 1991: U.S. bombing begins

February 28: U.S. declares hostilities over

April 6: Iraq accepts cease-fire.

May 1991: $ 21.92

***

These articles were reported by John Diamond, Judy Keen, Dave Moniz, Susan Page
and Barbara Slavin, and were written by Page.

Contributing: Steven Komarow in Berlin; Elliot Blair Smith in Islamabad,
Pakistan; Vivienne Walt in Baghdad, Iraq; and Barbara Hagenbaugh, Mimi Hall and
James R. Healey in Washington.

TEXT WITHIN GRAPHICS BEGINS HERE

U.S. war planners target Iraq

Geography: Most broad plains; marshland in the southeast; mountains along
borders with Iran and Turkey. Area: 168,751 square miles

2002 population

Iraq: 24 million

U.S.: 288 million

Life expectancy

Iraq: 67 years

U.S.: 77 years

Languages: Arabic, Kurdish, Assyrian, Armenian

Literacy: 58% of Iraq's population is literate (1995 estimate):

Male: 71%

Female: 45%

Economy

Crude oil reserves: 113 billion barrels. Ranks number 2 behind Saudi Arabia,
which has 262 billion barrels in reserve.

Industries: Oil, Natural gas, Phosphates, Sulfur

Agricultural products: Wheat, Barley, Rice, Tobacco, Cotton, Dates, Poultry

GDP (2000 estimate in U.S. dollars)

Iraq: $ 557 billion

U.S.: $ 9.96 trillion

Per capita GDP

Iraq: $ 2,500

U.S.: $ 36,200

Religion

Shiite Muslim: 60%

Sunni Muslim: 35%

Christian: 5%

Jewish and Yezidi: less than 1%

Ethnic groups

Arab: 75%

Kurd: 15-20%

Turkmen, Assyrian and others: less than 5%

Baghdad

Population: 5 million

History: Iraq's capital was founded in A.D. 762 and became the intellectual and
cultural center of the Islamic world until the Mongols overran the capital in
1258. The city remained in disrepair under the Ottoman Empire until the end of
World War I. In 1920, Iraq was put under British mandate. It gained independence
in 1932. Saddam Hussein's Ba'ath party took control in 1963, and oil wealth
fueled rapid modernization in the next two decades. Known for its historic
mosques, monuments and gardens, Baghdad is the center of government, industry
and transporation in Iraq. It was rebuilt with two years of the 1991 Gulf War.

Troops

Active

Iraq: 424,000

U.S.: 1.4 million

Reserve

Iraq: 650,000

U.S. 1.25 million

Climate

Mostly desert; mild to cool winters with dry, hot, cloudless summers; northern
mountainous regions experience cold winters with occassionally heavy snows that
melt in early spring, sometimes causing extensive flooding in central and
southern Iraq.

********************

Conditions influence support for invasion of Iraq

The support Americans express for invading Iraq varies under different
scenarios. Percentages who say they would or would not support an invasion under
the following conditions:

The United Nations supported invading Iraq

Yes: 79%

No: 19%

The U.N. opposed invading Iraq

Yes: 37%

No: 58%

Congress supported invading Iraq

Yes: 69%

No: 28%

Congress opposed invading Iraq

Yes: 37%

No: 59%

Other countries participated in invading Iraq

Yes: 79%

No: 18%

The United States had to invade Iraq alone

Yes: 38%

No: 59%

Source: USA TODAY/CNN/Gallup Poll of 1,010 adults Sept. 20-22. Margin of error:
+/- 3 percentage points.

LOAD-DATE: October 03, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Awad Awad, Agence France-Presse; GRAPHIC, B/W, Robert W.
Ahrens, USA TODAY, Source: USA TODAY research (BAR GRAPH); GRAPHIC, B/W, Frank
Pompa and Dave Merrill, USA TODAY, Sources: International Institute for
Stratetic Studies' Iraq's Weapons of Mass Destruction: A Net Assessment":
www.fas.org; research by William Risser and Anne R. Carey, USA TODAY (MAP, BAR
GRAPH, PIE CHART); GRAPHIC, B/W, Marcy E. Mullins, USA TODAY, Source: USA
TODAY/CNN/Gallup Poll of 1, 010 adults Sept. 20-22. Margin of error: +/- 3
percentage points. (BAR GRAPH); PHOTO, B/W, Amr Nabil, AP; GRAPHIC, B/W, Sam
Ward, USA TODAY (MAP); GRAPHIC, B/W, Robert W. Ahrens, USA TODAY, Source:
Jonathan Cogan of the Energy Information Administration, reported by Lori
Joseph, USA TODAY (LINE GRAPH); Life as usual, for now: Iraqis shop at a market
in Baghdad last month. As the United States prepares for war, it is trying to
gauge how the Iraqi people would react.

                      Copyright 2002 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              120 of 141 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    October 15, 2002, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

A decade later, another 'illusion' crafted

BYLINE: Dennis Moore

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 8D

LENGTH: 1522 words

DATELINE: FORT LAUDERDALE

FORT LAUDERDALE -- Donna Tartt denies the 325 audience members the very thing
they crave. She does so with such self-effacing charm and adroit reasoning,
however, that they spend the rest of the evening and much of the next day
thanking her.

The bookstore owners, critics and publishers' representatives who have assembled
10 to a table at the Southeast Booksellers' Association banquet push aside their
chicken-and-potatoes rations to devour any tasty morsels Tartt serves up about a
novel they have been waiting 10 years to read: The Little Friend (Knopf, $ 26),
which arrives Oct. 22.

Her fans' curiosity goes unsated, however. "A novel is an invention, an
entertainment and an illusion," she says from the podium. "How do you talk about
an illusion without destroying it?"


The Secret History, which she began writing while a student at Vermont's
Bennington College, introduced Tartt in 1992 as one of the most vibrant new
voices in serious literature. The epic tale -- classics students at a New
England college turn on one of their own when they fear he will reveal their
earlier murder of a farmer while they were re-creating an ancient Greek
bacchanal -- sold a breathtaking 1 million copies in the USA. More than 20
foreign editions were printed. Publications from Vanity Fair to Time hailed
Tartt's talent. The publicity tour lasted a year.

Then a lengthy interlude. Some essays from Tartt here, a few short stories and
book reviews there. But no novel.

Rumors circulated, expectations rose. And when news leaked that Tartt, now 38
and a native of the state that begat William Faulkner and Eudora Welty, was
setting her second novel in Mississippi's recent past, images of Southern gothic
greatness rose in her fans' imaginations.

Despite her return, in setting at least, to her home state, Tartt declines the
"Southern writer" mantle. "It's not pleasant to be lumped into a group of black
writers or women writers or gay writers. Why be part of a group simply because
of the circumstances of your birth?"

Oohs and Oz

As a child, Tartt says, she had no sense that books were invented. "I didn't
give a damn about Frank Baum. What I wanted to be was Dorothy. I wanted to live
in Oz."

After writing two novels, "I am no closer to being Dorothy Gale than I was as a
child. But I am closer to being the wizard himself. We authors don't want you to
look at us. We want you to look at what we made."

Though it is difficult not to look at Tartt -- she's a captivating combination
of New York elegance and Southern grace -- readers are easily swept up in what
she has made: a darkly comic novel that begins with the death of 9-year-old
Robin Cleve Dufresnes, found hanging from a black tupelo tree in his own yard on
Mother's Day.

The plot is propelled by Harriet, Robin's sister, who decides more than a decade
later to solve the mystery of his death. She is only 12, and no adult takes her
seriously, but she is headstrong -- her mission inspired in part by the tales of
Rudyard Kipling, Robert Louis Stevenson and Arthur Conan Doyle.

The story broadens to examine Southern racial and social strata, religious and
generational eccentricities, and the passion of youth that gives way to the
ambivalence of age. At times humorous, at times heartbreaking, The Little Friend
is most surprising when it is edge-of-your-seat scary.

Tartt, who peppers casual conversation with references to authors and books she
reveres, says, "This book is really about other books that I loved in
childhood." That childhood was spent mostly in Grenada, a town on the eastern
edge of the Mississippi Delta.

"We read to find out about the world . . .  to know what it's like to be on a
ship at sea in the 19th century or in the jungle with Mr. Kurtz. I felt that I
read the right books. They led me into places I needed to go," she says the day
after the banquet.

They first led her to the University of Mississippi in Oxford. The story of her
discovery there rivals the legend of Lana Turner being spotted by a talent agent
at Schwab's soda fountain in Hollywood -- only Tartt's is true.

One night in the Holiday Inn bar, a stranger put his hands on Tartt's shoulders,
turned her around and said, "My name is Willie Morris, and I think you're a
genius." Morris, former editor of Harper's magazine, author of North Toward Home
and My Dog Skip and writer in residence at the university, had read stories
Tartt had written in high school and submitted to the Ole Miss student newspaper
when applying for a job.

Soon thereafter, she enrolled in Barry Hannah's (Geronimo Rex) graduate writing
class.

"A rough game for a 17-year-old," she says. "He was like a knife thrower. He
went right to the problem of a story."

The next year, following Morris' suggestion that she see another part of the
world, she enrolled in Bennington. There, she made friends with the likes of
Bret Easton Ellis (American Psycho), and she started The Secret History.

Tartt no longer is a secret herself, but fame has not imprisoned her.

"I'm not recognized," she says. "I go into a Barnes & Noble and pay with a
credit card. It's usually when people see the name that they react."

She is not a player in the celebrity-author social scene, nor does she make
regular rounds on the lecture circuit.

"It's dangerous if you spend too much time in that world," she says. "But it's
wonderful to visit. My primary environment is in a chair at my desk with the
door shut."

Life with Pongo

She shares a Manhattan apartment with 15-year-old Pongo, a pug. And after
History's success, she bought a house near Charlottesville, Va.But she wrote of
Mississippi in The Little Friend. "There were times when I thought this is the
book I should write at the end of my life. I didn't feel there was as much
distance as there should be. The worst advice is to write about what you know.
It's hard to see things fresh."

The Little Friend's setting, Alexandria, is not unlike Grenada in the 1970s,
seemingly stuck in the past but simmering with change under the surface. Anyone
who grew up in the South will recognize the genteel grandmothers and great
aunts, the unctuous church deacon, the loyal but disgruntled housekeepers, the
rednecks who live on the outskirts of both the town and the law.

But Tartt cautions: "This is not a reminiscence. One reason it takes me so long
to write a book is that I create my own country with its own natural laws and
climate."

She mapped out the imaginary Alexandria and drew blueprints of houses where the
action takes place. "Working on something over a long period gives a sense of
richness that you can't fake," she says. "I'm like a cabinetmaker who builds a
cabinet every few years."

Or every 10. "Lots of people have encouraged me to speed up. But that makes me
unhappy."

Her next work is a novella based on the myth of Daedalus and Icarus, part of a
collection of modern interpretations commissioned by Scottish publisher
Canongate.

And then? "A novel I don't want to talk about."

Fans surmise it will involve someone's untimely demise. Death propels both The
Little Friend and The Secret History.

"Death drives everything," Tartt says with conviction. "One of my Greek teachers
said we have one true task, and that is learning how to die."

Then she throws up her hands in disavowal.

"But who am I to give lessons? There are no real messages in my fiction. The
first duty of the novelist is to entertain. It is a moral duty. People who read
your books are sick, sad, traveling, in the hospital waiting room while someone
is dying. Books are written by the alone for the alone."

Tartt herself isn't alone for the next few weeks. She leaves Fort Lauderdale for
Amsterdam, where she is a literary superstar, then back to New York and later
this fall to bookstores across the country to meet, greet and sign. She won't
sneak up on readers this time: Whereas The Secret History's initial printing was
only 75,000 books, 300,000 copies of The Little Friend enter bookstores next
week.

The publicity whirlwind can be disorienting. After working on the manuscript in
solitude for a decade, she faces dozens of fans at the banquet lining up,
presenting books for inscription and offering effusive compliments. "It's like
standing in my underwear," she confides to Knopf representatives.

But her graciousness guides her. When one fan notes that she is a librarian,
Tartt offers, "My aunt and great-aunt were librarians, and I understand the
special love you all have for books." When a bookseller identifies her hometown
as Atlanta, Tartt responds, "Oh, my sister lives in Atlanta."

As she talks, more Southern inflection slips into her voice. But she never gives
away much about herself or her novel. Those who read The Little Friend will have
to figure out how much it tells them about Tartt and her talent.

---

To read an excerpt from The Little Friend, go to life.usatoday.com

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Peter Freed, USA TODAY; PHOTO, B/W; Keeps fans guessing:
Donna Tartt's The Little Friend, out Oct. 22, comes 10 years after her wildly
successful The Secret History.

TYPE: BOOKS

                      Copyright 2002 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              121 of 141 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    October 21, 2002, Monday, FINAL EDITION

New York's bar patrons may lose the right to smoke

BYLINE: Rick Hampson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 2527 words

NEW YORK -- When people try to describe the air in Wonder Bar, a very popular
and very smoky place in the East Village, they talk about chimneys, L.A. smog,
tear gas. The "Wonder," they agree, is that you can breathe at all.

As it turns out, Wonder Bar's patrons may have sold it short. According to city
Health Department agents who spent a night barhopping with a portable air
sampler, the atmosphere in a typical saloon is worse than the Holland Tunnel --
at rush hour.

Soon that may change, here and around the country. Under assault by
anti-smokers, bars -- the last great smoked-filled rooms, where some of the old
romance of cigarettes still lingers -- are in danger of clearing up.


Mayor Michael Bloomberg, a zealous reformed smoker who already has helped make
cigarettes here the most highly taxed in the USA, wants to ban smoking at bars,
restaurants, pool halls, bingo parlors and bowling alleys. The smoking ban would
even extend to outdoor cafes and private clubs. About 13,000 establishments in
all would be affected.

Smoking has been banned in most restaurants and office buildings here since
1995. Bloomberg's proposal would extend the prohibition to the hazy heart of
smoking in America: the New York barroom. Anti-smoking advocates say if they can
stop it here, they can stop it anywhere.

California and Delaware have statewide bans on smoking in bars and restaurants,
and dozens of localities have adopted such bans. But New York would be by far
the largest city to pass its own measure. Anti-smoking forces are looking
forward to an enormous psychological victory.

"The New York bar is the last bastion," says Diane Maple of the American Lung
Association.

The City Council held a hearing two weeks ago on the mayor's proposal. Most
observers expect it to pass largely intact. Polls indicate that most New Yorkers
support the smoking ban.

Across the country, smoking and smokers are on the defensive.

 * Twenty states have approved or implemented tobacco tax increases this year,
the most since such taxes began in the 1920s. Six states have more than doubled
their levies. Tax increases will be on the ballot in Arizona and Missouri next
month.

Most of the new tobacco taxes are designed primarily to plug state budget gaps,
but they may have a dramatic affect on smoking. Research indicates that a 10%
increase in the price of cigarettes leads to a 2% reduction in adult smoking and
to a 6-7% decline in youth smoking. If so, the spate of state tax increases
could lead about 400,000 adult Americans to stop smoking and deter another
590,000 young ones from starting.

 * More than 70 localities around the nation have banned smoking in bars and
restaurants. Bans are under consideration in Washington, Chicago and Boston,
where Mayor Thomas Menino summed up the political climate: "Want to smoke? Go
outside."

The movement has spread to Marlboro Country. Cities such as Helena, Mont.; El
Paso, Texas; and Tempe, Ariz., have enacted bans despite the opposition of
restaurant and bar owners.

 * Florida voters will consider a referendum to ban smoking in most public
places in November.

 * Smoking in general continues to decline -- by 2% last year, according to the
U.S. Agriculture Department. Now, less than a quarter of adults smoke, and
studies show that most of those who do want to quit. After the recent tax
increases, smoking "quitlines" reported an upsurge in calls.

"There are no 'smokers rights' anymore," says Paul Brackett, bartender at Wonder
Bar. "Nobody's really proud to be a smoker."

New York: One smokin' town

Bars have been here since this was New Amsterdam. The first tavern became the
town hall. And bars have always had smokers: Frank Sinatra in the wee small
hours and Dorothy Day in her wild youth; Joe DiMaggio at Toots Shor's, Jackson
Pollock at the Cedar Inn, Edward R. Murrow on the air; everyone at the Algonquin
Round Table. Even George Washington might have smoked here.

But this matters little to Bloomberg, the media tycoon-turned mayor who kicked
smoking two decades ago. For him, it's apparently not about politics -- a
million New Yorkers of voting age smoke -- or tax revenue. Despite a looming
fiscal crisis, he says he hopes that one day tobacco tax receipts will be zero.

For Bloomberg, it's about morality. He says smokers must not hurt others with
secondhand smoke, and lawmakers must not let them. He also says that bar and
restaurant workers, above all, must be protected.

He usually couches the issue as one of workplace health and safety. He cites
studies showing that:

 * A bartender breathes as much secondhand smoke in an eight-hour shift as he
would if he smoked a half-pack of cigarettes.

 * Bar and restaurant workers have a 50% higher chance of getting cancer than
other workers.

The mayor's zeal seems to have increased in August after two Health Department
agents armed with battery-powered air-quality meters spent several hours at four
Manhattan bars, three of which allow smoking. The conclusion: The smoking bars'
air was 50 times worse than the entrance to the Holland Tunnel.

Bloomberg's only uncertainty on the subject seems to be whether smokers are
crazy or stupid. He has publicly expressed both convictions. In radio ads and in
chance encounters outside City Hall, he has warned New Yorkers about secondhand
smoke and predicted that one day children might sue smoking parents.

He has let it be known that he will support City Council members who vote for
his bill and oppose those who don't. He has called trying to delay the ban "an
attempt to injure people."

When he learned, via the New York Post, that city Housing Authority workers were
spending too much time on cigarette breaks outside their offices across from
City Hall, the mayor fumed. The Post clocked an $ 80,000-a-year executive taking
69 minutes in smoke breaks before lunch; Bloomberg fired him.

The mayor's most dramatic blow against the evil weed thus far has been an
increase in the city's cigarette tax from 8 cents to $ 1.50 a pack. This helped
push the cost of a pack to around $ 7.50, the highest in the country. Retail
sales have dropped almost 50% since the price increase July 2, and smuggling and
Internet sales are thought to have increased substantially.

'Fooler packs' employed

In saloons, where a pack of smokes now costs as much as $ 9, bartenders say
patrons who once bummed off others have begun to offer to pay 35 or 40 cents for
an individual cigarette. Some smokers have begun displaying "fooler packs" with
one or two cigarettes while keeping their main stash out of sight to protect
themselves from freeloaders.

At the Dublin House on the Upper West Side, bartender Jerry Daly has noticed a
dramatic drop in cigarette packs left on the bar at the end of the night.
"They're too expensive to forget," he says.

There has been a backlash against Bloomberg's crusade. The mayor raised
cigarette taxes so much, writes the New York Post's critic Linda Stasi, "that
he's now the only person in the city with enough money left to buy a pack." An
editorial complained that "Mommy Mike" is "trying to turn New York into a nanny
state."

Many smokers agree. "Since time immemorial, smoking and drinking have gone hand
in hand," says Ryan Granger, 37, an ad man enjoying a Dewar's and a Marlboro at
Scruffy Duffy's bar on Eighth Avenue. He and other smokers say bars are
virtually the last places they can have a relaxed public social encounter.

"What's next?" asks Joe Tirrell, 25, who sometimes drops by McSorley's Old Ale
House after work. "No smoking in your own living room?" Others warn of a new
Prohibition, complete with "smokeasies."

Bar owners say the ban would hurt business by keeping away smokers, who tend to
stay longer and spend more than non-smokers, and force smokers onto the street.
"A sidewalk full of smokers at night and a gutter full of butts the next
morning? How's that going to affect the quality of life the mayor's worried
about?" asks Brackett, the barkeep at Wonder Bar.

As for the worker health issue, most bartenders say if they were worried about
smoke, they wouldn't work in bars.

"I don't need government protection. I smoke myself," says Shannon McCormick of
Smoke, an Upper West Side jazz club. "This is what I choose to do with my life.
(The ban) is an infringement on my rights."

Her colleague, Frank Christopher, agrees: "People do stupid things. That's why
we're people. If we were robots, we wouldn't smoke.  . . .  People like to flirt
with danger. Some people jump out of airplanes. For a bartender, it goes with
the biz."

Others are less happy with that compromise. "I don't like smoke, but this is my
job," shrugs Lee Pagburn, who tends bar at the Stonewall, a landmark gay bar in
Greenwich Village.

Some bar owners say Bloomberg's law would put them out of business. One is Brian
Michels, who got in the business four years ago. "We wanted to do something, and
this was the cigar bar era, so my partner ran this idea past me -- a cigarette
lounge," he recalls. "A nice little niche, we thought."

The result is Circa Tabac, a bar with more than 100 brands of cigarettes on sale
-- Egyptian, German, Indonesian. One Russian brand sells for $ 40 a pack.
Michels says business has been great. But if smoking is banned, "we're probably
gonna have to close."

Will smokers stay away?

No one really knows if the ban will hurt businesses. Advocates say bar and
restaurant sales increased in California after the state banned smoking in 1998.
Opponents attribute that to the economic boom and say business would have been
even better had smokers not been driven away.

In Tempe, Ariz., where voters approved a smoking ban that took effect in late
May, tax revenue from bars and restaurants fell by about 7% in June. Some bar
owners blame the law and want it amended to allow smoking in places where food
sales account for less than 40% of the business.

In New York, Paul Pacult, who writes a newsletter about bars and cocktails,
expects "an initial dip in business, and weeping and gnashing of teeth for about
six months. After that, bars will deal with it, and people will move on." Since
there are many more non-smokers than smokers, if just some of the former go out
to eat or drink more, it will be a net gain for bars and restaurants.

Even without a legal ban, there is probably less bar smoke overall these days
around the city. Smoke, the jazz club, does not allow smoking at its early
evening show, and the bar at a hot barbecue joint called Blue Smoke is
smoke-free.

Cafe Gitane, named after the French brand of cigarettes, doesn't allow patrons
to smoke. When owner Luc Levy had a blood test for life insurance, the results
indicated he was a smoker, although he was not. He blamed secondhand smoke and
in June banned smoking at his cafe. "Considering the name, it was difficult to
do," he says. "But it was affecting too many people, including me."

Brackett, the bartender at Wonder Bar, comes from Winston-Salem, N.C., where, he
says, "I smoked in my crib." He stopped for good on Valentine's Day. Even the
bar isn't as smoky as it used to be, thanks to a new ventilation system.

But if bars are rendered smokeless, many feel something will be lost. Gary
Reagan, who managed or tended bar for 20 years, says "I think that smokers
include a greater percentage of peculiar characters. If they're gone from bars,
you'll lose some of that magic."

Juliana Nash, an owner of Pete's Candy Store, a hip Brooklyn bar, says there's
just something about a dark, smoky bar: "I'm not a smoker, but I expect that
when I go into a bar, there'll be smoke. To me, that's part of what a bar is. I
don't know -- it's nostalgic."

And, to some, romantic. How many relationships began at a bar rail with the
words, "Got a light?"

"It's not romantic!" growls Tim Zagat, an ex-smoker and the publisher of guides
to restaurants and bars. "I smoked three packs a day. It would have killed me!"

Anyway, romance will probably survive. A cartoon in The New Yorker imagines a
young man and woman sitting at a bar after Bloomberg's law has passed. So, he
says to her, "would you like to go back to my place for a cigarette?"



Big Apple's bastions of stylish smoking oppose ban

These venerable Manhattan watering holes account for nearly two centuries of
smoking -- a legacy that, if the mayor has his way, will go up the chimney.

Ear Inn (1817)

Famous patrons, claim to fame: Lobes of "B" in "BAR" sign blacked out

Estimated smokers: 70%

Comment on proposed ban: Smoke helps that 'old' look we've got. . . . A lot of
people only smoke in a bar. Why take that away from them? -- Gary Lawler,
bartender

McSorley's Old Ale House (1854)

Famous patrons, claim to fame: Smokers dump ashes on sawdust covered floor; no
ashtrays

Estimated smokers: 40%

Comment on proposed ban: A lot of smokers won't come back. A lot of bars will
close. -- Steve Zwaryczuk, manager

Pete's Tavern (1864)

Famous patrons, claim to fame: O. Henry

Estimated smokers: 50%

Comment on proposed ban: We're against the law. New York is a world city. People
from Europe and South America come in here, and they expect to smoke. -- Buster
Smith, manager

White Horse Tavern (1880)

Famous patrons, claim to fame: Dylan Thomas, Jack Kerouac

Estimated smokers: 50%

Comment on proposed ban: People are still gonna go out. You can smoke at home in
your living room. -- Jimmy Munson, owner

Algonquin Hotel's Blue Bar (1902)

Famous patrons, claim to fame: Dorothy Parker, Robert Benchley

Estimated smokers: 50%

Comment on proposed ban: Almost everyone at the Algonquin Round Table smoked.
People come here to feel comfortable, and smoking is part of that. -- Christina
Zeniou, hotel spokeswoman

Chumley's (1926)

Famous patrons, claim to fame: James Agee, Eugene O'Neill

Estimated smokers: 50%

Comment on proposed ban: Smoking and drinking have always gone hand-in-hand.
This place started out as a speakeasy, and enforcement may again become the
issue. -- Jim DiPaola, the bar's historian

Sources: Zagat Survey/NYC Nightlife; AIA Guide to New York City; Reported by
Rick Hampson, USA TODAY

Cigarette tax hikes

Higher cigarette taxes are expected to eventually reduce smoking. This year
alone, 20 states have approved or implemented tobacco tax increases. Of those,
these states have the highest taxes.

State

New state tax rate per pack

Estimate of fewer packs smoked (millions)

Mass.

$ 1.51

25.4

N.J.

$ 1.50

34.7

N.Y.

$ 1.50

32.9

Wash.

$ 1.43

18

R.I.

$ 1.32

2.7

Ore.

$ 1.28

15.0

Mich.

$ 1.25

40.2

Hawaii

$ 1.20

1.0

Conn.

$ 1.11

16.1

Md.

$ 1.00

11

Pa.

$ 1.00

88.7

Source: National Center for Tobacco-Free Kids

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Color, Jay L. Clendenin for USA TODAY; PHOTO, B/W, Jay L.
Clendinin for USA TODAY; Aaahhh: Dana Segal, 21, of Brooklyn, N.Y., enjoys a
smoke with her friend Lee Ringelheim, the club's co-owner, at Circa Tabac in New
York City. A smoking ban may close the cigarette lounge.<>Part of bar culture":
Rachel Chavkin, 22, left, and Orion Stagg, 22, both of Brooklyn, N.Y., relax
with a Camel and an ale at McSorley's Old Ale House in lower Manhattan earlier
this month.

TYPE: COVER STORY

                      Copyright 2002 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              122 of 141 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   November 14, 2002, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

More workers say no to 401(k) plans

BYLINE: Christine Dugas

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 476 words

For the first time in nearly 20 years, many workers are abandoning 401(k) plans
as they recoil from stock market losses and economic uncertainty.

In the past year, the average participation rate in 401(k) plans fell 2.5
percentage points to 75%, according to a new survey of more than 2,800 plans by
PlanSponsor.com.

Workers' savings rates also have fallen for the first time, dropping to 7% from
a peak of 8.6% in 1999, according to a recent survey by Spectrem Group, a
retirement consulting firm.


The trend is worrisome to retirement experts and employers. With traditional
pensions disappearing, the decline means workers may not have adequate savings
when it's time to retire.

"This is absolutely the No. 1 concern among plan sponsors," says David Wray,
president of the Profit Sharing/401(k) Council of America. "A lot of time and
effort and company resources go into 401(k) plans. If employees are not
participating, the plan is not working."

The drop in worker participation was even more dramatic among large plans, where
participation fell nearly 6 points from 2001 to 2002 to 73.7%, according to
PlanSponsor.

Among the reasons for the change:

 * The bear market.  Many employees are reluctant to risk losing more money.
Workers already routinely refer jokingly to their 401(k) plans as their 201(k)
plans.

 * Layoffs and the rocky economy. Many workers are in a financial bind. In this
climate, younger workers may not see the urgency to save. "They often say, 'How
can I afford to contribute to a 401(k) plan when I'm barely making ends meet?' "
says William McNabb, managing director at Vanguard Group.

 * Health care costs. Health insurance premiums are eating into disposable
income. "We hear that worries about health care costs loom large for many
workers," says Nevin Adams, executive editor of PlanSponsor.com.

 * Corporate scandals. Negative publicity about stock market losses and the
impact of accounting scandals on 401(k) balances have undermined confidence in
the plans. "It makes it difficult to explain that the down market is a buying
opportunity for long-term investors," Wray says.

Workers say they have good reasons for forsaking their 401(k) plans.

Scott Borchert, who runs the mailroom at a motion picture company in Los
Angeles, stopped contributing to his plan because the investment options were
poor performers. "I was losing too much money, and I also needed the money to
pay off bills," he says. His employer doesn't offer any matching contributions
as an incentive to participate.

Borchert, 25, took the money he was putting into his plan, used some to pay
bills and invested the rest.

"I'm making more money on my own," he says. "But if the funds in the plan start
to do better, I'll go back because I'd like to get the tax deferral."

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2002 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              125 of 141 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   January 2, 2002, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Strategists differ on speed, rate of recovery

BYLINE: Adam Shell

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 3507 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK

NEW YORK -- Forecasting the direction of stock prices is a lot like trying to
predict the weather. Despite basing their bold guesstimates on reams of
seemingly useful data and getting plenty of help from high-tech tools such as
spreadsheets and satellites, both Wall Street investment strategists and
meteorologists are far from infallible.

Consider last year. All 10 strategists polled by USA TODAY at the start of the
year got it wrong. Nobody predicted a second down year in a row for stocks in
2001.

And most -- blindsided by an unexpected recession, the terrorist attacks and the
worst profit decline in half a century -- overshot the market's strength by a
wide margin.


The biggest bull, UBS Warburg's Edward Kerschner, predicted the Standard &
Poor's 500 would gain almost 30% and finish the year at 1715. The index actually
fell 13% to 1148. On average, the strategists predicted the S&P would end 2001
27% higher than it did. And the group's stock picks performed as poorly, falling
25%, on average.

To be fair, strategists such as Kerschner abhor the annual rite of forecasting
for one simple reason: "I don't know where the markets are headed," he admits.

A strategist's job, Kerschner insists, is less about timing the market than it
is figuring out whether it's cheap or expensive.

Alan Skrainka, top strategist at Edward Jones, says year-end targets are
basically irrelevant to long-term investors. "The targets," he says, "are only
important for those investors that need the money 12 months from today."

If you're one of those people planning to cash out of stocks by year's end, what
can you expect in 2002? It depends on whom you ask. Bears such as Douglas
Cliggott of J.P. Morgan Chase expect stocks to finish lower for a third
consecutive year. Bulls such as Kerschner are calling for a rebound of around
35% or more.

The strategists' year-end 2002 targets for the S&P 500 range from 950 to 1570 --
far wider than last year's range of 1400 to 1715.

So whose crystal ball will be on target in 2002? Examine the forecasts below to
find out. And remember, you've been warned: Predicting whether stocks will rise
or fall is more art than science.

Banc of America Securities

Market outlook: Tom McManus says the buying opportunity investors are waiting
for might already have passed. What gives? Aren't stock prices attractive now
after two years of losses? McManus says not. "Stocks are still tremendously
overvalued," says McManus, chief investment officer at Banc of America
Securities.

How can that be? McManus points out that if you exclude tech stocks, most other
types of stocks were priced to buy in March 2000, when they were both forgotten
and undervalued amid the Internet stock mania. But so-called defensive plays,
such as drugs and utilities, have risen sharply since and are no longer
bargains.

"Once you realize we've had an extraordinary buying opportunity the past two
years, you begin to ask if that is likely to happen again in 2002," McManus
says. The answer, he says, is probably not. "Stock prices on average are closer
to highs than lows."

Ever since the market's low Sept. 21, stocks have rallied sharply. That's the
good news. The bad news is that the positive catalysts, such as lower interest
rates, no new terror attacks and anticipation of an economic recovery, are
already factored into stock prices.

McManus says that raises an important question: "What happens if the economic
recovery doesn't occur on schedule in the first half of the year?" Stocks will
experience another correction, he concludes.

As a result, "investors should still remain somewhat defensive," McManus says.
He advises investors to avoid pricey cyclical stocks such as retailers and techs
and buy cheaper stocks that will fare well no matter how the economy performs.

Don't let the recent bear market rally fool you. "It can create a greedy
complacency," McManus says.

Year-end S&P target: 1200, up 5%

Top stock picks: BJ Services (stock symbol: BJS; Monday close: $ 32.45), oil
services; Freddie Mac (FRE; $ 65.40), mortgage reseller; Pfizer (PFE; $ 39.85),
drugs; General Mills (GIS; $ 52.01) and ConAgra Foods (CAG; $ 23.77), food
products.

Credit Suisse First Boston

Market outlook: It's time for stock investors to stop worrying about what could
go wrong and start focusing on what might go right, says Tom Galvin, top
investment strategist at Credit Suisse First Boston.

Galvin, one of Wall Street's biggest and most consistent bulls the past few
years, expects the S&P to rise 20% in 2002 -- a gain reminiscent of the go-go
1990s. "We won't have a third consecutive year of negative returns," he says.

Stock prices, he says, will benefit from the following factors:

 * 2002 should mark the start of the next uptick of what he believes will be a
three-year business cycle.

 * After a 12-month lag, lower interest rates should spur an economic and profit
recovery starting in the first quarter.

"One would like to believe the infusion of liquidity will create the fuel for
the economy that will help top-line growth," he says.

Galvin believes the domestic recovery will benefit small and midcap stocks most.
Corporate and high-yield bonds should also fare well, thanks to a rise in
corporate cash flow, he says.

He says to emphasize industrial -- not consumer -- stocks that will benefit most
in an economic recovery. A dramatic drop in inventories in 2001 will force
industrial companies to ramp up production, creating profit-making
opportunities.

He also advises investors to overweight energy stocks, which are selling at
attractive valuations. It's also unlikely the energy sector will be victimized
again by the "perfect storm" that it suffered last year -- a confluence of
global recession, cool summer and warm winter, less demand for aircraft fuel and
rumblings of a price war between OPEC and Russia.

"This will be a rebuilding year for investor confidence," Galvin says.

Year-end S&P target: 1375, up 20%

Top stock picks: Amdocs (DOX; $ 33.97), billing software; FEI (FEIC; $ 31.51),
semiconductor gear maker; GlobalSantaFe (GSF; $ 28.52), oil services/drilling;
Laboratory Corp. of America (LH; $ 80.85), clinical diagnostics; J.P. Morgan
Chase (JPM; $ 36.35) financial services.

Edward Jones

Market outlook: Don't let back-to-back down years on Wall Street sour you on
stocks. "The stock market is still a good place for long-term investors to
achieve their financial goals," says Alan Skrainka, strategist at Edward Jones.

Skrainka is confident 2002 will be a pretty good year. While he doesn't expect
the market to zoom to new highs, he does expect a solid 8% gain for the S&P.

His upbeat forecast is based on two key drivers:

 * The recession will turn out to be the least severe in the post World War II
era.

 * The massive economic stimulus orchestrated by policymakers on Capitol Hill
will work.

Skrainka offers the following factoid to make his case: In the 20 recessions
during the past 100 years, the market has made a solid advance in the years
following all but one -- immediately after World War II.

On average, he says, the S&P was up 32% one year after the end of a recession
and up 99% five years later. That's why Skrainka believes now is a good time for
investors to add to their stock positions.

"In five years," Skrainka says, "there will be two types of investors: those who
say, 'I'm glad I did (buy stocks),' and those who say, 'I wish I had.' "

Even though Skrainka doesn't expect stocks to go up in a straight line in 2002,
he says it's highly unlikely that the stock market will finish lower a third
consecutive year.

Prior to 2000-01, the market had suffered back-to-back declines only three
times: during the Great Depression, at the start of World War II and during the
1973-74 bear market.

"Each of these periods," Skrainka says, "were wonderful times for long-term
investors to buy stocks."

Year-end S&P target: 1240, up 8%

Top stock picks: Pfizer (PFE; $ 39.85), drugs; Equity Office Properties Trust
(EOP; $ 30.08), real estate investment trust; MBNA (KRB; $ 35.20), financial
services; Microsoft (MSFT; $ 66.25), software; Wal-Mart (WMT; $ 57.55), discount
retailer

Lehman Bros.

Market outlook: Last year, the first recession in a decade dragged corporate
profits and stocks lower. But the dreaded "R" word is unlikely to spook
investors and deflate stock prices again in 2002, Jeffrey Applegate says.

In fact, Lehman Bros.' top equity strategist says great stock market rallies are
born in recessions. And this time, he says, will be no exception. "We are in a
classic recession rally right now," Applegate says.

Case in point: The S&P has risen 19% since its Sept. 21 low. It's not unusual,
Applegate says, for stocks to start heading higher before the sick economy
mends. In recessions dating to 1954, for example, the S&P has been up an average
39% 12 months after hitting recession lows, he says. That's why he believes the
S&P could rise an additional 18% this year.

It's not twisted logic. When the economy tanks, policymakers in Washington swoop
in to make things better, Applegate says. That's precisely what happened last
year. The Federal Reserve slashed short-term interest rates 11 times. Income
taxes were cut. And the federal government is getting ready to pump $ 100
billion into the economy in an attempt to spur growth. "When you get that type
of vigorous fiscal and monetary response, invariably the stock market does
better," Applegate says.

The key, of course, is corporate earnings, which slumped sharply last year.
Applegate expects S&P 500 earnings to be up 13% in 2002. Profits should turn
positive by the second quarter after the recession ends in March. Corporate
bottom lines will get a big boost from continued productivity growth and lower
inflation, he says.

Applegate is betting big on so-called cyclical stocks -- companies that benefit
most when the economy picks up steam. He likes selected retailers, home
builders, banks and brokerages, industrial companies, information technology
firms and makers of basic materials.

Still, Applegate admits investors won't make up for the steep losses of the past
two years overnight. "We still have a lot of ground to make up," he says.

Year-end S&P target: 1350, up 18%

Top stock picks: Mohawk Industries (MHK; $ 54.88), carpet maker; Best Buy (BBY;
$ 74.48), consumer electronics retailer; Citigroup (C; $ 50.48), financial
services; Franklin Resources (BEN; $ 35.27), asset manager; Concorde EFS (CEFT;
$ 32.78), electronic transaction processor.

Merrill Lynch

Market outlook: Merrill Lynch's corporate logo might sport a snorting bull, but
Richard Bernstein, the firm's chief U.S. strategist, is a bear.

Bernstein doesn't buy the bulls' argument that happy days are here again. "In
the first half of the year," he says, "we could easily go back down and touch
the Sept. 21 bottoms."

That's scary stuff. The potential pain: The S&P would have to plunge 24% to
return to its low. By the end of 2002, he expects the broader market to be up 5%
from where it is right now.

His advice for the new year: Stick to defensive stocks in case the economic
swoon drags on. Go for steady, high-quality stuff such as drugs, utilities and
consumer companies that sell things people can't do without no matter how tight
cash gets.

What has Bernstein worried? For one, he says new bull markets typically begin
with stocks selling at much cheaper prices than now. "Valuations are already
stretched," he says. How stretched? At the start of the mega-bull run in 1982,
the S&P had a price-earnings ratio of 8. Today, it's roughly 35 -- a record
high. Says Bernstein: "Where are we going to go to, 80 times earnings?"

And don't bet your life's savings on that earnings recovery that bulls are
expecting in the first half of 2002, Bernstein says. A robust rebound probably
won't occur until the fourth quarter. That's bad news for investors who have
already piled into stocks that tend to do well in the early stages of an
economic recovery, such as techs. The reason: They're no longer cheap, so are
prone for a fall.

"If the turn in earnings is even three months later than people think,"
Bernstein warns, "you have significant disappointment ahead."

Year-end S&P target: 1200, up 5%

Top sector picks: Utilities ("boring ones with safe yields"), consumer staples
(basic everyday purchases) and health care.

Salomon Smith Barney

Market outlook: After two years of pain on Wall Street, there are growing signs
that patient investors are likely to see their stock portfolios rise in value in
2002, says John Manley, chief U.S. equity strategist at Salomon Smith Barney.
"It should be a decent year," says Manley, who expects the S&P to gain 13%.

The reasons for Manley's upbeat forecast:

 * The potential to reap double-digit returns investing in stocks will prove to
be more attractive to investors now that money-market funds are yielding a
paltry 2% annually and one-year certificates of deposit yield less than 3%.

 * After 18 months of negative earnings momentum, the corporate profit picture
is finally beginning to improve.

 * Investors' expectations for earnings and stock market returns have come way
down, paving the way for positive surprises.

Stocks, Manley says, also will benefit from two simple facts: What has been
bothering the market the past few years -- weak earnings -- is likely to go
away. And what is good for the market -- low interest rates -- is likely to
stick around for awhile.

Most of the gains, however, are likely to occur in the first half. "The idea is
this is a snap-back rally," Manley says. The biggest gains, he predicts, will be
enjoyed by cyclical companies that tend to do well in economic recoveries, such
as technology, retail and housing stocks.

But the big challenge for the market will come at midyear, when investors will
be forced to ask themselves whether the economic recovery is robust enough to
ensure that the long-term growth outlook for tech stocks remains intact.

While it might be hard to believe a recovery is really underway after all the
false starts, at some point the turn will occur, Manley says.

"If it were true two years ago that portfolio managers didn't know what a bear
market looked like, it must be true today that they don't know what the end of a
bear market looks like, either," Manley says.

Year-end S&P target: 1300, up 13%

Top stock picks: IBM (IBM; $ 120.96), computers and software; Bank One (ONE; $
39.05), financial services; Tyco International (TYC; $ 58.90), diversified
manufacturer; AOL Time Warner (AOL; $ 32.10), Internet/media communications;
GlobalSantaFe (GSF; $ 28.52), oil services/drilling.

TEXT OF INFO BOX BEGINS HERE

A bear and a bull

The bear:

Douglas Cliggott of J.P. Morgan Chase

Market outlook: Three down years in a row is a rare event on Wall Street. So
rare, that it last happened in an ugly three-year stretch that began in 1939 at
the start of World War II.

But if Cliggott is right and the S&P 500 finishes in the red again in 2002,
historians will have to add another three-year losing streak -- the first of the
21st century -- to the record books.

Cliggott, who has emerged as Wall Street's biggest bear in recent years, is not
only predicting a down year, he's expecting steep double-digit losses. His
year-end target for the S&P is 950 -- down 17% from the 2001 close of 1148.

"Assuming a meaningfully higher market at year-end is a very aggressive view of
the world and not one we would encourage," says Cliggott, J.P. Morgan Chase's
chief investment strategist.

Like last year, the prognosticator warns investors "to be careful." Says
Cliggott: "We see the world as being far from perfect."

For stocks to rebound this year, U.S. companies will have to start growing
profits again. But unlike the bulls, Cliggott doesn't see that happening. "Our
guess is earnings growth for the S&P 500 will be zero," he says. The
double-digit earnings growth analysts are predicting, he says, is way too high.
He also believes the economic recovery is further in the future than bulls
think.

For the next three to six months, he expects the economy to remain sluggish.
With unemployment on the rise and business spending on equipment and software
still contracting, there's little reason to believe earnings -- and therefore,
stocks -- will suddenly shoot higher.

"Earnings will come in very weak in the first half and won't show interesting
growth until the very end of the year," he says.

And with stocks trading at high prices relative to their earnings, there is not
a lot of upside potential, he says. "The one argument I keep hearing is, 'Hey,
come on, the market is never down three years in a row,' " Cliggott says.
There's just one problem with that logic: The market is still not cheap, despite
two consecutive down years, he argues.

Using pro-forma earnings reported by First Call, the S&P 500 has a
price-earnings ratio of around 24 based on trailing 12-month earnings. What's
worse, if you use more conservative accounting methods, stocks are even pricier.
"We've never seen a trough on any measure of earnings higher than (a P-E of)
16.5," he says.

So with the market still "priced for perfection," Cliggott advises not to get
too aggressive. Defense is still his strategy of choice. In fact, boring bonds
might be a better investment than stocks, he noted in a research report in late
November.

"We think bond returns will exceed stock returns by a comfortable margin during
the next 12 months," Cliggott says.

Year-end S&P target: 950, down 17%

Top stock picks: Bristol-Myers Squibb (BMY; $ 51.00), pharmaceuticals; Procter &
Gamble (PG; $ 79.13), consumer staples; Valero Energy (VLO; $ 38.12), oil
refinery; John Deere (DE; $ 43.66), farm equipment; USX-Marathon (MRO; $ 30.00),
oil and natural gas exploration/production.

The bull:

Edward Kerschner of UBS Warburg

Market outlook: Kerschner was Wall Street's biggest bull in 2001, and he's the
most optimistic forecaster again this year.

UBS Warburg's top strategist forecast a 29% rise for the S&P 500 in 2001,
arguing that high levels of fear after the Internet crash had created one of the
five best buying opportunities in 20 years. His call was wrong -- or way too
early -- depending on how you view things. The S&P 500 fell 13% in 2001.

But even though last year's forecast was far too optimistic, Kerschner's view
hasn't changed much. He hasn't surrendered nor sworn his allegiance to the
bears. He is still Wall Street's leading cheerleader.

While his projection for 2002 is much lower than his outlook for 2001, his
target of 1570 still translates into a sizable 37% gain. Currently, he says, the
market is priced below fair value because of the recession and fallout from
Sept. 11.

"It looks like a cheap market to us," Kerschner recently told a gathering of
institutional clients.

He disagrees with the bears' argument that stocks are overvalued just because
they are trading at higher price-earnings ratios than they have in the past. The
concept of "reversion to the mean," or a return to average, is a naive
hypothesis, he says. To drive his point home, he pokes fun at himself: "My
average body weight in my life is 158 pounds. I'm not going back there!" P-Es
deserve to be higher, he argues, because interest rates and inflation are a lot
lower than historical averages, which makes each $ 1 of earnings more valuable.

Kerschner expects stocks to get a lift from an earnings recovery. He estimates
that 2002 profit growth for the S&P 500 will be about 13%. The biggest gains
will come in the second half of 2002. He's forecasting 25% earnings growth in
the third quarter and 40% in the final three months of 2002.

That optimism is fueled by a synchronized global economic recovery, the first
since the early 1980s. "That should be supportive of some pretty good earnings
gains," he says. "Not a boom, but no pockets of pronounced weakness either."

Stocks will also benefit from the Federal Reserve's 11 interest rate cuts and
fiscal stimulus from the federal government. "Betting against the Fed has always
been a bad bet," Kerschner says.

And while uncertainty caused by the specter of additional terror attacks will
continue, he expects the financial markets to cope with the "what if?" factor
reasonably well. "Geopolitical uncertainty is normal," he says.

Year-end S&P target: 1570, up 37%

Top stock picks include: Alcoa (AA, $ 35.55) aluminum; Clear Channel (CCU, $
50.91), diversified media; Dow Chemical (DOW, $ 33.78); Intel (INTC, $ 31.45);
Union Pacific (UNP, $ 57.00), railroad.

LOAD-DATE: January 07, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHICS, B/W (PIE CHART) (8); PHOTO, B/W; PHOTO, B/W, UBS Warburg;
Douglas Cliggot<>Edward Kerschner

                      Copyright 2002 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              126 of 141 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    February 11, 2002, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Rivals feed on dot-com ruins

BYLINE: Jon Swartz

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 1585 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO

SAN FRANCISCO -- When market leader Wine.com approached rival eVineyard about a
merger in the summer of 2000, eVineyard balked.

It wasn't as well known as Wine.com, the biggest seller of wine on the Internet.
But Wine.com was running out of money and needed a buyer.

"We waited until it withered away and then got a better deal," says Brett
Lauter, chief marketing officer of eVineyard. EVineyard paid $ 9 million in
bankruptcy court last spring for Wine.com's key assets. It got the Wine.com
name, its Web site, a list of 450,000 customers and an estimated $ 10 million in
new revenue.


Not only did it get rid of its main rival, but eVineyard replaced Wine.com as
the biggest wine seller online. Revenue catapulted 450% to more than $ 15
million in 2001, eVineyard says.

The decision was shrewd and increasingly common. Profitable companies are
plucking out the choice assets of dying or dead telecom and Internet companies.

Like transplanted organs, those assets are infusing new life into other
companies. Suddenly, surviving companies are much bigger, in terms of customers,
suppliers and distributors. Survivors are also snapping up key technologies that
help them manage supply chains and customers better. That leads to higher
revenue and profit. Many survivors, too, were late to develop their own Internet
strengths -- and now they're buying them for pennies on the dollar.

"The strong are getting stronger," says Gary Abdalla, an intellectual-property
expert who advises high-tech companies on financial matters. "It's ironic: A few
years ago, established companies felt threatened by dot-coms and were criticized
for not developing online operations. But they were wise to let the dot-coms
make mistakes and then move in."

Last year, companies spent $ 39.7 billion buying all or part of 1,289 struggling
or bankrupt dot-coms, says Webmergers.com. Of what was invested, half went to
575 companies that produced software and other e-commerce technology. Last
month, 130 Internet properties went for $ 2.1 billion.

Many are buying up assets to:

 * Cut costs. KB Toys last year spent $ 15 million to acquire the assets of
one-time Internet darling eToys. Analysts estimate eToys spent more than $ 220
million to develop them.

Those assets, which helped revitalize KB Toys' online division, included a $ 20
million state-of-the-art warehouse, inventory, software and the company's
well-known logo and Web site. EToys, once one of the Internet's shining stars,
peddled its assets in bankruptcy court.

Consumers can still shop at www.etoys.com, which is now part of KBtoys.com. When
the change was made, eToys notified customers via e-mail that the eToys site was
still up in a bid to keep them coming back.

The plum pickup: EToys' 440,000-square-foot warehouse in Virginia. Its automated
delivery system helped KB Toys improve operations and slash costs, says Mike
Wagner, chief operating officer of KBtoys.com.

KB Toys' online division posted its first profit ever in the last quarter.
Revenue doubled from the year-ago quarter -- largely because of the eToys
acquisition. "We clearly benefited from eToys' costly mistakes," Wagner says.

Likewise, Kaiser Foundation Hospitals is improving its operations for tens of
millions of dollars less because of the assets of failed online grocer Webvan.

In October, Kaiser doled out $ 4 million in bankruptcy court for the software
and conveyor belts at Webvan's automated warehouse in Oakland. Kaiser leases the
warehouse. It plans to automate management and delivery of pharmaceuticals and
supplies to 27 hospitals and other California sites.

If Kaiser had built a facility, it would have cost close to the $ 100 million
Webvan spent on the warehouse. "We save tens of millions of dollars and several
years in construction," says Terry Lightfoot, Kaiser spokesman.

 * Gain market share. Buying rivals often nets coveted customer lists, which
link retailers directly to shoppers.

"Some Internet firms spent a small fortune to build brand awareness and acquire
customers. That's the most valuable commodity," says Gary Beach, publisher of
CIO magazine, which tracks corporate decision-makers.

Amazon.com seized such an opportunity with Egghead.com. The popular Web site
sold personal computers, software and electronics. It filed for bankruptcy
protection in August.

Amazon, the No. 1 online retailer that registered its first profitable quarter
last month, snatched Egghead's Web site and most of its assets for $ 6.1 million
in November. Not a bad deal for a company valued by Wall Street analysts at $
344 million in early 2000.

"Egghead's rabid fans didn't want the site to go away, and we saw a chance to
tap into its audience," Amazon spokeswoman Patty Smith says. Egghead.com is now
part of the Amazon network of online merchants and 25 million shoppers. Amazon
expects the Egghead purchase to improve its bottom line early this year.

Perhaps the impact will mirror what happened when online-payment firms VeriSign
and First Data Merchant Services snared rival CyberCash in April.

They paid $ 20.4 million in bankruptcy court for the assets of CyberCash, which
processed credit card payments electronically. In early 1998, near the apex of
dot-com delirium, CyberCash was valued at $ 725 million. VeriSign picked up
CyberCash's payment business. First Data got software.

With the purchase, VeriSign doubled its customers and revenue. The move probably
saved VeriSign millions of dollars in customer-acquisition costs, it says. And,
so far, VeriSign has retained most of CyberCash's customers.

That is crucial, experts say, because a smooth transition between companies
lowers the risk of customer defections. "Customers are like milk on a warm day:
If you don't take care of them, they spoil quickly," Beach says.

Bigger market share

More consumers, in turn, mean more market share. American Greetings more than
doubled its share of the online greeting card market, to 65%, shortly after
scooping up most of the assets of market leader BlueMountain.com for $ 35
million in September 2001. Two years earlier, Excite At Home bought BlueMountain
for $ 780 million.

The biggest bargain-basement deal, though, involves Excite.com -- at one time
the second-largest Internet portal. Web directory InfoSpace and iWon, a portal
and search engine, split the assets of Excite.com for $ 10 million in bankruptcy
court in November 2001. At Home paid $ 6.7 billion for the same thing in 1999.

IWon, the new owner of Excite.com's portal, is now No. 5 in daily Internet
traffic. A few months ago, it was No. 12, according to market researcher Jupiter
Media Metrix.

"We broadened our reach and improved our demographics with young males. That
will have significant impact on advertising rates and revenue in the near
future," says iWon co-CEO Jonas Steinman.

 * Branch out. Global Sports, the leading sporting goods Web site, solidified
its dominance in sports and expanded into jewelry by snapping up weakened online
retailers. In late 2000, it bought struggling rival Fogdog Sports for $ 38.4
million. A year later, it plunked down $ 14.2 million to acquire weakened online
jeweler Ashford.com. That puts it into the high-margin, $ 50 billion luxury
goods market.

"We think the opportunity here is as big, if not bigger, than what we have
created in sporting goods," Global Sports CEO Michael Rubin said in a conference
call in October. The company projects up to $ 200 million in revenue this year
-- twice its 2001 total.

Software maker BEA Systems went on a buying binge to fill gaps in its product
line. It got into the fast-growing Web-services software market through its
acquisition of Crossgain, a struggling private company it picked up for about $
1 million last year.

"We buy to build," says BEA Systems CEO Alfred Chuang, who has orchestrated 40
acquisitions in the past seven years.

Waiting for deals

Bargain buyouts of dot-coms are likely to accelerate this year as the next wave
of cash-thin online firms seek bankruptcy court reorganization, industry and
merger experts say. Also, several big players have yet to move on the
acquisition front. Microsoft, for one, has $ 38 billion in cash.

The shakeout isn't expected to be as brutal as it was the past two years, when
762 Internet companies bit the dust. But it will be big. Since December 1999,
nearly 145,000 dot-com jobs have been eliminated, says outplacement firm
Challenger Gray & Christmas. Last year, 34 publicly traded telecom companies
filed for bankruptcy. More are teetering.

In fact, bigger companies have found that it's smart to wait until weakened
dot-coms land in bankruptcy court. "Why be saddled with the financial
liabilities of a money-losing company when you can wait a few months and
cherry-pick assets in court?" asks Ron Posner, a merger specialist who
represents Internet firms in the USA and Europe seeking buyers.

After failing to find a buyer, NorthPoint Communications, which was in
bankruptcy court, sold its high-speed Internet access equipment to AT&T for $
135 million in March 2001. AT&T is using the equipment to bolster its own
broadband service.

"Established companies assume any Internet company proposing a merger is going
out of business. And by postponing a deal, that's exactly what happens," Posner
says. "It's a self-fulfilling prophecy."Cover story

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, Color, Keith Simmons, USA TODAY (ILLUSTRATION); PHOTO, B/W,
Ernie Leyba for USA TODAY; Smart buy: Mike Wagner of KBtoys.com says buying
eToys helped KB Toys slash costs.

TYPE: COVER STORY

                      Copyright 2002 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              129 of 141 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    January 8, 2002, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Family-focused ABC hopes for improvement

BYLINE: Gary Levin

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 445 words

Expect to see a speedy return to warm, family-friendly comedies after the latest
round of executive turmoil at slumping ABC.

The Disney-owned network Monday dumped top programmer Stu Bloomberg, naming
movies and miniseries chief Susan Lyne its new entertainment president.

"Shows like Happy Days, Laverne & Shirley, Roseanne and Home Improvement were
obviously hugely successful for the network, and the kind of programs you could
watch with several generations by your side," Lyne said. "It's a historic
strength at this network, and also a great strength at our parent company, so we
should be embracing it."


In the 1980s, Bloomberg developed shows such as Roseanne and The Wonder Years.
More recently, ABC moved away from family fare, dropping its TGIF kids block
while attempting to mimic urbane comedies such as NBC's Friends, a strategy that
often fell flat.

ABC is reversing course, spurning edgier shows beloved by critics but rejected
by viewers -- think Sports Night -- for a programming mix that favors
broad-appeal, down-the-middle shows such as the modest successes My Wife & Kids
and According to Jim.

The move comes as ABC's prime-time performance plummeted this season, with a
weakened Who Wants to Be a Millionaire, no new hits and a sharp ratings downturn
for formerly reliable comedies such as The Drew Carey Show and Dharma & Greg.

The network's average audience of 10.3 million viewers is off 21% from last
season, and among the 18-to-49-year-old crowd it targets, viewership is down
17%, placing the network fourth among an audience it dominated just 18 months
ago.

Lyne, who edited Premiere magazine, gave ABC last season's five top-rated TV
movies among young adults, from the Emmy-winning Life With Judy Garland: Me & My
Shadows to The Three Stooges, along with last fall's remake of Brian's Song.

"Family-friendly programming like that is a good idea," says Steve Sternberg,
analyst at ad-buying firm Magna Global USA. "There's much more of a desire for
that type of programming again," with shows such as WB's 7th Heaven and Gilmore
Girls drawing audiences and Sept. 11 as a backdrop, he says. "If you have kids,
there ain't much on network TV you can watch without being embarrassed."

Lloyd Braun, who has been co-chairman of ABC and the Disney TV studio, will
remain chairman, and Lyne will report to him in the top network programming
post. Braun and Bloomberg, who joined the network in 1978, have shared the top
post since 1999. Both Braun and Bloomberg were signed to new long-term contracts
only last summer.

LOAD-DATE: January 08, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Color, Touchstone Television; Blueprint for improvement: Home
Improvement is a model for ABC's new programming direction.

                      Copyright 2002 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              131 of 141 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    February 5, 2002, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Fear of scandals punishes stocks

BYLINE: Matt Krantz

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 442 words

A growing lack of faith in the accuracy of accounting and worries about the
health of Corporate America hammered stocks Monday. Investors are nervous that
the Enron accounting debacle may be the first of more scandals to come.

The budding optimism that helped revive the market late last week was nowhere to
be seen. The Dow Jones industrial average plunged 220 points, or 2.2%, to 9687.
It's down 3.3% for the year.


The Nasdaq composite index dropped 2.9% to its lowest since Nov. 12.

A barrage of Enron hearings opened Monday on Capitol Hill with lawmakers making
scathing comments about the nation's accounting system.

"The market is antsy with anything to do with accounting," said Andy Brooks, a
trader at T. Rowe Price. "Investors are selling first and asking questions
later. It's so emotional."

Setting off the selling spree were more questions about Tyco International, long
suspected of accounting tomfoolery. Shares of the diversified manufacturer of
everything from home security systems to crutches plunged after Standard &
Poor's cut the firm's debt rating. That raises the costs of borrowing and hurts
profits. The stock plunged $ 6.96 to $ 29.90, making Tyco the most heavily
traded stock on the New York Stock Exchange.

Even some large companies with no bad news suffered as the Enron scandal made
investors leery of other companies with complex businesses.

3M and United Technologies, two diversified manufacturing firms, were the Dow's
biggest drags, falling $ 3.77 to $ 109.50 and $ 3.06 to $ 66.99, respectively.

"There is an accounting-complexity penalty in effect," said Tom Stevens, senior
managing director at Wilshire Associates.

Williams Cos. plunged $ 2.64 to $ 16.36 after its former telecom unit, Williams
Communications, said banks raised doubts about its ability to pay debts.
Williams Cos., which still has a stake in Williams Communications, plans to sell
its Midwest petroleum products pipeline to raise cash.

Global Crossing, a telecom company that filed for bankruptcy protection last
week, announced it is forming an internal committee to investigate accounting
violations reported by an employee and that it faces scrutiny by the Securities
and Exchange Commission.

Trouble in the telecom sector continued. Avaya, a telecom system provider, sank
$ 1.14 to $ 6.76 after its debt was downgraded.

Such fears, especially about accounting, couldn't come at a worse time because
investors are worried about the economy's ability to recover. "Investors appear
to be in show-me mode," said Charles Blood, a strategist with Brown Bros.
Harriman.


LOAD-DATE: February 05, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, Color, Quin Tian, USA TODAY, Source: USA TODAY research (BAR
GRAPH)

                      Copyright 2002 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              132 of 141 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   February 14, 2002, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Bush lauds new partnership with Pakistan

BYLINE: Judy Keen

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 514 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

WASHINGTON -- President Bush extolled the United States' newly warm relationship
with Pakistan on Wednesday, but he also nudged President Pervez Musharraf to
restore democracy in his country.

After meeting with Musharraf for an hour, Bush said he's "committed to work in
partnership" with his counterpart to create "a progressive, modern and
democratic Islamic society."

"I'm particularly pleased to note that he is going to be holding elections later
on this fall," Bush said. Musharraf seized power in a coup in 1999. He has
promised to hold parliamentary elections in October.


Bush and Musharraf also had lunch at the White House. The Pakistani president,
on his first official visit to Washington, later met with Defense Secretary
Donald Rumsfeld.

After the terrorist attacks Sept. 11 on New York City and Washington, Musharraf
risked the stability of his regime by providing intelligence on the al-Qaeda
terrorist network and allowing U.S. forces to operate in Pakistan. "His nation
is a key partner in the global coalition against terror," Bush said. Musharraf
said the relationship is "friendly, multifaceted and enduring."

The Pakistani president told Bush he wants compensation for his help:
forgiveness of part of his country's $ 3 billion debt. Bush replied, "We want to
help facilitate the president's concerns about a debt burden on Pakistan."

Later, White House spokesman Ari Fleischer said Bush pledged $ 200 million to
Pakistan on top of $ 600 million in aid already approved. The extra money will
help Pakistan reduce its debt, Fleischer said.

Musharraf also wants more military equipment from the United States, including
the release of 28 U.S. F-16 fighter jets it bought in the 1980s. When Pakistan
developed nuclear weapons in 1998, Congress barred delivery of the jets.

At a news conference with Musharraf, Rumsfeld would not commit to resuming arms
shipments. "The discussions are ongoing," he said. Also on the agenda:

 * Musharraf said he's "reasonably sure" that Daniel Pearl, a Wall Street
Journal reporter kidnapped Jan. 23 in Pakistan, is alive. He suggested that the
kidnapping of Pearl may have been "fallout" from his order to crack down on
Islamic militants.

Pearl, 38, disappeared in Karachi, where he was investigating possible links
between suspected "shoe bomber" Richard Reid and Pakistani militants. As of late
Wednesday, police said, they had not learned Pearl's whereabouts.

 * Bush said he's keeping "all options available" for possible military action
against Iraq. "I'll keep them close to my vest," he said. "Saddam Hussein needs
to understand I'm serious about protecting my country."

 * The United States wants to "facilitate" discussions between India and
Pakistan to end a tense standoff over the disputed border region of Kashmir,
Bush said. But he rejected Musharraf's request for U.S. mediation. "The only way
this issue is going to be solved is if the Pakistani government and the Indian
government sit down and have serious, meaningful dialogue," Bush said.

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2002 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              135 of 141 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     May 30, 2002, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

'When they eat your dog, they're not so cute'

BYLINE: Deborah Sharp

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 1217 words

DATELINE: MIAMI

MIAMI -- It's alligator mating season, and the reptiles are looking for love in
all the wrong places: swimming pools, golf courses and well-traveled highways.

Sightings are none too surprising in Florida's swampland-turned-suburbia, where
game officers are logging hundreds of calls weekly from the alligator-wary. But
the creatures have also made cameo appearances in some far-flung locations:
Buffalo; Leon, Wis.; and Nashua, N.H., to name a few.

Experts say the rogue alligators either escaped or are castoff pets, purchased
from pet stores and online traders doing a brisk business on the Internet.


The unusual sightings typically increase as weather warms in northern climes.
Would-be gator owners release the animals when they realize the adorable
hatchling they bought is ballooning into a beast too big for the bathtub.

"When they weigh 600 pounds and eat your dog for lunch, they're not so cute
anymore," says Lt. Del Teagan, an alligator specialist with Florida's Fish and
Wildlife Conservation Commission.

The reptile trade

Alligators once were considered endangered, but they made a spectacular recovery
in the 1970s and '80s. They were removed from the U.S. endangered species list
in 1987. After that, federal trade restrictions on them were eased, but a
complex patchwork of state and local laws still exists.

Most of the 10 states with wild alligator populations prohibit keeping them as
pets; others have no alligator laws. Local zoning or animal ordinances can also
ban the creatures or require special permits.

Alligators -- and their close cousins, the caiman and the crocodile -- still
represent a small fraction of the nation's booming reptile trade. Of 63 million
U.S. households owning pets, about 4 million have reptiles, according to the
American Pet Products Manufacturers Association.

The crocodilian percentage has been too small to register in the group's
biannual survey. Dealers estimate the alligator-owning niche at several
thousand.

Which raises the question: Are these people nuts? Authorities from wildlife
experts to animal rights activists oppose keeping alligators as pets. In
Florida, where a record was set last year with three deaths from alligator
attacks in the wild, officials say turning gators into pets is folly.

"I really don't agree with keeping these animals as pets," says Bill Moss, who
nonetheless dresses his alligator, Smiley, as Santa and other Christmas
characters on annual holiday cards. "I guess it's one of those, 'Do as I say,
not as I do' things."

Moss, 48, who lives in Minnesota's Twin Cities area, has long been a rescuer of
unwanted pets for his state's Herpetological Society. Ten years ago, he
discovered Smiley was being abused by people in the illegal drug trade. He
decided to keep her.

"She's got the run of the house," Moss says of the 6-foot, 3/4-inch, 110-pound
creature. There have been no serious mishaps so far, but Moss jokingly nicknamed
his two Springer spaniels "Stubby" and "Three-leg."

Moss and other owners say they keep the animals in part to teach people about
alligators. And there is no denying the public's fascination. The creatures
command attention -- from horror films such as Alligator in 1980, to the
persistent urban legend about sewer-dwellers under New York City.

Though the myth about New Yorkers flushing away their souvenir Florida
alligators has been repeatedly debunked, city sewer managers are in on the joke:
They reward good work with alligator pins.

Alligators' native U.S. habitat stretches from Florida to North Carolina, west
to Texas and regions of Arkansas and Oklahoma. Contrary to a barrage of news
stories about gators in Florida, Louisiana actually has the nation's largest
wild population: 1.5 million to Florida's 1 million, according to state
estimates. In Florida, game officers are on pace this year to top last year's
record of 16,749 alligator complaint calls.

Ask a Louisiana Cajun why Florida has more gator-related accidents, and you'll
hear how city slickers from the Sunshine State aren't smart enough to steer
clear of the reptiles. Noel Kinler, Louisiana's alligator program manager, puts
it more tactfully: "The difference is you have a population in Florida that's
more urban than rural." He says Louisiana's alligator territory has not been as
heavily developed.

Those who live near the swamps and bayous tend to be longtime Louisianans, not
newcomers like Florida's 1,000 new residents a day. Kinler says that he knows of
no fatal attacks in Louisiana and that injuries are rare.

Alligator sightings

When sightings occur outside alligator territory, they always garner headlines:

 * Wandering gators had Leon, Wis., in an uproar last August. After a pet
alligator escaped three times, health officials ordered the family to build a
6-foot-high pen. Petitions demanded that cold-blooded reptiles be added to
animal control laws.

 * Unaccustomed to alligator wrangling, Nashua, N.H., police came close to being
chomped by a 2?-footer strolling city streets last June. Authorities suspected
someone had abandoned the pet, which was captured and given sanctuary at
Greenville Wildlife Park.

 * A 4-footer in Buffalo's Scajaquada Creek caused a free-for-all last summer,
as amateur trappers chased the castoff alligator with motorboats and fishnets.
Traps were baited with chicken.

The hungry creature finally was captured when a rat swam by and distracted it,
enabling an animal officer to snare the gator.

Reputable animal dealers refuse to ship to states where owning an alligator is
banned, and they follow industry standards for packing: The gator is inside a
cloth bag, encased in plastic foam, and put into a cardboard box marked "Live
Animals."

Many go the extra step of screening their customers:

"The first thing we ask is, 'Do you have small children in your home?' " Lorry
Miller of Global Reptile in Helena, Mont., says.

Even so, customers may lie, and dealers can violate laws. Critics say regulatory
oversight is inadequate.

"If these things go underground, there is no accountability until someone gets
hurt," Marshall Meyers of the Pet Industry Advisory Council says.

Even lovers of other reptiles draw the line at the toothy gator, which can top 8
feet in captivity and live for decades.

"You could keep one in your bathtub, but that's not fair to you, it's not fair
to the animal, and it's not fair to your mom," says Jeff Barringer, founder of
the reptile-oriented Web site Kingsnake.com.



Be aware of gators

A booming population and suburban sprawl boosts the odds of an alligator
encounter in Florida. To avoid attacks:

* Don't toss marshmallows or other treats. It's illegal, and feeding reduces
natural fear of humans.

* Don't swim at dusk or dawn, usual feeding times.

* Don't let pets swim or frolic on shoreline, where alligators have been seen.

* Don't use hands or feet to find lost golf balls in water hazards.

* If attacked, raise a ruckus and a fight. "Resist as best you can," says Henry
Cabbage, spokesman for Florida's wildlife commission. "Any predator favors prey
it can easily overcome."

Source: USA TODAY research

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Sam Ward, USA TODAY, Source: Florida Fish and Wildlife
Conservation Commission (BAR GRAPH); PHOTO, B/W, Steve Wolt for USA TODAY;
PHOTO, B/W, Bill Wippert, The Buffalo News, via AP; Part of the family: Bill
Moss of Minnesota has had his alligator, Smiley, for 10 years. But he doesn't
recommend that others follow his example. Reptile encounter: A 4-foot-long
alligator escapes from the net of Dave Petruzzi, an animal control officer in
Buffalo, last June.

                      Copyright 2002 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              138 of 141 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    October 21, 2002, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Change means stability for China

BYLINE: David J. Lynch

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 1207 words

DATELINE: BEIJING

BEIJING -- Chinese President Jiang Zemin's visit to the USA, which begins
Tuesday, may showcase increasingly warm U.S.-Chinese relations, but it is likely
to be his last as China's leader. A bid by Jiang and his supporters to prolong
his tenure past a planned retirement next month appears to have failed, Western
analysts say.

That means the United States will have to adjust to new leadership in the
world's most populous nation at the same time it wrestles with the war on
terrorism, the prospect of conflict in Iraq and North Korea's nuclear program.
Those issues are likely to be discussed when Jiang meets Friday with President
Bush at Bush's ranch near Crawford, Texas. Both men will attend the Asia Pacific
Economic Cooperation meeting Oct. 26-27 in Mexico.


Though Jiang, 76, is regarded as an advocate of closer ties with the United
States, his expected departure is considered good news. He is to step down as
Communist Party general secretary next month in favor of Vice President Hu
Jintao. If the transition happens as planned, it will mark the first time in the
53-year history of the People's Republic of China that the party's supreme
leader has surrendered power without dying or being purged.

China's Communists may finally be developing a more predictable way of
governing.

"Succession is always the Achilles' heel of authoritarian regimes," says Susan
Shirk, a former State Department official and China scholar at the University of
California-San Diego. "If they actually manage this one, and everyone follows
the rules, it will show a certain resilience of the regime."

It would also be an indication that China had turned its back on the power
struggles of its past. Its first Communist ruler, Mao Tse-tung, saw govern-ment
structures as counterrevolutionary obstacles to his rule. His designated
successors were purged before they could assume power.

Mao's eventual heir, Deng Xiaoping, never held top government or party
positions. He ruled from lesser posts, such as head of the country's chief
military commission, and refused to abandon ultimate power until age and
infirmity left him no choice. But Deng, himself a victim of Mao's purges,
recognized the costs of China's chaotic politics and began to modernize by
instituting the first term limits and retirement ages for Chinese officials.

Hu, 59, is expected to be tapped as general secretary of the Communist Party at
the party congress Nov. 8, ushering to power a "fourth generation" of leaders
who joined the party after the state's founding in 1949. This orderly transition
means the United States has little reason to fear abrupt policy shifts. Hu,
promoted by Deng to the innermost Politburo circle in 1992, has spent the past
decade polishing his leadership credentials and mirroring Jiang's policies.

"China now is a collective leadership. The people of the new generation already
have been in government, in different positions, for years," says foreign policy
analyst Chu Shulong, a professor at Beijing's Tsinghua University. "There's a
high degree of consensus among Chinese leaders about relations with the U.S."

That's largely due to Jiang, who rose to power after a bloody crackdown on
pro-democracy protesters in Tiananmen Square in 1989. Elevated from Shanghai
mayor, he was expected to be a weak leader who would soon face ouster.

Instead, he bested a string of rivals and by 1994 consolidated a firm hold on
the top party and government posts. He transformed China from a pariah into a
member of the World Trade Organization and the designated host of the 2008
Olympic Games. Relations with the United States are stable, despite crises such
as the accidental U.S. bombing of the Chinese Embassy in Belgrade, Yugoslavia,
in 1999 and the midair collision between a U.S. spy plane and a Chinese fighter
jet in 2001. An economy once shackled by Soviet-trained central planners has
been remade in capitalism's image, and China's cities are now islands of
consumer abundance.

Nevertheless, Jiang leaves for his successor a potentially combustible mix of
problems. Opening the country's market to the world has enriched coastal cities,
but most of China's 1.3 billion people live in desperately poor interior
regions. Changes mandated by the World Trade Organization to open China's
economy to foreign competition will mean that each year, millions of unemployed
farmers and laborers from state-owned factories will head for major cities to
look for work. They will join an estimated 15 million urban jobless.

Keeping the economy growing fast enough to head off popular discontent is the
full-time preoccupation of China's leaders. They chafe at U.S. global dominance
but have few resources available to undo it, Chinese analysts say. "China is a
developing country. We can't afford to confront the U.S.," says Zhu Feng, a
professor of international relations at Beijing University. "If we do, that's a
great loss for our domestic economic construction."

Jiang's self-image as the indispensable man of U.S.-China relations may have
been part of his argument for staying on beyond next month's 16th Communist
Party Congress. For months, he waged a quiet campaign to hang on.

In keeping with Communist Party practice, no decisions were announced. But
Jiang's retirement next month as party general secretary, and in March as
Chinese president, appears likely. "Jiang will definitely relinquish the most
important positions," says Willy Wo-Lap Lam, a veteran China analyst based in
Hong Kong.

Yet he may try to retain influence by carving out a role as China's elder
statesman. That's especially true in the realm of foreign policy, where Jiang
has excelled and where Hu is comparatively inexperienced.

TEXT OF BIO BOX BEGINS HERE

From electrical engineer to president

Age: 76. Born Aug. 17, 1926, in Yangzhou City, on China's Yangtze River.

Family: Married to Wang Yeping. Two sons, Jiang Mianheng and Jiang Miankang. Two
grandchildren.

Education: Degree in electrical engineering from Jiaotong University in
Shanghai, 1947. Active in the Communist Party student movement against Chiang
Kai-shek. Joined party in 1946.

Work history: Manager at the Changchun automobile company. After training at a
car factory in the Soviet Union, became director of factories and institutes in
Changchun, Shanghai and Wuhan.

Political career

1979: Worked on behalf of the central government to plan Shenzhen, first special
economic zone.

1980-82: Vice minister, State Administrative Commission for Import and Export
Affairs, and vice minister, State Foreign Investment Commission.

1982-83: Vice minister, electronics industry.

1983-85: Minister, electronics industry.

1985-89: Mayor of Shanghai.

1987: Became member of the Communist Party's 15-member Politburo.

1989: Promoted to general secretary of the Communist party; elected chairman of
the party's Central Military Commission.

1993: Elected president.

1997: Assumed full leadership after Deng Xiaoping's death, holding three top
jobs: president, general secretary and chairman of the Central Military
Commission.

Source: USA TODAY research

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Sean Gallup, Getty Images; U.S. visit will be last as
leader: Jiang Zemin meets with President Bush in Texas on Friday.

                      Copyright 2002 Gannett Company, Inc.
