
                               2 of 132 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    January 8, 2004, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Cost of global warming: 1 million species

BYLINE: Robert Davis

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 5D

LENGTH: 432 words

More than one-third of all species in several regions of the world are at risk
of extinction by 2050 if global warming isn't controlled, an international study
reports today.

In the report in the journal Nature, the most comprehensive analysis to date of
potential species loss from man-made climate change, a team of 19 world
scientists predicts that more than 1 million species could disappear, including
an Australian tree lizard known as Boyd's forest dragon and a European magpie.

"This study makes it clear that climate change is the most significant new
threat for extinctions this century," says co-author Lee Hannah, climate change
biologist for the Center for Applied Biodiversity Science at Conservation
International, a non-profit, U.S.-based, international conservation
organization.


"We've got to start thinking about it."

An editorial in Nature agrees:

"The threat to life on Earth is not just a problem for the future. It is part of
the here and now."

Air pollution has caused the climate to warm, meaning some plant and animal
species must move to higher, cooler ground. At the same time, their natural
migratory paths have often been blocked by development, trapping them in an
environment that no longer supports their life.

"Climate change is asking species to move when there is no place to move to,"
Hannah says.

Researchers examined 1,103 plant and animal species in six regions -- including
Australia, Brazil and South Africa -- using widely accepted models that predict
Earth's temperatures will increase by 2.5 degrees to 10.4 degrees Fahrenheit by
2100.

They found that 15% to 37% of the studied species will be extinct or nearly
extinct by 2050. Earth has about 14 million plant and animal species.

"If these projections are extrapolated globally and to other groups of land
animals and plants, our analyses suggest that well over a million species could
be threatened with extinction as a result of climate change," says study lead
author Chris Thomas of the University of Leeds.

Alastair Fitter, an ecologist at the University of York who was not involved in
the research, says climate change could hasten the effects of deforestation and
the impact of invasive, non-native species.

"This is going to be the third horseman in that particular apocalypse," Fitter
says.

The fix, Hannah says, is twofold.

So-called greenhouse gasses, like car exhaust, must be cut fast to halt global
warming; and conservation areas must be established "not only where the species
is now, but where it will be in the future."

LOAD-DATE: January 08, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Gannett Company, Inc.


                               7 of 132 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     May 26, 2004, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

'The Day After Tomorrow' heats up a political debate

BYLINE: Scott Bowles

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1515 words

New York is expecting rain this weekend. About 150 feet of it. And Los Angeles
could get high winds -- enough to rip the Hollywood sign right out of the
ground.

Summer has officially arrived in theaters. How can you tell? The Earth is in
peril.

Only this time the threat doesn't come from aliens or giant angry lizards or
asteroids plummeting toward the planet. Instead, global warming threatens our
big blue marble.


And some real-life scientists couldn't be happier.

While Hollywood has never seen a disaster it didn't try to exploit, this
summer's latest entry mixes a chilly political message with its popcorn effects.
The Day After Tomorrow, which opens Friday, warns that greenhouse gases will
bring a new ice age -- soon.

Although environmentalists say the theory is bunk, most applaud the film for
bringing the global warming debate into a forum that could grab Americans'
attention.

"It's the Towering Inferno of climate science movies," says climatologist Andrew
Weaver of Canada's University of Victoria. "But I'm not losing any sleep over a
new ice age, because it's impossible."

However, Washington, which typically decries or dismisses Hollywood fare, is
watching how well the $ 125 million film is received.

Former vice president Al Gore has rallied behind the film and plans a series of
town hall meetings to discuss global warming. The activist group MoveOn.org is
dispatching thousands of volunteers to hand out leaflets about climate change to
moviegoers.

And the White House briefly ordered NASA officials not to discuss the film,
which takes some intentional jabs at the administration. After reporters got
hold of the gag order, the administration rescinded the memo.

All of which seems to make for a can't-miss hit among moviegoers who can't get
enough of weather calamities.

"I was trying to think of the next movie I wanted to do," says
writer/director/producer Roland Emmerich, who has threatened mankind before with
films such as Independence Day and Godzilla. "And I remembered this book I once
read, The Coming Global Superstorm. And it just hit me. That's my movie. I don't
need a monster or a villain. Just the weather.

"What we're doing to the planet is scary. And what the planet might do back is
even scarier."

Weather junkies have it made in the shade

Studios have plundered weather catastrophes for decades, for good reason. We are
a nation of weather junkies.

From the 1970s disaster hits such as Earthquake to more recent movies including
The Perfect Storm and Twister, Hollywood has used Mother Nature to collect
millions at the box office. Last month's dreadfully reviewed earthquake drama,
NBC's 10.5, was the most-watched TV movie in two years. The Weather Channel has
seen its viewership steadily increase to more than 105 million viewers a month
since its inception 22 years ago.

And forecasts call for more stormy weather:

 * The Weather Channel this week launched Extreme Weather Week. Storm Stories:
Extreme Weather Theories, which airs at 8 p.m. ET/PT Thursday, examines the more
scientifically grounded theories of global warming.

 * Forces of Nature, an Imax film on extreme weather events, hits select
theaters Memorial Day before expanding nationwide.

"People connect with weather unlike any other topic," says Debora Wilson, the
incoming president of The Weather Channel companies. "It's relevant to everyone
and has an everyday effect on people's lives."

Wilson says weather also is "a powerful way to connect people to the broader
universe. Weather is almost a primal force.

"Think about lying on the grass with the sun beating down on you. Or listening
to the sound of a hard rain and watching a terrific lightning storm. There's a
connection to a force that's bigger than us."

Tomorrow star Dennis Quaid says the sheer force of weather disasters makes for
compelling viewing.

"Everybody's got a rubber neck, including me. Whether it's a fire or a train
wreck, we all stop and look. Disasters -- and disaster movies in general -- seem
to churn up human emotions. I think audiences enjoy . . .  having their
imagination sparked by a 'what if' kind of situation."

There are plenty of "what ifs" in Tomorrow. In Emmerich's not-too-distant world,
Quaid's paleoclimatologist, Jack Hall, warns that global warming could trigger
an abrupt shift in the planet's climate. Within days of his warning, the polar
ice caps are melting and pouring huge amounts of fresh water into the oceans.

The influx of fresh water desalinates the oceans, shuts down the Gulf Stream and
effectively throws the Atlantic currents out of whack. Suddenly, it's snowing in
New Delhi, raining bowling ball-size hail in Tokyo and darkening the skies as
giant winter hurricanes, or "hypercanes," bring temperatures to 150 degrees
below zero.

A little Hollywood license helps

For many scientists, that's not the fantastic part. What has them shaking their
heads is the dawning of a new ice age in the Northern Hemisphere within a matter
of days.

"Some of these things are very likely to happen," says Dan Schrag, a
paleoclimatologist and professor of Earth and planetary sciences at Harvard
University. "We are indeed experimenting with the Earth in a way that hasn't
been done for millions of years. But you're not going to see another ice age --
at least not like that."

Wilson says climatologists with The Weather Channel working with Emmerich "tried
to tell him that an ice age wasn't going to come in three days. But that doesn't
make for a good movie."

Filmmakers concede they have taken poetic license with science for the sake of
entertainment.

"We weren't trying to make a documentary," visual effects producer Mike Chambers
says. "We just wanted to make an entertaining summer movie with a message."

The validity of that message already is sparking debate. Emmerich does not deny
that his depiction of a weak-willed president (played by Perry King) and a Dick
Cheney look-alike as his vice president (Kenneth Welsh) was a jab at the Bush
administration.

Emmerich, though, is quick to point out that by film's end the vice president
becomes less of a corporate shill and more attuned to the environment.

"That may be the only science fiction in the movie," he says, winking.

Before he even saw the film, Gore announced that he would give speeches and hold
town hall meetings to coincide with the film's release.

"The movie is fiction, of course," Gore tells USA TODAY. "And it's important we
separate fact from fiction. But it raises an extremely serious issue. We do face
a climate crisis. It should be seen as a genuine global emergency."

Gore says that he and environmental groups see Tomorrow as a chance to discuss
an issue the public has long ignored.

"People are going to walk out of the movie, and they're going to talk about this
issue one way or the other," he says. "I see it as an opportunity to join with
the scientific community to set the record straight."

But which record? Some see both scientific and political agendas in Tomorrow.

The science is suspect

"I'm heartened that there's a movie addressing real climate issues," says
Marshall Shepherd, a research meteorologist at NASA's Goddard Space Flight
Center in Greenbelt, Md. "But as for the science of the movie, I'd give it a D
minus or an F. And I'd be concerned if the movie was made to advance a political
agenda."

Patrick Michaels, a senior fellow in environmental studies at the Cato
Institute, a conservative think tank in Washington, says the film is meant to
generate hysteria over the thorny global warming issue.

"It's a propaganda movie," he says. "This is blatant support by Hollywood for
legislation to reduce emissions associated with global warming. And it takes
cheap shots at the administration. There are thousands of actors, yet they chose
one who looks like Dick Cheney. That's not an accident."

The White House did not respond to requests for comment on the film.

Even scientist Schrag says he is concerned about what the film is saying, though
he is less worried about Tomorrow's political overtones.

"I have mixed feelings about this," he says. "On the one hand, I'm glad that
there's a big-budget movie about something as critical as climate change. On the
other, I'm concerned that people will see these over-the-top effects and think
the whole thing is a joke."

Emmerich sounds amused by the furor.

"We have been working on this movie for more than two years," he says. "I didn't
know that it would come out during an election year. We just wanted to make a
movie people would enjoy."

Tomorrow star Jake Gyllenhaal, who plays Quaid's son, says he was relieved
simply to work on a summer film with a message.

"How many times do you see a summer movie that has nothing to say? At least
people are talking about the issue. Whether or not you agree with the message,
at least the movie is saying something."

***

Contributing: Dan Vergano

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Color, Industrial Light & Magic, 20th Century Fox; PHOTO, B/W,
20th Century Fox; Catastrophe in a New York minute: In The Day After Tomorrow,
there's hell to pay for the people of Earth after years of global warming
finally catch up with us. The consequences are very, very bad.<>Bad day for
driving in Manhattan: Ocean waves engulf the city after decades of global
warming come to a boil -- all in a matter of days.

TYPE: COVER STORY

                      Copyright 2004 Gannett Company, Inc.


                               8 of 132 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                      May 25, 2004, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

'Day After Tomorrow': A lot of hot air

BYLINE: Patrick J. Michaels

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 21A

LENGTH: 1008 words

As a scientist, I bristle when lies dressed up as "science" are used to
influence political discourse. The latest example is the global-warming disaster
flick, The Day After Tomorrow.

This film is propaganda designed to shift the policy of this nation on climate
change. At least that's what I take from producer Mark Gordon's comment that
"part of the reason we made this movie" was to "raise consciousness about the
environment."


Fox spokesman Jeffrey Godsick says, "The real power of the movie is to raise
consciousness on the issue of (global warming)."

'Nuff said.

Oh, the plot. Global warming causes the Gulf Stream to shut down. This current
normally brings tropical warmth northward and makes Europe much more comfortable
than it should be at its northerly latitude. The heat stays stuck in the
tropics, the polar regions get colder, and the atmosphere suddenly flips over in
a "superstorm." The frigid stratosphere trades places with our habitable
troposphere, and in a matter of days, an ice age ensues. Temperatures drop 100
degrees an hour in Canada. Hurricanes ravage Belfast. Folks in Japan are
clobbered by bowling-ball-size hailstones. If we had only listened to concerned
scientists and stopped global warming when we could.

Each one of these phenomena is physically impossible.

Start with the Gulf Stream. Carl Wunsch, a professor of physical oceanography at
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, knows more about ocean currents than most
anyone. He thinks the nonsense in The Day After Tomorrow detracts from the
seriousness of the global-warming issue. So he recently wrote in the prestigious
science journal Nature that the scenario depicted in the movie requires one to
"turn off the wind system, or to stop the Earth's rotation, or both."

The stratosphere will become the troposphere when all three laws of
thermodynamics are repealed. Hailstones can't reach bowling-ball size because
their growth is limited by gravity. Hurricanes can't hit Belfast because the
intervening island of Ireland would destroy them.

How do I know so much about a movie that isn't out yet? I've seen the promos,
and I've read and reviewed the book upon which it is based, The Coming Global
Superstorm by Art Bell and Whitley Strieber. In Strieber's previous work,
Communion, he explained that he was told of the Earth's upcoming apocalypse by
aliens. And how this knowledge was communicated is much more the purview of an
adult Web site than a family newspaper. What's on the movie's Web site is worse
-- nothing but out-and-out distortion.

It also insists that what is depicted on the screen has already started.

"Did you know," says the site, that there were more tornadoes recorded in May
2003 than in any other month?

I looked up federal tornado statistics, and indeed they're going up, and there
was a peak in May 2003. Then I determined the number of radar stations and their
type. When our first radar-tracking network was established in the 1960s and
'70s, the number of tornadoes rose proportionally, then leveled off until the
new Doppler radars came online in 1988. It took a decade to put this system in
place, and the number of reported tornadoes went up accordingly.

Then I plotted the number of severe tornadoes. If anything, it's going down. So
the flashy Doppler radars are merely detecting more weak storms that cause
little, if any, damage.

The Web site also implies that global warming is making hurricanes worse.
Christopher Landsea, the world's most aptly named hurricane scientist, has
studied the maximum winds in these storms as measured by aircraft and finds a
significant decline.

Global warming? Some scientists think climate change strengthens El Nino, the
large atmospheric oscillation responsible for a variety of weather -- both good
and bad. El Ninos are known to rip apart hurricanes. So it's more likely that
climate change is weakening these storms than enhancing them.

Will Godsick and Gordon get their way? They're sure being aided and abetted by
MoveOn.org, the liberal advocacy group and billionaire George Soros' policy toy.
They've got Al Gore front and center, plumping the film. They've got their Web
site using the movie to drum up support for legislation by Sens. John McCain,
R-Ariz., and Joe Lieberman, D-Conn., to reduce carbon-dioxide emissions, which
only failed by 12 votes last fall. There's a huge drought out West, which a New
York Times editorial blamed on global warming. The issue is hot enough to
influence votes out there.

Remember that humans have slightly warmed the planet some in recent decades, but
the correlation between Western drought and warming is zero.

Far be it from me to criticize anyone's freedom of expression. But remember that
propaganda can have consequences. McCain's and Lieberman's measure mimics the
United Nations' infamous Kyoto Protocol on global warming, which many scientists
know will do nothing measurable about planetary temperature within the
policy-relevant future. But it will cost money.

This isn't Hollywood's first attempt to scare people into its way of thinking.
How about Jane Fonda in the 1979 anti-nuclear-power flick, The China Syndrome?
Twelve days after its release, the accident at Three Mile Island occurred.
Despite the fact that it released only tiny amounts of radiation, the politics
of that hysteria effectively killed any new nuclear plant.

Analogize the Western drought to Three Mile Island, and you get the idea.

Or how about the 1983 movie The Day After, whose purpose was to strengthen the
nuclear-freeze movement. It failed.

The Day After Tomorrow is only one more day than The Day After, and it deserves
the same fate. Lies cloaked as science should never determine how we live our
lives.

***

Patrick J. Michaels is senior fellow in environmental studies at the Cato
Institute and author of the upcoming book, Meltdown: The Predictable Distortion
of Global Warming by Scientists, Politicians and the Media.

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Alejandro Gonzalez, USA TODAY (ILLUSTRATION)

                      Copyright 2004 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              11 of 132 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    February 9, 2004, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Bush committed to progress

BYLINE: Mike Leavitt

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16A

LENGTH: 432 words

Today's debate: Protecting the environment

Opposing view: Results-based policies cut pollution, conserve environment.

President Bush's policies are improving public health, providing cleaner air and
water and protecting public lands in a way that sustains our economic
competitiveness. His results-based approach -- capitalizing on the power of
technology, collaborating with state and local governments and using
market-based programs -- is picking up the pace of environmental progress,
providing federal standards while fostering local solutions:

 * Cleaner air. President Bush's clean air policies will improve air quality and
health dramatically by requiring a 70% cut in power-plant pollution. His
mandatory, market-based approach provides incentives to cut pollution faster and
spur innovation in pollution-control technology. He also is adopting tough, new
regulations to cut pollution from diesel fuel and engines.


* Cleaner and renewable energy technologies. President Bush is putting American
ingenuity to work developing cleaner energy and addressing climate change.
Through his Hydrogen Fuel Initiative, the first car driven by a child born today
could be powered by pollution-free fuel cells. His FutureGen program will build
the world's first zero-emissions, coal-fired power plant. He has proposed
billions of dollars in tax incentives to encourage purchases of hybrid and
fuel-cell vehicles, and renewable energy. And his plan to cut greenhouse-gas
intensity 18% by 2012 addresses the long-term challenges of climate change.

 * Cleaner water. Expanded farm-bill conservation programs provide more than $
40 billion to restore wetlands, protect habitats, conserve water and improve
streams and rivers on farms and ranches. Such policies as the Water Quality
Trading Program and Water 2025 are helping improve our nation's water quality
and solve water crises.

 * Cleaner lands and greater conservation. With strong bipartisan congressional
support, the president's Healthy Forests Initiative is helping local communities
restore public forests and protect lives and wildlife from catastrophic
wildfires. And his brownfields initiative is cleaning up abandoned industrial
sites and revitalizing communities.

The president is committed to measuring progress, not process. In the past 30
years, air pollution decreased by nearly half as our economy more than doubled.
Future generations will benefit from his commitment to sustaining that
environmental progress.

***

Mike Leavitt is administrator of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency.

LOAD-DATE: February 09, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: DEBATE

                      Copyright 2004 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              13 of 132 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                      May 14, 2004, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Meteorite likely caused mass extinction

BYLINE: Dan Vergano

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 368 words

NASA scientists have identified a 125-mile-wide crater off the coast of
Australia as the likely impact site of a giant meteorite that almost wiped out
life 250 million years ago.

A team of U.S. scientists said Thursday they believe the Bedout (pronounced
beh-DOO) crater is where a 6-mile-wide meteorite hit, triggering the
Permian-Triassic extinction that erased about 90% of marine and 70% of land
species.

Extinctions have erased species en masse at least six times over the last 550
million years, most famously in the dinosaur extinction 65 million years ago.


Scientists once attributed the earlier extinction -- which took place at the
boundary of the Permian and Triassic geologic periods -- to a massive burst of
volcanic activity or sudden climate change, but evidence of an impact-triggered
catastrophe has grown.

"I think we have a convincing case" that a meteorite triggered that extinction,
says geologist Luann Becker of the University of California-Santa Barbara. A
report by Becker's group, due to be published in the journal Science, describes
melted rock and fractured quartz deposits in core samples from Bedout that are
consistent with such an impact.

Ironically, the Permian-Triassic mass extinction cleared the way for the
dinosaurs that were wiped out in a later meteorite strike. NASA and the National
Science Foundation, which funded the new study, are interested in how evidence
of past strikes can help people prepare for future ones.

During the Permian era, all of today's continents were joined in a
supercontinent called Pangea, dominated by long-legged reptiles and surrounded
by an ocean filled with shelled creatures and sea lilies. The melted rock
filling the Bedout crater likely released soot and sulfur that polluted the
atmosphere and the oceans, triggering catastrophic climate change, Becker's team
suggests.

Bedout was first identified as a crater in 1996. Becker's team suggests the
impact there may have touched off widespread volcanic eruptions in Siberia.
Becker speculates the breakup of Pangea, whose pieces drifted apart to form
today's continents, may have been caused by the double whammy of asteroid impact
and volcanoes.

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Marcy E. Mullins, USA TODAY, Sources: NASA University of
California- Santa Barbara (MAP); The Earth: Then and now (graphic)

                      Copyright 2004 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              16 of 132 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    February 23, 2004, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Wet spring forecast for parched West, Plains

BYLINE: Patrick O'Driscoll

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 494 words

DATELINE: DENVER

DENVER -- The weather outlook for spring offers potential for relief in more
than a dozen Western and Plains states gripped by drought.

But climate experts caution that the problem is so great for much of this region
that even above-average precipitation in March, April and May won't end the
chronic dryness soon.

"Some of these droughts are going on four or five years now," says Mike Halpert,
head of forecasting for the federal government's Climate Prediction Center in
Camp Springs, Md. "You don't eliminate that in a month or two."


The climate center's forecast for the next three months anticipates normal
spring conditions for most of the USA. But it suggests warmer-than-average
temperatures are likelier in much of Alaska and along a broad band from Oregon
to southern Texas. Spring could be cooler than normal for a patch of the
northern Plains from Montana to Nebraska.

The center also says changing weather patterns could bring "prolific rain and
snow" across much of the West by the end of the month, particularly from a major
storm forecast for this week. Drought watchers doubt things will change much.
"This storm might come through and whittle away at it, but hey, you're still
talking severe drought," says climatologist Mark Svoboda of the National Drought
Mitigation Center in Lincoln, Neb.

The climate center forecast higher-than-usual rainfall for southern New Mexico
and southeastern Arizona, one of the worst drought zones. The water content of
snow there is less than two-thirds of normal.

Most of Florida, California and part of Nevada could be drier than average. As
of Feb. 1, reservoir storage in Nevada, New Mexico, Oregon and Utah was 50% of
normal or less.

The climate center's latest drought assessment suggests a spring respite for
much of Arizona and the Great Basin, the Texas-Oklahoma border and parts of
South Dakota, Kansas, Colorado, Nebraska, Minnesota and Wisconsin. Improvement
would be more limited in the western high Plains, Rockies, New Mexico and West
Texas.

The weekly "drought monitor" published by Svoboda's agency shows the Pacific
coastline is the only area in the western half of the USA not abnormally dry or
worse, thanks to frequent winter storms. Most of New Mexico and vast patches of
the interior West are still in "extreme" or "exceptional" drought.

Drought-stricken cities aren't waiting for bailout storms such as last year's
St. Patrick's Day blizzard in Denver, which rescued the city's water supply from
historic lows. Denver's largest suburb, Aurora, is negotiating to buy $ 5.5
million in water from southeastern Colorado farmers. Aurora's reservoirs are at
45% of capacity.

The Denver Water Department, which serves more than 1 million people in the city
and several suburbs, had to restrict lawn watering and levy surcharges last
summer to make it through the year. The department won't decide until April
whether to repeat the restrictions this year.

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Robert W. Ahrens, USA TODAY, Source: NOAA (MAP)

                      Copyright 2004 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              18 of 132 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     July 30, 2004, Friday, FINAL EDITION
                              Correction Appended

Volvo brings new wagon to market

BYLINE: James R. Healey

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 6D

LENGTH: 1240 words

If you're shopping for looks, Volvo's new-design V50 wagon is a lust object. If
you're shopping for space, look elsewhere.

The little wagon is a replacement for the discontinued V40 wagon. That one was
loosely based on a Mitsubishi design. It attracted folks who wanted Volvo's
premium image and safety reputation at a mainstream price.

The V50 shares chassis and unseen interior hardware with 2005 European-market
Ford Focus and Mazda 3. Ford Motor owns Volvo, controls Mazda.


The V50 uses, for instance, Ford climate control hardware, but the ductwork,
controls and airflow setup are Volvo's.

"As long as it meets Volvo standards, it doesn't matter whether we developed
it," says Anders Robertson, V50/S40 product strategy manager.

The main test car was a $33,000 T5 turbocharged model with all-wheel drive and
sport-handling equipment. It's heaviest of the models, so throttle response is
lazier than in the lighter front-drive model or the lighter-still S40 sedan with
the same engine. A few days were spent in an S40 to see how it fared vs. the
wagon. (Very well as a driving device, not as good as an all-around
do-everything machine.)

Salients from the drives:

 * Looks. The V50 and S40 resemble the larger S60 sedan, a pretty good-looking
car to emulate. Twin tailpipes accent the rump, one pipe on each side, not two
twinned on one side in the Euro fashion. Nice.

 * Small interior. If you're big or expansive, you probably won't fit. V50 and
S40 have generous front legroom, but otherwise are tight.

With the front seat fully back, there's a scant 34.4 inches in the rear. Comfort
requires about 36.

It was tough to find the just-so driving position. The seat had to be pushed
unusually far back to keep legs from kinking when using the pedals. The
telescoping steering column helps keep the wheel within reach, but other
controls can become a bit of a stretch for some people. And driving with the
seat so far back guarantees minimal legroom in back.

 * Interior details. The so-called center stack that houses stereo and climate
controls is elegantly thin. Usually the center stack is a wide, deep hunk of
plastic that spills down from the instrument panel onto the console, its bulk
swiping space visually and actually.

V50's thin one opens space between it and the hefty lower portion of the
instrument panel. It also curves where it joins the console, as if it's
Scandinavian furniture. Hard to picture, perhaps, but dramatic.

The thin center panel houses Volvo's new, enlightened approach to radios: Two
big knobs, one for volume, one for tuning, and 10 push buttons for storing
favorite stations. Looks good, works great. Applause.

Seats are quite comfortable. Controls and gauges are where you'd like. Digital
displays for odometer, fuel economy and so on are too dim in sunlight.

Too-close quarters for the gearshift, handbrake and 12-volt plug mean you'll
sooner or later bark your knuckles on one of those while operating another.

 * Ride, handling. The sport suspension of the T5 AWD test car felt coarse and
uncomfortably stiff over rough pavement and sharp bumps, more than necessary for
snappy turning and flat cornering. The tires kicked up an unseemly amount of
road noise. Instead of invigorating, as a sporting machine should be, it became
wearying in town driving. On the highway, the whole shebang changed. The V50 T5
AWD felt terrific; taut instead of bumpy, and noise was muted.

The T5 S40 sedan with regular suspension had a more consistent and rump-friendly
personality without sacrificing the feeling of nimble precision.

 * Engine. The five-cylinder turbocharged engine seems, on paper, like merely a
de-tuned version of the 2.5-liter engine in bigger Volvos, making 218 horsepower
to their 247 hp. But it delivers the power smoother and, abetted by a five-speed
automatic transmission, is more pleasant to drive.

Volvo ran computer-simulated crashes of the V50 and S40 without engines. Then it
modified its engines to fit the narrow space left unsmashed to keep the heavy
engine from ramming occupants.

To make it fit, a trimmer power steering mechanism, alternator, air
conditioning, turbocharger and intake manifold were developed.

The V50 and S40 seem nicely conceived, well executed but ill-fitting for all but
trim, agile folks without growing families or overfed friends and relatives.

TEXT OF INFO BOX BEGINS HERE

2005 Volvo V50

* What is it? Small station wagon replacing the V40, available with front-wheel
or all-wheel drive (AWD).

A mechanically similar sedan, called S40, also is available.

* How soon? V50's been trickling into dealers since mid-July; Volvo expects full
volume by mid-August.

The '05 version of the S40 sedan should be at dealers next week. It replaces,
and offers some features (such as manual transmission) not available on, the
2004 (or 2004 1/2 in Volvo-speak) S40 that's been on sale since March.

* How much? V50 2.4i starts at $26,345 including $685 destination charge. T5
starts at $27,945 and T5 AWD starts at $29,595.

* How many? A handful of V50s, just 6,500 a year. The S40 is expected to be the
bigger seller, 30,000 annually.

* Who'll buy? Younger folks than normal. Volvo's pitching the V50 and S40 to
buyers as young as 25 and is getting some. Median age, though, is about 40, but
that's still five years younger than buyers of the next-most-expensive model,
the S60.

* What's the drivetrain? 2.4i has 2.4-liter, five-cylinder engine rated 168
horsepower at 6,000 rpm, 170 pounds-feet of torque at 4,400 rpm.

T5 models have 2.5-liter, turbocharged five-cylinder, rated 218 hp at 5,000 rpm,
236 lbs.-ft. at 1,500 rpm.

Five-speed automatic and five- and six-speed manual transmissions are available,
depending on model.

* What's the rest? Features and available options vary by model. Details:
www.volvocars.com.

* How big? Not very. V50's 177.7 inches long, 69.7 inches wide, 57.2 inches tall
on a 103.9-inch wheelbase. (S40 is 2 inches shorter, otherwise the same). Weight
is listed as 3,269 to 3,399 pounds. (S40 sedan is listed as 3,084 to 3,256
pounds.)

Cargo space is listed as 27.4 cubic feet behind the rear seat, 62.9 cubic feet
when the seat's folded. (S40 trunk space is listed as 15.5 cubic feet.)

All models are rated to tow 2,000 pounds.

* How thirsty? Rated at 22 miles per gallon in town, 30 or 31 on the highway,
depending on model, using premium fuel. Test cars' trip computers showed low 20s
in town, low 30s on the highway.

* Overall: Looks sweet, runs strong, feels cramped.

 S40 undergoes quick change

Volvo's S40, which replaces a car of the same name that's nothing like it,
essentially is a four-door sedan version of the V50 wagon.

The S40 went on sale in March, marketed as a 2004? model. Volvo, oddly, made
changes right away and begins selling the S40 with those changes next month as a
2005 model.

Biggest hardware differences: The '05 S40 offers a manual transmission and
all-wheel drive. Neither was available on the '04 1/2.

---

More online

* Chat online with James R. Healey at 2 p.m. ET today at talk.usatoday.com.

* Go to cars.usatoday.com to hear James R. Healey's comments on the Volvo V50
and S40, to see more photos of the cars, to find previous Test Drive columns and
to get information on pricing, incentives and more.

* E-mail testdrive@usatoday.com.

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: August 6, 2004, Friday

CORRECTION:  A picture in Friday's Test Drive column showed the '04 model of the
Volvo S40 sedan, which has been discontinued. See 8/6/2004 Test Dive column for
a picture of the 2004.5 model.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS, B/W, Volvo (2); PHOTO, B/W, Wieck

                      Copyright 2004 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              19 of 132 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    November 26, 2004, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Unwind, rewind, watch these shows

BYLINE: Robert Bianco

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 6E

LENGTH: 2744 words

SUNDAY

 7 p.m.

King of the Hill/Malcolm in the Middle (Fox); tape 60 Minutes (CBS) Reverse the
order if you're in a serious mood, or if the Fox football game runs over (as it
usually does), because Fox doesn't push back its schedule. That means on a lot
of fall nights we miss King entirely and land in the middle of Malcolm. That's a
shame, because Jane Kaczmarek and Bryan Cranston are worth a full half-hour on
their own.

8 p.m.

The Simpsons/Arrested Development (Fox); tape Cold Case (CBS) Let's get this
over with upfront: After 16 years, The Simpsons is showing its age. Too many of
the jokes are either variations on things we've heard before or twists we
haven't heard because they don't really fit the characters. Well, too bad. Even
diminished, The Simpsons is a national treasure.

Plus, this season we have an added reason to root for The Simpsons: It provides
the lead-in for the best sitcom on TV, Arrested Development. Brilliantly
original in its writing and its casting, Arrested is a family sitcom as seen
through the filter of reality TV. The joy of Arrested isn't that every line is
hilarious, though many are. It's that nearly every joke is unexpected, from a
crude throw-away about a yacht called "The Seaward" to Jessica Walter's
gleefully goofy scream every time her private eye shows up in disguise.


Though Arrested may have Emmys, Cold Case has the ratings. Another variant on
the CSI theme, Case is less consistent than Without a Trace, but it does share
Trace's ability to trigger an emotional response. Plus it's less graphic than
CSI, because the corpses aren't just cold; they're old.

9 p.m.

* Desperate Housewives (ABC) Housewives isn't just the show of the night; it's
the show of the season -- the series that got people talking about scripted
series again. I don't want to oversell this mystery/ sitcom/soap: Housewives
isn't The Sopranos, nor does it claim to be. It's just an incredibly
entertaining, refreshingly witty blend of Twin Peaks, Knots Landing and
Designing Women -- fast moving, brightly colored and gloriously unafraid to be
out-there. Any show this instantly, hugely popular sparks an equally instant
backlash, so please take note. The title isn't Normal Housewives, nor is it All
Housewives Are Desperate. This is a series about four very specific women who
are unhappy with their lives -- some because they didn't get what they wanted,
some because they did. Of course all women aren't like that. But if you don't
know any women like that, you need to get out more. Just wait until the show's
over.

10 p.m.

Boston Legal (ABC) Let's end the week with one of the season's most pleasant
surprises, a blissfully bizarre Practice spinoff from David E. Kelley. I was no
great fan of the characters played by James Spader and William Shatner on The
Practice. But transferred into their own playground, they're amusing in a
larger-than-life, guard-the-scenery kind of way.

MONDAY

 8 p.m.

7th Heaven (WB) You know how some slots have too many good choices? Here we have
a time slot with no compelling choice. For most adults, 7th Heaven's sap-factor
remains a deterrent. Even so, it's one of the few dramas families can watch
without parents worrying they'll have to explain why some naked woman just
jumped into the arms of a football player.

9 p.m.

Las Vegas (NBC) Come January, the choice will be 24, assuming Fox sticks with
its plan and moves the show into this time slot. Until then, all you need is
something to tide you over until Two and a Half Men begins at 9:30, and on most
weeks, Las Vegas is your best bet. It's not a great show or a huge hit, but when
it's on its game, Las Vegas works quite well as high-gloss, low-thought
entertainment -- the kind of show you don't have to feel bad about catching or
missing.

 9:30 p.m.

* Two and a Half Men (CBS) Some day, the sitcom slump is bound to end. Until
then, I can think of only four comedies worth catching every week: Arrested
Development, Scrubs, Less Than Perfect and Two and a Half Men.  In its second
season, Men has grown even funnier and more confident. While still based on the
effervescent comic rapport between stars Charlie Sheen and Jon Cryer, the show
has expanded its scope to include its supporting cast, particularly Holland
Taylor and Conchata Ferrell. It is a shame Men has to follow CBS' anti-maternal
Monday comedy pattern, which requires all grown men to hate their mothers. But
at least the show has explored the issue, and Taylor's mom is more than capable
of defending herself.

10 p.m.

CSI: Miami (CBS) Though this spinoff has done much to distinguish itself from
the CSI mother ship, you can sum up the most important difference in two words:
David Caruso. Miami has provided a welcome safe harbor for this excellent actor,
and his continued presence here is one of TV's happiest developments. The show
also has a strong supporting cast, led by Emily Procter, Khandi Alexander and
recent addition Jonathan Togo, and has done a good job adapting CSI's
plot-driven procedural template to a new climate.

TUESDAY

 8 p.m.

Gilmore Girls (WB) Few things are more pleasant than watching an old favorite
return to form. After treading water last season, Gilmore has rediscovered the
virtue of plot, linking Lorelai with Luke and letting Rory's adulterous
dalliance with Dean trigger Lorelai's maternal instincts. And while I'm not a
huge fan of Emily and Richard's separation, the story did give Kelly Bishop an
Emmy-worthy scene, as she returned from a seemingly perfect date and broke down,
alone, in tears.

9 p.m.

House (Fox); tape The Amazing Race (CBS) Actually, you'd better have more than
one VCR handy. You're also going to need a tape for UPN's Veronica Mars, a fine
successor to the Buffy teen heroine tradition, and for Scrubs, which NBC has
once again marooned in the middle of a mismatched schedule.

If you have only one recorder, however, set it for The Amazing Race. Though it's
just begun this season's run, Race has already re-established itself as the best
of the reality shows, despite an overabundance of models and the instant
overexposure of Jonathan, who may be the most obnoxious racer ever.

Yet as much as I love Race, the class act in this time slot is Fox's medical
mystery House. Hugh Laurie is playing one of the year's best and most novel
characters: a crotchety, difficult, damaged doctor who is fascinated by disease
and repelled by people. And yet so strong is Laurie's performance, and so great
are his gifts as an actor and comic, that he makes this potentially repellent
man appealing -- and oddly enough, even sexy. Who would have guessed?

10 p.m.

* NYPD Blue (ABC) In terms of novelty and maybe even quality, Gilmore or House
might be better choices for the night's top show. But nostalgia and well-earned
regard for a soon-to-be-departed television classic tip the scales toward Blue.
Clearly, you can sense that the show is winding down. Certainly Andy -- played
by the incomparable Dennis Franz -- can see the writing on the wall: Times and
police work have changed, and his new bean-counter boss has no use for him. (And
if you think the writers are taking a sly stab at ABC, you're no doubt right.)
But there's still life left in Andy and in his relationship with Clark (the
underrated Mark-Paul Gosselaar). And the show is still able to tug at your
heart, as it did with Bobby Simone's ghostly return. Now wouldn't it be nice to
see John Kelly drop by, just once before we go? WEDNESDAY

 8 p.m.

* Lost (ABC); tape America's Next Top Model (UPN) It was obvious that Lost was
one of the year's best pilots; the question was how well it would fare as a
series. The answer thus far is "terrifically." J.J. Abrams and a top-rate team
of writers have worked miracles with this fantasy island premise, smoothly
flying between past and present, and from sweeping adventure to intricate
character development. No one is quite who he or she seems to be, and no secret
is completely revealed. I don't know where they're going with Lost, but I know I
want to go along for the ride.

Compared to Lost, Top Model offers more modest pleasures, but it's a pleasure to
watch nonetheless. Sure, it helps that the girls are beautiful and that they're
competing for a prize that is both attainable and worth winning (unlike, say,
The Bachelor). But the secret to Model's success is host/den mother Tyra Banks'
refusal to let the girls skate by on their looks.  She imparts lessons and
expects them to be learned, and rare among reality bosses, she punishes bad
behavior rather than rewarding it. I've never thought all that much of models,
but Banks has won me over.

9 p.m.

Jack & Bobby (WB); tape West Wing (NBC) The first choice in this time slot is
easy. Despite the gimmicky intrusion of its future-cast narration, Jack & Bobby
is an incredibly promising family drama -- one that boasts some of the season's
strongest performances.

The tough choice is what to tape, West Wing or UPN's Kevin Hill. Of the two,
Kevin Hill got off to the stronger start, but later episodes have faltered,
relying too much on Taye Diggs' personal appeal and not enough on plot. Plus,
like so many UPN series, Kevin lacks the visual sheen you expect from network
TV: You can't help feeling they're cutting corners on everything from the lights
to the sets to the costumes.

Which leaves us with West Wing. It's a shell of what it once was, and the
cynical way NBC is rushing the administration out the door isn't helping
matters. And heaven knows, those season-opening Middle East summit episodes were
so heavy-handed, you could almost feel them slapping you across the face. Yet if
you can look past C.J.'s unfortunate stint as the newly crowned Queen of Foreign
Policy, the show has definitely improved over the past few weeks. When push
comes to shove, Wing still has one of the best casts on TV, even if they are no
longer working with a comparably talented writer. So go with Jack and Wing -- at
least until ABC's Alias arrives in January.

 10 p.m.

CSI: NY (CBS) While CSI has the edge here, the show's hold on this time period
is increasingly tenuous. Where the original CSI is cherished for its flashes of
dark humor, NY is just dark. It's like they think they can build an entire
series around mood lighting. Worse yet, the plots have been unrelentingly grim
and sick (with the nadir a shared story between a mass murderer and a wannabe
amputee). And while Gary Sinise is a fine actor, neither he nor anyone else has
been given anything interesting to play. There's nothing wrong here that
tweaking can't fix, but CBS would be wise to get to it. After all, NBC's Law &
Order is just a prosecutorial cast change away from being an acceptable
alternative.

THURSDAY

 8 p.m.

The O.C. (Fox); tape Joey (NBC) Remember when this was the most hotly contested
time slot on TV? Now CBS' Survivor wins the ratings race with ease -- and Fox's
soap-on-speed The O.C. wins the must-see contest just as easily. Endearingly
off-kilter and yet emotionally on-target, The O.C. welcomes new and regular
viewers alike: On any given week, the show's likely to be launching a whole new
story.

Normally, the series to tape would have been Survivor, but bad luck and worst
casting have turned this battle between dumb men and dreary women into a South
Pacific soporific. Things may improve as the group dynamic changes, but it's
still hard to imagine anyone caring much who wins.

That brings us to the season's most crushing disappointment, Joey, which has
squandered the promise of its pilot along with our affection for Matt LeBlanc.
For weeks, the show has made the same mistakes as the equally pointless (but at
least still amusing) Will & Grace: The characters live in some hermetically
sealed alternate universe where nothing they do or say matters. What's more,
Joey has taken a beloved, well- defined character and made him indecipherably
fuzzy -- one week he's smart enough to trick another actor out of his sick bed;
the next, he's so stupid he gets tricked into barking at an audition.

So why tape it? Because the writers have finally given Joey a job, a sign that
they realize his world needs to expand beyond his sister and his apartment. I
hope it's not too late.

9 p.m.

CSI (CBS) It's amazing, really. After two spinoffs, TV's trendsetting procedural
is not only as popular as ever, it's as good as ever, maybe better. Competition
from its offspring seems to have inspired CSI to take new risks, shaking up the
office by sending some of the staff to the day shift and shaking up the formula
by delving more into its characters' personal lives.

With all its changes, CSI has not lost sight of what made it so popular in the
first place: intricate mysteries, lightened with touches of humor and gussied up
with high-tech anatomical tours. And the cases have been particularly strong
this fall, from the return of the blue-paint serial killer to a twist-filled
tour of the transsexual community. I wish the show would cut back on the
near-ritual abuse of women, but that complaint can be levied at almost every cop
show.

10 p.m.

* Without a Trace (CBS) As good as CSI has been this season, Without a Trace,
the missing-persons drama it inspired, has been even better. To be fair, when it
comes to drawing us into its stories, Trace does have a built-in advantage:
There's always a chance its victims are still alive. Even so, what's amazing
about Trace is how efficiently the show is able to hook you into the plight of
its weekly lost lamb. Nor do the writers stop there: A recent episode about a
missing single mother used her disappearance as a jumping-off point for an
exploration of the problems facing the working poor. Throw in a rock-solid cast,
led by one of America's top actors, Anthony LaPaglia, and you can see why Trace
has taken over this time slot from a flagging ER.

Should you tape ER anyway? That depends. Generally the answer is "yes" if the
plot focuses on the women, "no" if it focuses on the men. FRIDAY

 8 p.m.

* Joan of Arcadia (CBS) Wrapped within this lyrical ode to faith and metaphysics
lies TV's finest family drama. To some fans' dismay, that family has gone
through a hard stretch this season: a lawsuit triggered by the accident that
crippled Kevin, a new boss for Will, the death of one of Joan's friends. Better
days seem to lie ahead, but the show's well-delivered message was well worth
hearing: Life isn't easy, even with God's help.

9 p.m.

Hope & Faith/Less Than Perfect (ABC) In today's sitcom climate, beggars can't be
choosers. So no, Hope is hardly the ideal companion for the much-better Perfect,
but it will have to do. And as long as you're braced to expect very broad, very
basic comedy, Hope can deliver -- though it would do so more reliably if star
Kelly Ripa would just learn to pull back a little. It's a small screen, but we
can still see you; you don't have to mug to the rafters.

There's nothing wrong with Perfect's star: Like her character, Sara Rue becomes
more assured and more delightful each week. True, the show's humor is just as
silly and broad as Hope's, but the plots are generally more clever and the jokes
are delivered by a much stronger cast. Indeed, this season the entire ensemble
-- Rue, Sherri Shepherd, Andrea Parker, Zachary Levi, Patrick Warburton, Will
Sasso, Eric Roberts and Andy Dick -- has hit its stride. Now if we could only
get a few more viewers to stride along with them.

10 p.m.

Medical Investigation (NBC) Given its cast, led by Boomtown standout Neal
McDonough, this CSI/ER blend really should be much better than it is. Like
Mission: Impossible medics, this team of medical investigators flies to a new
trouble spot every week -- which may be why the show seems to have so much
trouble finding its center. The cast alone is enough to make MI a decent way to
kick off the weekend, but it's also the reason you keep wanting something more.

SATURDAY

Take the night off. You've earned it.

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Color, Paul McCallum, WB; PHOTO, Color, Robert Trachtenberg,
ABC; PHOTO, Color, Tony Esparza, CBS; PHOTO, Color, Michael Ansell, WB; PHOTO,
Color, Bill Inoshita, CBS; PHOTO, Color, Bob D'Amico, ABC; Boston Legal: James
Spader, left, and William Shatner play high-priced civil litigators in this
Practice spinoff. <>The Amazing Race: Sisters Kristy, left, and Lena discuss
their strategy in Norway as the pressure increases. <>Jack & Bobby: Jack (Matt
Long), left, is the role model for Bobby (Logan Lerman), the boy who will be
president. <>CSI: Greg Sanders (Eric Szmanda) and Sara Sidle (Jorja Fox) try to
determine the trajectory of a bullet.

                      Copyright 2004 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              21 of 132 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     April 26, 2004, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Lawsuits of '70s shape police leadership now

BYLINE: Donna Leinwand

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 2366 words

When Ella Bully-Cummings became a Detroit police officer in 1977, police
departments across the nation were stepping up their efforts to hire more women
-- often because the departments were under court orders to do so, or were being
threatened with discrimination lawsuits.

The resentment Bully-Cummings faced within the department's macho, paramilitary
culture is still fresh in her mind. Some male officers feigned illness to avoid
working with her. Some on patrol with her sometimes would call for backup even
before arriving at crime scenes.

But Bully-Cummings stuck it out, and rose through the ranks. And now, at 46, she
is Detroit's new police chief, in charge of 4,600 officers in a city that is
battling a surge in violent crime.


Three decades after U.S. police departments began hiring women in significant
numbers, Bully-Cummings is part of an unprecedented wave of women who have
ascended to police chief posts. Since November, women have been appointed to
lead five of the largest local police departments in the nation: those in
Detroit, San Francisco, Milwaukee, Boston and Fairfax County, Va., in suburban
Washington.

The new police chiefs are among hundreds of women who have pushed their way into
the command ranks of police departments and who have helped to reshape the image
of the American police officer.

Still, policing remains largely a man's domain. Only about 200 of the nation's
18,000 police departments -- or about 1% -- have female chiefs. Police and law
enforcement groups say the percentage of female officers in departments across
the nation, which rose steadily for more than 20 years, has leveled off at about
13%.

And as efforts to recruit women have lagged in recent years, there are
increasing concerns among police officials that the new crop of female chiefs
might represent a peak, rather than a sign of things to come.

Court orders that have fueled the recruitment of women by some departments for
more than 20 years are expiring, and in many departments, retiring women are
being replaced by young men.

The women who are now police chiefs and commanders were the "first at
everything. The first female sergeant, the first lieutenant. It was these
groundbreaking, pioneering women who came in and crawled their way up," says Kim
Lonsway, who has conducted surveys for the National Center on Women and
Policing, a division of the Feminist Majority Foundation in Arlington, Va.

Now, Lonsway says, female police leaders "are retiring, and women aren't coming
in at the same rate to replace them."

Law enforcement techniques that have become popular in the past quarter-century
have made policing more appealing to many women. Some departments have
de-emphasized physical requirements that historically gave male recruits an
advantage. And several departments have made a point of recruiting officers who
can be effective liaisons between police and communities.

But Lonsway and other advocates for female police say that many of the barriers
that Bully-Cummings faced in Detroit 27 years ago are still present.

Margaret Moore, director of the National Center for Women and Policing, says her
office continues to receive reports that women's careers are derailed by
disrespect from male colleagues, sexual harassment and a lack of encouragement
and mentoring from male-dominated command ranks.

Many police officials and law enforcement groups share Moore's concerns, but
they say that police departments are far friendlier workplaces for women today
than they were in the 1970s.

Joe Polisar, the police chief in Garden Grove, Calif., and president of the
19,000-member International Association of Chiefs of Police, says the challenge
today is to make police work a more attractive career option for women.

Polisar says that when he was police chief in Albuquerque in 1995, his
department was one of two selected for a national demonstration project designed
to help recruit and retain women in male-dominated occupations. His staff used a
U.S. Department of Labor grant to boost the percentage of female recruits in the
police academy from 10% to 24% in two years. The department also made changes
that made female officers more comfortable. Among the changes: buying body armor
and other equipment designed for women and a zero-tolerance police for sexual
harassment, moves that many other departments have since adopted.

"I think we've come light years from when I entered the profession 27 years
ago," Polisar says.

'Held to a higher standard'

Bully-Cummings says she was 16 and was a ticket cashier at a movie theater when
she first saw a woman in full police uniform. That was in 1974. Three years
later, Bully-Cummings joined the force.

She says that from the start of her police career, she knew she would have to be
exceptional to move up through the ranks.

She began to prove her mettle on her first arrest when she and her male patrol
partner encountered a 6-foot, 5-inch belligerent drunk one day in 1977.
Bully-Cummings says that she and her partner tried to put handcuffs on the
suspect, but that her partner was smacked in the groin and went down.

"It was kind of hilarious," she says. "My partner went down before me."

Bully-Cummings, who is 5-8 and 110 pounds, jumped on the suspect's back and
clung to him until more officers arrived. The suspect "told the judge I beat him
up," she says. "The judge laughed."

She says it was a small step in a years-long process in which she gradually won
a grudging acceptance from many of her male colleagues.

Bully-Cummings advanced within the department and received a law degree from
Michigan State University in January 1998, when she was a police commander. She
retired from the department a year later to practice law. She returned to the
force in May 2002, when she was appointed by Detroit Mayor Kwame Kilpatrick as
the department's first female assistant chief. She says she loves policing and
it was an opportunity she couldn't pass up.

"I think we are held to a higher standard," Bully-Cummings says of female
officers. "We have to be extraordinary. Males can make it (in the police
department) with a high school education. I don't see that changing any time
soon."

Detroit, however, is an exception: 26% of its officers are women.

"It had a lot to do with back when there was a consent decree and affirmative
action, and a lot of women joined the department," Bully-Cummings says. The
department aggressively recruits women and minorities, and female officers are
visible on the street where other young women can see them, she says. "If you
can't see it, you can't dream it."

Rising through the ranks

As Bully-Cummings was rising through the ranks in Detroit, several women
elsewhere were following similar paths.

In San Francisco, Heather Fong, now 47, joined the police department in 1977.
She was a member of the fourth class of women to go through the city's police
academy. At first, the police department limited women's duties to investigating
juvenile crime and sexual assaults while male officers went out on patrol. But
over time, Fong says, her responsibilities grew to be identical to those of her
fellow male officers.

Previous Police Chief Alex Fagan was indicted for conspiracy to obstruct justice
in an investigation of a street brawl that involved three rookie officers,
including his son. Although the charges were dropped, Fagan is now on
administrative leave. Mayor Gavin Newsom appointed Fong as acting chief on Jan.
17. The city is conducting a nationwide search for a new police chief, but Fong
has a shot at the permanent position.

"As women gain more experience and exposure, it's only natural that they would
promote through the ranks, just like their male counterparts," Fong says.
"Opportunity and encouragement are key."

In Milwaukee, Nan Hegerty joined the police force in 1976 as a patrol officer.
Like Bully-Cummings, Hegerty says she felt resentment from male officers.

"I found I couldn't change what people think," Hegerty says. "The only thing I
could do was stay the course and keep my eye on the job."

Hegerty, who was then the department's first female captain, left the police
force in 1994, when President Clinton appointed her as the U.S. marshal for the
Eastern District of Wisconsin. She served as marshal until 2002. On Nov. 18, she
returned to the Milwaukee Police Department when the city's Fire and Police
Commission appointed her chief.

Hegerty says she expects to see more female police chiefs because the first
generation of female police have the education, experience and maturity to run
departments. But Hegerty acknowledges that it is difficult to recruit and retain
women at the same levels as men. In February, she introduced a plan that she
hopes will boost such efforts.

In January, Suzanne Devlin became the fourth woman to join the top ranks when
she was appointed chief of police in Fairfax County, a suburb of about 1 million
people south of Washington. In February, Boston Mayor Thomas Menino appointed
Kathleen O'Toole as that city's police chief.

Penny Harrington, who in 1985 became the first woman to head a major U.S. city's
police when she was appointed chief in Portland, Ore., says she is heartened by
the rising number of female chiefs. But she is concerned that the talent pool of
female police is shrinking.

"These women came in at the time the number of women in law enforcement was
increasing," says Harrington, who retired in 1986 and now serves as a consultant
and expert witness. "If you've got more in the pool, you're going to get more at
the top."

'Women are losing ground'

In 1968, the Indianapolis Police Department became the first U.S. police force
to allow women on patrol with responsibilities equal to those of men. Four years
later, Congress expanded the Civil Rights Act to ban gender discrimination in
public agencies, including police departments. The changes in the law, combined
with the growing women's rights movement, created the first waves of female
police recruits across the nation.

From 1972 to 1999, the percentage of female officers nationally crept upward,
Lonsway says. In 1999, women accounted for 14.3% of the officers in departments
with more than 100 officers. But the percentage fell in 2000, and by the
following year, women made up 12.7% of such departments. The percentage has been
roughly the same since then.

"People around the country say there is a changing climate and women are losing
ground," Lonsway says. Harrington attributes much of the decline to the
expiration of several court-ordered consent decrees that forced departments to
hire women.

"We are still talking about institutions that are predominantly male and
predominately militaristic, and still having the idea that women can't do the
job," she says. "If they don't have to (hire women), they are not going to do
it."

Lonsway, who works with Harrington as a consultant in employment discrimination
cases, cites the Pittsburgh Bureau of Police as an example of an agency that
made significant headway under a consent decree, but that began to slip after
the decree expired.

In 1975, women made up 1% of Pittsburgh's police force. A court order in effect
from 1975 to 1991 forced the department to hire one white woman, one black woman
and one black man for every white man it hired. By May 1991, the department had
274 women among its 1,155 police officers -- nearly 24%. Then the court order
was lifted. Although the percentage of women on the Pittsburgh force is greater
than that of most big-city police departments, the department now has 185 women
among its 900 members, or about 20.5%.

Police Chief Robert McNeilly Jr. was traveling and could not be reached for
comment, police spokeswoman Tammy Ewin said. She said no one else in the
department could respond to questions about recruiting.

The female chiefs and the mayors and commissions say good public policy, not
consent decrees, should motivate cities to diversify their police forces.

Newsom, who has appointed several other women besides Fong to top city
government positions, says he was shocked when other mayors at a recent national
conference congratulated him for appointing the women and told him that their
cities weren't ready for such a string of appointments.

"I hardly think it should be unique," Newsom says. "I hope that other
municipalities realize that they are limiting talent when they limit by gender."
'



Milestones for women in U.S. law enforcement

* 1845: New York City officials hire two women to work as "matrons" to help
jailed women and juveniles.

* 1893: A Chicago police officer's widow, Mary Owens, is awarded the rank of
policeman. Some departments made similar hires to help compensate widows in an
era in which officers' widows seldom received death benefits. Owens worked for
the department for 30 years, helping police in cases involving women and
children.

* 1905: In Portland, Ore., Lola Baldwin becomes the first woman to work as a
sworn police officer in the USA. Baldwin oversaw social workers and later was
appointed director of a new city program designed to protect the "moral safety"
of young girls and women in Portland.

* 1910s and 1920s: "Women's bureaus" are established in police departments
across the country. The bureaus are designed to counter "moral weakness" crimes
-- such as prostitution and shoplifting -- with counseling of troubled women and
youths by "nurturing" women.

* 1930s and 1940s: Police departments begin a more aggressive approach to crime
that focuses less on morals crimes. As a result, fewer women are hired.

* 1968: Indianapolis becomes the first city to allow two policewomen to go on
patrol together.

* 1972: Congress expands Title VII of the Civil Rights Act to include public
agencies. The law makes it illegal for police departments to discriminate
against women in hiring.

* 1985: In Portland, Penny Harrington becomes the first woman to be appointed
police chief of a city with more than 100,000 residents.

Sources: National Center for Women & Policing; USA TODAY research

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Color, Evan Kafka; PHOTO, Color, Elise Amendola, AP; PHOTO, B/W,
Dwayne Newton, AP; In Detroit: Police Chief Ella Bully-Cummings heads a
department of 4,600 officers. Only about 200 of the 18,000 police departments in
the USA are directed by women. <>In Boston: Kathleen O'Toole is sworn in as
Boston's police commissioner during a ceremony Feb. 19. Her husband, Daniel, and
daughter, Meghan, stand behind her. <>In San Francisco: Heather Fong, right,
seen here with Fire Chief Joanne Hayes-White, was named the city's acting chief
of police Jan. 17.

                      Copyright 2004 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              23 of 132 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     May 20, 2004, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Reaction bothers Colorado panel

BYLINE: Theresa Smith; Special for USA TODAY

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 10C

LENGTH: 531 words

DATELINE: BOULDER, Colo.

BOULDER, Colo. -- Members of the eight-person panel that examined the University
of Colorado's football recruiting practices were surprised and disappointed by
the reaction Wednesday of the Board of Regents.

In a news conference after the public meeting between the independent
investigative commission and the regents, panel member Luis Rovira, a former
Colorado Supreme Court chief justice, termed the board "wishy-washy" while
expressing concern that the climate would return to the status quo.


While acknowledging the difficulties of meaningful dialogue in a public forum
such as Wednesday's meeting, panel member Jacqueline St. Joan said she was
surprised the regents did not address specific aspects of the report, which
entailed 15 meetings by the panel and 56 interviews.

"It is going to take tremendous courage to make these changes," St. Joan said.
"I don't know if the Board of Regents can make these changes."

Although the commission was critical of Colorado system President Betsy Hoffman,
Boulder campus Chancellor Richard Byyny, athletics director Richard Tharp and
suspended football coach Gary Barnett, it did not recommend specific personnel
changes.

"Everybody wants us to identify somebody whose head should roll," said panel
member David Powell Jr. "We're not going to do that. It's not appropriate."

In their report, Powell and his fellow panel members called on the regents to
determine "whether Hoffman can provide the leadership and vision needed to
restore the university's integrity and reputation."

Byyny was taken to task for not making sure increased supervision of recruits
was taking place in 1997 and later in 2001, and Tharp bore the main brunt of
criticism for his "philosophy of plausible deniability."

On at least two occasions, Barnett didn't adhere to proper protocol regarding
sexual assault and sexual harassment, according to the panel.

Without naming names, panel co-chair Peggy Lamm was quite critical of Tharp's
failure to bring Barnett up to speed regarding past sexual misconduct involving
recruits when he hired Barnett as head coach in 1999.

"That was clearly a glaring error," she said.

Lamm said she was "stunned, actually," by the lack of standard practices, such
as putting important issues in writing and passing them to superiors.

Senior Shalini Swaroop, a student activist who testified before the
investigative panel, was frustrated by the regents' approval of the four
leaders, saying they failed in their primary mission to educate and protect
students.

During the meeting, regent vice chair Jerry Rutledge asked rhetorically, "Who
should have been more accountable? Who should have been more competent? I say,
enough is enough, let's go forward! If we want a scapegoat, look in the mirror.
All of us could have done more.  . . .  President Hoffman, Chancellor Byyny,
Director Tharp and Coach Barnett all deserve the opportunity to lead this
university and right this ship."

Colorado alum Kim Moss, wearing a gold "Free Barnett" T-shirt, said she was
there to support the current leadership. She said she believes this is "old
news" and that the players are on the right track.

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Ed Andrieski, AP; Familial gathering: Patty Klopfenstein
leads a group of mothers of Colorado football players in applause during
Wednesday's meeting.

                      Copyright 2004 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              24 of 132 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    October 12, 2004, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Nobel winners steered central bankers

BYLINE: Barbara Hagenbaugh

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 383 words

Two professors, whose work on business cycles and policy responses to economic
change has influenced central banking around the world, won the Nobel memorial
prize in economics Monday.

Edward Prescott, 63, a professor at Arizona State University in Tempe and an
adviser at the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis, and Finn Kydland, 60, a
professor at Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh and the University of
California-Santa Barbara, will split the $1.4 million award for the Bank of
Sweden Prize in Economic Sciences, the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences said.

"They have significantly increased our understanding of the macroeconomy," the
academy said in a news release.


Prescott, a U.S. citizen, and Kydland, a Norwegian, both received their
doctorates from Carnegie Mellon.

They won the prize based on their work in the 1970s and 1980s in two areas:

 * Short-run changes in the economy can result from shifts such as technological
developments that are on the supply-side of the ledger, not just events like
changes in consumer spending that are on the demand side, the two economists
found. That finding led to further research and altered some thinking about what
can lead to changes in the business cycle.

 * Economic policy, particularly monetary policy conducted at central banks such
as the Federal Reserve, is best done when the public can reasonably predict what
decision will be made in the future, Prescott and Kydland say.

That research in part influenced central bankers in countries such as Canada,
Great Britain and in the Euro-zone to adopt inflation-targeting regimes, in
which policymakers pledge to keep inflation near a certain target, thereby
committing to keeping price pressures under wraps.

"He's added a lot to my thinking about influences on the economy," says
Minneapolis Fed President Gary Stern of Prescott.

Prescott is co-author of the book Barriers to Riches, which looks at the
disparity in wealth among countries. Recently, Prescott published a paper
arguing Americans work more than Europeans largely because they pay lower taxes.
He argued raising taxes to fund programs such as Social Security would therefore
not work and argued for reducing tax rates.

Attempts to reach the winners were unsuccessful.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Marit Hommedal, AP; PHOTO, B/W, Matt York, AP; Finn Kydland
<>Edward Prescott

                      Copyright 2004 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              25 of 132 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    December 13, 2004, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Changes are 'the usual' in IBM's On Demand ads

BYLINE: Theresa Howard

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 8B

LENGTH: 594 words

Business is not typically considered fun. When you put the word "technology"
alongside it, the fun factor dims even more.

But IBM injects smooth, fast-talking, quick-thinking personalities into the
world of business technology with its "On Demand" advertising.


Sean, Richard and Denver are "colleagues" who typify IBM customers. They began
appearing in IBM ads by agency Ogilvy & Mather last year. They personify the
fast-paced, "On Demand" nature of today's business climate and get the job done
thanks to IBM products and services.

Despite the announcement last week that IBM would sell its PC business to
Chinese company Lenovo, IBM's "On Demand" message will continue.

"IBM's strategic imperative remains the delivery of on-demand business solutions
to clients worldwide," says IBM spokesman Brian Doyle.

The PC deal, expected to close in the first half of 2005, would make Lenovo the
"preferred provider" of PCs for IBM services and solutions, Doyle says. IBM will
market the PC line until the deal closes, then Lenovo will market them. The PCs
will carry both brand names initially and later, just the Lenovo name.

The characters will continue the "On Demand" message; they are cast in new ads
in the first quarter.

"On Demand is an ad campaign that fits over all our services divisions including
business consulting and software services," says Lisa Baird, IBM vice president,
worldwide integrated marketing communications.

The characters tell the story of IBM products providing solutions in
ever-changing business situations, she says. "A customer can look at that and
say 'Omigosh, that's my business.' Today, you've got to get your business
operating in a way in which you can be responsive and quick. This is a great
scenario for that idea."

In one ad, Denver is in London and calls Richard, who sits at an outdoor cafe in
Paris. Denver is in London because of a "change of plans" and is calling about a
client's "change of plans." Richard says he is in Paris because of a "change of
plans." When Sean asks Richard, "What's up?" Richard says, "The usual."

In a second ad, Denver and Richard sit at a lunch counter. Denver explains that
IBM ThinkPads are equipped with air-bag-like technology that protects the
notebook PCs if they fall. Richard asks, "Like this?" as he drops one on the
floor. When Denver says that the computer is not his, Richard says, "Check,
please."

Susan Westre, executive creative director at O&M, says consumers identify with
the characters. "They seem to have chemistry together," she says. "They have a
banter. It's shorthand. People relate to that."

That might be why the ads got solid ratings from consumers surveyed by Ad Track,
USA TODAY's exclusive weekly poll. Of those familiar with the ads, 21% like them
"a lot," equal to the Ad Track average of 21% and higher than the typical score
for ads for business-to-business products. Just 8% "dislike" the ads, vs. the
average of 13%, also good for its category.

"Like any good advertising, if it was hugely offensive, we would take a look at
that," Baird says. "But that's not how people buy technology. It's very
different than consumer products."

IBM keeps these TV commercials fun, continuing a long-running humorous tone for
IBM ads. Other consistent ingredients: the blue letter box and telling the story
from the customer's point of view.

"They have to be funny and well-produced. Those are some of the ad standards we
try to live by," Baird says. "The dialogue is snappy and short, and people
appreciate that."

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, Color, USA TODAY, Source: USA TODAY research by Darryl
Haralson, (BAR GRAPH); PHOTOS, Color (2)

TYPE: AD TRACK

                      Copyright 2004 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              29 of 132 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    July 21, 2004, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

CEO Ollila says Nokia's 'sisu' will see it past tough times

BYLINE: Kevin Maney

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 1820 words

DATELINE: ESPOO, Finland

ESPOO, Finland -- In times like these, the executives who run Nokia talk up a
uniquely Finnish quality called sisu.

"The translation would be 'guts,' " says Jorma Ollila, CEO of Nokia, the world's
most prolific cellphone maker, in an interview at company headquarters here.
"But it's also endurance. There is a long-term element to it. You overcome all
obstacles. You need quite a lot of sisu to survive in this climate."

The climate he's referring to is the bleak and bitter Nordic winters, but he
might as well be talking about the competitive, erratic wireless-phone market
and Nokia's travails.


This sisu trait -- anathema to Wall Street's short-term outlook -- says a lot
about Nokia's response to its recent turmoil. Ollila says Nokia can bounce back
just as it has time and again in the company's 140-year history. Though most of
the world woke up to Nokia in the past decade, the company has been around
longer than IBM, General Electric or Merck. Nokia's culture -- and its sisu --
have been key to that durability.

But is it enough this time? Ollila is having a tempestuous 2004. Last week,
Nokia reported that revenue fell 5% for the second quarter, to $8.2 billion, as
it cut phone prices to hold market share. Worse, Ollila said earnings for the
third quarter would drop below 12 cents a share, far lower than analysts'
estimates of 17 cents. Nokia is losing market share, primarily to Motorola and
Samsung. Nokia estimates its share of cellphone sales at 31%, plunging from 37%
at the beginning of 2004. All this follows an earnings warning in April that
sent Nokia's stock tumbling nearly 40%. The stock closed Tuesday at $12.29, down
from a 52-week high of $23.52.

"As one hole is plugged, two others seem to pop up in its place," says stock
analyst Ren Zamora of Loop Capital Markets.

To add to the racket, in June, Nokia introduced a raft of cellphones and
devices. Many are aimed at plugging perceived holes -- such as inexpensive
"clamshell"-type phones -- in Nokia's lineup. In January, Ollila overhauled the
entire corporate structure, replacing a confusing collection of nine fiefdoms
with four broad divisions -- mobile phones, multimedia, networks and enterprise
solutions.

Perhaps most profoundly, Ollila has been making Nokia somewhat less Finnish. The
company is in the process of opening a second headquarters in New York. Ollila
hired Nokia's first non-Finnish top-level officer, Rick Simonson, an American
who is now chief financial officer. Ollila in recent months added another
American at the top, former Hewlett-Packard executive Mary McDowell. She now
runs the enterprise solutions division, which makes and markets wireless devices
aimed at businesses.

All of this is a typical Nokia response to a difficult time: Make adjustments,
then dig in and plow on. "This is a crowd which is at its best when it's between
a rock and a hard place," says Ollila, CEO since 1992. "It suits the mentality
here to have a little bit of nasty press."

This, he insists, is sisu at work. At the very least, it's Ollila's approach to
getting out of this mess.

Leaving complacency behind

Nokia dominates the Finnish economy. So around Helsinki, Espoo and other Finnish
cities, a favorite business-lunch conversation is: What's wrong with Nokia? It's
like New York and baseball when the Yankees go on a losing streak.

Ask Ollila that question, and he responds that Nokia's chief problem is that its
reign as the biggest cellphone maker has made it a target. "You have this
reaction (from competitors): Nokia has had too much for too long, so I want to
go there and have a piece of the cake," he says.

South Korea's Samsung and LG Electronics, the global partnership of Sony
Ericsson, the USA's Motorola and as many as three dozen other companies are all
chomping at Nokia. They've succeeded in taking bites out of Nokia's market
share, and the intense competition has driven down prices for phones, which has
also hurt Nokia's revenue.

Nokia, which has made about one-third of the world's 1 billion cellphones in
use, perhaps didn't take the threats seriously enough. "The danger is you become
complacent," Ollila says. "However, some of that inevitably does happen."

Any complacency inside Nokia is gone, he insists. The heat "makes my job
easier," Ollila says. Nokia's lead was so great a couple of years ago, he felt
he had to conjure threats to motivate employees. "I don't have that problem
now!" he says, then lets out a big laugh.

Ollila has a reputation for being animated and funny -- not traditional Finnish
traits, say Nokia's Finnish employees. But like many Finns, he is blunt and
direct. He gives executives tough assignments, then gives them leeway to get
them done or risk his ire. He particularly hates corporate politics.

"It is a plague that has to be weeded out at the first signs," he says. Ollila
and his top managers "will tell you what's on their minds -- it's very black and
white," says Susan Macke, an American who joined Nokia as a vice president
earlier this year. "Everybody has an opinion, and they're not afraid to voice
it. But at the end of the day, the leader makes a decision and everybody buys
in. There's no posturing."

There's not much bureaucracy or hierarchy. Ollila wants Nokia to seem like a
small, intimate organization even though it has 57,000 employees spread from
Japan to India to Silicon Valley.

Looking too far ahead

Ollila has helped Nokia grow as a hot tech company while maintaining the core
values of a Finnish lumber mill. But he has made mistakes, and bounced back from
them.

In 1995, Ollila made upbeat remarks about Nokia's profits. Soon after, he had to
issue a profit warning, damaging his Wall Street reputation. In the mid-1990s,
he ignored Qualcomm's CDMA standard for cellphones. It become one of two
widespread standards in the USA, and Nokia had to play catch-up in the U.S.
market.

Lately, Ollila and Nokia have been criticized for focusing on powerful,
feature-rich phones when much of the world wants a simple, inexpensive way to
just make calls and send text messages. Nokia's N-Gage QD -- a combination
cellphone and portable gaming device -- gets high marks for inventiveness,
including from RHK's Ken Twist. "However," Twist says, "We think it's exotic,
expensive and has not had great consumer take-up as of yet."

Nokia has also been pouring much of its research and development budget into
software, especially the S60 operating system that brings PC-style capabilities
to a cellphone. But today, S60 is in only about 1% of the world's phones.

"Nokia has aspirations to be a successful software company, but I don't really
get it," says veteran tech entrepreneur Trip Hawkins, who recently launched
Digital Chocolate, a wireless games and software company. "They are hardheaded
hardware guys."

Ollila acknowledges Nokia might have overemphasized features that will catch on
five years down the road rather than in a year or two. The June product launch,
which included low-end phones, supposedly will help rectify that. Still, Ollila
isn't backing down on Nokia's commitment to advanced phones and software.

"We haven't seen even the beginning of how the software and other solutions will
work out," he says. An important part of his vision is phones as mobile
entertainment devices. "Not so many people want to watch a movie on a mobile
device . . .  but maybe you want to get some streaming bits or some
entertainment," he says.

He concludes by waving off the short-term demands of Wall Street. "We want to be
the company that brings this industry to the next phase," Ollila says. "And if
we have a little bit of a bump in the road in 2004, that's immaterial."

Nokia's history plays a powerful role in its approach to the present.

Today it is king of the cellphone hill thanks to changes it made to wrest itself
out of a previous dark episode -- one far more perilous than anything the
company currently faces.

Nokia spent its first 120 years mostly making lumber products, rubber boots,
power transmission cables and phone lines. As part of the phone-line division,
Nokia had a small business selling radios for use in the sparsely populated
Finnish countryside.

In the early 1980s, Norway, Sweden and Finland built one of the world's first
and best cellular phone systems. Nokia took its radio experience and made the
system's first phones. Other countries built systems based on the Nordic
standards, so Nokia sold phones there, too. It became the market-share leader in
the nascent industry. In 1990, Ollila was named to run the unit.

Within a year, Nokia slammed into a wall when the Soviet Union collapsed. The
U.S.S.R. was Finland's -- and Nokia's -- biggest trading partner, particularly
in industrial goods such as lumber and rubber. Finland spun into a depression,
taking Nokia with it.

Ollila convinced Nokia's board there was only one way out: focus on cellphones
that could be sold worldwide. The board not only bought the argument, but made
Ollila CEO. Then just 41, he created a close-knit team of talented Finns who
still run the company. By 1994, Ollila and his team were selling off industrial
divisions and listing Nokia on the New York Stock Exchange.

Will 'sisu' be enough?

Nokia built on its lead by tapping other historical strengths. Finns take pride
in their sense of simple design, and Nokia applied that to cellphones. Consumers
snapped them up. Thanks to Nokia's manufacturing heritage, it knew how to
efficiently churn out millions of phones. Analysts today give Nokia credit for
Dell-like control over inventory and factories.

Ollila is betting on an old soul that is willing to change. It's what allows
Ollila, 53, to seem unperturbed by recent negative events.

What, then, does he foresee for Nokia? What kind of company does he intend to
leave behind?

Ollila says he wants a company that "really knows how to make mobile devices and
infrastructure, but is also willing and capable of going into new areas."

Is the company there today?

"There are good ingredients, but we have to do a fair bit more," he says. He and
Nokia plan to battle through whatever winter befalls them. Whether sisu is
enough is anybody's guess. But at Nokia, in times like these, it's what matters
most.

TEXT OF BIO BOX BEGINS HERE

About Jorma Ollila

Hear Ollila speak

Title: CEO of Nokia

Born: Aug. 15, 1950, in Seinajoki, Finland

Education: University of Helsinki (political science), 1976; London School of
Economics (economics), 1978; Helsinki University of Technology (engineering),
1981

Career: Citibank in London and Helsinki, 1978-85. Joined Nokia as vice president
of international operations in 1985; named president of mobile-phone division in
1990; CEO in 1992

Family: Wife, Liisa; children Jaakko, Anna, Matti

Hobby: Tennis

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Marcy E. Mullins, USA TODAY, Source: CSI (LINE GRAPH);
PHOTO, Color, Nokia ; PHOTOS, B/W, Nokia (2); Jorma Ollila: CEO of Nokia since
1992, Ollila, now 53, says the Finland-based cellphone maker can handle its
recent market losses. Nokia is at its best when it's between a rock and a hard
place," he says. <>Getting the once-over: A Nokia factory employee tests a model
3650 cellphone.

TYPE: COVER STORY

                      Copyright 2004 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              30 of 132 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    July 28, 2004, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Heinz Kerry: Political novice carves own niche

BYLINE: Rick Hampson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 405 words

DATELINE: BOSTON

BOSTON -- Teresa Heinz Kerry on Tuesday called her husband "a fighter" who
earned his Vietnam War medals "the old-fashioned way, by putting his life on the
line for his country."

In the final speech of the second night of the Democratic National Convention,
the wife of the party's presidential candidate said that Sen. John Kerry is "the
best man to defend America, at home and abroad."

"No one will defend this nation more vigorously than he will -- and he will
always be first in the line of fire," she said. But she said that as commander
in chief, Kerry would also "understand the importance of getting it right."


In remarks that were unusually policy-oriented for a speech by a candidate's
wife, Heinz Kerry promised a new environmental agenda. She said that in a Kerry
administration, "global climate change and other threats to the health of our
planet will begin to be reversed."

She said that "good environmental policy is good economics."

She also said that Kerry believes "we can, and will, invent the technologies,
the new materials and conservation methods of the future. He believes that
alternative fuels will guarantee that not only will no American boy or girl go
to war because of our dependency on foreign oil, but also that our economy will
forever become independent of this need," she said.

Although environmental protection has not been a primary theme of Kerry's
campaign, Heinz Kerry has made it one of the centerpieces of her own
philanthropic efforts. As the widow of John Heinz, the ketchup heir and U.S.
senator from Pennsylvania who died in an air crash in 1991, she is one of the
richest women in the nation and the head of several Heinz family charitable
foundations. She married Kerry in 1995.

Heinz Kerry spoke in a soft voice, accented with the Portuguese of her native
Mozambique. She was introduced by her son, Chris Heinz, and was greeted
enthusiastically by the delegates.

The speech came two days after Heinz Kerry confronted a journalist and told him
to "shove it" for asking her to explain comments she made on Sunday to
Pennsylvania delegates.

She got her loudest applause -- and her biggest laugh -- when she began by
saying, "By now, it will come as no surprise that I have something to say."

Trading on her skills as a translator, Heinz Kerry greeted her audience in five
languages -- French, Italian, Spanish and Portuguese, as well as English.

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Eileen Blass, USA TODAY; Emotional moment: Teresa Heinz
Kerry takes the convention stage after being introduced by her son, Chris Heinz.

                      Copyright 2004 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              35 of 132 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    November 26, 2004, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Return of the King' returns with an extra 50 minutes

BYLINE: Mike Snider; Ann Oldenburg; Edna Gundersen

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 1E

LENGTH: 494 words

<>MOVIES
<>

The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King extended edition DVD arrives Dec.
14 with elements sure to please the completist fans of the fellowship.

With 50 minutes added to the film that won 11 Oscars, including best picture and
director, the four-disc set includes:

 * The death of Saruman (Christopher Lee). This omission in the movie upset
fans. In the restored scene, Gandalf (Ian McKellen) and the gang confront
Saruman, who is atop the tower, Orthanc. The wizard is stabbed and falls to his
death.


* More of director Peter Jackson's movie cameo as a corsair of Umbar, doomed to
fall from Legolas' arrow. Says Jackson, "I felt the buzz of what it must be like
to be a stuntman on films . . .  realizing that all the girls on set are looking
at you with an admiring sort of gaze, because you are just throwing yourself
down."

-- Mike Snider

<>TELEVISION<>

Bill Nye to showcase greatest science hits

Bill Nye, the science guy, is back.

The Emmy-winning kids TV host, whose Bill Nye the Science Guy ran on PBS from
1992 to 1998, will kick off a prime-time show for the Science Channel called 100
Greatest Discoveries on Dec. 8 (8 p.m. ET/PT).

"You could have 30,000 greatest discoveries," says the Santa Monica-based
scientist. But instead, in each show of the eight-week series, he'll highlight
12 or 13 chosen by various science organizations.

In spring, Nye will host The Eyes of Nye, another PBS series. This one is aimed
at adults. But it will still feature Nye's trademark kookiness. "It's my
hilarious take on things that are important or interesting to me," says Nye, 48,
citing global climate change, nuclear waste, antibiotics, the evolution of sex
and the science of sports. And in April, look for the release of Bill Nye the
Science Guy's Great Big Book of Tiny Germs. "There's a great big world down
there, they like to say, if you look through the microscope."

-- Ann Oldenburg

<>COMEDY<>

CD set chronicles Pryor's early years

Before he became comedy's X-rated wild man, Richard Pryor was almost bleep-free.
On Evolution/Revolution: The Early Years (1966-1974), Pryor evolves from benign
jokester to the firebrand who sparked a revolution with 1974's groundbreaking,
profanity-laced That Nigger's Crazy.

The $19.98 two-CD set, due Feb. 1 in stores and at rhino.com, was culled in part
from 40 hours of raw, unedited reel-to-reel tape from Pryor's private
collection. Provided early this year by the comic's wife, Jennifer Lee Pryor,
the pristine recordings of stand-up shows from the '60s chronicle Pryor's style
taking shape.

Disc 1 covers Pryor's PG origins with tracks that first appeared on the Laff
label. The second disc moves into daring rants from 1971 forward, including an
early Wino & Junkie and unreleased recordings from the Stax and Warner Bros.
vaults. Only one track appeared on earlier Rhino releases.

-- Edna Gundersen

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Color, New Line Cinema; PHOTO, Color; PHOTO, Color, Henry Diltz,
Rhino Records; Death becomes him: Christopher Lee as Saruman. <>Nye: Two TV
shows and a Big book. <>Pryor, circa 1976: Unedited, pristine and clean.

                      Copyright 2004 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              37 of 132 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    January 19, 2004, Monday, FINAL EDITION

TV adjusts the picture

BYLINE: Gary Levin

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 895 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES

LOS ANGELES -- The broadcast networks, faced with audience erosion and few fall
successes, are not only trotting out new shows, but they also are rethinking how
they present them to viewers.

In January, executives usually take stock of the season to date and look forward
to midseason replacements. But this season, the networks are laying out a larger
prescription for what they see as necessary changes to a medium in which
attracting viewers to prime-time lineups is getting tougher each year.

The fall season, which was generally considered uninspiring, "was a wake-up call
to everybody," Susan Lyne, entertainment chief at third-place ABC, said at the
TV critics' semiannual press tour, which ended here Sunday. "The fact that the
numbers were depressed across the board for the broadcast networks has made
everyone look very hard at what this new universe is. There are things we are
going to have to do differently."


The difficulty in drawing viewers is one reason why you'll see familiar-sounding
shows -- including CSI: New York and a fourth Law & Order -- next fall.

But the business side of television is indeed in for some changes, although the
climate is not as gloomy as it seems: On the four major networks, overall
viewership is off just 2% this season (and 5% among young adults), modest losses
considering the growth of cable, in which viewership is up about 5% this year.

The season's sluggish start, and the fact that the only true breakout hits this
season are reality shows, has forced networks to rely on sure bets with shows
while changing the way viewers see them. Among changes promised:

 * Fewer repeats. Some networks are shifting more reruns to cable or summer
instead of airing them throughout the season -- or like HBO, they air the same
show twice in a week, with reality series such as NBC's Apprentice or UPN's
America's Next Top Model prime examples. Fox's 24 airs no repeats, and makes
money from DVD sales; ABC's NYPD Blue, returning Feb. 10, airs repeats only in
summer.

 * Scheduling shifts. Fewer programmers are focused on a September-to-May
season. Some say cable has proved viewers just don't watch TV that way anymore.
Fox launched The O.C. last August and NBC started Average Joe in December, both
considered moribund months for introducing new programs. Yet each show was a
success.

Fox hopes to start three new sitcoms or dramas before the season's official
start on Sept. 22, in part to combat disruption from postseason baseball in
October. NBC trumpeted plans to premiere most of its new shows just after the
summer Olympics end on Aug. 29, jump-starting the traditional fall season by two
to three weeks. (The Republican National Convention, which begins Aug. 30, will
delay some debuts until after Labor Day.)

 * More diverse programs. Those without Law & Order or CSI clones to fall back
on are seeking new ways to lure audiences. Some say there are too few comedies
that appeal to young men and too few dramas for younger women. With the
crime-and-cops genre in danger of overexposure, ABC wants more emotional,
female-friendly dramas, while NBC hopes to replace Friends and lure more men
with comedies more like Taxi and Barney Miller than Good Morning, Miami.

 * Limited series. Gone are the days when viewers expect to see a steady stream
of episodes. Midseason replacements that used to last 13 weeks are now lucky to
get six, and two ABC shows, comedy The Big House and legal drama The D.A., will
air for just four weeks this spring.

By mimicking the old network miniseries "event" model, Fox programming chief
Gail Berman says, The Simple Life and other short-lived reality series have a
better chance of luring viewers. She's using "the old Peyton Place model" with
Forever Eden, an open-ended reality soap opera due in March that may air two
episodes each week at a cost far less than traditional dramas.

The shorter leashes are sparked by a cynical but obvious truth in an age of
spiraling production costs: "The odds are, most shows fail," says ABC Television
chairman Lloyd Braun. "You're better off failing with four (episodes) than you
are failing with 13."

ABC, which hasn't launched a new hit drama in years, wants to apply the
limited-series model to dramas: Next season brings Empire, an expensive medieval
series designed to last just eight weeks, and has Stephen King's Kingdom
Hospital, Wednesdays starting in March, as a 12-week story.

All of this has the potential to backfire, costing the networks more money in
the long run. Advertisers are accustomed to a traditional fall rollout. Networks
lose money by shaving repeats. And viewers, already weary of constant schedule
shifts, will see even more juggling acts as the ratings race tightens further.

CBS chairman Leslie Moonves, whose network enjoys a wide lead among total
viewers as most of its rivals face audience defections, says all this talk about
changing the TV calendar is meaningless if a business that depends on hits can't
deliver them.

"There's nothing tragically wrong with the current model that good programming
won't fix," Moonves says. "The question is not when you launch (shows), but how
good they are. If you launch a bad show in August, it's still going to be bad in
September."

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, Color, Marcy E. Mullins, USA TODAY, Source: Nielsen Media
Research (BAR GRAPH); EAR PHOTO, Color; PHOTO, Color, Bob D'Amico, ABC; PHOTO,
Color, Cliff Lipson, CBS; PHOTO, Color, Carol Kaelson, ABC; PHOTO, Color, Robert
Voets, Fox; The D.A. / ABC

TYPE: COVER STORY

                      Copyright 2004 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              40 of 132 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     April 8, 2004, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

IRS chief: Growth in tax cheating can be contagious

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 1307 words

IRS Commissioner Mark W. Everson finds that he is the person everyone at
cocktail parties wants to avoid. But he insists that past accounts of abusive
IRS agents and auditors were exaggerated. In fact, he says that one of the
biggest problems the IRS now faces is a growing perception among Americans that
cheating on their taxes is acceptable. Everson met this week with members of USA
TODAY's editorial board. His comments were edited for length and clarity.

Question: With the April 15 deadline a week away, what trends are you finding so
far?

Answer: We're seeing about a 2% growth in the overall number of returns compared
with a year ago. What is particularly gratifying is that we are seeing a 12%
increase in electronically filed returns. They are better for the taxpayer and
for us. Because we are able to get the information right away, three-quarters of
Americans get refunds -- on average about $ 103 above last year -- in about half
the time.


Q: Since Congress makes the tax code more complicated virtually every year, is
it easier for Americans to cheat?

A: The first ramification of complexity is confusion. Clearly, it's impossible
to write a law that somebody won't try to challenge. You also have increasing
efforts at manipulation at the high end from people trying to take advantage of
the complexity in the code.

 Q: Corporate tax collections as a share of total revenue have been declining
for a while. How big a problem is honest taxpaying by corporate America?

A: The drawing back of IRS enforcement in the late 1990s -- we have since
arrested that decline -- was so negative because you not only had corporate
governance going off track, but there was a very real decline in the ethics of
lawyers and accountants in the tax arena. People clearly took advantage of the
complexity. What has happened now is people try to push the lines outward.
Clearly, some parts of these professional organizations thought you could take
business risks as to whether you complied with the code. It's a business
decision as to whether you comply with the law. I think that clearly (corporate
tax honesty) is a serious problem. The investment banks, the large accounting
firms, the banks, even some law firms, are structuring increasingly complex
international transactions.

Q: How do you change this culture of pushing the limits?

A: We're changing our procedures to tighten the cycle on audits. It takes us, on
average, five years to do a complex corporate audit. So we really weren't even
present as a lot of the problems accelerated in the late '90s. We were looking
at the past. We weren't looking at current events. So we are putting more
resources into it. And we are having conversations later this month with my
counterparts from the United Kingdom, Australia and Canada. We will share
information and start an international cooperation to counter all of these
interlocking international interests on the commercial side. Billions of dollars
are at stake.

 Q: In the past, people have complained that they've called the IRS and couldn't
get through or got the wrong advice. Have these problems been corrected?

A: We've pretty well solved the first problem -- getting through. We invested in
a state-of-the-art call center. There were approximately 400 million busy
signals a year. Now that is down to about 600,000 a year. We still have a
problem about the accuracy of the tax-law questions. It goes back, in part, to
this issue of complexity. What you have to do is write scripts for employees for
the pertinent questions. So, we are improving there, but we are not error-free
by any means.

Q: In the 1990s, congressional hearings were held about abuses by IRS agents or
auditors. How has the IRS curbed or eliminated those excesses?

A: Clearly, there was a gap at that time between the services that Americans
expected and what we failed to provide. At the same time, the hearings did
exaggerate the abuses. That was substantiated through a General Accounting
Office investigation. And that damaged the agency, and it also led to some of
the overcompensation that reduced enforcement and caused some of the problems
that we have now. But I'm satisfied that those problems of abuse are largely
resolved. We will carefully monitor that, and if we see people going over the
line, we will make sure that they're held accountable.

Q: Have there been any recent reports of cases of abuse?

A: Not at all. The greater problem was the reticence of people to do their job
because of a climate where they felt that their job was distasteful. They were
being called reckless and other things. These people are doing important work.

Q: You've noted that a 1999 survey showed that 11% of the public thought it was
OK to cheat on taxes, and now that is up to 17%. What is the driving force
behind this attitude?

A: It's probably two things. One is a degradation of ethics with some
practitioners. It was tied to this same spirit of what many called "the culture
of greed and materialism" that developed during the 1990s. But the IRS backed
away from enforcing the law as this was happening. It's a basic sense of
fairness. Somebody out there is complying with the law, and they see others
doing things, and over time, they feel like chumps. But we will change those
attitudes.

Q: How can you do that?

A: It's not unlike the highway system: You have to have safe roads that are well
engineered and well maintained. You have to have good signs that tell people
where to exit. And you post what the speed limit is. But you also have to have
that trooper under the bridge every once in a while. Otherwise, the folks who
are driving 60 to 65 over time will, if they're not held accountable, start
driving faster, and the roads won't be as safe.

Q: Doesn't the IRS need to wield some old-fashioned fear with random audits?

A: With our scarce resources, we target where we see (the biggest) risk. There's
a tax gap of a quarter trillion dollars a year or more, and that represents
underpayment, non-filing and underreporting. So we're starting to do some of
those random audits. But I think that fear is counterproductive because it
compromises the service side.

Q: Accusations are sometimes raised that tax-exempt charities and educational
foundations may be engaging in prohibited political activity. How do you avoid
appearing as if you're going after groups that might be unpopular?

A: There are only two people who are political appointees at the IRS. There's
just the commissioner and the top lawyer at the IRS. There is absolutely no
interference that comes from the White House or the Treasury Department.

Q: For those still doing their taxes, what should they think twice about that
might trigger another look or an audit?

A: Do not turn to someone who has a shady reputation or who's promising you a
way to eliminate your taxes or significantly reduce them. Turn to someone who is
reputable. And don't exaggerate deductions. When we do our assessments, we look
at whether there are dramatic changes from year to year or the relationships
seem out of kilter from the norms.

Q: What's it like to be the IRS commissioner?

A: I once had an important job at the Office of Management and Budget, but it
wasn't a very visible job. When I would meet people at receptions, there was
always one person who would want to talk to me about procurement or federal
financial management -- if you can believe that. The other three or four people
would just sort of stand there. The difference as IRS commissioner is, it's the
same thing now with a twist: When I meet a group of people, there's always one
person who steps forward and really wants to talk. The difference now is the
other three people step back. So I wouldn't worry about our ability to still
have people feel wary of us.

LOAD-DATE: April 08, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Leslie Smith Jr., USA TODAY; GRAPHIC, B/W, Julie Snider,
USA TODAY, Source: Internal Revenue Service (PIE CHART); IRS by the numbers
(graphic)

                      Copyright 2004 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              42 of 132 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    August 12, 2004, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

El Nino could be brewing, minus a knockout punch

BYLINE: Dan Vergano

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 7D

LENGTH: 308 words

Federal weather officials are calling for El Nino conditions to develop in
coming months.

Caused by a disruption in the ocean and atmosphere of the central Pacific Ocean,
El Nino brings warmer winters to the upper Midwest and wetter ones to the
Southeast. Southern and central California also would see more rain.


"Right now the forecast is for a weak to moderate El Nino," says research
meteorologist Vernon Kousky of the National Weather Service in Camp Springs, Md.
"We're still in the incipient stages, so we need to wait and see a bit."

Since June, climate scientists have been tracking the spread of warm water
eastward across the central Pacific and expect to determine soon -- perhaps by
the end of the week -- whether the trend is a real one.

"The big thing we look for is coupling between the atmosphere and the ocean
temperatures," says climate expert Heidi Cullen of the Weather Channel. The
warming would have to continue for another five months to qualify as a
full-blown El Nino, she says.

The conditions typically occur once in four years. A weak El Nino over the
winter of 2002-03 had no great effect on weather, but the record El Nino of
1997-98 caused heavy rains in California and Florida.

"We'd rather see a significant El Nino" this year, Kousky says. "It might
alleviate the (Southwest's) severe drought."

Hurricane season also can be affected by El Nino, reducing the number of storms
starting in the Atlantic. Only the tail end of this year's hurricane season, now
approaching its peak, would be affected, because the El Nino-related warming in
the Pacific started relatively late, in June.

Over the past 25 years, scientists developed tools to predict El Nino conditions
with great accuracy, Kousky says. "It's hard for one to sneak up on us now."

Contributing: Josh Larson, USATODAY.com

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              43 of 132 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    September 3, 2004, Friday, FINAL EDITION

NHL fisticuffs bring out fury

BYLINE: Kevin Allen

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 3C

LENGTH: 1439 words

Fighting is so ingrained in the NHL culture that brothers Keith and Wayne
Primeau fought each other in 1996-97.

Their mother wasn't pleased, but the NHL didn't blink because hockey fights have
been a staple since the league was founded in 1917. Fighters were called
"policemen" in the Original Six years because it was their job to protect the
stars. In the 1970s, they began to be called "goons."

Fighters today are "tough guys," and their role is scrutinized more than ever in
a debate about whether the sport would be better off if harsher penalties could
discourage players from dropping their gloves.


"I don't believe there is a majority thinking that way," Nashville Predators
general manager David Poile says. "But there's a lot."

Those against fighting argue the NHL's tolerance gives the sport a cartoonish
quality that prevents it from fully exploring its national potential. The
pro-fighting delegation counters that the NHL plays to more than 90% capacity on
average and most of the fans like fighting.

In the 2003-04 season, there were about 780 fights in 1,230 NHL games. That's
about two fights every three games, roughly the same rate during the last seven
seasons. In the mid-1980s, the rate was about one fight a game.

Fighting isn't truly legal in the NHL, but it's fair to say it's encouraged.
Players are penalized five minutes for fighting, and those who initiate a fight
can be given an extra two-minute penalty as "an instigator." But top fighters
are respected, and coaches and general managers revere those who can play at a
high level and fight.

The rationale for fighting isn't as basic as tempers boiling over, although
certainly that plays a role. Strategy is a consideration. It's widely held that
Wayne Gretzky was given more room and opportunity to show his brilliance in his
early years because opponents were petrified they'd have to face Edmonton Oilers
tough guy Dave Semenko if they bothered Gretzky.

When Calgary's Jarome Iginla and budding Tampa Bay star Vincent Lecavalier
fought in the Stanley Cup Finals, it was clearly about symbolism. Iginla had
established his reputation as a playoff warrior, and it was presumed Lecavalier
wanted to show the hockey world he had the same kind of fire.

The anti-fighting camp says the fighter's protector role simply wouldn't be
necessary if the NHL enacted and enforced rules to protect stars. They point out
that athletes in other sports prove their toughness without having to fight.

The fighting issue often comes to the forefront of talk shows when there are
extracurricular violence issues, such as when Todd Bertuzzi attacked Steve Moore
from behind in March, breaking vertebrae in his neck. Bertuzzi, who had tried to
persuade Moore to fight before the attack, is serving an open-ended suspension.
He goes to trial on assault charges Jan. 17.

"Maybe at some point in time (fighting) will be banned," NHL director of hockey
operations Colin Campbell says. "But right now, it's part of the game, except to
the point where it's penalized."

Some rules have been added that have altered the fighting climate. Starting in
1971-72, the third man to enter a fight was ejected. The league in 1987-88 began
handing a 10-game suspension to the first player to leave the bench to enter a
fight, effectively eliminating the bench-clearing brawl.

The only significant effort to reduce the number of one-on-one fights came in
1992-93 when the NHL introduced a game misconduct penalty to the instigator.
Fighting majors fell by 19% that season and reached their lowest levels in 16
years. The instigator rule was revised in 1996-97 to replace the game misconduct
with a 10-minute misconduct.

If the NHL wanted to reduce the number of fights, the easiest method would be to
eject players as is done in college and international play. In college hockey, a
player also is suspended for the next game.


Why eliminating fighting is good

* More drawing power. The game would become more family-friendly and could
attract a new group of fans.

* Improved national image. Sportscasters would have to show video of goals and
saves instead of fights. Right now, those highlights make fighting seem more
prevalent than it is.

* Safer. The league won't have to live with the knowledge that someone likely
will be seriously injured in a hockey fight.

* More roster options. Fighters with low skill level could be replaced with
scorers.

* Good for business. Some sponsors who don't like the NHL's image might sign on.


What they say . . .

* "My honest answer is that if you (legislated fighting out of the game), there
would be an adjustment period, but I think the league would be fine."

-- Nashville Predators general manager David Poile

* "I'm vehemently opposed to fighting. One of the objectives of sport should be
to teach kids about self-control.

"The impact of banning fighting in the NHL would be that after a few bumps in
the road the sport would gain in popularity. It would open it up to a wider span
of fans. I think fighting is holding it back more than those who govern hockey
realize."

-- Dan Doyle, executive director of the Institute for International Sport

* "Fighting is simply irrelevant to most fans who really want to see the most
talented scorers in the world, such as Mario Lemieux, do what they do best. I'd
take a hat trick any day of the week over a fight."

-- Steve Charendoff, Philadelphia Flyers season ticketholder

Why eliminating fighting won't work

* More danger. Some players theorize that stick infractions and other cheap
shots would increase because would-be dirty players know they can't be held
accountable by tough guys.

* Lost tradition. Fighting has been tolerated but penalized in the NHL's 87-year
history.

* Lost fans. Some devoted NHL fans enjoy the fighting, and the league would risk
alienating them.

* Miffed fan clubs. Tough guys, such as Toronto's Tie Domi, often are popular.

* Missed opportunities. Power forwards such as Keith Tkachuk and Brendan
Shanahan began as fighters and evolved into scorers.

What they say . . .

* "If you get rid of fighting, you are going to get more of the dirty play. Let
them fight, and get rid of all of the stickwork."

-- Gordie Howe, who had 1,071 goals and 2,419 penalty minutes combined in his
NHL and World Hockey Association careers

* "I have always believed that far more people come to games to see the fights
than stay away. One aspect of the human makeup seldom changes, and it is our
sense of morbid curiosity. . . . Fighting sells!

"Morally, as a father and a citizen, do I think fighting in hockey should be
eliminated? Absolutely! But am I in charge of building a mass appeal for our
sport or monitoring the development of the youth of our continent and ensuring
their emotional stability? Many hats to wear and only one head."

-- Bill Clement, ESPN analyst and former NHL center

* "I am not a fighting proponent, but I don't think you can eliminate it
completely. My question is, how do you eliminate it? Baseball has fights,
basketball has fights, football has minor fights. I don't think you can
completely eliminate it, and I think it's dangerous if you try. I still think
(the fights) keep some players honest."

-- Atlanta Thrashers general manager Don Waddell

* "I think it would have a negative effect on the game. The reason: It makes
everyone so much more courageous. With fighting at least, there is some respect
because guys know that they may have to stand up for themselves or their
teammates. . . . In the college game, I don't want to see fighting come back,
but the truth is that in the pro game it's part of the entertainment value and
it helps create respect."

-- Tom Anastos, commissioner of Central Collegiate Hockey Association, where
fighting

results in ejection

* "Growing up in Canada, all I heard in the late '80s to early '90s was that
fighting in hockey would have to be taken out for Americans to accept it. I can
tell you that in a non-hockey town (Raleigh), Carolina fans cheer louder when
they see a good fight than when (they) see Jeff O'Neill score a hat trick.

"It is part of the game; it is what symbolizes hockey -- a grueling sport where
the toughest survive."

-- Fan Chris Baker,

Durham, N.C.

Other staff changes

* Eliminate ties

* Change the NHL points system in the standings

* Expand the neutral zone

* Allow the two-line pass

* Four skaters a side as a regular lineup

* No involvement in the Olympics

* Shorten the playoffs

* Adopt the bigger international rink

LOAD-DATE: September 03, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Karl Gelles, USA TODAY, Source: NHL (BAR GRAPH); PHOTO,
B/W, Wade Payne, AP; The hazards of putting up your dukes: Dan Hamhuis of the
Predators, left, and Kirk Maltby of the Red Wings went at it during a playoff
game last season. Fighting in the NHL isn't officially condoned, but teams are
often in the hunt for tough players to keep order and protect their stars.

                      Copyright 2004 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              46 of 132 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                      March 1, 2004, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Dry spell of tornadoes could soon end in Okla.

BYLINE: Patrick O'Driscoll

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 780 words

DATELINE: MOORE, Okla.

MOORE, Okla. -- In the first two weeks of May last year, 59 tornadoes ripped
across the state from this Oklahoma City suburb to the far end of the Panhandle.
It was the third-largest outbreak of May tornadoes in state history.

And then . . .  nothing.

There haven't been any tornadoes in Oklahoma since May 16 -- a record 289 days
and counting. Since 1950, Oklahoma has had 3,254 tornadoes. That's second only
to Texas.


Nine months without a tornado here in the heart of "Tornado Alley" is like
Seattle without rain, Chicago without wind or San Francisco without fog. Tornado
Alley is the name given to a broad area stretching from Texas to South Dakota
where tornadoes occur most often.

Folks here have welcomed the break in tornadoes, but they know that it won't
last forever. March is the official start of "severe weather" season in Tornado
Alley.

Tornadoes in Oklahoma are "just like the earthquakes in California," says
contractor Donny Tatum, who last week finished framing a house in Moore to
replace one of dozens that were flattened by a tornado May 8. " 'Course, with
earthquakes, you can't see 'em coming. At least I can sidestep a tornado."

The absence of tornadoes is a puzzle for tornado scientists, many of whom live
and work in central Oklahoma. The federal Storm Prediction Center and the
National Severe Storms Laboratory are both in Norman, just south of here.

Meteorologists will gather in Norman this week for their annual National Severe
Weather Workshop.

Severe-weather experts say there are many potential reasons for the tornado
"drought," including last year's early winter cold, global warming and plain old
luck.

"You can come up with plausible physical explanations to go with anything," says
Harold Brooks, a research meteorologist at the severe storms laboratory.

But Brooks and other weather researchers caution that there isn't enough data to
tell how unusual the lack of tornadoes might be.

Last fall, an early and persistent intrusion of winter cold from the north cut
off warm, moist air from the Gulf of Mexico, a key ingredient for thunderstorms.


The cold all but erased the autumn tornado season. For 50 days this winter,
there wasn't a tornado anywhere in the country, the fourth-longest such spell.

But with spring approaching, the gulf will get warmer as the sun angles higher,
and hot, moist air will begin to push north again. Once that hot air gets over
Oklahoma and the Texas Panhandle, it will collide with high, dry, cool air from
the Rockies. Large "super cell" storms will form -- and so will tornadoes.

The absence of tornadoes "has been kind of nice," says Beverly Hill of Jones, an
Oklahoma City suburb that narrowly escaped a tornado strike May 9. "But we know
when to start watching," Jones says. "It's scary in the springtime."

After the old record for the number of days without a tornado fell in January,
"somebody said, 'Why don't we run a contest on the air about when the first
tornado will hit?' " says KWTV meteorologist Gary England, dean of Oklahoma
City's TV weathercasters. "I said, 'What if it kills somebody?' "

Tornado season always makes England uneasy. "But I'm exceptionally uneasy as
this one approaches," he says. "The hammer will fall this spring. I suspect we
will have herds of them."

Rick Smith, the National Weather Service's warning coordination meteorologist in
Norman, says more than half of Oklahoma's 20 longest spells without a tornado
were followed by unusually active tornado seasons.

Smith says "longtime residents are resigned to the fact that if tornadoes
haven't happened yet, they will happen soon enough.

Or, in the case of Moore, again and again.

Last year's tornado on May 8 was the third in six years for this city of about
50,000 people. That includes the single costliest tornado in U.S. history, which
hit May 3, 1999.

That storm caused more than $ 1.2 billion in damage. Its winds were unofficially
clocked at 318 mph, earning it an F-5, or "incredible damage," rating on the
Fujita scale of tornado force.

Before 1998, Moore hadn't seen a tornado in 25 years.

"That's part of living in Oklahoma," says Gayland Kitch, Moore's emergency
management director.

"But now, whenever the clouds start bumping up a little bit, people here are
pretty skittish," he says.

They also are ready.

After last May's tornado, Kitch's office published a poster with photos of the
aftermath in Moore.

The poster included a twist on the popular MasterCard advertising slogan:

"Tornado: F-3 . . .  Winds: 200 mph . . .  Homes damaged: 800+ . . .
Fatalities: 0 . . .  A prepared community: Priceless."

LOAD-DATE: March 01, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS, B/W, Doug Hoke for USA TODAY (2); GRAPHIC, B/W, USA TODAY
(MAP); Evidence of devastation: In contrast with the new homes on this street in
Moore, Okla., trees still bear the damage from a tornado in May. Tornado season
starts this month. <>In Oklahoma City: Clifford Hood cleans up Saturday after
laying sod at his home. Hood narrowly escaped a tornado last May that destroyed
dozens of houses.

                      Copyright 2004 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              48 of 132 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     July 13, 2004, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Take a taste: Refined dining with ethnic flavor

BYLINE: Jerry Shriver

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 6D

LENGTH: 2342 words

Bienvenidos, jawilla, ongi etorri, swaagatam, yo koso, chao mung and welcome to
the era of the global gourmet. Americans are inviting the world to their tables
as never before. Those modest ethnic eateries that infuse our neighborhoods with
an atlas of exotic flavors are giving birth to refined restaurants sporting
dynamic decors, up-to-the-minute menus and award-winning chefs. To help steer
adventurous appetites in the right direction, USA TODAY's Jerry Shriver explores
six cuisines and their leading ambassadors, who are injecting energy and vibrant
taste sensations into America's contemporary dining scene. Rounding out each
menu are some dishes to sample and some restaurants to visit. Salud! Kampai! A
la sature! Chia! On Egin! Saude! And enjoy.

Japanese

Now that sushi is commonplace in supermarkets across America, other aspects of
Japanese cuisine are making inroads at the high end of the dining spectrum. Los
Angeles remains the center of creativity, but fabulous and fabulously expensive
restaurants are opening all over, especially in New York. Kobe beef and chilled
boutique sakes are new status symbols, daily delivery of pristine seafood from
Tokyo is de rigueur and omakase (chef's choice) menus know no bounds.


* Hallmarks: The food culture starts with rice, tea and sake, and embraces
everything from noodle-filled miso soups to raw seafood and vegetables,
deep-fried tempuras and meats and fish cooked over charcoal-fueled rabata
grills. Soy, ginger, garlic and shiso (a relative of mint and basil) are key
seasonings. But at its highest level Japanese cooking is also a philosophy whose
guiding principles are harmony between the earth, sea and seasons; purity of
textures and flavors; and artistic plate presentations.

* Classic dishes: Shrimp tempura; yellow tail sashimi (raw seafood without the
rice); spicy tuna rolls; miso soup with udon (wheat flour) noodles; chicken
teriyaki; broiled black cod with miso; seaweed salad.

* Top ambassador: Nobu Matsuhisa, of Matsuhisa, Beverly Hills (310-659-9639).
Starting with this landmark restaurant in 1987, Matsuhisa has built a dining
empire of a dozen chic restaurants under the Nobu name, stretching from London
to Las Vegas, New York and Tokyo, and has greatly expanded the perception and
possibilities of Japanese food and style. His menus feature rare types of
seafood of extremely high quality, along with edgy combinations that borrow
ingredients from other cultures, especially South America.

"Food is culture, as well as fashion," he says. "I believe that traditional and
innovative styles of food can co-exist. A chef needs to know and understand the
basics, but the important things are the customers' wishes. Japanese chefs
working in the United States (as opposed to Japan) are better at understanding
different cultures, and I think we serve more creative and cross-cultural menu
creations here."

* Other notable outposts: MFSushibar, Atlanta; Swordfish, Batavia, Ill.;
Japonais, Chicago; Masa, Matsuri, and Megu, New York; Morimoto, Philadelphia;
Nishino, Seattle; Katsu-ya and Sushi Nozawa, Studio City, Calif.

Indian

Modern Indian cooking is in its infancy in America, where most restaurants still
serve generic fare that's heavy on curry and light on authenticity. But a few
progressive chefs have emerged, and a half-dozen cities sport a restaurant that
serves traditional regional and/or modern dishes made from quality ingredients.

* Hallmarks: Ground spice and herb mixtures (masalas) are the foundation. Every
kitchen is stocked with some combination of ginger, cumin, cinnamon, turmeric,
anise, green cardamom, saffron and mint. Chutneys, pickles, yogurt-based
relishes and wheat breads accompany lamb, goat, chicken and seafood dishes.
Vegetarian fare is built around mustard greens, squashes, eggplant, lentils and
chickpeas. Meats and breads are often cooked in a tandoor (clay oven).

* Classic dishes: Rogan josh (lamb in yogurt sauce); sambar (lentils with
vegetables); biryani (meat with saffron rice); vindaloo (hot and sour curry with
vinegar); malai kofta (fried cheese balls in tomato gravy).

* Top ambassador: Floyd Cardoz, Tabla, New York (212-889-0667). In 1998, Bombay
native Cardoz was chosen by Danny Meyer, one of New York's top restaurateurs
(Union Square Cafe, Gramercy Tavern) to head up his first ethnic eatery, and
Tabla has become one of the country's top-grossing Indian restaurants. In the
upstairs dining room, Cardoz offers dishes based on familiar American
ingredients prepared with Indian spices and techniques. In the casual Bread Bar
downstairs, he offers small plates of homestyle food from the subcontinent's
various regions.

"When I came here 16 years ago, there was one restaurant (in New York) doing
good Indian food," he says. "In the other restaurants, the food wasn't the food
I grew up with, it wasn't the food that other Indians ate. Few Americans loved
Indian food because what they had been exposed to was not good. So in opening
Tabla, I said, 'Let me take something Americans are familiar with -- their
ingredients -- and let me start applying my love for Indian food to this
cuisine.' It's a great cuisine -- but you've got to give it a chance."

* Other notable outposts: Mantra, Boston; Monsoon and Vermilion, Chicago;
Indika, Houston; Tamarind, New York; Karma, Philadelphia; Vij's, Vancouver,
Canada; Nirvana, Washington, D.C.

Spanish

Spain has become the global epicenter of culinary creativity, thanks to chefs
such as Ferran Adria of El Bulli near Barcelona and Juan Mari Arzak of Arzak in
San Sebastian. Many of the world's top chefs have gone there to study their bold
juxtapositions of flavors, textures and temperatures, and the lessons are
trickling here. America still awaits its first great, cutting-edge Spanish
restaurant, but in the meantime a number of traditional eateries have upgraded
their fare. On a more accessible level, plenty of innovation is occurring at the
tapas bars springing up in every major city.

* Hallmarks: Spain boasts about a half-dozen distinct regional cuisines --
Basque and Catalonian are prominent here -- but the strength in all of them is
high-quality, boldly flavored ingredients: cheeses such as Manchego, Cabrales
and Idiazabal; cured meats such as Serrano ham and chorizo sausage; seafood such
as bonito (tuna) and bacalao (salt cod); piquillo peppers; sherry vinegar; and
olive oil.

* Classic dishes: Paella (saffron-scented rice cooked with chicken, seafood and
vegetables); marinated anchovies and mussels; piquillo peppers stuffed with
bacalao; gazpacho soup; gambas al ajillo (garlic shrimp); and warm octopus with
potatoes and pimenton (paprika).

* Top ambassador: Jose Andres, Jaleo, Washington, D.C. (202-628-7949). A native
of northern Spain, Andres has been at the forefront of the tapas movement since
opening Jaleo a decade ago and won a James Beard Award as best Mid-Atlantic chef
in 2003. Lately, he has been exploring an edgier style of cooking at the
six-seat Minibar, located inside his Nuevo Latino eatery, Cafe Atlantico.

"You need to see Spain from an artistic point of view -- Picasso, Dali," he
says. "Spain has always been about very creative people, and it was only a
matter of time before it showed up in the cooking. In Spain there is the
traditional and the creative cuisine, and the young minds of tomorrow are going
there to see it. It is bringing magic to the young people and fascination to the
food world."

* Other notable outposts: Cafe Madrid, Dallas; Solera, Minneapolis; Bolo, Casa
Mono and Solera, New York; Meigas, Norwalk, Conn.; B-44 Catalan Bistro and
Piperade, San Francisco; The Harvest Vine, Seattle.

Mexican

American diners are just beginning to understand the vast and varied food
culture of our neighbor to the south. Rick Bayless began leading the way in the
late 1980s with his groundbreaking Frontera Grill and Topolobampo restaurants in
Chicago, which celebrated contemporary Mexican cooking and regional
authenticity. Now, chefs in other markets are following his lead by upgrading
ingredients and highlighting specific dishes from many of the country's 31
states. Current hotbed: Oaxaca.

* Hallmarks: Roasted chilies and tomatoes, tortillas, beans, rice, corn, roasted
pork, seafood and tropical fruits are among the common denominators of the
regional cuisines. The most famous sauce is mole, a concoction usually made with
chocolate, chilies, spices, nuts and herbs. Huitlacoche (black corn fungus),
with its earthy, mushroomy character, has emerged as a prized ingredient in
upscale dishes.

* Classic dishes: Tortilla soup; queso fundido (melted cheese with chilies and
chorizo sausage); red snapper with stewed tomatoes and onions; menudo (tripe
stew); beef enchiladas with roasted tomato sauce; chicken mole; chile relleno;
guacamole; pork steamed in banana leaves; tamales; and flan.

* Top ambassador: Priscila Satkoff, Salpico'n, Chicago (312-988-7811). The
Mexico City native and her husband, Vincent, have made 9-year-old Salpicon a
standout in a city studded with fine Mexican restaurants. Her menu combines
traditional dishes made with her grandmother's recipes; updated regional
classics; and creations, such as crab cakes with Serrano chilies and tomatillas.


"We were totally misunderstood in the beginning," she says. "People expected
tacos, burritos and chimichangas -- I didn't know what a burrito was!
Fortunately, after a year or so, people would come in and ask for different
things. They finally understood that tortillas are like bread and are not just
for wrapping. They are now open to the idea of experiencing the way Mexicans
eat."

* Other notable outposts: Topolobampo/Frontera Grill, Ixcapuzalco and Platiyo,
Chicago; Fandango, Lawrenceville, Ga.; El Vez, Philadelphia; Ixta, Pampano,
Suenos and Zarela, New York; Maya, San Francisco; La Carta de Oaxaca, Seattle;
Senor Fred, Sherman Oaks, Calif.

 Nuevo Latino

When Douglas Rodriguez coined the term "Nuevo Latino" a decade ago in connection
with his Patria restaurant in New York, it handily described the ingredients and
dishes of Mexico, Central America, South America and the Caribbean. Today, chefs
still mix and match ingredients from all over that section of the globe, but the
trend is toward specializing in the cooking of one specific area or style.

* Hallmarks: Each country's cuisine has its own nuances, but under the Latino
umbrella, diners usually will find vibrant flavors, including heat from chilies,
sweetness and zestiness from tropical fruit and smokiness from grilled meats.
Starches such as corn, cassava and yucca, and black beans lend heft.

* Classic dishes: Red snapper ceviche (fish marinated in citrus juice); grilled
shrimp with garlic and olive oil; Jamaican jerk pork; Brazilian feijoada (meat
stew with black beans); braised baby goat; arroz con pollo (chicken and rice);
and flan.

* Top ambassador: Guillermo Pernot, !Pasion!, Philadelphia (215-875-9895). The
Buenos Aires native is known as the ceviche king, thanks to his highly creative
takes on the Peruvian/Ecuadorian staple. But at !Pasion!, where he earned a
James Beard Award as best Mid-Atlantic chef in 2002, Pernot offers modern and
refined versions of classic dishes from throughout the region -- anyone for
Colombian corn cakes with Hudson Valley foie gras, pineapple chutney and
chocolate sauce?

"Can you imagine having a dish from every country in South America? It's
awesome," he says. "You don't have to travel. You just sit at a table and go
through all of South America in two or three hours! When we started (in '99),
people didn't know what ceviches or plantains were. But people today are looking
for clean flavors, something that captures their attention, and not all of it
has to be mango and pineapple."

* Other notable outposts: Tierra, Atlanta; Bomboa, Boston; Platiyo, Chicago;
Chispa and Cacao, Coral Gables, Fla.; Americas, Houston; Jicama Grill,
Louisville; Calle Ocho and Patria, New York; Norman's, Orlando; Oba, Portland,
Ore.; Fandango, Seattle; Cafe Atlantico and Ceiba, Washington, D.C.

Vietnamese

Among the Southeast Asian cuisines, Thai provides more fireworks and is better
established in this country, but the elegant dishes of Vietnam, which emphasize
subtlety and fresh ingredients, are rapidly gaining an audience, particularly
among health-conscious diners.

* Hallmarks: The cuisine is influenced by China and France, yet retains a light
and lightly spicy character. Instead of frying in oil, ingredients are more
commonly boiled or steamed with liquid, cooked over charcoal or simmered in
caramel sauce. Key seasonings include cilantro, basil, mint, nuoc mam (fermented
fish sauce), lemongrass, curry, chilies and garlic. Grilled meats, raw
vegetables, rice and noodles play a major role.

* Classic dishes: Banh mi (a sandwich of sliced beef and cucumbers); pho (a
meal-size soup); cha gio (spring rolls); banh xeo (crepes stuffed with
mushrooms, pork and shrimp); steamed whole fish with spicy ginger sauce.

* Top ambassador: Charles Phan, The Slanted Door, San Francisco (415-861-8032).
For 10 years, Phan has thrilled Bay Area diners with dishes that emphasize
fresh, organic ingredients and healthier preparations (less lard; better cuts of
meat). In May, he was named best California chef at the James Beard Awards, and
the restaurant has just moved into new quarters at the renovated Ferry Building.


"I don't try to make up things out of a hat. I don't whip blue cheese into a
sauce to get a new flavor. I see that as confusion. I look at food as things and
flavors I remember as a kid, and I try to reproduce and hone that flavor with
whatever tools I have today. And my Western knowledge (he has lived in the USA
since 1975) and sensitivity come into play. So you have traditional dishes with
a modern sensibility."

* Other notable outposts: Nam, Atlanta; Kim Son, Houston; Crustacean, Los
Angeles; Bao 111, New York; Lemongrass, Sacramento; Ana Mandara, San Francisco.

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS, Color, Robert Deutsch, USA TODAY (4); PHOTOS, Color, Eileen
Blass, USA TODAY (4); PHOTOS, Color, Jack Gruber, USA TODAY (2); PHOTOS, Color,
Todd Rosenberg for USA TODAY (2); Matsuhisa: Creative cross-cultural menu
creations." <>At New York's Nobu: Broiled black cod with miso, front, and
sashimi salad with Matsuhisa dressing.<>At New York's Tabla: Rice-flaked halibut
is plated with wild watercress, watermelon, curry and lime for a familiar yet
unique flavor. <>Cardoz: Uses American foods, Indian flavors.At Washington,
D.C.'s Jaleo: Chef/co-owner Jose Andres presents a plate of tomato and
watermelon with mint oil. At left is a mosaic of Catalonian spinach, made with
pine nuts, apples and raisins.<>At Chicago's Salpico'n: Langostino con Salsa
Cruda features a sauteed jumbo freshwater prawn wrapped in strands of sweet
potato. <>Peruvian !Pasion! in Philadelphia: Malaspina oysters, Baja Bay
scallops and Alaskan king salmon make up a colorful selection of ceviches served
on ice. <>Pernot: King of ceviche also serves an "awesome" selection of
dishes.<>At San Francisco's Slanted Door: Bo luc lac (shaking beef) is the
signature dish, cubes of filet mignon, seared with garlic and organic red
onions. <>Phan: Chef blends the traditional and modern.<><HR><>Satkoff:
Grandmother's recipes are served at her restaurant.

                      Copyright 2004 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              50 of 132 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    September 3, 2004, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Copper and pewter are the 'new' stainless steel

BYLINE: Maria Puente

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 7D

LENGTH: 1163 words

<>APPLIANCES<>

There are signs of discontent in American kitchens -- that is, discontent with
color schemes featuring acres of stainless steel. They're supposed to look chic,
professional and cool but can end up looking cold, drab and boring. Color --
still metallic, but warmer -- to the rescue!

Manufacturers have added copper, bronze and brass to their palettes for both
major and small appliances. Some manufacturers also are trying to differentiate
themselves with slightly different silver finishes and calling it pewter and
nickel. The idea is that a copper-colored countertop appliance can warm up an
institutional steel kitchen or enhance kitchens with other color schemes.
(Copper-colored appliances don't need to be polished because they're not real
copper; it's just the color of the finish.)


So, for instance, KitchenAid offers a mixer in a copper or nickel finish (about
$500); Sunbeam's Mixmaster comes in pewter (about $100); and Oster is pushing
blenders and toasters in copper (both about $60).

"Consumers are looking for appliances that reflect their personal style, and
small appliances are a great way to give kitchens a warmer, updated look without
remodeling or making a major investment," says Mary Ann Knaus, senior vice
president of global marketing for Sunbeam, the parent company of Oster.

It's not just appliances: Moen makes faucets with a nickel or bronze finish
($150-$450). Dualit offers an electric soup kettle with a real copper metal
exterior (about $1,100). Frigo Designs makes copper-finish panels to put over
refrigerators, dishwashers and ovens ($599 for a set). Kitchen designers are
adding sinks, countertops and chopping blocks made of zinc, which ages to a
pewter patina. And a New Zealand appliance maker, Fisher & Paykel, calls its new
fingerprint-resistant stainless steel "iridium," but it's really a pewter color.


Alex Cheimets, editor of ApplianceAdvisor.com, which provides consumer
information on appliances, says the growing interest in different metals and
colors results from the glut of silver. "The whole world is stainless steel," he
says. "Manufacturers are coming out with different colors in order to stand
out."

Besides, he says, "there's a search for the 'next' stainless, something without
the downsides -- no fingerprints and it can hold a magnet."

<>HOME DESIGN<>

Carve out a calm oasis in your hectic home

Sometimes, in our crowded houses, we just need to get away from it all -- thus,
the appeal of an "away room."

That's architect Sarah Susanka's term for a small, cozy space, about 10 by 14
feet, adjacent to a main living or family room but separated by doors, ideally
French doors.

"It's a quiet space you go to be away from the noise of the main living space,"
says Susanka, author of the Not So Big House books, who writes about away rooms
in the September/October Inspired House. "It's just the right size for sitting
and conversing." Or, put a TV in it and you can shut the Nintendo-playing kids
inside but keep an eye on them through the glass doors.

"There is so much cacophony in our houses, we don't realize the effect it's
having on us," she says.

The concept was invented by Susanka's former Minneapolis architecture firm. An
away room was featured in the firm's 1999 design for Life magazine's dream
house.

If your house doesn't come with an away room, how do you make one? It's
relatively easy if you have a ranch house, which typically has a bedroom that
shares a wall with the living room. "Tear down the wall, put up French doors,
and the bedroom becomes an away room," she says. "Also, you can put in a Murphy
bed or a foldout couch and it can function as a guest bedroom."

<>AIR CARE<>

Fragrance 'jukebox' could strike a chord

Never mind weapons of mass destruction; what we really care about is finding a
weapon of odor destruction.

In the USA, consumers spend about $2.2 billion a year on air care, according to
ACNielsen surveys, and spending has been steadily increasing for years. You have
your candles, your scented oils, your room and fabric sprays, your "plug-ins."
You can buy $40 light bulbs that claim to kill airborne bacteria that cause
odor. You can spend hundreds on "ionizing" machines that cleanse the air.

And now the latest entrant in the kill-smell competition is Scentstories from
Procter & Gamble, an electric machine that amounts to a mini-jukebox of nice
smells. It "plays" by rotating through the scent discs.

Why are Americans so obsessed with smelling nice? "Scent is a reflection of
yourself, your identity," says Carl Kaiser, P&G's chief perfumer. "By creating
ambiances of scent, we are improving the quality of life."

Improve it enough to spend $34.99? Maybe, but Scentstories has one advantage: It
shuts off after 21/2 hours, so there's never the fear you've left a candle
burning.

<>COMFORT<>

Sit back, relax and escape the bonds of Earth

Yet another reason why retailers love aging baby boomers: their aching backs.

It's one explanation for the growing popularity of "zero gravity" furnishings --
chairs, mattresses, pillows -- that borrow bio-mechanical design concepts from
NASA. One of the best known is the Zero Gravity recliner called "The Perfect
Chair," made by Interactive Health, which is based on a NASA design for the
seats that support astronauts during blastoff into space.

The chair has been around for 15 years but more recent versions are being
promoted for earthbound people with back pain or recovering from surgery, and
the NASA angle is a major selling point. The 35th anniversary of the moon
landing on July 20 was another excuse to bang the promotional drum.

"It puts you in a complete, stress-free position -- your knees are higher than
your heart, it promotes circulation, there are no pressure points on the spine,"
says Leanne Mattes, vice president of marketing for Relax the Back. Despite the
price tag -- about $1,500 -- sales have grown to more than 10,000 per year just
at that 92-store chain.

Several other Zero Gravity recliners are available at other retailers. For
instance, JoAnne's Bed & Back stores also sell a Sonsie Recliner from BackSaver
for about $800. BackDesigns.com sells a BackSaver Marquis Zero Gravity recliner
for about $1,600.

NASA also invented a visco-elastic foam to protect against gravity pressures
during liftoff. "Tempur-Pedic was the first to license and improve upon it as a
stress-relieving product for bedding and sleeping," says Peter Zilko, owner of a
Relax the Back store in Virginia Beach, which sells Tempur-Pedic mattresses,
pillows and wedges.

But really, how can materials designed for space travel work on the ground?
Isn't this just a lot of retailer hype?

"I was pretty cynical at first," says Mattes. "But you sit in this chair and
there's a very different sensation. People get lightheaded. It's a very healthy
position to be in."

LOAD-DATE: September 03, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS, Color, Leslie Smith Jr., USA TODAY (2); PHOTO, Color, Sarah
Susanska; PHOTO, Color, Crier Communications; The Osterizer: Blends copper with
classic design. <>Toasty warm: Oster's two-slice beauty.<>No coins needed:
Scentstories player spins scent discs.<> Away room": This one has glass French
doors.<>In recline: Zero Gravity "Perfect Chair."

                      Copyright 2004 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              53 of 132 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     January 9, 2004, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Tour business booming thanks in large part to Beman's efforts in two decades at
helm

BYLINE: Jerry Potter

SECTION: BONUS; Pg. 4F

LENGTH: 292 words

In his 20 years as commissioner (1974-94), Deane Beman took a golf organization
and turned it into a segment of the sports and entertainment industry that
creates superstars and wealthy men.

Along the way he developed the Tournament Players Club network, The Players
Championship and The Tour Championship.

"Deane set the stage for us to have a business climate on the PGA Tour, and he
did it by accumulating assets," says Gary McCord, a Champions Tour player and a
commentator for CBS Sports. "He built the basic foundation."

A significant contribution was the all-exempt tour of the top 125 money winners
from the previous season. The decision to adopt the exempt tour was a watershed
moment in PGA Tour history.

Beman says he developed the idea but could not sell it to the players until
McCord embraced it.

"Gary deserves a lot of credit for convincing the guys that it was a good idea,"
Beman says.

In the early 1980s McCord was a struggling member of the PGA Tour. The top 60
money winners were exempt from qualifying each week, so every Monday about 100
players competed for about 30 spots in that week's tournament.

"I was amazed at how many tournament winners were trying to qualify," McCord
says.

He sold the idea to the players, although he found a lot more support for a
change than he imagined. In 1983 it became a reality.

The top players, McCord says, "opposed it because they thought it was
socialistic, and it was."

The system allowed players to set a schedule, playing events that suited their
game, and to play aggressively, which lowered scores.

Beman says, "The thing I'm most proud of is we brought golf into the modern
world of sports business without hurting the integrity of the game."

LOAD-DATE: January 09, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, H. Darr Beiser, USA TODAY; Mark made: Deane Beman helped
the Tour become big time.

                      Copyright 2004 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              55 of 132 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    February 3, 2004, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

A cultural clash...In a nation a flutter

BYLINE: Ann Oldenburg

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 2094 words

The most watched Super Bowl in history may become the most debated. Not for the
game -- for the halftime display.

Capping a show that included salacious lyrics, Kid Rock in an American flag
poncho and rapper Nelly repeatedly touching his crotch, the moment happened in a
flash: Justin Timberlake ripped a piece off Janet Jackson's black bustier
costume, leaving her bejeweled right breast exposed.

Both pop stars say the brief nudity was caused by a "wardrobe malfunction." In
an apology released late Monday, Jackson said she had planned a "costume reveal"
but only a red bra was supposed to be shown.


Though television has been pushing the sexual-innuendo envelope for decades,
this flash of breast, on national television during a beloved annual sporting
event seen by millions of families, suddenly became a culminating moment in a
long-simmering culture clash.

Among the fallout:

 * Executives at PepsiCo, historically one of the largest and most successful
Super Bowl advertisers, are threatening to pull out of next year's Super Bowl if
they're not given clear assurances that such an incident won't happen again.
"We're very serious about this," PepsiCo spokesman Mark Dollins said.

PepsiCo executives also were disappointed that viewers were talking more about
the Jackson incident than the commercials. "It speaks to our extreme
disappointment that all that quality work has been overshadowed," Dollins said.
The various PepsiCo brands, including Frito-Lay, Sierra Mist and Pepsi, aired
six commercials on Sunday's broadcast.

 * The FCC is also looking into the matter. Chairman Michael Powell launched "an
immediate investigation" Monday. Powell said he had gathered with his family to
watch the show but instead got a "classless, crass and deplorable stunt."

Federal indecency rules bar the broadcast of obscene material and limit the
airing of material that contains sexual or excretory references in a patently
offensive manner to late-night hours when children are less likely to be
watching. During the 8:30-9 p.m. ET half-hour of Sunday's night program, which
is approximately when the halftime show aired, there were 92 million average
viewers, including 7.8 million children ages 2 to 11.

The FCC could fine CBS and its roughly 200 affiliates $ 27,500 a station. The
agency probably will take into account CBS' knowledge -- or lack thereof -- of
the event, officials say. But excuses might not wash, especially in today's
climate. Last month, Powell proposed action against NBC because Bono, lead
singer for U2, said the "f-word" when he received an award during last year's
live Golden Globes broadcast.

 * Presidential hopeful Howard Dean said the FCC was overreacting. He told
Reuters on his campaign plane Monday: "Considering what's on television these
days, I think the FCC is being pretty silly about investigating this."

 * NFL commissioner Paul Tagliabue vowed Monday to "change our policy, our
people and our processes before the next Super Bowl to ensure that this
entertainment is far more effectively dealt with and is of far more appropriate
quality for the Super Bowl game." The NFL earlier said it was "unlikely" that
MTV would ever produce another Super Bowl halftime.

 * CBS chief Leslie Moonves sent a memo to employees Monday expressing concern
and denying that the incident was planned. "We attended all rehearsals of the
show, and there was no indication at any time that such an inappropriate display
was contemplated." The memo also said, "I want to offer my personal assurances
that we are looking into this matter and will do everything we can to get to the
bottom of it."

 * Bob Lee, chairman of the CBS affiliates advisory board, said that today
affiliates will be discussing what action to take. He told the trade publication
Television Week that affiliates will need some kind of guarantee from CBS that
no inappropriate incidents will be broadcast on Sunday's Grammy Awards show.
"Otherwise, stations are going to have to do it themselves." To delay and bleep
at the local level "is a little complicated, but it can be done," Lee said.

The incident shocked a society that seems to be ever more unshockable, but this
time it might have gone too far for many Americans. On one side of the debate:
outraged citizens who immediately lit up the CBS switchboard with complaints.

Their sentiments were no doubt much like those of M.B. Ellis, 78, owner of a
small publishing house in Mobile, Ala., who wrote in a letter to USA TODAY's
Sports section: "What a depressing display of filth, obscenity, cruelty, and
just plain stupidity! What ever happened to dignity and good taste in this
country?"

"What's in line for next year's halftime show?" asked Ed Zak, 43, a father of
three from New Smyrna Beach, Fla. "How about two 'artists' having sex at the
50-yard line -- all in the name of NFL entertainment. When you do, please give
us a head's up so I can prepare myself how to explain to my kids what they
watched."

But is it really that big a deal?

On the other side of the cultural divide: observers of pop culture who say
teenagers and adult couch potatoes can see much more risque fare on dozens of
cable TV channels any day.

"For what there is on television and in the entertainment industry these days,
one bare breast doesn't seem like much to cause a fuss over," Andy Rooney,
veteran CBS culture commentator, said Monday.

After all, Survivor's Richard Hatch was running around nude on the beach after
the Super Bowl, his private parts blurred. And nudity has been a long-time
staple of cable television shows.

The Super Bowl's halftime show itself has become something to watch as it has
become edgier. It has gone from marching bands and Up With People to
attention-getting pop stars in elaborately produced spectacles. And it's gobbled
up by the viewers.

Sex literally sells: A piece of jewelry similar to the one Jackson was wearing
on her breast was available on eBay before the day was out. A sun shield design
for pierced nipples had an opening bid of $ 19.99 and was touted "as seen on
TV!"

All of the corporate entities, many of whom regularly endorse racy
entertainment, were quick to deny any responsibility.

The NFL, CBS and MTV, which produced the halftime show, and AOL, which sponsored
the show, were apologetic and said they had no knowledge that Jackson -- whose
family already is under scrutiny as her brother Michael faces child molestation
charges in California -- was going to go half-topless.

CBS spokesman Chris Ender said Monday that the network was embarrassed. "It
wasn't rehearsed, it wasn't discussed, it wasn't even hinted at. Whether it was
a production mistake or an inexplicably misguided publicity stunt by those
involved in the performance, this is something we would never ever have
approved, and we are angry and embarrassed."

CBS's cable sibling MTV -- both are owned by Viacom -- produced the entire
halftime show and was responsible for its content, although a CBS executive
acted as a point person throughout rehearsals. MTV issued a statement insisting
the bodice-ripping was "unrehearsed, unplanned" and "completely unintentional."
MTV president Van Toffler said the network was "incredibly disappointed because
it completely overshadowed" MTV's get-out-the-vote message.

For its part, AOL, which spent an estimated $ 10 million to sponsor the halftime
show and broadcast several ads and promos during and before the game, said it's
not very happy with the outcome. The company dropped plans to offer Internet
access to rebroadcasts of the show "in deference to our membership and the
fans," said Ruth Sarfaty, an AOL spokeswoman.

'Some kind of collapse in the garment'

Jackson's story supports the executives' version of events. She was traveling
from Houston to Los Angeles on Monday and finally issued a statement saying she
decided after final rehearsals to have a "costume reveal." She said: "MTV was
completely unaware of it. It was not my intention that it go as far as it did."

Her publicist, Jennifer Holiner, explained, "What was supposed to happen was
that the red lace bra under the bustier was supposed to be revealed. There was
some kind of collapse in the garment."

But some still questioned Jackson's intentions. After all, she does have an
album coming out in the next two months, and what better way to kick off the
publicity than with a Super Bowl stunt?

The lyrics Timberlake was singing seemed to promise a dramatic climax: "I'll get
you naked by the end of this song." Although he said the breast-baring "wasn't
intentional," Timberlake didn't sound apologetic after the show when he told
Access Hollywood's Pat O'Brien at a party, "Hey man, we love giving you all
something to talk about."

Close-ups of the costume, posted on the Internet, appear to reveal snaps around
that part of the bustier.

Elizabeth Cannon, a New York costumer designer now at work on a Lincoln Center
opera, said, "It's a nightmare for a designer to have something come apart" --
unless it's intentional. She said it's common on Broadway to have an entire suit
with Velcro up the back to make a quick costume change easier. And sometimes
fabric will tear if stressed at a pressure point. "In Janet's costume, let's say
it had grommets pulled tightly, the grommets could have popped."

On the MTV Web site before the show, a story quoted Jackson choreographer Gil
Duldulao as promising "shocking moments" from Jackson. That story was taken off
the Web site by Monday morning.

Parents Television Council president Brent Bozell rejected the denials. "The
performance, including the offensive material, was obviously scripted," he said
in a statement issued by his parents advocacy group. "We find Justin
Timberlake's apology and explanation to be dishonest and disingenuous."

The Family Research Council and the Southern Baptist Convention also denounced
the show. Council president Tony Perkins urged the FCC on Monday to hold CBS
accountable. "CBS should know better than to turn the halftime entertainment
over to MTV, which relishes its ability to shock. CBS would do well to adhere to
the adage 'If you sleep with dogs, you'll get fleas.' I am sure there is a lot
of scratching going on at CBS today."

Some ad experts didn't buy official explanations, either. Jerry Della Femina, ad
guru and CEO of Della Femina, Rothschild, Jeary & Partners, a Manhattan-based ad
agency, said Monday that even if the networks weren't aware that Jackson was
going to bare her breast, CBS should have known what to expect.

"When CBS put these people on the halftime show, they had to know what they
would get. They are screaming, 'This is terrible.' It's like Claude Rains
discovering there's gambling at Rick's in Casablanca: 'I'm shocked, shocked.'
For CBS it's a little too late."

Ross Sutherland, managing partner at Young & Rubicam in New York, said he was
surprised there wasn't more talk about the ads. "It's a pretty slow news day
when Janet Jackson's bosom gets all the PR. If I was an advertiser, I would
struggle for better ads, not more bosoms. The answer is better thinking, not
less breasts."

But not everyone was unhappy. TiVo Inc., which makes digital video recorders
enabling instantaneous replay, said viewership of the revealing moment nearly
doubled that of the rest of the broadcast, the biggest jump the company has ever
measured.

"We have no say over halftime entertainment," said Jeff Kuhlman, spokesman for
the Cadillac division of General Motors, which aired three spots during the game
and was the official vehicle of the Super Bowl. "We think the NFL will do what's
right for their brand. Quite frankly, we're very comfortable having our brand
aligned with their brand."

Marketing experts say the controversy probably will result in increased interest
in next year's Super Bowl broadcast, which happens to be scheduled on Fox, a
network that has been known to take provocative steps.

And what about the NFL players eclipsed by halftime? What did Super Bowl MVP Tom
Brady of the New England Patriots have to say about Jackson and the brouhaha?

No outrage from him. At a news conference Monday morning, he said, "I didn't see
the halftime show (but) I heard about it." He added with a chuckle, "I wish I
had seen it."

***

Contributing: Bruce Horovitz, Susan Wloszczyna, Paul Davidson and Cesar Soriano
in McLean, Va., Gary Levin and Michael McCarthy in New York; and Gary Mihoces
and Skip Wood in Houston

LOAD-DATE: February 03, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS, Color, Main photo by Pierre Ducharme, Reuters; other photos by
Getty Images (4); PHOTO, B/W, Getty Images; Wardrobe malfunction"? Justin
Timberlake and Janet Jackson have said the exposure was accidental.<>"The
decision to have a costume reveal at the end of my halftime show performance was
made after final rehearsals. MTV was completely unaware of it. It was not my
intention that it go as far as it did. I apologize to anyone offended --
including the audience, MTV, CBS and the NFL."

TYPE: COVER STORY

                      Copyright 2004 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              62 of 132 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     June 9, 2004, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Military a model for execs

BYLINE: Del Jones

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 1377 words

DATELINE: GETTYSBURG, Pa.

GETTYSBURG, Pa. -- Corporate executives have long looked to the military for
expertise in leadership, but the humiliation of prisoners at Abu Ghraib in Iraq
has given some pause.

CEOs say that the disturbing photos from the prison serve to remind them that
the military, like all large organizations, can also be a lesson in what not to
do. They say they see in the scandal shades of Enron, a company that was at its
shock-and-awe peak before its financial shell game was exposed and it was
marched into Chapter 11 bankruptcy by leaders who thought they were above the
law.

"The military is definitely a model. I don't know if it's a good model," says
Scotty Harrell, president of Albemarle Boats, a 150-employee maker of sport
fishing boats in Edenton, N.C. He was among a small group of CEOs and presidents
of boat manufacturers who paid $ 650 each plus travel to learn from the U.S.
Army War College, with a side trip to this site of the Civil War turning point.


The Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania sends its MBA students to
the Marines' Officer Candidates School in Quantico, Va., for 20 hours of
decision making under combat duress. The U.S. Army War College is where the
Army, Navy, Air Force, Marines and Coast Guard send their 350 best and brightest
colonels and lieutenant colonels for 10 months of fast-track training.

It also hosts more than 100 business executives each year, who are on waiting
lists for lessons on the science of military leadership. CEOs including
BellSouth's Duane Ackerman and Miles White of Abbott Laboratories say the books
on their nightstands are usually historical, often war history, and the passion
doesn't stop at reading. General Electric and Southwest Airlines are among
corporations who have long had learning partnerships with the military, but in
the climate of Abu Ghraib, both declined interviews.

Respect for decisions

Before Abu Ghraib, corporate leaders seldom said anything harsh about the
military. Military history is an examination of decisions under pressure going
back centuries. CEOs have a certain respect for decisions made where lives, not
just shareholder value, are at stake. They've seen the military as having
certain things in common with running a business including:

 * The importance of intelligence and communication and knowing the strengths
and weaknesses of yourself and the opposition.

 * Dealing with shrinking budgets and missions under constant change.

 * Racial integration and leaders ingrained with high ethical standards.

The military itself is quick to point out that wartime decisions have been far
from perfect and that lessons come just as often from wartime blunders as they
do from brilliance.

"Just like My Lai has been studied for years, so this will be as well," says
Col. George Reed, director of command and leadership studies at the U.S. Army
War College, referring to the 1968 massacre of civilians by U.S. soldiers in
Vietnam.

While touring Gettysburg, the executives were told how the Civil War may have
turned out differently had Robert E. Lee succeeded in getting his warhorse Lt.
Gen. James Longstreet to completely buy into the strategy.

But over dinner on the eve of the Gettysburg tour, the conversation turned to
recent events in Iraq, the CEOs said. Consensus among both the executives and
the U.S. Army War College experts was that the humiliation of prisoners was not
likely the result of renegade acts by low-ranking soldiers and freelancers.
Officers must have known, says David Slikkers, CEO of yacht maker S2 Yachts in
Holland, Mich.

In the corporate world, he says, executives know who their superstars are and
they know when some employee pushes the ethical edges. Slikkers says that just
like Enron executives who he thinks are dishonestly claiming ignorance, guards
at Abu Ghraib are lying, too.

That opinion percolates throughout U.S. business. Sherron Watkins, known for
raising questions about Enron accounting with then-CEO Ken Lay, says Abu Ghraib
was "a leadership failure more than a problem with privates."

There's one glaring lesson of Abu Ghraib that companies should learn, says
Robert Sternberg, who heads Yale's Center for the Psychology of Abilities,
Competencies, and Expertise that has received military funding for research
since 1977: No person is immune from doing unthinkable acts that can lead to
disaster.

Most people think they could never perform the acts carried out by the prison
guards. "I would never obey orders or instructions that violated ethical or
legal guidelines," says Joseph Kampf, CEO of Anteon, a large information
technology company whose primary customer is the federal government. "I would
fire any employee who felt otherwise."

'Be prepared to resign'

But years of research and real-life experience show the abusive behavior by
prison guards is not as extreme as it might seem:

 * Stanley Milgram in the 1960s found that 65% of people would keep
administering what they thought were painful electric shocks to test subjects
screaming for mercy if an authority figure in a white lab coat told them to.

 * Stanford psychology professor Philip Zimbardo in 1971 created a make-believe
prison for a two-week experiment that had to be cut short after six days because
students chosen to be guards started acting sadistic to students chosen to be
prisoners.

The Enrons and Abu Ghraibs will be repeated because people -- and especially
generals and CEOs -- too often think of themselves as too smart, too powerful,
too invulnerable and too omnipotent to get caught, Sternberg says.

The only defense against abhorrent acts is to know that you are capable of doing
them so that you might recognize it and stop yourself, he says.

"Each of us needs to determine . . .  where our ethical boundaries are and, if
asked to violate (them), refuse," says Bill George, former CEO of Medtronic. "If
this means refusing a direct order, we must be prepared to resign."

Of course, there are distinct differences between the workplace and the
battlefield. Emotions boil when soldiers see their buddies killed on the
frontlines of a war. My Lai was preceded by the killing of a popular sergeant.

"There is a lot of revenge pressure," says Eli Barkat, a former Israeli
paratrooper who now manages the BRM venture-capital fund.

Experienced officers and executives may be able to rely on gut instincts when
making ethical decisions in the heat of action, but young men and women --
whether in the military or in business -- need to be walked through possible
problems ahead of time, says Michael Useem, director of Wharton's Center for
Leadership and Change Management.

That's a strategy employed by Marine Capt. Erik Orient, who teaches leadership
classes at Quantico. Illegal orders should not be obeyed. It's not an option but
a duty, he says.

Careers in the balance

Disobeying orders in the private sector is no less difficult when careers are in
the balance, says Alan Axelrod, author of leadership books including Patton on
Leadership and Nothing to Fear: Lessons in Leadership from FDR.  Saying no to an
unethical order may win workers the admiration of peers or give them a cleaner
conscience, he says, but it never helps a career. "Moral action has a terrible
price attached."

In a textbook, the right ethical decisions seem clear. But the real world is
painted in gray. It's right for companies to increase shareholder value. It's
also right to look out for employees and the environment.

But the trouble is, one often conflicts with the other, Reed says.

Axelrod asks what would you do as a prison guard if you were told that roadside
bombs were killing fellow soldiers daily and more could die if information was
not extracted quickly. That makes unethical behavior easier to understand, but
does not make it right, Axelrod says.

"Humiliating prisoners may have saved someone's life. But how many beheadings
will we have? How will we capture the moral high ground?"

Neither is moral equivalency appropriate, Axelrod says. Hearing Americans say,
"At least we didn't chop off someone's head" is no different than hearing a
corrupt executive say, "At least we're better than Enron."

LOAD-DATE: June 09, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, H. Darr Beiser, USA TODAY; PHOTO, B/W, Pauline Lubens, AFP;
At attention: Sam Newland, a professor of military education at the U.S. Army
War College, talks to a group of businessmen at the Gettysburg battlefield. More
than 100 business executives a year attend the school to learn about military
leadership.

                      Copyright 2004 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              66 of 132 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   August 25, 2004, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Judging gets low marks

BYLINE: Vicki Michaelis

SECTION: BONUS; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 1124 words

DATELINE: ATHENS

ATHENS -- The bedlam over the judging of the Athens Olympic gymnastics
competition has U.S. gymnast Blaine Wilson feeling like he's fallen off the
pommel horse onto a hard sheet of ice.

"It's figure skating," he says. "Gymnastics has become figure skating."

In the first Olympics after the figure skating furor of Salt Lake City, the
discord, especially in gymnastics, has observers suggesting International
Olympic Committee President Jacques Rogge opened a Pandora's box when he awarded
duplicate gold medals to Canadian pairs figure skaters Jamie Sale and David
Pelletier two years ago.


"I said to myself, 'If he does that, it will come up again,' " Olympic historian
John Lucas says. "And sure enough, here we are."

From fencing to swimming to equestrian to gymnastics, hands have been wringing
and protests flying over judges and scoring. The cacophony culminated in a
surreal scene Monday, as U.S. gymnast Paul Hamm, already caught in the eye of a
storm over his all-around gold medal, had to wait nearly 10 minutes to begin his
high bar routine while fans lustily booed the score given to the previous
competitor, Russian Alexei Nemov.

While Hamm waited, the overall score changed before everyone's eyes, to 9.762
from 9.725 (out of a perfect 10), after two judges, one from Malaysia and the
other from Canada, raised their marks. Nemov finished in fifth place but
afterward said he "would like to thank all these people for what they did."

"If the crowd hadn't done what they did," says NBC commentator Tim Daggett, a
former Olympic gymnast, "Nemov's score wouldn't have changed. What does that
say?"

Spectators' displeasure with officiating continued Tuesday. Angry boxing fans
hurled water bottles into the ring after Greek fighter Elias Pavlidis lost a
quarterfinal match when a referee stopped the fight because of injury.

The larger question looming is what the climate in Athens says about the IOC's
decision of two years ago and about prospects for peace and quiet at future
Games. For now, the IOC is staying out of the fray, saying that judging and
scoring issues are the purview of the international federations that run the
respective Olympic sports.

"Figure skating was a different case," IOC spokeswoman Giselle Davies says of
the IOC's decision to give the Canadians duplicate gold medals after a French
judge said she had been "pressured" to score a Russian pair higher. "It was a
case of clear corruption and manipulation, and that's why the IOC stepped in."

The IOC waded deep into the 2002 figure skating controversy, joining public
outcries for reform in the sport. The International Skating Union responded by
overhauling its procedures for selecting judges and for scoring competitions.
Computerized scoring, based on a new points system, will be used at all major
international figure skating competitions for the first time in the upcoming
season.

The Russian Olympic Committee sent a letter to Rogge on Tuesday asking for
similar IOC involvement in the gymnastics clamor, saying, "The system of judge
selection mandated by the International Gymnastics Federation testifies to their
bias and obvious impunity and is doing irreparable harm to the entire
international Olympic movement."

The IOC is unlikely to do anything publicly in this case, although it is sure to
come up in meetings between gymnastics officials and the IOC after the Olympics.
The IOC holds debriefings with every federation in the months after a Games.

"If it's judged in some sports there is a shift in credibility, then the IOC
should quietly, quietly take that up with the federation," says Kevan Gosper, an
IOC member from Australia.

The problem might be that Olympic delegates no longer seem willing to address
perceived injustices in a quiet manner, hoping to whip up the kind of media and
public frenzy that left the IOC little choice but to intervene in Salt Lake
City.

One day after Hamm won the men's all-around title in Athens, Korean officials
filed a protest over the results of bronze medalist Yang Tae Young's parallel
bar scoring in the event because two judges awarded him a mistakenly low degree
of difficulty value that, had it been correct, could have given Yang enough of
an edge to win the gold. The International Gymnastics Federation denied the
appeal but did suspend three judges.

Unsatisfied, the Koreans threatened to take the case to the Court of Arbitration
for Sport, an independent panel that rules on matters in international sport.
The Koreans also requested a meeting with U.S. Olympic Committee officials,
after which both sides endorsed the idea of awarding Yang a second gold medal.

"I couldn't help but think of the two golds awarded in Salt Lake City," Hamm
says. "That case was different from mine. There, the judges colluded. With me,
it was an honest mistake."

Changes sought

Embarrassment on international sport's biggest stage was a catalyst to change
long before French figure skating judge Marie-Reine Le Gougne swept across it,
wrapped in a mink coat and shedding tears.

The International Boxing Federation instituted computerized scoring after
several incidents in the 1988 Seoul Olympics, including Roy Jones Jr.'s loss to
Korean Park Si Hun in a gold medal bout. Instant replay was introduced in
speedskating after several results protests in Salt Lake City.

Insiders say that while gymnastics was dealt a black eye in Athens, it doesn't
need nearly the makeover figure skating did. "The system isn't broken, it got
abused," former Olympian Bart Conner says.

Two-time Olympic coach Peter Kormann says gymnastics officials "need to do a
better job of adjusting and making rules clearer to everybody."

Some are promoting instant replay as an answer. Wilson isn't among them.

"Football has instant replay. Gymnastics does not. It has always been, and
always will be, a subjective sport. If you can't deal with gymnastics being
subjective, then get out of it," Wilson says.

Nadia Comaneci, the 1976 Olympic champion, told Reuters, "The judges should go
back and evaluate the whole situation.  . . .  The gymnast shouldn't be paying
the price for things like this." While she says Hamm should keep his gold medal,
she believes the International Gymnastics Federation needs to "clean it all up."


Hamm had to compete in individual events while the controversy swirled around
him. In the midst of Monday's uproar over Nemov, Hamm scored high enough to win
silver on the high bar.

Hamm was headed back to the USA today for an appearance on the Late Show with
David Letterman. He'll have plenty to discuss. "It was quite an interesting
Olympics," he says.

Contributing: Jill Lieber, Mike Dodd, Gary Mihoces

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Color, Kazuhiro Nogi, AFP; PHOTOS, B/W, Michael Chow, USA TODAY
(2); PHOTO, B/W, Carmen Troesser, USA TODAY; Under fire: Judges talk after
Alexei Nemov's effort. Public outcry: Fans show their displeasure with the score
given to Russia's Alexei Nemov on Monday for his high bar routine. Judges
adjusted the score. That's enough: Alexei Nemov tries to quiet the crowd,
unhappy with Nemov's high bar score, before Paul Hamm's performance Monday.
Delayed glory: Canadian figure skaters David Pelletier, top left, and Jamie
Sale, bottom left, receive their golds in 2002.

TYPE: COVER STORY

                      Copyright 2004 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              70 of 132 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    January 8, 2004, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

A long fall for Enron couple

BYLINE: Edward Iwata

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 728 words

The tale of Lea and Andrew Fastow is one of a Houston power couple whose
once-glamorous life took a tragic turn.

Both worked as finance executives for Enron, the energy-trading titan that
crumbled in late 2001 in one of the largest accounting scandals in history.

Now, both face possible prison terms that could leave their two grade-school-age
sons, Jeffrey and Matthew, without parents at home if the Fastows serve time
simultaneously.

If the Fastows reach deals with prosecutors, as first reported Wednesday by the
Houston Chronicle, former CFO Andrew Fastow could face as much as 10 years in
prison and Lea Fastow could be sentenced to several months or more on tax
evasion and other charges.


Although Andrew Fastow used to roar into Enron's downtown parking garage in a
Porsche 911, the Fastows did not flaunt their wealth like many rich families,
friends and former colleagues say.

The Fastows, both 42, were active in their conservative synagogue, Congregation
Or Ami, and donated money to the Holocaust Museum in Houston.

Lea Fastow was a trustee of the Contemporary Art Museum in the late 1990s. She
also headed Enron's art committee, jetting to Europe and spending millions of
dollars on contemporary art, including $ 575,000 on a sculpture by Claes
Oldenburg.

Although they made inroads into the art world, the Fastows were not big players
in Houston's wealthiest social circles, as were former Enron chairman Kenneth
Lay and other energy and oil barons.

Friends and former colleagues say the Fastows are making the best of their
situation. Their two boys attend St. John's, an exclusive private school for
Houston's well-connected families. And Andrew Fastow still helps coach one son's
baseball team.

The Fastows, though, rarely spend time at their three-story, $ 300,000 vacation
home on the bay at Galveston, Texas, or relax on their 18-foot Boston Whaler
boat as much as before. They also sold their new mansion in the River Oaks
section of Houston for $ 3.9 million last fall, with the Justice Department
holding the proceeds.

Despite his legal troubles, Andrew Fastow has recently reassured friends that
everything will work out fine. But as one resigned friend said Wednesday, their
fate doesn't look good at all, whether they go to trial early this year or
strike plea deals with prosecutors.

The son of a buyer for a drugstore chain, Andrew Fastow was born in Washington,
D.C., and grew up in New Providence, N.J. After studying economics at Tufts
University, he earned an MBA from Northwestern University.

He soon married Lea Weingarten, his college girlfriend at Tufts, who also has an
MBA from Northwestern, and an heir to a Texas real estate and grocery business.

The couple moved to Houston in the early 1990s, when Andrew Fastow began working
for Enron, then a little-known firm that would quickly grow into a
multibillion-dollar global giant.

Fastow has been described by many as an ambitious, hot-tempered executive whose
greed led him to devise alleged financial deals that contributed to Enron's
downfall. He often cursed at co-workers and banking clients, according to
friends and former colleagues.

In contrast, former colleagues and friends portray Lea Fastow as a warm,
down-to-earth woman and a sharp businesswoman. They couldn't imagine her taking
part in suspected financial crimes.

If the prosecutors' charges are right, why did Lea Fastow, Enron's former
assistant treasurer, get drawn into her husband's alleged financial scheming?

As a wealthy heiress of the Weingarten supermarket chain in Texas, she didn't
need the money, says Sherron Watkins, the former Enron executive who raised
questions and testified before Congress about Enron's shaky accounting.

"What motivated her?" asks Watkins, who worked for Andrew Fastow and socialized
with his family, attending the couple's holiday parties and birthdays. "Did she
like participating with Andy for the thrill of it?"

Since the Enron scandal broke, friends and acquaintances have closed ranks
around the Fastows. Most would not talk at all, and the few who did declined to
talk about them in detail.

"I have only good wishes for Lea, her husband and their family," says Marti
Mayo, executive director of the Contemporary Arts Museum. "In terms of their
future, I don't know how they're going to do."

LOAD-DATE: January 08, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Steve Ueckert, Houston Chronicle via AP; PHOTO, B/W, Mark
Wilson, Getty Images; Considering deals: Lea and Andrew Fastow, embracing
outside a federal building in May, are considering plea bargains that could send
both to prison -- Lea for a few months and Andrew for as much as 10 years.
<>Invoking the Fifth: Former Enron CFO Andrew Fastow cited his right against
self-incrimination when he refused to testify before Congress in 2002.

                      Copyright 2004 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              71 of 132 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   January 21, 2004, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Esiason ready to double up again for Super Bowl duty on radio, TV

BYLINE: Rudy Martzke

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 2C; Sports on TV

LENGTH: 626 words

After spending Sunday's AFC Championship Game traversing back and forth between
CBS' NFL Today set and the Westwood One Radio booth at Gillette Stadium, Boomer
Esiason is preparing to work the Super Bowl for both radio and television.

"This television and radio stuff is really exhausting," Esiason said Tuesday.
"Like the players, I need a week off."

Esiason will be joined by reporter Bonnie Bernstein in performing duties for
both TV and radio on the Super Bowl. But while Bernstein's pregame interviews
for Westwood One will be on tape, Esiason goes from live TV before the game to
live radio in the first half back to live TV at halftime to live radio in the
second half, then to live TV after the game.


"When we go on the air with NFL Today at 2 p.m. (ET) to about 11:30 at night,
it's football 100% of the time," he said. "There's no chance for a beer."

The Super Bowl marks the third time that Esiason pulls double duty on radio and
TV, a feat allowed because both CBS and Westwood One are part of the Viacom
family. He has filled the hectic role on the last two AFC Championship Games in
Oakland and Foxboro, Mass.

Because production executives Eric Mann of CBS and Howie Deneroff of Westwood
One coordinated security arrangements, Esiason was able to reach destinations at
each event without missing his on-air time. Esiason worked last year's New York
Jets-Oakland Raiders AFC title game after he and Dan Marino picked the Jets.

"The NFL Today set was in the black hole in the Oakland stadium, and those fans
didn't forget my pick," he said. "I caught a little heat, but it was OK."

Fans generally provide a warm welcome for 14-year NFL quarterback Esiason,
except when they call him "Phil," for CBS analyst Phil Simms. "Then I give them
the business."

Last Sunday, Esiason walked up and down the steps at Gillette Stadium with his
son, Gunnar.

"The fans were terrific," Esiason said. "You would have thought I won five Super
Bowls for the Patriots. They sent us cookies and hot chocolate when we got to
the radio booth."

The key moments of Esiason's dual duties occur when he departs radio partner
Marv Albert at the two-minute warning before the half to get down to the NFL
Today set by elevator or stairs. He dons a Westwood One Radio headset and
continues his commentary with Albert as he makes his way to the CBS set. Esiason
usually finishes the first half on Westwood One while sitting on the CBS set.

"Marv and I are so comfortable with each other now that through his voice
inflections I can tell when he's ready for me to analyze a play," Esiason says.

Clean hands

NBC Sports President Ken Schanzer emphasizes that NASCAR's controversial new
scoring system, setting up a run for the points title in the last 10 races among
the top 10 drivers, was not driven by television.

"They told us in December they were going forward," said Schanzer, whose network
and TNT share the second half of the schedule.

That said, Schanzer and Turner Sports President David Levy are elated at the
prospects of the new scoring system providing a lift to the combined NBC/TNT 4.2
rating that drops by about 10% when the NFL season begins.

"Anything that brings more interest and viewers to the sport and to TNT is a
positive for us," Levy said. (Story 1C)

Around the dial

ESPN's Chris Mortensen, who said Sunday the NFL would approve the eligibility of
Pittsburgh's Larry Fitzgerald for the draft sometime this week, said Tuesday, "I
stick by my source on this." . . .  Fox's 23.2 national rating for the
Carolina-Philadelphia NFC Championship Game was off 3% from last year's 23.8 for
Tampa Bay-Philadelphia, but the 40.4 million viewers were the game's highest in
four years.

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              74 of 132 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     March 22, 2004, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Imported jobs building a new, middle-class India

BYLINE: David Lynch

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 1438 words

DATELINE: BANGALORE, India

BANGALORE, India -- On the main road outside the Electronics City industrial
park, the scene is classic Third World chaos. Motor scooters, auto rickshaws,
people and animals throng the street beneath a midmorning sun. As drivers hammer
their horns, a wayward cow noses through a pile of roadside garbage.

This is familiar, impoverished, old India. But leave the main road and you enter
a new India, one where the lawns are manicured and the only noise is the chirp
of a cellphone or the soft whir of a laptop computer. This is the home of
Infosys, a fast-growing technology services provider that is gobbling up jobs
formerly done in the USA.

In the past year, as U.S. corporations sought to slash their costs by shifting
technology-related work overseas, Infosys added 9,000 employees, almost doubling
its payroll. Today, the company gets about 70% of its $ 1 billion in annual
revenue from U.S. clients such as Cisco and Aetna.


"We're helping to enhance the productivity and competitiveness of our customers,
including our U.S. customers," says Nandan Nilekani, 48, Infosys' chief
executive officer. "The only way to raise the standard of living is to improve
productivity.  . . .  People realize that it's a win-win (situation) at the end
of the day."

Some people don't. And the resulting political controversy in the USA about lost
jobs gets plenty of attention. Businessworld, a weekly magazine here, put
Democratic presidential candidate John Kerry on the cover of its March 8 issue
with the headline "Furor Over Offshoring: Sense and Nonsense."

Most Indians see the U.S. complaints as election-year hysterics. They say that,
although the costs to laid-off American workers have been documented
exhaustively, the benefits to India -- a poor country of 1 billion people where
only one-third of the homes even have indoor toilets -- are less well
understood.

Outsourcing is helping build a sizable middle-class that is changing India's
global image. But U.S. businesses benefit as well, Nilekani says. When customers
farm out work to Infosys, they save money that they can invest in job-creating
ventures. And newly prosperous Indians are buying more of what America makes.
Even the pizza in the Infosys employee canteen comes from Domino's.

Last year, the USA exported $ 5 billion worth of goods and services to India, a
41% increase since 1998. That far outpaces the 6.3% gain in total U.S. exports
over the same period. But the $ 5 billion is still modest compared with U.S.
exports elsewhere. So the United States is pressuring India to drop its
remaining tariffs, which are blocking far larger potential sales.

Lives different from parents'

For those hired for the sorts of jobs once done in the USA, outsourcing
represents a chance for a life their parents couldn't have imagined. Sheshadri
Venkatadri, 30, earns $ 20,000 a year helping a large American retailer improve
its financial reporting. That's a fraction of what a computer pro in the USA
would make for the same work, but it's three times the combined peak income his
parents earned while he was growing up in Bangalore in the 1980s.

His mother and father never owned a car; they made do with a motorized scooter.
But Venkatadri already has bought a Hyundai sedan and a 1,400 square-foot,
two-bedroom apartment. He has heard the complaints about lost jobs in the USA,
but with an MBA from a top Indian school and international experience with
Procter & Gamble in Singapore, he makes no apologies for competing and winning.

"Globalization isn't a one-way street," he says. "It's obviously painful to hear
about job losses. But if the American government and business will work on
retraining those workers who've lost jobs, that pain will go away."

K. Satish Babu, 29, grew up in a southern village of just 18 one-story,
wood-and-brick houses. Until 1988, the village, Applavaram, had no electricity.
There were no indoor toilets, and water came from a well. Today, Babu is an
engineer at another Bangalore company, RelQ, where he tests software for Palm.
He rents a comfortable apartment and owns an IBM computer and a 21-inch color
television.

Manufacturing jobs have been going overseas for a generation, most recently to
Chinese factories organized around large pools of unskilled, incredibly
inexpensive labor. In the absence of trade unions and worker rights, they can be
worked endlessly.

That's not the formula companies such as Infosys use to attract white-collar
technology jobs from the USA. The employee putting green, Stairmaster-equipped
fitness center and sauna demonstrate that this is no sweatshop. The 35-building,
70-acre Infosys campus, in fact, was modeled on Microsoft and Dell facilities in
the USA. The complex is a 21st-century oasis in a land where the 18th century is
never far away.

Cost is certainly a factor in attracting customers: Infosys engineers make far
less than their U.S. counterparts. But world-class personnel is another selling
point. Infosys picks well-educated, bilingual workers from India's best
engineering schools and pays higher salaries than other Indian industries. Last
year, the company received 1 million resumes for 9,000 openings.

India's homegrown information technology (IT) industry has revolutionized
opportunities.

From 1947, when the country gained independence from Britain, until a financial
crisis in 1991, India built a leaden, socialist economy complete with five-year
plans. Until 1991, the government was the biggest employer. In the 1980s,
already swollen public sector payrolls grew 21.2% while private sector hiring
stood still, according to Deepak Mishra, a World Bank senior economist in New
Delhi.

But in the 1990s, as India began overhauling the economy, employment patterns
reversed. The number of government workers increased just 2.5% while private
companies added 12.6% more jobs. Poverty gradually declined, and the urban
middle class more than doubled from about 20 million households to more than 45
million, according to the National Council of Applied Economic Research in New
Delhi.

A city transformed

That transformation is apparent in and around Bangalore, a southern city once
known as "pensioners' paradise" for its warm weather and sleepy pace. Today, the
city of 5.5 million is the center of India's booming IT industry, which has
grown from about $ 20 million in sales in 1988 to $ 15 billion last year,
according to India's National Association of Software and Service Companies.

Once, this town was dark by 9:30 p.m. But now an active pub scene has brought
Western entertainment to a conservative Hindu culture. At "NASA," a self-styled
space bar, the waiters wear pilots' uniforms while serving mugs of chilled
Kingfisher beer. Down the road at Guzzler's Inn, the music is louder and more
raucous. A sign on the wall blares: "Beer: Helping Ugly People Have Sex Since
1862."

But old India hasn't disappeared. In the center of Bangalore, Air-India, a
state-owned airline, maintains a drowsy ticket office that illustrates how
business was conducted before the IT revolution. Three clerks sit in front of
computer terminals but spend most of their time hand-carrying paper from one
room to the next. On a recent day, the wait to buy tickets exceeded 90 minutes.

Infosys' Nilekani says the benefits of high tech are spreading slowly. India's
labor force is more than 400 million people -- three times that of the USA.
Outsourcing and high tech can't begin to provide enough jobs for each year's
crop of new workers. Even so, for a country just emerging from decades of
self-imposed economic backwardness, the IT industry has an importance beyond
numbers. "It's become a microcosm of what can be done," Nilekani says.

***

Lynch reported in India earlier this month

*********************************

Outsourcing has become one of the buzzwords of the 2004 presidential campaign.
How big is the phenomenon? There are no government statistics on how many
American jobs are moving to lower-wage countries. But assembly-line workers
aren't the only ones who worry about it.

Highly paid professionals such as engineers, architects and accountants also
worry about competition from Third World countries. This month, 61% of those
responding to a USA TODAY/CNN/Gallup Poll said they are somewhat or very
concerned that their jobs or the job of a friend might be shipped overseas.

Outsourcing has meant lower prices for American consumers, but it also has
created painful dislocations. USA TODAY looks at how outsourcing has changed two
communities on opposite sides of the globe.

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS, B/W, Sherwin Crasto, Reuters, for USA TODAY (2); PHOTO, Color,
Sherwin Crasto for USA TODAY (page 1A); GRAPHIC, B/W, USA TODAY (MAP);
U.S.-inspired amenities: Employees at Infosys, a technology services provider in
Bangalore, India, take a break on the company's 70-acre campus. A better life:
Sheshadri Venkatadri commutes by bicycle to his job at Infosys. His $20,000
salary is triple his parents' peak combined income.

                      Copyright 2004 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              78 of 132 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    June 23, 2004, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

The 19th hole

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 8C

LENGTH: 552 words

<>Learn from the best<>

LPGA star Grace Park, who won the Kraft Nabisco this year and is second on the
2004 money list behind Annika Sorenstam, offers advice in putting:

"Before every round of golf you play, it is good to warm up your 'distance'
putting on the practice green. Every day before my round, I put down three to
four tees, each 3 feet apart up to 15 feet from the hole. I putt from each tee
until I feel comfortable with my distance. When I feel confident from each
distance, I know I can trust my putting stroke on the course."


<>Champions Tour spotlight<>

Some quick questions for Champions Tour player Jerry Pate:

 * What's your favorite golf course in the world?

Cypress Point Golf Club in northern California.

 * What do you currently drive?

I primarily drive a GMC Yukon sport utility vehicle, but I also have a BMW 740i
sedan.

 * What was your first car?

I remember I had a 1971 Ford Pinto.

 * Who's your favorite athlete?

Probably Michael Jordan.

 * Who's your favorite cartoon character?

The Roadrunner.

 * Most recent book you've read?

Bob Rotella's book, Golf Is Not A Game of Perfect. I've read it about five times
now.

<>Quick question<>

When will Tiger Woods (now 0-for-8 in majors) get his groove back?

A) Never. His best days are behind him.

B) Very soon. He'll win the British Open.

C) Next year he'll re-emerge with a new swing, so look out.

D) He's never lost it. It's golf, and things just work out this way sometimes.

Answer at golf.usatoday.com.

<>Off the tee<>

PGA Tour

Booz Allen Classic

Site: Potomac, Md.

Schedule: Thursday-Sunday.

Course: TPC at Avenel (6,987 yards, par 71).

Purse: $ 4.8 million. Winner's share: $ 864,000.

TV (ET): USA (Thursday-Friday, 4-6 p.m.) and ABC (Saturday-Sunday, 3-6 p.m.).

Notable: Bill Haas is making his pro debut. Haas, the son of Tour player Jay
Haas, tied for 40th in the U.S. Open. The former Wake Forest star received the
Jack Nicklaus Trophy as the college player of the year. . . . John Daly is
making his first start since tying for 11th three weeks ago in the Memorial. . .
. The 2005 tournament will be played at Congressional Country Club because of
renovations at the TPC at Avenel.

LPGA

Rochester LPGA

Site: Pittsford, N.Y.

Schedule: Thursday-Sunday.

Course: Locust Hill Country Club (6,192 yards, par 72).

Purse: $ 1.5 million. Winner's share: $ 225,000.

TV (ET): ESPN2 (Friday, 2-4 p.m.; Saturday, 3-4 p.m.; Sunday, 4-7 p.m.).

Notable: The U.S. Women's Open is next week at Orchards Golf Club in South
Hadley, Mass. . . . Annika Sorenstam is coming off her second consecutive
victory in the LPGA Championship. The seven-time major champion has four LPGA
tour victories this year to push her career total to 52. . . . Rosie Jones, the
1991 and 1998 winner, has five career victories in New York.

Champions Tour

Bank of America Championship

Site: Concord, Mass.

Schedule: Friday-Sunday.

Course: Nashawtac Country Club (6,729 yards, par 72).

Purse: $ 1.55 million. Winner's share: $ 232,500.

TV (ET): The Golf Channel (Friday-Sunday, 5-7:30 p.m., 9-11:30 p.m.).

Notable: Tom Kite is coming off a 57th-place tie last week in the U.S. Open.
Arnold Palmer and Lee Trevino are in the field.

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Gregory Bull, AP; PHOTO, B/W, Kathy Willens, AP; PHOTO,
B/W, AP; Pate: Has gone from Pinto to BMW.

                      Copyright 2004 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              81 of 132 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    August 4, 2004, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Anxiety keeps oil prices elevated

BYLINE: James Cox

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 459 words

Violence in Iraq, terror fears, supply disruptions, refinery constraints and
other factors have whipped up a perfect storm that will keep oil above $40 a
barrel and send gas back over $2 a gallon, a growing number of energy experts
say.

Crude oil futures soared to an all-time high of $44.20 a barrel in midday
trading Tuesday before retreating to $44.15. The intraday record was the highest
price for U.S. light crude futures since they started trading in 1983.


Global oil prices have been stubbornly high even as OPEC, which supplies a third
of the world's oil, has increased output. By most estimates, current oil
supplies exceed demand. So why won't prices fall?

Fear, says Jason Schenker, economist at Wachovia, who predicts oil will remain
above $40 a barrel for a year and could spike to $50.

Schenker and others cite:

 * Geopolitics. The market has been spooked by instability and oil-field
sabotage in Iraq, terrorism threats in the USA and attacks by Islamic radicals
in Saudi Arabia, site of the world's largest reserves.

Russia's Yukos, which pumps 2% of the world's oil, may not survive Moscow's
demand for $3.4 billion in back taxes.

Supply disruptions plague key countries. In Venezuela, there have been constant
clashes between a populist leader and his foes. Workers have gone on strike at
Norway's national oil company and a key refinery in South Korea. Civil unrest
has shut down fields in Nigeria.

The U.S. economic recovery has combined with fast-growing demand in China and
India to drive up consumption.

 * Refinery constraints. U.S. refineries can't keep pace with stricter federal
environmental standards and gasoline-formula rules put in place by states and
localities.

Look for unleaded regular, averaging $1.89 nationwide Tuesday, to hit $2.30 or
$2.40 a gallon next summer unless a warm winter allows refiners to switch to gas
production earlier than normal, says Philip Verleger, senior fellow at the
Institute for International Economics, a think tank.

 * Speculators. Hedge funds are playing a bigger role. From 1995 to mid-2003,
they accounted for 5% of the futures market on average. Since then, their
positions average 9% of the market, says Mark Routt, who tracks the funds for
Energy Security Analysis.

Speculators' massive long positions, bets on prices going up, appear to be
driving current prices.

Since 1983, U.S. crude futures have topped $40 a barrel 30 times, 28 of them
this year. But adjusted for inflation, oil is cheaper than it was at its peak in
October 1990. Then, oil shot to $40.42, or $58.67 in today's prices, as the U.S.
geared up to oust Iraqi forces from Kuwait.

Contributing: James R. Healey

LOAD-DATE: August 04, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              87 of 132 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     January 9, 2004, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Children make defendants' plea/trial decisions tougher

BYLINE: Jayne O'Donnell and Greg Farrell

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 1276 words

Andrew and Lea Fastow, caught in criminal entanglements because of the Enron
scandal, could both end up in prison, leaving their two young sons parentless
for a time.

It's a scenario that has forced the Houston couple into negotiating with
prosecutors. Their goal: Time the sentences so at least one of them stays with
the kids, ages 8 and 4.

Strict new sentencing guidelines, designed to punish the types of fraud exposed
at companies such as Enron and WorldCom, have made white-collar criminals more
likely to get longer terms. And it has made those with young children think
twice about their options.


Defense lawyers say that while hardened criminals know they risk prison and time
away from their families, executives caught in white-collar crimes often are
surprised when they're caught and stunned by the prospect of lengthy prison
terms that will take them away from their children.

"The notion of 10 years in prison, when you are talking about people who will
miss their kids growing up, is such an unthinkable amount of time," says defense
attorney Mark Pomerantz, who represented former ImClone CEO Samuel Waksal, now
in prison.

For white-collar criminal defendants, deciding whether to plead guilty or fight
charges has never been more difficult, because sentencing is tougher. But when
young children are involved, the decision is more wrenching.

Others charged in white-collar crimes have made different choices than the
Fastows -- some determined to fight to save their name, others throwing in the
towel early to get out sooner.

But for the Fastows -- he was Enron's chief financial officer, she was an
assistant treasurer -- the threat of two sentences forced them into
negotiations, the only way they could hope to time their prison stints. The goal
is to keep one of them with the kids, her lawyer says.

On Thursday in Houston, U.S. District Judge David Hittner gave preliminary
approval to a plea bargain between Lea Fastow and government prosecutors that
would call for her to spend five months in prison after pleading guilty to one
criminal count. Lea Fastow has until noon today to accept the judge's
conditions.

If she accepts the deal today -- it would still need final approval from Hittner
after he sees a pre-sentencing report -- it is expected that Andrew Fastow will
sign his own deal with prosecutors. He is expected to plead guilty to several
charges in return for a 10-year sentence that would begin after his wife's term
has ended.

Fastow also would agree to cooperate with the investigation of other Enron
figures, including former CEO Jeffrey Skilling and former chairman Kenneth Lay.

Other choices

Family issues also have weighed heavily on:

 * Former Enron chief accounting officer Richard Causey, father of three
children, the oldest a teen. Causey has refused multiple entreaties to plead
guilty in return for leniency, because he can't bear the idea that his kids
would have a felon for a father, say two people involved in the negotiations.
Because he refused to cut a deal, Causey is expected to face criminal charges
today.

 * Former Enron treasurer Ben Glisan, father of two children under age 10. Last
September, Glisan pleaded guilty to one count of conspiracy to commit wire and
securities fraud. Rather than put off his sentencing for months, he opted to go
straight to jail and begin serving a mandatory five-year term.

"From his perspective, he's got children who are 6 and 8 years old. He's 37
years old. The sooner he can begin serving his sentence, the sooner he can
conclude it. And so it is in his interest to do this promptly," Henry Schuelke,
Glisan's attorney, told a federal judge, the Houston Chronicle reported.

Tougher decision

When children are concerned, the decision whether to plead guilty or fight has
become far more difficult because sentencing guidelines and federal policy mean
either choice can keep a parent away for a decade or more.

While former federal prosecutor Robert Litt notes that a 20-year term can be "a
death sentence for a 60-year-old," it also can prevent a father or mother from
watching a child grow up.

The Sarbanes-Oxley law, passed after the business scandals of 2002, greatly
increased the possible sentences for white-collar crimes. Earlier this year, the
U.S. Sentencing Commission finalized guidelines doubling some white-collar
sentences to 10 years and others to 20. And President Bush signed a law limiting
judges' ability to give convicts with special circumstances -- such as good
standing in the community -- less time than federal sentencing guidelines
dictate.

Adding an obstruction of justice charge, for example, to other charges can tack
20 years onto a possible jail term.

The decision on whether to plead guilty or fight is a "very individual
situation," says Litt. "There is just a kind of desperation the clients get.
When they actually have it explained to them, they say, 'How can this possibly
be?' "

"In white-collar crime now, if you did the crime, you're going to do the time,"
says Houston attorney Philip Hilder, a former federal prosecutor. "There are few
instances where a slap on the wrist is permissible. The perception has always
been, 'No harm, no foul: I'll get probation because I've never done anything in
the past.' The guidelines don't give you a pass."

Former Deputy Attorney General Eric Holder says a Justice Department policy on
plea bargains has also increased the possible jail time facing defendants.
Holder says the policy, known as the "Thornburgh memo" for former Attorney
General Richard Thornburgh, states that defendants have to plead to the most
serious offense prosecutors can prove, not a lesser charge that carries a lower
jail sentence.

Litt says he can understand why defendants might resist plea bargains. He says
even when defendants cooperate and judges are allowed to decrease sentences,
they are still getting treated harshly.

"What people are starting to see is the government getting more stingy (about
plea bargains) and that the sentencing guidelines are so atrocious," says Litt,
now a white-collar defense lawyer at Arnold & Porter. "It may be worth rolling
the dice (because) the government may still want to slam you."

Hostile environment

Pomerantz, a partner at law firm Paul Weiss in New York, says the courtroom
climate for white-collar offenders is as bad as it has ever been. "They are
being treated in many respects like drug dealers and violent criminals. There
are those who would say that's exactly the right approach because the social
harm they inflict is akin, but that's a very myopic viewpoint as far as I'm
concerned."

Holder agrees: "It's a difficult time to actually go to trial, but obviously, if
you have an innocent client and a good defense, you do that."

Any time in prison is frightening to most former executives.

Pomerantz says he told an alleged mobster once that he was going to get at least
five years in prison, and the client said, "Five years! I won't even have to
change my socks!" But, "You tell a white-collar guy he is going to do five
years, and you worry they're going to go out and kill themselves."

Sherron Watkins, the internal whistle-blower who originally challenged Enron's
financial shenanigans, says it's depressing to see the children caught in the
scandal.

"It's rewarding to see justice done at Enron but sad to see this happen to
people you knew as good people," she says.

Watkins, who knows the Causey children, says they "were children of privilege,
but now they'll have a hole to climb out of. I don't know what that does to
kids."

LOAD-DATE: January 09, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Color, Karl Stolleis, ; PHOTO, Color, James Nielsen, AFP; PHOTO,
Color, Pat Sullivan, AP; PHOTO, Color, Mark Wilson, Getty Images; Ben Glisan
Jr.<>Position: Former Enron treasurer.<>Charges: Pleaded guilty to one count of
conspiracy to commit wire and securities fraud.<>Children: Two.<>Status:
Currently serving a five-year prison term.<>Andrew and Lea Fastow<>Position:
Former Enron CFO and wife.<>Charges: Andrew faces nearly 100 counts in
accounting scandal. Lea is accused of running one of the company's
special-purpose entities.<>Children: Two.<>Status: Lea got preliminary approval
for a plea deal of five months in prison. Andrew may plead guilty in return for
a 10-year term.<>Children: Two.<>Status: Currently serving a five-year prison
term.<>Richard Causey<>Position: Former Enron chief accounting
officer.<>Children: Three.<>Status: Criminal charges could be filed as early as
today.

TYPE: COVER STORY

                      Copyright 2004 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              88 of 132 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   January 15, 2004, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Proposed airport design poses safety hazards

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 619 words

Jim Starry certainly has come up with a revolutionary airport design. It may not
have been created to cause mirth and bemusement, but it provided a great deal of
both for me and my fellow airline pilots ("Inventor takes airport design to new
heights," Money, Monday).

Starry's design, in my view, shows little awareness of the realities of modern
aviation and little concern for safety.


For example, a sloping runway poses numerous operational and safety problems for
both takeoff and landing. For takeoffs, the dangers include poor braking ability
during an aborted takeoff -- which will actually increase the required runway
length, not decrease it -- tail strikes, decreased initial climb angles and
more. For landings, the issues include steep approach paths, potentially abrupt
or hard landings, dangerous visual illusions and obstruction clearance.

Other fundamental design flaws I see: The landing runway appears to point
directly at an airport terminal full of people and parked airplanes, which would
be dangerous in the event of an accident, and the landing runway points at the
departing runway, setting up all sorts of potential traffic conflicts.

These are only a few of the dozens of serious design problems I see. Starry
discussed these designs with the Federal Aviation Administration. I'm quite
certain members listened to him with great patience and good humor.

Thank goodness that's as far as this misguided design ever will get.

Charles Wyndham

Belvidere, Ill.

Issue humanized

"Marriage strengthens bond of same-sex couples, too" was a heartfelt, thoughtful
commentary about a very important issue (The Forum, Monday).

It seems that when some people are asked how they feel about same-sex marriage,
they respond negatively -- it sounds so foreign to what they know and have been
taught to believe. They don't consider that humans with hopes and dreams, just
like them, are the faces behind the issue. They don't realize how similar we all
are.

Too often, society needs to see the tears of a suffering person before we let go
of our rigid belief structures and open our hearts.

Tears evoke sadness and compassion.

A commentary such as USA TODAY's builds on our similarities and expresses how
familiar this issue really is. In the end, stories like this will help put an
end to discrimination.

Thanks for this article.

Renee Rotkopf

New York

Support Mars agenda

The idea of sending humans to the planet Mars has given rise to objections that
the money and effort could be better applied to current educational, health and
other needs of humanity ("Mars, moon missions lack significant benefit,"
Letters, Wednesday).

What greater contribution to humanity could there be than to help ensure it
survives? The investigation and colonization of Mars might do just that.

Sending men and women to space is not simply a stunt or political act. Nor is it
something to do just to satisfy the curiosity of scientists. It would explore
another potential home for the human race.

How long will our world be habitable as we know it? Will overpopulation,
exhaustion of resources, scarcity of food and water, climate change, pandemic
diseases and perhaps even asteroid impact make Earth so inhabitable that
mankind, or at least a part of it, will be forced some day to relocate? If so,
Mars is the only place for us to go.

Those who object to our visiting Mars should consider the consequences. Perhaps
they'll recognize that putting people there is something that must be done --
for present-day and future mankind.

J. Gordan Vaeth, former staff member

For Man-in-Space Pentagon

Advanced Research Projects Agency

Olympia, Wash.

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: DEBATE

                      Copyright 2004 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              92 of 132 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    February 20, 2004, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Skilling's fall from grace comes to this

BYLINE: Elliot Blair Smith and Edward Iwata

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 1687 words

Former Enron CEO Jeffrey Skilling unloaded $ 200 million in Enron stock from
1998 until the energy giant's collapse in 2001, presenting to the public a face
of sunny optimism even as the company's fortunes darkened and his personal stock
sales accelerated, according to a grand jury indictment unsealed Thursday.

In attempting to transform Enron from a traditional oil-and-gas pipeline company
into a "virtual" corporation whose assets consisted of its employees'
brainpower, Skilling, 50, promoted himself as a standard bearer of innovation
who would revolutionize markets and conventional business models. His ambitions
for the USA's seventh-largest company ranged from the brave, new world of
broadband communications to global water sales and California's newly
deregulated electricity market.

But when the scaffolding around Enron came crashing down in December 2001, three
months after Skilling abruptly resigned for undisclosed "personal reasons," the
great motivator and creative capitalist left behind a crater in its place. The
destruction caused by the failed Enron experiment contributed to the demise of
Arthur Andersen, a major accounting firm; regulatory actions against several
investment banks; a congressionally mandated overhaul of the securities
industry; and a rain of criminal actions on former Enron executives.


Enron's collapse also deepened a two-year bear market from which stock investors
only now are beginning to recover.

"If one person embodied the hubris and greed and overarching self-congratulation
that epitomized Enron, it was Jeff Skilling. I guarantee you there are thousands
of former Enron (employees) . . .  who are dancing a jig watching Jeff Skilling
in handcuffs. They could not be happier," said Robert Bryce, author of Pipe
Dreams: Greed, Ego and the Death of Enron.

Indeed, former Enron plant manager Charlie Prestwood, 65, of Conroe Texas, who
watched his $ 1.3 million in retirement savings disappear amid the rubble of his
former employer, said Thursday, "I'm tickled pink they finally got to him. They
ought to have had him two years sooner." Prestwood is a plaintiff in an employee
lawsuit against Enron.

In the long history of Texas-style booms and busts, Skilling fits a pattern of
outsized ambition: great expectations followed by great disappointment. Enron's
failure differs only in order of magnitude, say economists and historians.

Since the Enron scandal erupted, Skilling is reported to have been seen
periodically around his hometown of Houston, sometimes at popular restaurants,
but he spends much time in his $ 4 million mansion. He reportedly has been
abandoned by some former friends and is reviled by many former employees.

Denial of wrongdoing

Skilling proclaims his innocence, likening Enron's failure to a classic "run on
the bank."

Skilling's attorneys vowed to vigorously defend their client, saying they would
accept no plea bargains offered by the government. "We're not going to stop
until we get our acquittal," said defense attorney Daniel Petrocelli. "They have
no proof he stole anything, no proof he lied, no proof he cheated anybody."

During the course of a two-year investigation by a special unit of the Justice
Department known as the Enron Task Force, 29 defendants have been charged, and
nine have pleaded guilty. Former chairman Kenneth Lay still hasn't been accused
of a crime. The charges against Skilling come a month after former Enron chief
financial officer Andrew Fastow pleaded guilty to related fraud charges and
began cooperating with prosecutors. The Skilling charges were added to an
earlier indictment against former chief accounting officer Richard Causey.

The Justice Department action, and a parallel civil lawsuit by the Securities
and Exchange Commission, accuse Skilling of securities fraud, illegal inside
trading, wire fraud and false statements to auditors, among other allegations.
The lawsuits extensively cite the executives' representations to investors and
analysts during conference calls and in routine financial documents filed with
the SEC from 1999 to 2001.

The 57-page superseding indictment against the former CEO offers little hard
documentation to support the claims.

But SEC enforcement director Stephen Cutler said in a statement that the former
CEO was "quick to take credit for the 'innovations' behind Enron's spectacular
rise and its apparent transformation into a 'new economy' powerhouse.  . . .  He
was just as quick to abandon Enron, to sell massive amounts of his Enron stock,
and to disclaim responsibility for the harms visited on Enron's shareholders."

Most of Skilling's stock sales came when Enron was at or near the peak of its
market value in late 2000, the criminal indictment and SEC action show. But even
nine months into the company's long slide into bankruptcy protection, Skilling
made one last sale of 500,000 shares for $ 10 million on Sept. 17, 2001, four
weeks after he abruptly resigned, the legal actions show. It was also a month
before the company reported its first loss in four years.

Hiding losses, inflating profits

According to the criminal indictment, Skilling, Causey and other Enron
executives engaged in a sweeping scheme to hide large losses, jack up Enron's
earnings and mislead investors. Among the charges, the executives fraudulently
portrayed Enron as a healthy company by:

 * Hiding massive energy-trading profits made during the California energy
crisis by putting hundreds of millions of dollars into secret reserve accounts.

 * Inflating Enron earnings and stock price through fraudulent accounting
schemes that allowed officials to falsely tout the company's broadband business
and overvalue assets in Enron's portfolio of energy and high-tech companies.

 * Concealing large losses in Enron's energy and broadband businesses from
analysts and investors who were told the businesses were performing well.

Skilling's contradictory actions in reassuring investors while cashing out many
of his shares came into sharp focus in early 2001, when Enron's stock price
plunged to $ 60 a share from $ 80 a share and speculation grew that the
company's broadband and energy businesses were stumbling.

During a March 2001 conference call with securities analysts, the indictment
charges, Skilling reassured the audience he was "highly confident" about the
company's prospects. "I know this is a bad stock market, but Enron's in good
shape," he said during one briefing with analysts.

But, according to the grand jury indictment, Skilling knew that Enron's
broadband unit was failing, jobs were getting cut and the broadband industry
faced "a total meltdown."

According to the indictment, Enron's problems arose as early as 1999, when the
company failed to meet its revenue targets through normal operations and
resorted to fraudulent accounting gimmicks.

Defense attorneys Petrocelli and Bruce Hiler, a former SEC enforcement official,
reply that Skilling passed a lie-detector test conducted by Paul Minor, a former
FBI official now at American International Security in Fairfax, Va. The test was
conducted Dec. 4, 2001 -- two days after Enron filed for bankruptcy court
protection from creditors.

Although polygraph results are inadmissible as evidence in court, a copy of the
report provided by defense attorneys shows that Skilling said he:

 * Did not draw on inside information to sell Enron stock in September 2001.

 * Was unaware of "any improper financial arrangement that was concealed from
the board."

 * Believed that special partnerships known as Chewco, Jedi and LJM --
accounting vehicles by which Enron executives allegedly hid debt and inflated
earnings -- were properly accounted for in Enron's books.

Earlier this week, defense attorneys met with prosecutors in Washington, D.C.,
hoping to ward off the indictment. According to the defense lawyers, they
provided the polygraph report to the prosecutors, who replied: "We're going to
indict your client."

It has been a long fall from grace for Skilling. A few years ago, the Harvard
MBA and former McKinsey consultant was hailed as a business alchemist.

Skilling and Enron fit well in Houston, a crossroads of capital and opportunity.
Named after Sam Houston, the great general of Texas' frontier independence,
Houston always attracted politicians and power, says David McComb, author of
Houston: A History. Its port led to King Cotton and the oil and gas industries.
A can-do ethic prevailed. "That kind of climate may well have supported the
rather buccaneering career of the people at Enron," McComb says.

"Enron really was a perfect reflection of Houston. Houston has always been a
city of booms and busts," says Bryce, another author. "This indictment of
Skilling and the other Enron miscreants is reflective of Houston. You live
large, you play hard and . . .  you fall hard."

Skilling epitomized Enron's hard-driving corporate culture. He took Enron
colleagues on adventuring trips, including off-road-vehicle races in the desert
and mountaineering trips. But Skilling also was brash and arrogant -- and he
helped create Enron's brutal, cutthroat culture, according to former colleagues.


After Skilling became president of Enron in 1997, revenue shot up from $ 12
billion in 1996 to $ 150 billion in 2001. Wall Street loved him. And Worth
magazine dubbed him the No. 2 CEO in America, after Microsoft's Steve Ballmer.

"He had everyone buying into everything he said," Sherron Watkins, the former
Enron executive and whistle-blower, said in an interview with USA TODAY last
spring.

If the criminal case goes to trial in the next two or three years, there is sure
to be legal warfare between hardnosed organized-crime and drug prosecutors and a
"dream team" of defense lawyers.

Legal watchers predict the court will be flooded by defense motions, including a
change-of-venue request to move the trial from Houston, where former Enron
executives are still despised by many.

Houston defense attorney Philip Hilder says, "It's going to be a slugfest."

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Marcy E. Mullins, USA TODAY, Source: Bridge Information;
Securities and Exchange Commission (LINE GRAPH); GRAPHIC, B/W, Source: USA TODAY
research (CHART); PHOTO, Color, Mark Wilson, Getty Images; PHOTO, Color, Larry
Downing, Reuters; PHOTOS, Color, David J. Phillip, AP (2); PHOTO, B/W, Reuters;
PHOTOS, B/W, AP (7); PHOTO, B/W, Tim Dillon, USA TODAY; PHOTO, Color, Tim
Johnson, Reuters; Marching to court: Enron former chief Jeffrey Skilling is
escorted to court Thursday in Houston. Charged on 35 counts, Skilling has long
proclaimed his innocence. <>Richard Causey, chief accounting officer: He was
originally indicted in January. A new indictment unsealed Thursday charges him
with conspiracy to commit securities fraud, 20 counts of securities fraud, eight
counts of wire fraud and two counts of illegal inside trading. <>Andrew Fastow,
chief financial officer: He pleaded guilty last month to one charge of
conspiracy to commit wire fraud and one charge of conspiracy to commit wire and
securities fraud. He faces a 10-year sentence and is cooperating with
prosecutors. <>Ben Glisan, corporate treasurer: He pleaded guilty to conspiracy
to commit wire and securities fraud in September and is serving a five-year
sentence. <>Michael Kopper, Enron finance executive: He helped create and manage
some of the off-the-books partnerships that prosecutors say were used to
manipulate Enron's finances. He pleaded guilty to fraud and money laundering in
August 2002 and implicated his boss, Andrew Fastow. His sentencing is scheduled
for October.

TYPE: COVER STORY

                      Copyright 2004 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              93 of 132 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    February 23, 2004, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Tide turns from risk to stalwarts

BYLINE: Adam Shell

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 463 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK

NEW YORK -- The risky stocks that posted the biggest gains last year are now
being viewed by investors as just plain risky.

In the past month investors have been lightening up on speculative,
lower-quality stocks that rebounded sharply from depressed lows in 2003. They
have been funneling cash into higher-quality stocks in more defensive sectors
like drugs and consumer staples.


The shift, or "rotation," could mark the early stages of a transition to a new
group of market leaders, analysts say.

Tech stocks have been hit hardest. The Nasdaq composite, which fell 0.8% last
week and fared worse than blue chips, has seen its early year gain of 7.5%
shrink to 1.7%. Previously hot semiconductor stocks are down 6.4% for the month,
among the worst of Standard & Poor's industry groups. "Money is coming out of
last year's leaders," says John Murphy, chief technical analyst for
StockCharts.com.

The two top groups over the past week and month have been food and staples
retailing, and household and personal products. While these sectors lagged last
year, they are better positioned to do well as the economic recovery moves into
year two.

Most 2004 forecasts expected a "return to quality" -- but later this year. "In
February, high-quality stocks are beating low-quality stocks, so maybe this is a
sign the rotation is getting underway," says Jeffrey Kleintop, chief strategist
at PNC Advisors. High-quality stocks do better than lower-quality names 70% of
the time, he says. But last year, stocks with low ratings bested higher-quality
ones by more than 25 percentage points. Since rallies led by low-quality names
tend to be short-lived, the "gap is likely to close," he adds.

The flight to quality has been speeded up by the Federal Reserve, which last
month signaled higher interest rates could be on the way. Other factors driving
investors back to tried-and-true companies:

 * Less appetite for risk. The good news that gave investors confidence to bid
prices sharply higher in 2003 -- low rates, fat profit margins and accelerating
profit growth -- has been factored in. That's made investors wary of a price
drop. "The big theme for 2004 will be rebalancing portfolio risk," says Chris
Wolfe, head of equities at J.P. Morgan Private Bank.

 * The end of the one-way trade. The way to make money last year was simple: Bet
against the dollar, buy gold, and favor cyclical stocks that do best in the
early stages of an economic recovery. "Now that trade is unwinding," Wolfe says.


 * Swelling valuations. Investors are realizing that many tech stocks have gone
up more than business conditions warrant. "We're late in the game, and
(expensive) stocks are at risk," says Christopher Bonavico, manager of
Transamerica Premier Focus fund.

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, Color, Adrienne Lewis, USA TODAY, Source: PNC Advisors (LINE
GRAPH)

                      Copyright 2004 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              95 of 132 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    March 11, 2004, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

One church topples a bishop

BYLINE: Cathy Lynn Grossman

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 1492 words

DATELINE: EAST LONGMEADOW, Mass.

EAST LONGMEADOW, Mass. -- Ultimately, it wasn't a local prosecutor or an
aggressive attorney for two sexual abuse victims who toppled the Catholic bishop
of Springfield, Mass.

It was the people of his diocese -- led by a small-town priest, an angry dad and
a quiet nun -- who turned the legal spotlight on Bishop Thomas Dupre.

The rebels of St. Michael's parish inspired the mother of a man who says Dupre
raped him when he was 12 to speak out, leading to an investigation that could
make Dupre the first bishop to face criminal charges for sexually abusing
minors.

This is a tale of a letter, of a moral action conducted by collection basket, of
a victim willing to talk once he found a community willing to listen.


For two years, the national spotlight has been on crowds in Boston protesting
their disgraced archbishop, Cardinal Bernard Law, for protecting known abusive
priests. "Boston" became shorthand for the crisis that engulfed the church.

But 90 miles west, the 250,000 Catholics in this diocese also felt the corrosive
effect of church leaders who failed, or refused, to see and to stop the abuse. A
recent report by the John Jay College of Criminal Justice found 4% of U.S.
priests abused 10,667 children and teens in the last half-century. That includes
30 priests accused of abusing 70 children and teens since 1950 in Springfield.

In May 2002, long before those statistics were known, three people said
"Enough": the Rev. James Scahill, 56, pastor of 2,000-member St. Michael's
parish, seven miles southeast of Springfield; Warren Mason, 48, a marketing
expert and father of three sons; and the nun who introduced them, Sister Mary
McGeer, 63, who works with parish families.

The nun, grieving at the prospect of angry parents pulling their children out of
her church, took a vehement letter from Mason to Scahill days after he took over
the parish post. At Mason's urging, Scahill asked parishioners to set aside the
6% of their collections that normally goes to the diocese -- and thus could be
used to fund support payments for abusive priests who have been removed from
ministry.

Scahill has been vilified by church officials for this action ever since. But it
brought Mason -- and 30% more of the town's Catholics -- back to Sunday Mass.

And it created a climate where first one man, then another, sought to press
charges against Dupre after two decades of silence.

Last month, Dupre abruptly resigned at age 70, citing his health. Media reports
say he has been at a psychiatric institute in Maryland known for treating sexual
disorders. He quit the day after a local newspaper asked him about sex with two
boys. Among the paper's sources: an alleged victim's mother who called after
talking with Scahill.

Last week, Hampden County district attorney William Bennett announced he would
go to a grand jury with evidence that Dupre sexually abused the two victims and
may have concealed records to protect other predatory priests in the diocese.
Dupre's attorney said Wednesday that the bishop will have "no comment."

Last Sunday, an ordinary Sunday morning Mass at St. Michael's was as packed as
Easter Sunday.

Every week, the red-brick church's pews overflow with grannies, dads, gurgling
babies, restless tots on moms' laps. Teens and latecomers lean against the
walls.

The Mason family is there once more. A lifelong Catholic with three sons
baptized at St. Michael's, Mason, 48, quit attending Mass in March 2002 after he
saw cardinals equivocating on TV over what to do about abusive priests.

"All parents . . .  should feel appalled and scared at the spin these church
leaders are applying to criminal and immoral acts," he wrote to Scahill's
predecessor. "My faith in God remains stronger than ever! Conversely, my belief
in the (church) . . .  has been shattered."

The pastor didn't reply. But McGeer was struck by Mason's plea for parish
priests to speak up: "Where are their voices now?"

She knows all about silent voices. Nuns' voices have rarely been heard in the
Catholic hierarchy, says McGeer, 63, a Sister of St. Joseph who entered the
teaching order 46 years ago.

"If we had been where decisions are made about parish assignments or dealing
with abuse charges, this whole scandal would never have happened. We give our
lives for children," she says.

She's not a ring-the-alarm-bell activist. Her work has always been home to home,
heart to heart, a steadying arm of faith in difficult times. At Mass, she's the
one cheerfully herding 150 "little angels" into their own special classes.

But in spring 2002, "I had parents in the parish for years, like Mason, who were
going to take their children away," she recalls, eyes brimming with tears.

That prompted McGeer to her own kind of action: She held on to Mason's letter
and gave it to Scahill when he arrived in early May. He called Mason
immediately.

"I told him I wouldn't put more money in the collection basket as long as it was
being used by Dupre to subsidize pedophiles," Mason recalls. He cites one
notorious priest, Richard Lavigne, who pleaded guilty to abusing two altar boys
in 1992. The diocese has paid a $ 1.4 million settlement to 17 victims so far.
Dupre announced in January that Lavigne had been defrocked, but he's still on
the diocese payroll.

"The church can claim they support these abusers out of canon law and charity,
but I say bull-(expletive)! It's just walking-around money for perverts! They
use that money to groom their victims," Mason says. The John Jay report found
nearly 39% of abusive priests enticed victims with alcohol or drugs.

Mason asked Scahill: "How many kids have been abused while Dupre coddled
abusers? How long can we allow this?"

Scahill was unaccustomed to challenging church authority. He went directly from
high school to seminary and then, at age 27, to the priesthood, "the only
profession where young men who have done nothing can be treated like princes."
His first post as a senior pastor, in 1988, was the parish where Lavigne had
served.

"It took a lot of jolts to knock me out of the box of clerical culture where
privilege and power are more important than love and service," Scahill says.

The first jolts: meeting Lavigne's victims. The final jolt: meeting Mason, who
hatched the "6% plan." The parish normally sent 9% of collections to
Springfield: 3% for education and 6% to the general fund. When Scahill called on
the parish to put that money in escrow (now more than $ 50,000 in a local bank),
"they rose and applauded," the priest says.

"People want their priests to stand up and tell them they have the power to make
change," says Mason.

That power, Scahill says, jabbing his index finger at Mason, "you damn well
better remember, Warren, was not yours. It was not mine. It was God's!"

Dupre blasted Scahill in public and private. The diocese vocations director
blamed him for no new applicants for the priesthood last year. There were no
calls from brother priests asking, "How are ya holding up, Jim?" says Scahill.

He's given to quoting the Mass for martyrs and the Prophet Micah, who urges, "Do
justice, love mercy and walk humbly before your God." The prophet says nothing
about calling your bishop a liar to his face. But Scahill, secure in his faith
and the support of the people of St. Michael's, did that, too.

And word of the stand-up parish rippled throughout Massachusetts through an
onslaught of letters and e-mails from Mason.

Then came a stunning surprise that justified all their efforts, the priest says.


Last October, a local woman who had heard of the parish's actions contacted him
saying her son and one of his teenage buddies, both now in their 40s, had been
abused by Dupre himself when her son was 12 and his friend was 15.

She encouraged her son to talk with Scahill. The man contacted his old friend
and fellow victim in California. Their attorney, Roderick MacLeish Jr., says the
man was angered that Dupre spoke out against gay marriage "while Dupre's own
sheets were dirty."

In November, Scahill called Archbishop of Boston Sean O'Malley's private office
and left a message, saying he needed to speak with him about a "dire" matter in
Springfield. He called Massachusetts Attorney General Tom Reilly's office with
the same message.

The archdiocese never called back. A spokesman says they have found no record of
the call, that it may have been dismissed as a "crank call."

Reilly, however, was at St. Michael's within hours. Within four months, Bennett,
the local prosecutor, announced his plan to go to the grand jury. On Tuesday,
the Vatican named a New York auxiliary bishop, Timothy McDonnell, 66, to head
the Springfield diocese.

And next week, the Masses at St. Michael's will be full -- again.

"The people of God gave their church over to their clerics. Now they are taking
it back," says Scahill. "A great thing is happening."

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Color, Nancy Palmieri for USA TODAY; PHOTO, Color, Ben Garver,
The Berkshire Eagle, via AP; PHOTO, B/W, Nancy Palmieri for USA TODAY; Moral
action: The Rev. James Scahill, Sister Mary McGeer and parishioner Warren Mason
of St. Michael's. <>Accused: Retired Bishop Thomas Dupre.

TYPE: COVER STORY

                      Copyright 2004 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              98 of 132 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    April 28, 2004, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Consumer confidence shoots up, home sales surge

BYLINE: Sue Kirchhoff

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 437 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

WASHINGTON -- Consumer confidence jumped in April, and existing home sales hit
near-record levels in March, according to a pair of reports Tuesday offering
fresh evidence the economy is performing smartly.

The New York-based Conference Board said its consumer confidence index jumped to
92.9 in April, from 88.5 in March -- the best reading in three months.
Respondents gave the brightest assessment of current economic conditions in
nearly two years.


"The job market, which has a major impact on confidence, appears to be gaining
strength," says Lynn Franco, director of the Conference Board's Consumer
Research Center. "The percentage of consumers claiming jobs are hard to get is
now at its lowest level since November 2002."

The government earlier this month reported that businesses created an
unexpectedly large 308,000 jobs in March, a sign the sluggish employment market
might be turning around.

The Conference Board found the number of consumers saying business conditions
have improved rose to 21.4% from 20.7% in March, as those saying jobs were hard
to get fell to 27.6% from 29.9%. More than 18% expect more jobs to be available
in the next six months, according to the survey of 5,000 households.

Also Tuesday, the National Association of Realtors said existing home sales
jumped 5.7% in March, hitting a 6.48 million annual pace, second only to the
record of September. Buyers jumped into the market as 30-year mortgage rates
dipped below 5.5%. Since early April, rates have moved nearer to 6%.

"The recent rise in mortgage rates will eventually trim home sales, but a strong
economy with recovering employment should keep sales at elevated levels," says
Steven Wood of Insight Economics.

In past weeks, a number of analysts have beefed up projections of first-quarter
economic growth, based on better-than-expected consumer spending, factory orders
and the March job figures. Some expect the government to announce Thursday that
the economy grew at a 5% to 6% annual clip in the first quarter.

Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan, who has been upbeat about the outlook
in recent testimony, offered a longer-term caution Tuesday. In a speech to the
Center for Strategic and International Studies, he pointed to dramatic price
increases for energy contracts over a six-year horizon.

Greenspan said the prices, if sustained, could affect U.S. energy use and
business decisions, especially regarding natural gas, where prices and supplies
are more volatile. He said better access to world reserves is needed, including
improved technology, markets and infrastructure.

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Robert W. Ahrens, USA TODAY, Source: The Conference Board
(LINE GRAPH)

                      Copyright 2004 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              99 of 132 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                      May 18, 2004, Tuesday, FIRST EDITION

Reporters given tour of improved Abu Ghraib

BYLINE: David J. Lynch

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 929 words

DATELINE: BAGHDAD

BAGHDAD -- Amid continuing controversy over the treatment of Iraqi prisoners,
U.S. Army officials on Monday unveiled dramatic improvements at the prison where
soldiers are accused of routinely abusing their captives.

Inmates at Abu Ghraib prison will enjoy expanded visitation rights, better
hospital facilities and protection against mortar attacks, said Maj. Gen.
Geoffrey Miller, head of the U.S. prison system in Iraq. Iraqi prisoners also
are being relocated from primitive tent camps into better-provisioned tents that
eventually may include air conditioning.

The Army brought a busload of Western and Arab journalists to the sprawling
prison complex west of Baghdad for a briefing on the new arrangements. The
latest in a series of press tours of the Abu Ghraib site, Monday's visit came 48
hours before the first court-martial stemming from the abuse of prisoners here.


Wednesday, Spc. Jeremy Sivits of the 800th Military Police Brigade will go on
trial on charges of dereliction of duty and conspiring to mistreat prisoners.
Sivits is accused of taking photographs of nude prisoners who had been forced
into a "human pyramid," one of the images that has sullied the United States'
global image.

To help rebuild that image, the U.S.-led coalition is facilitating coverage by
local and international journalists. A special courtroom is being set up in
Baghdad's cavernous convention center where an Army colonel will preside over
Sivits' trial. The "special court-martial" provides an expedited handling of
crimes that could carry punishments limited to no more than one year in prison.

At issue in the trial will be the circumstances that transformed Abu Ghraib from
a symbol of Saddam Hussein's repression into a totem of the troubled U.S. effort
in Iraq. Miller, who assumed command of the prison system here last month,
blamed a failure of leadership.

"It appears appropriate leadership may not have been here," he told reporters as
they toured the prison. "We are all embarrassed and ashamed by the actions of a
very small number of leaders and a very small number of soldiers."

Miller, the former head of the U.S. prison at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, was called
in last summer to study Abu Ghraib's operations. In light of the subsequent
scandal, his recommendations for greater involvement by prison guards in
interrogations has drawn scrutiny.

In the Army investigation of the 800th Military Police Brigade, several of whose
members have been accused of abusing prisoners, Maj. Gen. Antonio Taguba quoted
Miller as saying, "It is essential that the guard force be actively engaged in
setting the conditions for successful exploitation of the internees."

Monday, Miller rejected suggestions that this recommendation may have
contributed to the climate that led to guards abusing prisoners. He said he had
suggested only that guards participate in "passive intelligence collection" by
reporting to interrogators information on the mental and physical condition of
inmates. Such involvement by guards, he said, "allowed them to understand the
human dynamics of those who would be interrogated."

The coalition's treatment of prisoners at Abu Ghraib and elsewhere in Iraq has
drawn harsh criticism from human rights organizations. In a report in February,
the International Committee of the Red Cross highlighted "serious violations of
international humanitarian law" including the Geneva Conventions.

Since taking charge, Miller has implemented a number of changes at Abu Ghraib.
His predecessor, reserve Brig. Gen. Janis Karpinski, was criticized in the Army
investigation for not being more visible at the prison. Three days ago, Miller
said he and one of his colonels paid a surprise visit at 2 a.m. to the cellblock
where some of the infamous photographs of abuse were taken.

By the end of this month, the inmate population of 3,000-3,500 will be reduced
to 1,500-2,000 people, Miller said.

Up to 2,000 individuals, many held for months, will be released once officials
formally determine they lack hard evidence of their involvement in serious
attacks against coalition forces.

Officials plan to empty the cellblock where the photographs of prisoners being
humiliated were taken and will relocate all of the prisoners from the most
spartan part of Abu Ghraib, the tent city known as Camp Gancey.

Inmates there, who sleep on wooden floors, will be moved to "Camp Redemption," a
more modern tented site that opened last week. Tents there will have concrete
floors and cots. There are plans to provide mattresses and pillows. And to cope
with summer temperatures of 130 degrees or more, electricity is being put in for
air conditioning or fans.

This week, a visitor center opened, which will boost the number of prisoners
receiving visitors from 30 to 200 per day. Every prisoner will be entitled to
two family visits per month.

The Army also is providing the prisoners better protection against mortar
attacks, a frequent occurrence at Abu Ghraib. On April 21, 28 mortar rounds
exploded inside the prison, killing 22 Iraqi prisoners and injuring 91 others.

In recent weeks, the coalition has deployed concrete bunkers where inmates can
take cover during attacks. Additional sandbags are being provided to ring
prisoners' tents. Officials described the inmates as "happy" with the
improvements.

But as they crowded toward the barbed wire fence to yell and make thumbs-down
gestures at visiting reporters, many seemed discontented. One man held up a
white sign reading in English, "Why are we here?"

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Pool photo by Damir Sagolj; Outside Baghdad: Iraqi
prisoners stand behind razor wire Monday at the Abu Ghraib prison.

                      Copyright 2004 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              102 of 132 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     May 27, 2004, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Colorado punts instead of changing football climate

BYLINE: Christine Brennan

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 11C; Commentary

LENGTH: 797 words

We now know for sure that there is no shame at the University of Colorado. For
three months, we have been treated to some of the more repulsive allegations of
misconduct in the increasingly repugnant world of college football, and now we
hear that no one is going to lose his or her job over it. Apparently, no one
will be fired. And it looks like no one possesses the grace, class or honor to
resign.

However, in true trashy CU football fashion, there will be a party.


The news reports that Colorado President "Buffalo" Betsy Hoffman is going to
keep football coach Gary Barnett and athletics director Dick Tharp produced this
e-mail from the mother of a CU tight end, according to the Associated Press:

"There's going to be an impromptu party the night it is announced that Gary is
reinstated," the CU mom wrote. "It will be in the Boulder area, and most likely
everyone will be asked to bring something."

Perhaps Barnett will bring a covered dish. Booze shouldn't be a problem,
considering Tharp is part-owner of the largest liquor store in Boulder. Talk
about your full-service ADs. Tharp can sell you a beer and offer you a full
ride. And here we thought recruits only visited CU for the strippers.

Tharp has been in charge of CU athletics since 1997. On his watch, it's been a
particularly newsworthy seven-year stretch in Boulder. No fewer than nine women
have alleged that they were sexually assaulted by CU football players or
recruits. The commission investigating the cesspool that is Colorado football
concluded that sex and alcohol were used in recruiting but that there was no
evidence that CU officials "knowingly sanctioned" them. (The report failed to
mention, however, that when a guy owns a liquor store, his hope clearly is that
someone will wander in and buy the merchandise. But not CU football players. No,
never a CU football player.)

The report did criticize Barnett, Tharp, Hoffman and Chancellor Richard Byyny --
CU's Fab Four -- for lax oversight and slow reactions to their problems. But did
this bother the CU Board of Regents enough to make an example of anyone?
Apparently not. The regents last week confirmed that Hoffman's job was safe;
Hoffman then returned the favor by expressing her confidence in Byyny. Funny how
this works.

Now, according to the Rocky Mountain News, Hoffman is bringing Tharp and Barnett
back to complete the quartet, which resolves this pesky distraction once and for
all and allows all good CU fans to focus on the home opener Sept. 4 against
Colorado State. (There is one saving grace: a late report that Tharp's status
might be in limbo.)

Because we live in an era when a president can lead us into a debate of what the
meaning of "is" is, we shouldn't be surprised that a group of so-called leaders
like the Colorado Four would run away from taking blame -- real, serious,
life-altering blame -- for allegations and events that occurred on their watch.
We shouldn't be surprised that they would not do what their grandparents
certainly would have done in a similar circumstance: resign. One, some, all.

These four people were at the helm, in some way or other, of a ship that sank.
And reports say that not a one of them is going down with it. That must be some
kind of NCAA record.

There once was a time when self-respect would have dictated to a smart man like
Barnett that it was time to honorably step down, even if you couldn't have known
about everything that was going on. You are the head coach. Your team is your
responsibility. End of story. Some might defend you by saying it happens at
other universities. Yes, it does. But don't you have enough dignity to set your
standards higher than other coaches with problem programs? Don't you believe
that it's unacceptable to have your name associated with this kind of nonsense?

But why pick solely on Barnett? It's all four of them. Heck, it's practically
half of America these days.

CU officials will tell you that they really are making changes and that things
are going to be different from now on in Boulder, with stricter oversight by the
university of its football program. Recruiting will be different. How different,
we do not know; we have not yet been able to confirm the rumor that when high
school seniors visit Boulder, they will be given milk and cookies and tucked
into bed by Barnett or one of his assistants at 10 p.m.

But now that Tharp and Barnett apparently are back in business, so,
unmistakably, is Colorado football. Whether things have changed will take time
to tell. However, an early indication will come if Barnett does what he should
do and tells those over-industrious CU football moms that this is absolutely no
time for a celebration and, no, he's not bringing a casserole.

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              105 of 132 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     June 22, 2004, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Olympic pressure doesn't weigh on shot putter

BYLINE: Ray Glier; Special for USA TODAY

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 3C

LENGTH: 1124 words

If U.S. shot putter Christian Cantwell makes it to Athens for the Olympics, he
promises more than courage on his sport's biggest stage. He promises
indifference.

"Just another track meet," he says with a shrug.

Oh?

"You better treat it the same, the same 16-pound ball, the same 7-foot ring,"
says the 23-year-old from Eldon, Mo., one of track and field's hottest young
stars. "If you don't, you're in trouble. Why make it something it's not?"


Cantwell does not want the mental leash of pressure to hold him back in the
coming weeks when he has to win a spot on the U.S. team at the Olympic trials in
Sacramento to go for gold in Athens. He has the best throws in the world
because, so far, he refuses to "get freaked out" by an event.

For now, all the pressure is on Cantwell's rivals, who include former Olympic
medalists John Godina and Adam Nelson. Cantwell, who won the Titan Games, a
pre-Olympic international meet, Friday in Atlanta and then flew to Eugene, Ore.,
to win the Prefontaine Classic on Saturday, has the longest throw in the world
this year, 73 feet, 11 inches. He also has the next two longest. He has won 14
consecutive shot put competitions.

"I can go out and throw in a forest, or I can go out and throw on a boat," he
says. "It doesn't matter to me.  . . .  It's you vs. the tape measure. It's
black and white. It's not anybody you're throwing against; it's the tape
measure. Why change it?"

Olympic veterans probably smirk at such bravado from a young thrower. In a sport
where the peak age often can be in the late 20s, they have seen young hopefuls
act as if they are whistling past a graveyard pretending not to notice doom. The
youngsters melt in the pressure.

Cantwell promises not to melt.

A body of power

It's not hard to see how Cantwell can heave a shot put farther than anyone else.
When he stepped on to a large shuttle bus for a trip to the airport following
his win at the Titan Games, he didn't just fill the doorway, he had to squeeze
through.

Cantwell, 6-6, 325 pounds, has what other shot putters describe as "farm boy
power." Not coincidentally, Cantwell grew up in farm country. Eldon has a
population of 4,000. His father, Bob, has been a truck driver 37 years. His
mother, Jackie, took care of eight children. Christian was the youngest, and his
mother called him "Baby Huey."

Cantwell played football in high school but not, per Jackie's wishes, in
college. He stuck to fishing and track and field.

As a high school thrower, though, he was not even the star in central Missouri.
In fact, the University of Missouri had just $ 1,700 left in scholarship money
when throws coach Brett Halter started hearing about a giant teen with raw
power.

"At first, I thought he was a myth," Halter says. "People told us we ought to go
down and see this high school kid. I thought they were talking about one of our
other recruits from down there, Russ Bell."

Halter says he got a call from someone in Eldon who said Cantwell just had
beaten Bell in the shot put. The next day Halter says he drove to Eldon to watch
Cantwell throw 59 feet. Two days later, the teenage thrower was on campus
talking with head track coach Rick McGuire.

Cantwell, however, did not take the Big 12 Conference by storm. Three meets into
his freshman year, he wanted to quit because he couldn't reach 60 feet.

"Oh, I don't know if I would have quit," says Cantwell, who ended up a
seven-time All-American. "I was sitting in a corner feeling sorry for myself."

Halter continued to work with him on technique and explain that such stretches
are not unusual in the transition from high school to college. By Cantwell's
sophomore year at Missouri, he bench pressed 610 pounds, according to Halter.

"He's way bigger than all of us and that's his biggest advantage, his natural
size," says Godina, who has won Olympic silver and bronze. "I don't think a lot
of guys his size can pull off what he does (right leg whip). That's impressive."


Cantwell has size, but he has also honed his technique with that leg whip. He
starts his throws like a lot of other shot putters: back to the throwing area,
ball under chin. Then he goes into a spin, his right leg swinging out and high.

"He has figured out the biomechanics," Halter says. "He's figured out a personal
style that works. When you get that kind of mass going in one direction, it's
difficult to stay in 7 feet of space."

Technique plus power

A year removed from a career-threatening hand injury, Cantwell climbed past
Godina and Nelson in the world rankings this spring and is favored heading into
the Olympic trials July 9.

Given the climate around track with drug scandals, there is suspicion about a
thrower who gained 3 feet on his throws in a year. Cantwell, fifth in the 2000
Olympic trials, threw 70-11 his senior season at Missouri in 2003.

A year later, he's past 73 feet. He understands how cynics wonder about his
jump. And Halter says there is a logical explanation for Cantwell's improvement.


"I think people are suspicious because they think he got good in a hurry," the
Missouri coach says. "But if you look at it, he was competing with an injury
last year. When he got better and his hand didn't hurt, then he could really
perform and improve his distance."

Cantwell said the injury -- a tendon sheath had torn loose in his right ring
finger, not uncommon for shot putters -- nearly forced him into surgery and
threatened his career. He couldn't close his hand without pain. The pills he
took for the pain ate at his stomach for 1 1/2 years. The injury was healed with
therapy.

The result is a shot putter to contend with on the international stage. What
makes Cantwell a tough out is his ability to pop off a winning throw at the
start of competition.

"A throw like that early puts a lot of pressure on the others," Cantwell says.
"That's an advantage I have.  . . .  I'm ready to go right off the bat. I don't
have to work into it. Just sit back and let everyone else fight. You can
conserve energy and have it if you need it."


Where to see top hopeful

On Aug. 18, Christian Cantwell hopes to walk into Ancient Olympia Stadium and be
crowned champion in the shot put, an event derived from the ancient Greek sport
of throwing stones.

First, he will have to earn a spot on the U.S. team. Track and field trials are
July 9-18 at Alex G. Spanos Sports Complex in Sacramento. Shot put qualifying is
set for 9:10 p.m. ET July 9; finals are 7:30 p.m. ET July 10.

Can't wait to see Cantwell? Tune in to the Outdoor Life Network on Saturday from
2:30-3:30 p.m. ET for tape of the Titan Games shot put competition, featuring
Cantwell, John Godina, Adam Nelson and Reese Hoffa.

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Color, Greg Wahl-Stephens, AP; PHOTO, B/W, Greg Wahl-Stephens,
AP; PHOTO, B/W, Robert Hanashiro, USA TODAY; Dr. Seuss, Olympic-style: I can go
out and throw in a forest, or I can go out and throw on a boat," says Christian
Cantwell, who has won 14 consecutive shot put competitions. Improvement by a
yard: Christian Cantwell's throws went up by 3 feet in a year after a hand
injury healed.

                      Copyright 2004 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              110 of 132 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                  September 1, 2004, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Retirement place rated best: Florence, Ore.

BYLINE: Bob Minzesheimer

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 444 words

Florence, Ore., a coastal community 180 miles southwest of Portland, is the best
place to retire in the USA, according to the sixth edition of Retirement Places
Rated (Wiley, $23.99), published today.

The statistical study, first done in 1983, reflects a continuing shift from
Florida as a retirement haven to the Northwest, the Rocky Mountains and the
desert Southwest. The study of 203 places uses data in six categories: cost of
living, climate, crime, economy, ambience (historic preservation, performing
arts, restaurants) and services (hospitals, libraries, continuing education).


Florence and surrounding Lane County (pop. 338,000) rose from No. 30 in the last
study, conducted in 1999, thanks to a better ambience and local economy. Its
only drawback: a higher-than-average crime rate.

Florida retains two spots in the top 10: No. 4 Melbourne-Palm Bay and No. 9
Daytona Beach. But editor David Savageau sees "a slow but perceptible slide (in)
retirement appeal because of population growth, crime, hurricanes, politics and
because boomers view it as their gray-haired parents' retirement spot."

Among surprises he found:

 * California is back as a retirement destination despite earthquakes,
brushfires, mud slides and budget crises. It's now holding onto its older adults
and attracting older newcomers, especially in Coachella Valley. During the
1990s, it exported more older adults than it attracted. * Tucson, No. 6 overall,
is No. 1 in ambience for its historic neighborhoods, good restaurants,
performing arts and the great outdoors.

 * Las Vegas is becoming too expensive. Suburban Henderson County dropped from
No. 3 in 1999 to No. 53 partly because of rising housing costs.

Other retirement trends:

 * Seasonal residences. For example, living in Las Vegas in winter and upper
Michigan in summer.

 * Serial relocation. Retirees who keep moving, spending perhaps two years in
each location, rehabbing a home and selling it at a profit.

 * Living nowhere. About 1 million people are full-time RV enthusiasts.

 * Small-group time-sharing. Households buy a variety of properties and rotate
between them.


Also rated highly

The top 10 communities in the new edition of Retirement Places Rated and their
ratings in 1999 (movement caused in part by changes in methodology and
definition of geographic areas):

Now /1999

1. Florence, Ore. 30

2. Scottsdale, Ariz. 7

3. Charleston, S.C. 2

4. Melbourne-Palm Bay, Fla. 26

5. Northern San Diego 25

County

6. Tucson 8

7. Medford-Ashland, Ore. 11

8. Lake Winnipesaukee, N.H. 79

9. Daytona Beach 17

10. Fayetteville, Ark. 21

LOAD-DATE: September 01, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              113 of 132 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   September 17, 2004, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Sidewalk scooters make D.C. sightseeing a breeze

BYLINE: Kitty Bean Yancey; Jerry Shriver; Craig Wilson

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 492 words

<>TRAVEL<>

Question: How can you see the sights in Washington on two wheels without moving
your legs?

Answer: By taking an electric-powered Segway scooter tour, which made its debut
Thursday.

Visitors can stand on the scooters and roll on sidewalks past the White House,
the Vietnam Veterans Memorial, the Washington Monument, the National Mall and
the U.S. Capitol.

The four-hour, $65 guided outings are the latest offering from City Segway
Tours, which also are available in Paris and Nice, France, Chicago and New
Orleans. Tours in all locations can be booked via 877-734-8687 or
citysegwaytours.com.


-- Kitty Bean Yancey

<>FOOD & WINE<>

When politics amounts to a hill of beans

Whether the presidential election season finds you in a blue state, a red state
or a state of denial, you probably could use a good brew-ha-ha right about now.

That's the pun-ishingly clever idea behind a new line of upscale coffee beans
called Political Grounds from Seattle-based Rushmore Enterprises. Each style of
bean comes in a 1-pound bag bearing what the producers say is a politically
incorrect label.

Among the offerings: Roast the French (French roast); Yasser R a-Rat (medium
Guatemalan); Say Howdy Saudi (decaf); Kerry's Camelot Cafe (Colombian); Osama's
Mama (Costa Rican); Grounds for Divorce (Ethiopian); Jumpin' Jihad Java
(Sumatran); and Flubba-Dubya's Campfire Coffee (Kenya).

The beans are sold over the Internet (politicalgrounds.com) for $10.95 to $11.70
a pound. Samples were given to delegates at both political conventions this
summer, and, says Rushmore CEO Michael Wilson, Roast the French emerged as the
most popular.

"The climate is right," he says. "Americans love two things: premium coffee, and
they love to laugh. We wanted the two together in one package."

Wilson says the labels will change as current events warrant. And even if the
idea sounds drippy, keep in mind that 50 cents from the sale of each pound of
coffee is to be reserved for a charitable trust that finances humanitarian
projects.

-- Jerry Shriver

<>AT HOME<>

Fall's colors scream: No more beige

Another year, another hot color. Or colors, in this case.

They're brasher, brighter and, well, more colorful.

"It's just not acceptable anymore to define yourself as a neutral," says Jason
Feldman, director of style, innovation and design for Home Depot. He adds that
this new love of color isn't just for walls; it spills over into home
accessories, kitchen countertops and lighting.

Pantone, the color institute that forecasts color trends, predicts a spectrum
for 2005 that runs from dramatic browns and camels to crimsons and shocking
pinks, purples and blackberry.

What's next? A return to beige? Not likely.

"High sheen, almost glistening, metallic colors," Feldman says.

"It's a little too fashion-forward for most people right now, but you can see it
coming."

-- Craig Wilson

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Color, City Segway Tours; PHOTO, Color, Leslie Smith Jr., USA
TODAY; PHOTO, Color; No walking needed: For $65 an outing, tourists in the
nation's capital can put some zip in their visit. <>Have a political ax to
grind? Say it with coffee. <>Hot samples: Hues like Tutti Frutti, Blueberry
Twist.

                      Copyright 2004 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              117 of 132 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    October 11, 2004, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Wal-Mart doesn't plan to toy much with prices

BYLINE: Lorrie Grant

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 8B

LENGTH: 876 words

Toy retailing is likely to bring joy to more than children this holiday shopping
season.

Wal-Mart, No. 1 seller of toys and the industry's price leader, is expected to
cut competitors some slack by not maintaining such cut-throat pricing as last
year.

Its aggressive "loss leader" pricing on popular toys last year lured millions of
consumers from traditional toy stores. While it recouped some of the margins
from sales of other products in its massive selection, stalwarts Toys R Us, KB
Toys and FAO Schwarz were critically wounded. Now it believes it doesn't need to
cut as much.


"Wal-Mart felt they left money on the table by cutting prices deeper than they
needed to in order to get the sale," says Sean McGowan, analyst at Harris
Nesbitt. "So this year, while they will be the lowest priced and very
promotional, they may, for example, be only a $1 less than Toys R Us rather than
$5 less on some items."

The Bentonville, Ark.-based discount giant declined comment beyond affirming its
commitment to its "everyday low prices."

"We will continue to focus on bringing value to our customers throughout the
entire store," spokeswoman Sharon Weber says.

Half of all toy sales take place during the holiday. The industry is expected to
finish flat to slightly down this year at about $20 billion for traditional toys
and an additional $5 billion for video games.

So Wayne, N.J.-based Toys R Us, the second-biggest toy seller, can only hope for
easing price rivalry. It took a drubbing last year from Wal-Mart and rival
discounter Target (whose heavy toy promotions to carve out a place in the
business helped push Wal-Mart's pricing strategy).

Toys R Us recently announced that it may leave the toy business if its prospects
don't improve. On the heels of shuttering its Kids R Us stores and educational
toy chain Imaginarium, the chain now is using sharp discounts to thin excess
inventory. And it has already begun its holiday appeal with newspaper inserts
advertising new items, discounts and gift cards.

"We'll have great products, lots of exclusives, fantastic value and a great
store experience," says Ray Arthur, CFO of Toys R Us.

That enthusiasm must infect consumers if Toys R Us, the last specialty toy
retailer standing firm, is to remain.

Former contender FAO Schwarz (parent of Zany Brainy) buckled under the pricing
pressure from discount chains and liquidated as last holiday season drew to a
close. KB Toys operates significantly fewer stores now under bankruptcy
protection.

"Since this time last year, the toy industry has lost nearly 500 dedicated toy
retailing stores," McGowan adds.

That would seem to improve prospects for Toys R Us to snag consumers who want to
dodge long lines at discount stores or those who seek more than Teen Titans,
Bratz and Star Wars top sellers in those stores' more limited lineups.

But analysts say Toys R Us may need more ideas, such as unique gift card options
and co-op branding with other retailers to survive.

"It's time for Toys R Us to think outside the box," says Dhruv Grewal, professor
of marketing and retail at Babson College. "It needs to expand the categories it
carries so that there are several discretionary things for people to buy at one
time, including books, music, video games and DVDs."

But challenges remain industrywide:

 * No buzz. No toy has emerged as a "must have" to boost the $20 billion
industry, raising the specter of another holiday season of flat to slightly
lower sales. If so, it would mark the industry's fourth consecutive year of poor
performance.

"Sales will be down 2% to 4% for the year at about $19.4 billion compared with
$19.8 billion last year," says Anthony Gikas, retail analyst at Piper Jaffray.
"Through June, sales were down 4% vs. down 2% in the period a year ago."

A bright spot in traditional toys, however, is the plush category's return of
Cabbage Patch Kids.

"There's an opportunity in the market where there hasn't been a lot of real sexy
product releases, and there's always kids in the age range for plush toys,"
Gikas says.

 * E-cannibalization. Kids are getting older younger. They're playing video
games at a younger age and getting onto computers at a younger age.

Because kids are attracted to electronic toys earlier, the video game sector is
growing fastest, cannibalizing some sales from traditional toys.

This year, the video game sector is due to have a very strong December with the
release of high-profile products for the holiday, including Grand Theft Auto San
Andreas, the latest in the popular series.

Sales of video game software are expected to rise 8% this year to $6.3 billion
compared with a gain of 5% a year ago when sales were $5.8 billion, Gikas says.

 * The economy. Consumers are already cautious with every penny. Even discount
giant Wal-Mart is not overly confident about the general climate of spending as
surging oil prices continue to depress discretionary spending.

"Whether the economy, election or war in Iraq, consumer confidence and outlook
are shaky. It looks like it's going to be a tough go," says Gary Ruffing, head
of the Retail Services Group at management consulting firm BBK.

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Sam Ward, USA TODAY, Source: The NPD Group/NPD
Funworld/Consumer Panel (BAR GRAPH); PHOTO, B/W, Leslie Smith Jr., USA TODAY;
PHOTO, B/W, Richard Drew, AP; Bright spot: Cabbage Patch Kids, popular in the
1980s, are back and expected to be a plus in the plush category. <>Flashback:
Renee Silver, 11, plays with a Cabbage Patch doll at the Toy Industry
Association's Oct. 5 holiday preview in New York.

                      Copyright 2004 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              118 of 132 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    October 12, 2004, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

What say Tritt, Mellencamp? Duet to it

BYLINE: Elysa Gardner

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 485 words

Why would a country music star who wants to keep George W. Bush in the White
House record a politically charged single with a rock icon who is touring swing
states to encourage the president's ouster?

Travis Tritt, whose duet with outspoken Bush critic John Mellencamp, What Say
You, rose to No. 28 on this week's Airplay Monitor country chart, can list four
reasons.

"First, I'm a big fan of John's music. I also respect his integrity, that he
does things the way he thinks they should be done, which is the way I run my
career. And I thought our voices would work well together.


"And as an added bonus, that John is coming from the far left and I'm from the
far right illustrates what this song is about."

On What Say You, the singers exchange lines such as "I believe that there's a
basic good in the heart of every man.  . . .  That North and South and black and
white can somehow get along."

Tritt believes the lyrics speak for Americans who are "becoming tired of all the
partisanship and bickering that is going on. It's getting harder and harder to
find common ground, and this song is saying, 'I have my opinions, but I'm not so
stubborn and dogmatic that I can't sit down and listen to yours.' "

Mellencamp, who shot a video for the single with Tritt a few weeks ago, agrees
with his duet partner -- on this point, at least. "As much as Travis and I
differ politically, there's no weirdness at all when you see us together."

Billboard/Airplay Monitor Nashville bureau chief Phyllis Stark sees the single's
"slow and steady build" as evidence of country radio's growing openness to both
performers and political perspectives not typically associated with the format.
"Even though Tritt's ideology is squarely in the camp of most country listeners,
it's brave for him to put on an artist with a different point of view. In this
environment, nobody wants to be Dixie-Chicked."

Mellencamp in fact joined the Dixie Chicks (who were banned by many country
stations after unflattering remarks about President Bush), Bruce Springsteen and
other name acts on the Vote for Change tour that aimed to persuade undecided
voters not to re-elect Bush.

In contrast to Tritt, who says he prefers not to wax political on stage or on
disc, the Indiana-based singer/songwriter has penned a number of protest songs,
among them the wry Texas Bandito, which he unveiled at a Kerry fundraiser this
summer.

The tune has not yet been recorded, though Mellencamp's two-CD hits compilation,
Words & Music, due Oct. 19, features two new social-commentary songs, Thank You
and single Walk Tall, that reinforce his longstanding intolerance for
intolerance.

"Hopefully, Walk Tall will be a song that people can find some strength in. In
today's climate, people need to hear something that gives them courage to be
what they want to be," Mellencamp says.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Color, Tony Phipps; Turn right, go left: Country singer Travis
Tritt, left, and rocker John Mellencamp film the video for new single What Say
You.

                      Copyright 2004 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              120 of 132 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   October 28, 2004, Thursday, FIRST EDITION

Calif. measures may sway nation

BYLINE: John Ritter

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 994 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO

SAN FRANCISCO -- When California speaks, the rest of America usually listens,
and voters here are poised once again to approve measures likely to reverberate
in other states and Congress.

Long seen as the 800-pound gorilla of direct democracy, California was the first
state or among the first to use citizen initiatives to cap property-tax
increases, limit state legislators' terms, legalize medical marijuana and ban
smoking in bars. Those pioneering votes inspired many imitators.

On Tuesday, Californians will decide two more: whether to commit $6 billion to
stem cell research and to require companies to offer health insurance to their
workers and pay most of the premiums.


If both measures pass, they could tilt the dynamics of two of the USA's most
contentious issues, experts say. The insurance measure would buoy advocates of
health-care restructuring stymied by well- financed foes and congressional
inaction. Backers of stem-cell research see the California measure as a way to
get around the Bush administration's ban on spending federal dollars for nearly
all stem-cell research.

"California has always been the litmus test for organizations wishing to set a
national trend," says M. Dane Waters, chairman of the Initiative and Referendum
Institute, a non-profit research group at the University of Southern California.
"If these measures pass, I think you'll definitely see clones" by the 2006
election cycle.

A third measure getting national notice would scale back California's
three-strikes law, voter-mandated a decade ago but now seen as out of step with
the rest of the country. California is the only state among 23 with
three-strikes laws where any third felony conviction -- shoplifting, burglary,
car theft -- can trigger a third-strike life sentence. Proposition 66 would
require the third strike to be a serious or violent felony.

The Arnold factor

The three measures, among 16 on the ballot, have sparked the multimillion-dollar
ad wars typical of California political campaigns but with a new twist: the star
power of Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger. The Republican governor's lofty approval
ratings in a mostly Democratic state make his support coveted more than that of
his recent predecessors.

"Schwarzenegger's endorsement is the grand prize. It's an Oscar, an Emmy and a
Tony all wrapped into one," says Jack Pitney, political science professor at
Claremont McKenna College outside Los Angeles. The governor's early attacks on
two measures to expand Indian casinos are credited with their dismal poll
numbers.

But whether his clout proves decisive on others is uncertain. The stem-cell
measure, Proposition 71, is leading narrowly in polls, and the governor's
backing is expected to put it over the top.

Researchers hope to turn human stem cells, early embryonic cells that are life's
building blocks, into replacement tissue to treat spinal cord injuries and
diseases such as Alzheimer's, Parkinson's and juvenile diabetes. Conservative
opponents liken the research to abortion because it destroys microscopic
embryos.

Schwarzenegger's father-in-law, Sargent Shriver, suffers from Alzheimer's, but
the governor touts the measure for its economic benefit.

"We daringly led the way for the high-tech industry, and now voters can help
ensure we lead the way for the biotech industry," he says.

Proposition 71 would authorize a $6 billion bond issue to form a private
institute to fund the research. Schwarzenegger brushed aside critics worried
that more borrowing on top of $15 billion in bonds approved last year to ease a
budget deficit would put the state in a deeper hole. He says the first
Proposition 71 bond payments wouldn't be due for five years.

Schwarzenegger has aligned with business against Proposition 72, the
health-insurance measure. It would require employers with more than 200 workers
to pay at least 80% of their premiums starting in 2006. Critics say it would
inflate California's image as unfriendly to business.

It would grant health coverage to 1.4 million of California's 6 million
uninsured. But businesses say the added costs would put them at a competitive
loss and force many to leave the state. Opponents, who've raised $8.5 million,
include McDonald's, Pizza Hut, Taco Bell, Macy's, Sears and Office Depot.

Unions and the California Medical Association have helped raise $6.8 million for
Proposition 72. Schwarzenegger says it would damage the state's job climate, but
a Field Poll released last week shows it winning by 16 points.

Three-strikes law targeted

Health-care overhauls have been defeated in other states, including Oregon's
attempt in 2002 to pass universal health care. But Waters says the nation is
ripe for grass-roots change.

"Health-care reform hasn't been addressed to the people's liking by legislatures
or Congress," he says. "There's no doubt that victory in California will cause
other states to take up the banner."

Schwarzenegger opposes Proposition 66, which would soften the three-strikes law,
but voters by 62% to 21% favor it, according to a Los Angeles Times poll last
week. In 1994, a period of high crime fears and publicity over Polly Klaas, a
12-year-old who was kidnapped and murdered, voters approved it by 74%.

Proposition 66's opponents, including Attorney General Bill Lockyer and the
state's district attorneys, say the law should be revised but argue that 66 goes
too far because it could release thousands of violent criminals.

The state estimates that 4,000 inmates would qualify for resentencing if the
measure passes.

California has more than 42,000 people imprisoned under three strikes, compared
with 7,631 in the next closest state, Georgia, according to the Justice Policy
Institute, a non-profit group that advocates less reliance on prisons to control
crime. More than 200 inmates are serving 25-years-to-life terms for stealing a
car, state figures show.

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Dino Vournas, AP; PHOTO, B/W, Chris Pizzello, AP; PHOTO,
B/W, Diana Mulvihill, Inland Valley Daily Bulletin, via AP; Proposition 72:
Frankie Roy, right, and other labor activists demonstrate Tuesday in front of a
Wal-Mart in San Jose for employer-funded health insurance. <>Proposition 71:
Researcher Carolyn Lutzko lines up embryonic stem cells under a microscope for
actor Brad Pitt, who backs such research, to examine Tuesday at Childrens
Hospital in Los Angeles. <>Proposition 66: Sherry Souza, whose son died in a
drunken-driving crash and who spoke out against the measure, is comforted by
Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger Oct. 20 in Ontario, Calif.

                      Copyright 2004 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              121 of 132 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   October 28, 2004, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Cassini probe's first flyby of Titan reveals some surprises

BYLINE: Dan Vergano

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 4D

LENGTH: 458 words

NASA scientists, looking at the first close-up images of Titan, were able to
peer through the atmosphere of the Saturn moon enough to see a checkered
landscape under surprisingly clear skies.

At a Wednesday briefing at NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena, Calif.,
scientists unveiled the first high-resolution images from the Cassini-Huygens
spacecraft's flyby of Titan. The images show a surface of bright and dark
regions streaked by unknown materials in some locales, and a lower atmosphere
with few clouds.


On Tuesday, the $3.27 billion international space probe passed within 730 miles
of Titan, the second-largest moon in the solar system. (Jupiter's ice moon
Ganymede is the biggest.)

"With the sun at our backs, we had an ideal view down to the surface," said
mission imaging team chief Carolyn Porco of the Space Science Institute in
Boulder, Colo. "We are still mystified and not quite sure what we are looking
at," she added. Scientists await more data and radar images today.

Larger than either Mercury or Pluto, Titan has interested planetary scientists
for decades. The moon's thick, nitrogen-rich atmosphere, swathed in an orange
methane haze at its upper levels, is thought to hide a frozen world with an
atmospheric chemistry similar to Earth's more than 4 billion years ago. While
the early images suggest Titan's landscape is regularly resurfaced, scientists
still cannot tell whether icequakes or weather cause the seemingly crater-free
surface seen in the images.

One surprise for scientists was that sensors suggested Titan's dark and light
regions are made of the same stuff, a mixture of ice and naturally occurring
tar, despite their differences in brightness. The find may indicate that a
coating covers Titan's surface, much like the dust that coats Mars and obscures
the chemistry of the bedrock below.

Streaks seen in the surface images resemble features on both Mars and Venus,
said astronomer Antonin Bouchez of Hawaii's W.M. Keck Observatory, who is not a
member of the mission team.

"The spacecraft is in great shape," said JPL's Earl Maize, aside from a software
glitch on an infrared imaging instrument that scientists expect to resolve by
today. The flyby allowed engineers to refine their computer programs of Titan's
gravity and atmosphere so Cassini can safely plunge by the moon at altitudes as
low as 590 miles on future passages. "The idea was to dip our toes into the
lowest altitude we know is safe," Maize said.

The pass also revealed that the thickness of Titan's atmosphere has diminished
by three-fourths during the moon's lifetime. A thicker atmosphere would have
produced a bigger greenhouse effect, notes Bouchez, raising the moon's surface
temperature.

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, NASA/JPL/Space Science Institute via Getty Images; Light
and dark: An image from the Cassini probe shows Titan's regions of light and
dark material, which are thought to be a mix of ice and tar.

                      Copyright 2004 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              123 of 132 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    October 29, 2004, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Here's a revolutionary idea: A tour based on Che's forays

BYLINE: Laura Bly; Jayne Clark; Jerry Shriver; Craig Wilson

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 508 words

<>TRAVEL<>

The legendary guerrilla's beret-topped visage has graced posters and T-shirts on
college campuses worldwide, and he's the focus of a new movie, The Motorcycle
Diaries, that chronicles his coming-of-age travels across rough South American
terrain.

Now, dewy-eyed radicals and intrepid tourists can retrace Argentina-born Ernesto
"Che" Guevara's doomed effort to transplant the Cuban revolution to Bolivia,
where soldiers executed him in October 1967. The "Che Trail," a self-guided
five-day trek through remote stretches of one of Latin America's poorest
countries, includes stops at Quebrada del Yuro, where the wounded revolutionary
was captured, and La Higuera, where he died. Information: careusa.org


-- Laura Bly

Find it cheaper, get a coupon

Orbitz is promoting a "Low Fare Promise" that guarantees a $50 coupon to
customers who buy an airline ticket on the Web site and then find a cheaper
online fare elsewhere.

The caveats: The fare must be at least $5 under Orbitz's (excluding service
fees) for the same flight and for domestic flights only. Claims must be made the
same day as the Orbitz booking, and the $50 is only for travel purchases on
Orbitz.

 -- Jayne Clark

<>FOOD & WINE<>

What's red, white and blue -- and clear?

J.B. Wagoner was just looking for some landscaping for his property in the hills
near Temecula, Calif. But eight years later, that planting has resulted in
Temequila (tem-eh-KEE-la), a rare, American-made version of tequila.

The plants that happened to grow well in the Temecula climate were blue agave,
used in Mexico's famed spirit. Wagoner's version uses his plants and mature ones
from Mexico. For legal reasons he can't call his product tequila, so Temequila
($58 retail) is labeled as agave distilled spirit. It will be available in
California from Skyrocket Distillers Nov. 12. A national rollout is planned soon
after.

It's 100-proof (most tequilas are around 80) and forgoes the usual aging in oak
barrels to preserve the "unadulterated" taste of the agave, Wagoner says. "You
can sip it in a snifter, like a fine liqueur."

-- Jerry Shriver

<>AT HOME<>

History in the (furniture) making

Always wanted to sleep in the Lincoln bed at the White House but didn't want to
pay the political price? You're in luck. You can now have your sleep and keep
your campaign contribution, too.

The History Company in Ithaca, N.Y., is offering a reproduction, right down to
the "grapevine" design and 8-foot-high mahogany headboard. The only change: It
has been queen-sized.

"We offer historic furnishings that have a connection to people," says Jeffrey
Turback of the 2-year-old History Company. "The Lincoln bed is one of the most
prized possessions in the White House."

Not as much as a political donation, perhaps, but the bed will still cost you:
It retails for $6,900.

The company also makes a reproduction of the Resolute desk in the Oval Office.
One will be in the Clinton Library when it opens Nov. 18.

-- Craig Wilson

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Color, David Mercado, Reuters; PHOTO, Color, USA TODAY; PHOTO,
Color, History Company; Political pilgrims: Che" Guevara admirers honor him in
La Higuera, Bolivia, where he met his fate. 100-proof: Temequila, made in the
USA. Lincoln bed replica: A dream deal at $6,900.

                      Copyright 2004 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              128 of 132 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    December 10, 2004, Friday, FINAL EDITION

A sandy, spectacular surprise in the Rockies

BYLINE: Gene Sloan

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 11D

LENGTH: 958 words

DATELINE: ALAMOSA, Colo.

ALAMOSA, Colo.

For Peggy Line, the last 30 feet are the toughest.

"For every step you take, you slide back half a step," the 49-year-old housewife
from Wadena, Minn., says with a laugh as she scrambles up the tallest sand dune
in North America. "You don't gain much."


Line is determined, however, and falling onto her hands and knees, she claws her
way up the last few feet of almost vertical sand to the top of High Dune, which
rises 750 feet from the floor of the surrounding San Luis Valley.

"That was a lot of work," she says, panting as she gazes across an undulating
sea of sand that stretches six miles toward the snow-dusted Sangre de Cristo
Mountains. "But this view is worth it."

Line is one of the first to visit this little-known quirk of nature in southern
Colorado since it became the nation's 58th national park.

Authorized by Congress in 2000, the Great Sand Dunes National Park and Preserve
finally came into being last month after the federal government gained control
of the 97,000-acre Baca Ranch. Though much of the dune field has been designated
a national monument since 1932, it was the addition of this ranch to the west,
two others to the south and portions of the Rio Grande National Forest to the
east that allowed this geological oddity to be upgraded to a national park.

"It's still not huge by the standards of some other national parks, but it's
significant," says Carol Sperling, chief of interpretation for the park.
"There's nothing in America like it."

The new designation is a boon for tourism to the sparsely populated mountain
region.

The dunes spread across the eastern side of the San Luis Valley, a 50-mile-wide
pocket of high-altitude ranchland in the southern Rockies miles from the nearest
major highway. In past years, the sand has drawn fewer than 300,000 people a
year, a tiny fraction of the number that visit parks such as Yosemite and
Yellowstone. But locals already are seeing a surge in visits, Sperling says.

"We're hoping that people stay for at least two nights or more," says Debbie
Donaldson, owner of the Cottonwood Inn, a bed & breakfast in nearby Alamosa,
Colo., the main hub for visitors to the region. "It's a little hidden secret."

With the expansion of the park, outdoor enthusiasts will find new trails for
hiking and horseback riding. Visitors now can trek through the adjacent Sangre
de Cristo Mountains, home to mule deer, elk and bobcats. And Sperling says much
of the former Baca Ranch probably will be opened up to backcountry hikers and
campers over the next few years.

Still, the park's biggest lure always will be the dune field itself. While there
is little wildlife to see (only a few insects and a single mammal, the Ord's
Kangaroo Rat, have adapted to the harsh climate), it's a rare chance for
tourists to play Lawrence of Arabia in America. The soaring dunes seem to go on
forever. Even from 25 miles away they loom like giant brown waves at the edge of
the pinon pine-carpeted mountains.

"I look at them every day out my little window, and I still find them amazing
and enchanting," says Sperling, who has lived in the area for four years.

Sitting in her office at the park, Sperling explains the unusual combination of
factors that created this strange and spectacular landscape. The key is the
southwest wind that blows across the 8,000-foot San Luis Valley, the largest
alpine valley in the world. The winds scoop up sandy particles that erode off
the San Juan Mountains to the west and blow them eastward toward the 14,000-foot
Sangre de Cristo Mountains.

Once there, the sand becomes trapped against the mountains, held in place by
countering winds that blow down from mountain valleys. Two creeks flowing out of
the mountains provide a further barrier to movement by encircling the dunes and
redirecting sand that slides away back toward them.

With the creation of the park, the entire ecosystem around the dunes is now
preserved forever.

"You had the park service, tourism interests and agricultural interests all
coming together," Sperling says. "There was a lot of unity between groups that
don't always find themselves in agreement."

But that isn't what matters to Line, the tourist from Minnesota, as she marvels
at the mountains of sand.

"It's just amazing to think that we're standing on stuff that has blown here
from miles away and has been accumulating for thousands and thousands of years,"
she says. "It's an incredible place."


If you go . . .

Getting there: The Great Sand Dunes National Park and Preserve is 34 miles
northeast of Alamosa, Colo. (pop. 8,800). United Express offers daily commuter
flights to Alamosa's tiny airport from Denver. Or fly to Colorado Springs, about
130 miles northeast of the park, and drive (a three-hour trip).

Where to stay: There are no lodges within the park, but camp sites with
restrooms are available for $12 a night (719-378-6300). Just outside the park is
the motel-like Great Sand Dunes Lodge, open from April to October
(719-378-2900). Most visitors stay in Alamosa, offering nearly a dozen motels,
including a Clarion, Comfort Inn and Best Western. A cozier choice is the
10-room Cottonwood Inn, a Victorian bed-and-breakfast where rooms start at $70,
peak season (800-955-2623; cottonwoodinn.com).

Where to eat: Alamosa has more than a dozen restaurants, including Calvillo's
(traditional Mexican), Trujillo's (Mexican and Continental) and May Wa (Chinese
and Vietnamese). For a caffeine fix, head to funky Milagros Coffee House, which
doubles as a used-book store, cybercafe and art gallery.

Information: Great Sand Dunes National Park, 719-378-6300, nps.gov. Alamosa
Visitors Center, 800-258-7597, alamosa.org.

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, USA TODAY (MAP); PHOTO, B/W, Ed Andrieski; PHOTO, B/W,
Gene Sloan, USA TODAY; Dunescape: Visitors to Colorado's Great Sand Dunes
National Park and Preserve are dwarfed by dunes as much as 750 feet tall, the
biggest in North America. <>It's a sign: Additions to the sign at the Great Sand
Dunes National Park denote the status change from national monument to national
park.

                      Copyright 2004 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              129 of 132 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    December 17, 2004, Friday, FINAL EDITION

A cool Caddy with a great feel

BYLINE: James R. Healey

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 5D

LENGTH: 1403 words

Cadillac cars keep getting better, and the 2005 STS, replacing the sedan once
known as Seville, is the best yet, able to stand among the fine-driving European
sedans.

Two models were tested: a $50,000 V-6, rear-wheel-drive sedan on interstates and
rural gravel roads, and a $67,000 V-8 all-wheel-drive machine commuting and
running errands around home.

The summary: It drives great, looks cool, feels cramped in back and extracts a
pretty penny for the privilege.

The big surprise was the V-6. Though engine power is like money -- there's never
enough -- the 255-horsepower 3.6-liter six-cylinder will leave very few drivers
wanting more. The five-speed automatic transmission snaps off shifts just so.


The 320-hp V-8, of course, is strong but in AWD guise, has a less lively persona
than the V-6 because of the extra weight and friction of the AWD system. In
rear-drive models, the V-8 surprisingly uses less gas than the V-6, government
tests say.

The V-6 cars are from 64 to 373 pounds lighter than V-8 models, according to
Cadillac specifications. Helping performance and hurting mileage, the V-6 cars
have an acceleration-oriented final-drive ratio. When the transmission's in
fifth -- the highest -- gear, the V-6 gearing makes the engine spin about 2.57
times for one turn of the wheels. The V-8, depending on model, requires as few
as 2.07 turns of the engine for one rotation of the wheels. Lower numbers mean
higher mileage but slower acceleration, all else equal.

The surefooted V-8 AWD car wouldn't consider spinning a wheel when floored from
a stop on asphalt covered by heavy rain. Snow and ice are better tests, but
neither was available. Cadillac says the system is honest AWD, sending power to
all wheels all the time -- biased 60% to the rear to retain desirable,
well-balanced, rear-drive handling feel.

On rainy gravel roads, the rear-drive V-6, not surprisingly, hung out its tail
when spurred lightly, but the traction and stability controls kept it from
looping clear around, without much intrusion. You didn't feel as if the car
suddenly took over, as with many such systems. A big orange warning flashed on
the instrument panel, though, announcing that the save-your-keister systems were
active.

Fancy-pants features include a proximity key, which lets you start the car by
pushing a switch if you have the fob in your pocket. No need to stab a key into
a slot. You also can start the car remotely, handy for winter warm-up or if
you're in the witness protection program.

The cruise control on the V-8 test car had a distance setting that would keep
the STS from getting any closer to the car ahead than the distance you set. It
could be handy on low-traffic interstates. But including it can complicate what
should be the simple act of setting the conventional speed-holding cruise.

Impressive in all circumstances:

 * Steering. True on-center, a simple feat that's apparently not easy, judging
by how seldom it's done right. It's responsive when the wheel's turned, neither
twitchy nor sluggish. GM power steering often has a grainy, artificial feel, but
not so on the STS.

 * Chassis. It's the so-called sigma platform that's also the basis of the SRX
SUV. It feels stable -- as it should with about 6 billion stability-enhancement
gizmos -- and blessed with a hard-to-achieve combination of minimal body lean in
corners, plus a reasonably smooth and comfortable ride. To get that combo, you
usually have to pay European . . .  oh, Caddy's charging European prices. Well,
at least you're buying nice handling.

 * Looks. Crisp and rakish enough to play the rogue, tailored and conservative
enough to outlive styling fads. It might look too similar to the cheaper CTS for
some tastes; wouldn't want the neighbors thinking you bought the less-expensive
one, after all.

And you have to like creases. If rounded is your deal, never mind.

Unpleasantries:

 * Back seat. Seems tight, even though Cadillac claims a generous 38.3 inches of
rear legroom. "We're doing continuous improvement on both visual and actual
comfort in back. We're working on a couple of things with the rear seat" that
will be running changes during the '05 model year, says Mark Meyers, vehicle
performance manager for STS. He wouldn't be more specific.

 * Price. Seems high.

Meyers says a less-expensive, base version is under consideration to push down
the starting price. To make AWD less expensive, it'll be offered on midlevel V-8
models later during the '05 model year, instead of only on high-end versions.
AWD will be available on V-6 cars in the '06 model year.

 * Tire noise. A vicious roar came through when the V-6 car's high-performance
tires hit certain types of asphalt; quiet otherwise.

 * Interior details. A couple of dashboard pieces don't align, and their edges
and corners are shaped so they can't. Meaningless until you notice. Then it's as
annoying as popcorn stuck in your teeth.

Wood trim -- real eucalyptus, not faux anything, Caddy asserts -- isn't flush.
It sticks out a fraction from the plastic that covers most of the dashboard and
the center stack. That's called a proud fit, and Caddy says it's meant to evoke
a breastplate, as the grille on the front of the car does. A flush fit is harder
to get right, so it seems classier and a mark of higher-quality assembly.

 * Navigation system. Like most, Caddy's manages to complicate simple functions
by routing you through the navigation screen to, for instance, find and use the
radio controls.

The best part about STS is that none of the flaws is a deal breaker, and all the
lures are deal makers. Best Cadillac -- heck, best GM vehicle -- in a long, long
time.


2005 Cadillac STS

* What is it? Midsize, four-door, sport-luxury sedan, manufactured at Lansing,
Mich. Available with V-6 engine and rear-wheel drive (RWD), or V-8 and either
RWD or all-wheel drive (AWD).

* How soon? On sale since September.

* How much? V-6 starts at $40,995 including $695 destination charge. V-8 RWD
starts at $50,340. V-8 AWD is $63,510 including $1,000 gas guzzler tax, tops
$69,000 with all options.

Online car-pricing service KBB.com says cars are selling for $1,000 to $1,500
less than window-sticker price. Edmunds.com and CarsDirect.com show buyers
paying full sticker price.

* Who'll buy? Caddy calls him Alpha Male: 35- to 59-year-old professional, near
his career peak, earning $170,000.

* What's the drivetrain? V-6 is 3.6-liters, 255 horsepower at 6,500 rpm, 252
pounds-feet of torque at 3,200 rpm. V-8 is 4.6 liters, 320 hp at 6,400 rpm, 315
lbs.-ft. at 4,400 rpm. Both engines have five-speed automatic transmissions,
traction control.

Optional AWD system is permanently engaged, sends 40% of power to the front
wheels, has four-wheel traction control.

* What's the safety gear? Expected bags and belts plus anti-lock brakes, front
and rear head-protection bags, stability control.

* What's the rest? All models come with leather upholstery; climate control;
AM/FM/CD stereo; power steering, brakes, windows, locks, mirrors, seats; auto
on-off headlights; fog lights; cruise control; remote-control locks; tilting and
telescoping steering column; outside mirror defrosters; auto-dimming inside
mirror.

Other features, options vary by model. Details: www.cadillac.com.

* How big? About the same size as a Lexus LS 430. STS is 196.3 inches long, 72.6
inches wide, 57.6 inches tall on a 116.4-inch wheelbase. Weighs from 3,857 to
4,230 pounds, depending on model. Rated to tow up to 1,000 pounds. Passenger
space is listed as 102.9 cubic feet. Trunk is 13.8 cubic feet.

* How thirsty? V-6 is rated 17 miles per gallon in town, 24 on the highway on
regular fuel. V-8 is 17/26 with RWD, 16/22 with AWD. Premium fuel is recommended
but not required for V-8.

Trip computer in V-6 test car showed 20.4 mpg in mix of interstate and unpaved
rural roads. V-8 test car showed 14.9 in town.

* Overall: A pretty good package that's a honey to drive.

---

More online

* Chat online with James R. Healey at 2 p.m. ET today at talk.usatoday.com.

* E-mail testdrive@usatoday.com.

* Go to cars.usatoday.com to hear James R. Healey's comments on the Cadillac
STS, to see more photos of the STS, to find previous Test Drive columns and to
get information on pricing, incentives and more.

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS, B/W, General Motors (3); 2005 Cadillac STS: The sedan takes the
place of the Seville in Cadillac's lineup. It features an impressive chassis,
but the back seat feels cramped. The best part about STS is that none of the
flaws is a deal breaker,

                      Copyright 2004 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              131 of 132 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   December 28, 2004, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

The sky wasn't the limit

BYLINE: Dan Vergano

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 7D

LENGTH: 934 words

Thrilling explorations of other worlds and a dispiriting trudge through
political trenches formed the science highs and lows of 2004.

Triumph on Mars

Mars showcased science at its best, with NASA's twin rovers, Spirit and
Opportunity, finding evidence of the Red Planet's soggy past. On Meridiani
Planum, an Oklahoma-size plain, a salty sea existed billions of years ago,
setting the stage for the possible emergence of life.

"Meridiani has offered far more than expected -- right at the lander's feet,"
said Melissa Lane of Tucson's Planetary Sciences Institute. In 2002, she was
lead author of the Journal of Geophysical Research report that fingered the
region as the possible site of an ancient lake bed.


While they didn't find microbial life, the two rolling geology labs did much
more than just meet the mission's goal of finding signs of water. NASA's
reputation took a big hit in 2003 with the destruction of the space shuttle
Columbia, which killed seven astronauts. But the rovers restored the agency's
can-do image.

The $845-million rovers survived bouncing air-bag landings, computer glitches,
treacherous terrain and the Martian winter with aplomb, far exceeding their
90-day planned lifetime.

They are now only weeks away from an astonishing one-year anniversary.

"Their finds mark a milestone in humankind's search for life elsewhere in the
universe," Science magazine commented in anointing the rover results the
"Breakthrough of the Year." Future Mars-rover missions will build on Spirit's
and Opportunity's discoveries.

And who knows? The two intrepid rovers of 2004 may still be hard at work when
they land.

Mysteries of Saturn

The international Cassini-Huygens spacecraft, NASA's other high-profile mission,
arrived at Saturn in July with a dramatic dash through the planet's famed rings.


The mission has answered questions about some of Saturn's many moons, finding
that outermost Phoebe is actually a captured asteroid and Dione's mysterious
wisp-lined surface conceals a fractured network of ice cliffs.

But close flybys of Titan, the second-largest moon in the solar system and the
only one with a dense atmosphere, have left scientists eager for the findings of
the European Space Agency's Huygens probe. It detached from the Cassini orbiter
on Christmas Eve and is to land on Titan Jan. 14.

A non-fiction 'Hobbit'

The story of life on Earth became a little more complicated with the discovery
of a pint-sized human race announced in October in the journal Nature.
Australian and Indonesian researchers unveiled evidence of Homo floresiensis, a
race of humans a little over 3 feet tall who lived on the Indonesian island of
Flores at least 18,000 years ago -- and perhaps more recently.

A commentary by University of Cambridge researchers called H. flores "among the
most outstanding discoveries in paleoanthropology for half a century."

Nicknamed Hobbit, the remains of the thirtysomething female shocked scientists
for two reasons: She lived at the same time as modern humans, aka Homo sapiens.
And she had a small brain, the size of a chimp's at 13 ounces, despite evidence
of tools found at her burial site.

Stem cell politics

South Korean researchers captured headlines with the first successful creation
of a colony of cloned human embryonic stem cells. This would be another way to
acquire the cells seen by biomedical researchers as a future source of
rejection-free transplant tissues.

Stem cell research broadly advanced over the last year. Researchers unveiled the
first stem cell lines derived from fertility-clinic embryos that bore markers
for congenital diseases, offering a new way to understand the ailments. And
adult-stem-cell researchers reported advances in treating Parkinson's, multiple
sclerosis and other ailments.

Such advances became fodder for the year's science lowlight, disputes over the
politicization of science. This is a controversial right-to-life issue in any
year because the microscopic embryos must be destroyed.

But it was a flashpoint in the presidential campaign, dividing the political
parties over the Bush administration's decision to limit federal research
funding to 22 existing stem cell lines.

And overnight, California became the embryonic stem cell research capital of the
world with the passage of Proposition 71, which will pump nearly $3 billion over
the next 10 years into the field.

A February report critical of the administration's science policies by the Union
of Concerned Scientists brought long-simmering concerns, on issues from climate
change to sex education, to the boiling point.

"When scientific knowledge has been found to be in conflict with its political
goals, the administration has often manipulated the process through which
science enters into its decisions," the scientists charged.

Administration officials called the charges politically motivated exaggerations.


Will Hubble be fixed?

Another politically charged dispute involved NASA chief Sean O'Keefe's
controversial decision to not repair the 14-year-old Hubble Space Telescope.
After the Columbia tragedy, O'Keefe maintained that a manned mission is too
risky. Without repairs, Hubble's science instruments are expected to shut down
by 2007.

O'Keefe later said he would consider a robotic mission. But an expert panel
reporting to Congress recommended this month that astronauts make the repairs.

The NASA chief quit his job two weeks ago, and whether the repairs will made by
either human or robot hands is still up in the air.

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, J. Bell and M. Wolff, NASA, via Reuters; PHOTO, B/W,
NASA/JPL, via AFP; PHOTO, B/W, Peter Schouten, National Geographic Society via
Reuters; PHOTO, B/W, NASA; PHOTO, B/W, Reuters; PHOTO, B/W, AFP; PHOTO, B/W, USA
TODAY; PHOTO, B/W, NASA TV via AFP; Seeing red: NASA's Hubble Space Telescope
took this snapshot of Mars in August 2003. <>Hobbit-forming: Artist's drawing of
Homo floresiensis, a race of humans that has scientists perplexed. <>Saturn's
rings: The Cassini spacecraft took this shot in October. <>Stem cell: Politics
under a microscope. <>Hubble hobbled: NASA has deemed it too dangerous to
dispatch astronauts to keep the telescope operating.

                      Copyright 2004 Gannett Company, Inc.
