
                               1 of 147 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                  September 29, 2005, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Debate churns over global warming

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 696 words

U.S. attitude frustrates

USA TODAY's editorial "Global warming activists turn storms into spin" accuses
European officials, among others, of exploiting a tragedy "to score political
points and advance their agendas" (Our view, Hurricane causes debate, Monday).

Making a link between hurricanes Katrina and Rita and climate change is
premature, as no individual event can be attributed to climate change. True.

However, it would also be fair to say that there is increasing frustration all
over the world with the United States' lack of action on climate change and the
Bush administration's attempts to stop the rest of the world from moving ahead
to slow global warming through multilateral agreements.

This frustration is mostly due to the choices of the current administration. But
underlying it is the widespread lack of awareness of the severity of the problem
in the United States. The U.S. press' unsatisfactory coverage of climate change,
especially compared with European papers, is partly to blame for this. In this
situation, it is only natural that some experts may resort to "sensationalizing"
the issue of climate change in the hope that it will finally attract the
attention it deserves.


Germana Canzi

Medford, Mass.

Didn't generate storms

USA TODAY is right: Activists who blame Katrina on global warming may gain
short-term publicity, but risk losing long-term credibility.

The increasing frequency of hurricane activity in the Caribbean and Gulf of
Mexico since 1995 is due to a natural, multidecadal shift in the Atlantic Ocean
thermohaline circulation (THC), the oceanic "conveyor belt" that pulls warm
water from the tropics northward to the British Isles.

When the THC shifts into its strong phase, as it did in the mid-1990s, the North
Atlantic warms and generates more hurricanes. Mankind's use of fossil fuels has
nothing to do with this process.

More important, global warming was not responsible for Katrina's destructive
fury. Any tropical storm traversing waters of 82 degrees Fahrenheit or warmer
has the potential to become a category 4 or 5 hurricane. Gulf waters routinely
exceed that temperature in August, and did so long before mankind began using
fossil fuels.

Consequently, regulatory policies such as the Kyoto Protocol offer no protection
from future Katrinas. Indeed, by making energy scarcer and more costly, such
policies would only aggravate the economic losses and hardship from
energy-infrastructure damage inflicted by Katrina, Rita and other major storms.

Marlo Lewis, senior fellow

Competitive Enterprise Institute

Washington

Possibility is real

Not so fast, USA TODAY, with your "not so fast" on global warming and
hurricanes.

Historically, the past century is hardly a "before and after" snapshot of any
link. The Industrial Revolution introduced the forces that are heating our
atmosphere and bringing about climate change, so you have to go back to the
1800s to see the full picture -- when the records needed to compare were not
being kept. And to be truly meaningful, the chart of hurricanes should factor
water temperatures in the Gulf of Mexico, too.

Even so, did anyone notice that the peaks in hurricanes occurred during the two
Great Wars and the Korean War, when human activity was sending unprecedented
amounts of pollution into the atmosphere?

Cause-and-effect suggestions are very strong, and we would be extremely foolish
to blow them off or wait for more evidence.

Jim Dickinson

Wickenburg, Ariz.

Consider nature's force

Connecting global warming and hurricanes Katrina and Rita may take years of
scientific research. I agree that there is little good to be gained by jumping
to conclude that there is a direct connection.

But a painful lesson that can be gleaned now is that to build by the sea, below
sea level, is to tempt nature and fate. If New Orleans is to get taxpayers'
money, taxpayers should have a say about how the rebuilding is to take place.
Nature deserves to be respected, as does New Orleans. The new New Orleans needs
to be rebuilt in keeping with the laws of nature.

Chris Molling

Towson, Md.





LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, NASA

TYPE: Debate

                      Copyright 2005 Gannett Company, Inc.


                               3 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 16, 2005 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

2005 is warmest year on record for Northern Hemisphere, scientists say

BYLINE: Patrick O'Driscoll

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 485 words


The Earth's average temperature reached a near-record high in 2005,
international and U.S. climate agencies reported Thursday.

While some scientists said it indicates that human-caused global warming is
growing worse, others said it is more likely natural climatic change that is not
connected to human activity.

The World Meteorological Organization and the National Climatic Data Center said
the global average of 58.1 degrees is the second highest ever recorded,
one-tenth of a degree behind 58.2 degrees in 1998. The years from 1997 to the
present rank as the nine hottest since record-keeping began in 1861.

The agencies said 2005 also was the warmest on record for the Northern
Hemisphere, where Arctic sea ice has shrunk to record low amounts and major
glaciers are retreating several miles a year. In some northern latitudes this
year, average temperatures were 5 degrees above normal, said Jay Lawrimore, the
U.S. center's chief of climate monitoring.

Lawrimore said there is concern that the loss of sea ice and snow cover in the
north also will reduce the region's ability to deflect solar radiation, which
could raise temperatures more.

This year's average U.S. reading of 53.8 degrees is the 20th highest on record,
roughly one degree from the high of 54.9 degrees in 1998. Lawrimore said the
year might have ranked No. 10 if not for the unusual cold this month.

Some scientists said the world temperature reading is more evidence that global
warming, heating of the atmosphere aggravated by the burning of fossil fuels, is
growing worse. "Could these changes arise from natural climate fluctuations
alone? The answer is no," said physicist Ben Santer of Lawrence Livermore
National Laboratory.

That belief isn't universally held. "I don't know how Ben Santer can say what he
said," said Richard Lindzen, professor of atmospheric sciences at the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology.

Lindzen said normal weather cycles may account for this year's average
temperature. "Natural, normal fluctuations can be this big," he said. "It
fluctuates tenths of a degree from year to year."

The record global high in 1998 was influenced by a major El Nioo, the periodic
warming of the Pacific Ocean near the equator that affects weather globally.
This year was almost as warm even without El Nioo.

"The trend has been sharp enough that ... we're already back up to the
temperatures we experienced during that remarkable (El Nioo) period," Lawrimore
said.

The global average is based on readings from more than 7,200 ground weather
stations around the world and from ships at sea.

The climate center's analysis also showed 2005 was much warmer than average in
22 states and warmer than normal in 23 others. No state was cooler than average.
This summer was the second hottest for the Northeast, where New Jersey and New
Hampshire set summer highs. The July heat wave broke more than 200 daily records
in six Western states.

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Karl Gelles, USA TODAY (BAR GRAPH)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2005 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               4 of 147 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                      July 8, 2005, Friday, FINAL EDITION

G8 global warming agreement omits specific goals

BYLINE: Judy Keen

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 459 words

DATELINE: GLENEAGLES, Scotland

GLENEAGLES, Scotland -- An agreement on climate change that will be released
today at the close of a summit of world leaders here calls for finding "ways to
achieve substantial reductions in greenhouse gas emissions" but does not include
specific goals.

It falls short of one of British Prime Minister Tony Blair's objectives: legally
binding limits on emissions that contribute to global warming. President Bush
opposed such language. The issue has been a key one at the meeting of the Group
of 8 (G8) major industrialized nations. The group consists of Britain, Canada,
France, Germany, Italy, Japan, Russia and the United States.


Before Blair left to manage response to the terrorist attacks Thursday in
London, he said, "We're not going to negotiate some new treaty on climate change
... but it's important that we at least begin a process of dialogue."

An advance text of the agreement was obtained by environmental groups, including
the National Environmental Trust and the National Resources Defense Council
(NRDC). It says climate change is a "serious long-term challenge" and calls for
energy-efficient technology, raising awareness and helping developing countries
share cleaner technology.

The agreement says, "We know that increased need and use of energy from fossil
fuels and other human activities contribute in large part to increases in
greenhouse gases associated with the warming of our earth surface."

In recent public statements, Bush has endorsed that view for the first time.

The agreement includes an implicit rebuke of Bush in its support of the 1997
Kyoto treaty, which set limits for future emissions and was ratified by every G8
member country except the United States.

"Those of us who have ratified the Kyoto protocol welcome its entry into force
and will work to make it a success," the agreement reads.

U.S. deputy national security adviser Faryar Shirzad said the leaders found
"common ground on the climate issue." The agreement, he said, "reflects a series
of goals that the president has long advocated," including viewing climate
change in the context of economic development and energy security.

Canadian Prime Minister Paul Martin said the leaders made considerable progress
in defining "the necessity of dealing with" climate change. French President
Jacques Chirac said that even if the agreement "does not go as far as we would
have liked," it re-establishes discussions on the issue.

Environmental groups were scornful. "The agreement is utterly meaningless -- the
weakest statement on climate change ever made by the G8," said Philip Clapp,
president of the National Environmental Trust.

"The G8 leaders did not agree on a single concrete action," he said.






LOAD-DATE: July 08, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Julia Fassbender, AFP/Getty Images

                      Copyright 2005 Gannett Company, Inc.


                               5 of 147 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   February 17, 2005, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

World warms to Kyoto, but research will save the day

BYLINE: Roy Spencer

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 660 words

One small step for man, one giant leap backward for mankind. That's how
Wednesday's official start of the Kyoto Protocol, an international treaty that
aims to limit global warming, should be greeted.

In 2001, the United States refused to ratify the Kyoto Protocol over concerns
that it will limit economic growth and put an unfair burden on developed
countries, while rapidly developing countries -- such as India and China -- get
a pass. Democrats and Republicans in Washington have been strangely united in
opposition.


And they're right.

Kyoto is unusual in that it is, in effect, an agreement to restrain economic
growth. By using regulatory fiat instead of market forces, it punishes the
production of energy that drives modern life. Its emissions reduction targets
are so modest that they will have little effect on future global warming, no
matter what you believe that warming to be.

Instead, the Kyoto Protocol is seen as a "first step" toward reductions in
greenhouse-gas production. But even this first step will hurt the economies of
most industrialized countries that participate.

What the U.S. is doing

This week, the United States reminded the world that it isn't sitting idly by as
the Earth melts.

"While the United States and countries with binding emissions restrictions under
the Kyoto Protocol are taking different paths, our destination is the same,"
said Richard Boucher of the State Department. He said the U.S. will spend about
$5.8 billion this year alone on research into climate change and potential
technology to fight it.

Former Energy secretary Spencer Abraham said last year that the United States is
investing more in new or clean energy research over the next five years than any
other country. Hydrogen, clean coal, nuclear, fusion and renewables such as
solar and wind are among the areas being aggressively researched.

Though the Department of Energy admits these efforts will take years to decades
to bear fruit, research -- not minor and economically damaging cutbacks in
carbon-dioxide production -- is what will solve the problem.

No doubt, some countries have signed on to the treaty for political reasons.
Russia had strongly opposed the treaty. Then in May, the European Union told
Russia that if it wanted to be part of the World Trade Organization, it would
have to ratify the Kyoto Protocol. Suddenly, late last year, Russia became a
supporter. Also, the majority of the countries participating in Kyoto are
undeveloped, and many of those stand to receive large payoffs by selling carbon
credits (basically, a right to pollute) to industrialized countries. This is the
economic shell game of the treaty.

What about the science?

And what of the global warming science that the Kyoto treaty is built upon? The
Earth has indeed warmed in the past 100 years by about 1 degree Fahrenheit,
although it is unknown how much of that is because of man's activities.

Though a majority of climate researchers believe we now have enough
understanding of how the climate system will react to a small increase in the
greenhouse-gas concentration, this is an example of the scientific
overconfidence that has contributed to a public distrust in scientific
predictions.

A minority of scientists, myself included, believe that the climate has as yet
poorly understood stabilizing mechanisms that limit the amount of warming that
will occur.

After the self-congratulatory applause subsides, it will be interesting to see
how many participating countries meet their Kyoto emissions targets. The United
Kingdom has already asked for, and was denied, a reprieve from the EU.

Action, not good intentions, will eventually solve the energy problem. In the
coming years, the U.S. will continue to invest in research that will, once
again, save the day.

***

Roy Spencer performs government-sponsored climate monitoring research at the
University of Alabama in Huntsville.

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Gannett Company, Inc.


                               8 of 147 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                      May 31, 2005, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Wolves teach experts about global warming

BYLINE: Dan Vergano

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 7D

LENGTH: 468 words

Gray wolves could emerge as a "canary in the coal mine" of global warming by
suggesting how climate change will affect species around the world, researchers
say.

"We're not so much looking at wolves as a predator but as an indicator," says
environmental scientist Christopher Wilmers of the University of
California-Berkeley.

In the past century, average temperatures have climbed about a degree worldwide,
and further increases of 2 to 10 degrees are expected by 2100, the United
Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change says. More extreme weather
could result, and winter is expected to shorten in some regions. That would
affect animals and the entire environment.


At Yellowstone National Park, for example, winters have grown more than a week
shorter since 1948, Wilmers and Wayne Getz of South Africa's University of
Pretoria report in a study in April's PloS Biology journal.

But wolf packs appear to ease the effects of shorter winters on the food chain,
Wilmers says. Before federal biologists reintroduced wolves to the park in 1995,
heavy snowfall was the main cause of elk deaths in winter, providing a diet of
carrion for scavengers such as ravens, eagles and bears.

Shorter winters without wolves mean about 66% fewer elk deaths every April,
which threatens starvation for scavengers. With wolves preying on elk, however,
the drop in carrion is only about 11%, a much less dire situation.

Elsewhere, however, extreme weather changes have led to more snowfall in wet
regions, which affects wolf and moose populations. On Lake Superior's Isle
Royale, gray wolves now hunt in larger packs. As a result, they kill more moose,
which was first shown in a 1999 study in Nature.

Above the Arctic Circle, L. David Mech of the U.S. Geological Survey suggests
that climate change may hurt wolves. Last year in the journal Climatic Change,
he examined wolf populations on Canada's Ellesmere Island, the most northern
place in North America. From 1986 to 1997, wolves there preyed on musk oxen and
snowshoe hares.

In 1998, however, the island experienced more extreme weather than any observed
since records started in 1947. Snowfall during cold snaps in August covered
ground vegetation from the hares and oxen, which reduced their numbers. With
little prey, gray wolves have left the region, Mech reports.

"Because gray wolves are so intensively studied, they may give us very good data
on the effects of climate change," says ecologist Mike Phillips, executive
director of the Turner Endangered Species Fund in Bozeman, Mont. More
specialized species, such as snowshoe hares, could show such effects even
sooner, he says, but they receive less study.

"It's troubling we can see any effects in wolves, because they are actually very
good survivors."





LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: SCIENCE

                      Copyright 2005 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              10 of 147 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    June 15, 2005, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Yes, globe is warming, even if Bush denies it

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 662 words

Today's debate: Our planet
Our view: Scientific consensus builds as others attack the climate problem.

***

As the world's sole superpower, the United States has tremendous influence.
Beyond military might, it can shape issues from trade to terrorism to the
environment. That's why future generations, say 100 years from now, might ask:
So why didn't it get serious about global warming when it had the chance?


Good question.

The Bush administration's mantra on climate change is this: The science is not
yet in to prove a link between man's gas-and-coal guzzling habits and rising
global temperatures that are causing glaciers to shrink, polar ice caps to melt
and seas to rise.

Yet, as USA TODAY's Dan Vergano reported Monday, not only is the science in, it
is also overwhelming. Last week, the National Academy of Sciences and 10 other
leading world bodies said there is "significant global warming" that requires
urgent action.

Another report last week further undercut claims of bad science: The New York
Times disclosed that former oil industry lobbyist Philip Cooney, chief of staff
of the White House Council on Environmental Quality, altered global warming
reports to downplay links between emissions and climate change.

Cooney resigned, for what the White House insisted were unrelated reasons.
President Bush repeated that the science is unclear.

Talk about the modern-day equivalent of the flat-Earth brigade. Taking action
won't come cheap, but by denying the problem exists, Bush misses significant
opportunities: *Economic impact. The USA is the leading emitter of greenhouse
gases, more than one quarter of the world total. Logically, the administration
says mandatory caps on carbon emissions would hurt the U.S. economy the most,
driving up the cost of energy. How much is anybody's guess and depends on the
approach. Today's opposing view estimates a global treaty would cost a family of
four $2,700 a year. Obviously a significant sum.

But there also are compensating benefits. Most nations in the developed world
are already putting mandatory caps on emissions and providing "green"
incentives. Because many U.S. corporations operate overseas, they are having to
comply anyway.

In addition, major companies such as General Electric and Duke Energy are
championing stronger government intervention. They crave an international
uniformity of standards and general direction that they think is inevitable.

*International goodwill. In 2001, the administration walked away from a global
treaty -- the Kyoto Protocol -- that, after years of difficult negotiations,
committed developed nations to reductions and caps on carbon emissions. The
treaty was flawed because it didn't involve rapidly industrializing countries
such as China and India. But by quitting, the United States alienated allies and
reduced its own influence.

Now, some states, notably California, are introducing mandatory caps. The U.S.
Senate might try to include measures this week in a pending energy bill.

Next month, leaders of industrialized nations are meeting in Scotland. Britain
is making global warming a central issue. If Bush joined in, he would do the
planet, and future generations, a great favor.



Joint statement on climate

Key points in a joint statement on global warming issued last week by 11 leading
international science bodies, including the U.S. National Academy of Sciences:

*Significant global warming is occurring.

*It has caused increases in sea levels, retreats of glaciers and changes in many
biological systems.

*Most warming in recent decades can likely be attributed to human activities,
largely from developed countries.

*Action taken now to reduce the build-up of greenhouse gases will lessen the
magnitude and rate of climate change.

* Failure to implement reductions now will make the job more difficult in the
future.

Source: U.S. National Academy of Sciences






LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Debate

                      Copyright 2005 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              12 of 147 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    October 11, 2005, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

High temperatures killed pinyon trees, research team says

BYLINE: Patrick O'Driscoll

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 554 words

DATELINE: DENVER

DENVER -- High temperatures were the underlying cause of a massive die-off of
pinyon pines in the recent Southwest drought, a research team reported Monday.

One of the authors, David Breshears of the University of Arizona, said the
findings suggest global climate change could cause similarly fast changes in
other ecosystems.

The team of 13 scientists from institutions in Arizona, New Mexico, Kansas,
Colorado and Utah did not link the tree kill directly to global warming, the
heating of Earth's atmosphere aggravated by the burning of fossil fuels. That
would require more research over a longer period. But the researchers said the
unusual speed of this large die-off, within just two or three years, raises
concern about how to deal with the changing climate.


"Climatologists are predicting that we're going to get more droughts, and they
are going to be hotter," said Breshears, a professor of natural resources and
member of Arizona's Institute for the Study of Planet Earth. "This drought was
hotter than the previous drought that we were able to study in detail. A hotter
drought looks like it had bigger effects."

He said it will take decades for the region's pinyon woodlands to recover.
Consequences may include widespread erosion and loss of vital food for wildlife
and a subsistence pine nut crop for Indian tribes and other rural residents.

The report, published online Monday in the Proceedings of the National Academy
of Sciences, comes amid a flurry of research -- and debate -- on weather-related
costs of climate change.

Two papers earlier this year argued that global warming may be making hurricanes
more intense, like those that blasted Florida last year and Louisiana,
Mississippi and Texas this year. Another study last year implied a link between
warming and the decline of sugar maples in New England.

For millions of pinyons, also spelled pioons, the immediate cause of death was
infestation by bark beetles. During years of drought across the West, several
beetle species ravaged millions of acres of forests in many states. But drought
and higher temperatures made the pinyon tree, hardier than most pine trees, more
susceptible to insects.

The species that the team studied is found mostly in the Four Corners states of
Arizona, New Mexico, Utah and Colorado. The pinyon is the official tree of New
Mexico, the hardest-hit state.

Pinyons grow more slowly and are smaller than the statuesque pine species common
in wetter mountain ranges to the north. But pinyons are better acclimated to
harsh conditions across the desert Southwest and Great Basin.

Breshears said the researchers compared the recent drought with another major
drought in the Southwest in the 1950s that also killed pinyons. But the die-off
this time was more widespread. The dead trees reached into higher zones that
normally are wetter and more able to withstand drought.

The report concludes that hotter temperatures are the "trigger leading to rapid,
drought-induced die-off. ... (The results) highlight the potential for such
die-off to be more severe and extensive for future global-change-type drought
under warmer conditions."

Breshears said the die-off across 60,000 square miles of pinyon woodlands "will
change the look of the Southwest in a lot of places."






LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Dave Powell, Forest Service

                      Copyright 2005 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              14 of 147 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   September 26, 2005, Monday, FINAL EDITION

In the eye of the storms

BYLINE: Dan Vergano

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 1383 words

The power of Mother Nature -- the devastation wrought by hurricanes Katrina and
Rita -- has many people asking one simple question:

Why is this happening?

There's more than one answer, says Adm. James Watkins, chairman of the U.S.
Commission on Ocean Policy, created by Congress to craft a plan to protect the
oceans and coasts:

*Overdevelopment has deposited more homes and jobs on the coasts, leaving people
sitting ducks when big storms strike.

*Hurricane frequency goes through natural cycles, and the cycle in the Atlantic
Ocean is on the upswing.

*The planet is getting warmer. Research indicates that climate change that
raises sea levels and increases ocean temperatures also might intensify
hurricanes.


"People have to understand the ocean needs more attention, not only when there's
a crisis, but in everyday life," Watkins says. Last year, his commission
forecast potential ocean-related disasters, including the danger of a major
hurricane hitting New Orleans, and made recommendations to reduce such risks.

The recipe for a hurricane is simple. Conditions are ripe whenever large
thunderstorms occur over tropical seawater heated to at least 80 degrees.
Essentially, hurricanes are circling weather machines, sucking the heat out of
the ocean and turning that energy into high waves and heavy rains.

Steered west by the Earth's spin, Atlantic hurricanes head for the East and Gulf
Coasts as a matter of course. A typical hurricane produces about 5.5 trillion
gallons of rain a day, according to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration.

Not every hurricane hits the U.S. mainland -- just under 18 storms each decade
on average, according to NOAA. But when they do, the factors mentioned above can
lead to disaster.

People flocked to the shore during a lull in hurricanes in the 1970s. The
National Flood Insurance Program provided incentives to build homes and
businesses in flood-prone areas, Watkins says. Now about half the nation's gross
domestic product, involving 60 million jobs, comes from coastal regions, his
commission found.

"By living so close to the coasts, we have hampered nature," says climate
scientist Brenda Ekwurzel of the Union of Concerned Scientists, an advocacy
group. Uninhabited barrier islands that once shielded coastal towns are now
dotted with homes and communities, she says. In and around New Orleans,
development destroyed marshes that absorbed some of each storm's punch in
earlier years.

In fact, a ubiquitous technology facilitated this migration. During the last
peak period of hurricane activity in the 1940s and 1950s, there simply weren't
that many people living in Florida and along the Gulf Coast. It was too hot and
humid.

But just as hurricane activity began to slow, home air conditioning became
affordable, setting the stage for the tremendous population growth in the South
and Gulf regions over the past 30 years.

So the damage that hurricanes can do is magnified, says Roger Pielke, a
professor of environmental studies at the University of Colorado.

Drawing a Miami comparison

If the hurricane that struck Miami on Sept. 12, 1926, were to hit today, Pielke
estimates it would cause $110 billion in damage. "In 1926, Miami was a small
town of several hundred thousand people," he says. "We're just a much wealthier
society. So the average person who lives in a coastal location today has more to
lose than a person who lived there in the '20s."

The solution? Government and citizens must manage coastal regions in an
integrated fashion instead of lumping development and storm responses into
separate categories, Watkins says. Otherwise, history will repeat itself.

Hurricanes have been on the rise in the past decade. William Gray, a Colorado
State University professor considered the dean of hurricane scientists,
attributes the rise in the number and intensity of hurricanes to a shift since
1995 in seawater circulation in the North Atlantic.

Such shifts, he says, can last up to two or three decades, as happened in the
1930s and 1960s.

That means hurricane activity is cyclical, drawing people to the shore in
slow-going decades and punishing them in busy ones.

"This isn't rocket science. If you look at the record of hurricane activity in
the Atlantic going back 100 years, you see that there are periods of high
activity and periods of low activity," says Kerry Emanuel of the Massachusetts
Institute of Technology, author of Divine Wind: Hurricanes in History and
Science.

Robert Sheets, director of the National Hurricane Center in Miami from 1987 to
1995, criss-crossed the country trying to warn towns that a decade or more of
hard weather was coming, but few paid attention.

Says the center's Frank Lepore: "This current episode started in 1995, when we
had 11 hurricanes. Normal is six. This year we expect nine to 11."

Says Christopher Landsea, a NOAA meteorologist, "We've seen very busy times
before, but the big difference is there's so many people living in Hurricane
Alley."

Even with Hurricane Rita over, there is no time to relax; Gray's Tropical
Meteorology Project predicts at least one more major hurricane this month and
next. "We expect that by the time the 2005 hurricane season is over, we will
witness seasonal tropical cyclone activity at near-record levels," the latest
forecast states.

The role of global warming in hurricanes Rita and Katrina is a hot topic, even
leading to sparring at a congressional hearing last week between Sen. Dianne
Feinstein, D-Calif., who suggested a link, and Sen. Pete Domenici, R-N.M., who
called the suggestion "nuts."

But the connection is not clear, even to scientists. "First we have to make it
clear that none of these hurricanes appear to be directly connected to climate
change," says atmospheric scientist Donald Wuebbles of the University of
Illinois in Urbana. "However, in the long run, based on a number of studies
looking at increasing intensities of hurricanes, there may be a relationship
there."

A United Nations climate panel estimates that average temperatures will rise
from 2 to 10 degrees worldwide by 2100, driven in part by industrial emissions
of "greenhouse" gases.

In addition to indications that the world's oceans are squirreling away more
heat, the engine behind hurricanes, Ekwurzel of the scientists union points to
studies published in the journals Science and Nature that suggest storms last
longer at a higher intensity than they did 30 years ago.

Atlantic storms tough to call

But it's "absurd" to jump from those findings to directly pinning the blame on
global warming for Katrina and Rita, says MIT's Emanuel, who wrote the Nature
paper. Atlantic storms in particular are tough to call, he says, especially
since scientists don't have centuries of hurricane records on which to base
forecasts and analyses.

In the Science report, researchers at Georgia Tech and the National Center for
Atmospheric Research found that the number of category 4 and 5 hurricanes, with
sustained winds of 131 mph and above, almost doubled worldwide in the past 35
years.

Gray, whose Tropical Meteorology Project forecasts how active hurricane seasons
will be, disagrees that human-caused global warming is to blame. If it were,
there would have been more hurricanes in other tropical storm basins, including
the Pacific and Indian oceans, he says.

"The rest of the globe that has 88% of the tropical storms hasn't changed," Gray
says. "If I'm proven wrong, I will jump off the highest peak in Colorado."

Other scientists are more cautious about dismissing the link. "Unfortunately,
the science of climate looks at what happens to the weather over the long term,
and we have got to have a lot of statistics before we can say anything
authoritative," says Wuebbles of the University of Illinois. "But the warning is
there, and we ought to be thinking about the climate because the cost of
inaction is potentially much higher than the cost of taking action now."

The challenge is to continue paying attention to how we live and work along the
nation's coasts, even after the storms are gone, Watkins says. "We can't let
crisis drive us instead of leadership."
---
Contributing: Pat O'Driscoll and Elizabeth Weise





LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Marcy E. Mullins, USA TODAY, Source: National Weather
Service, National Hurricae Center; PHOTO, Color, NASA; PHOTO, B/w, Tony
Giberson, Pensacola News Journal, via AP

TYPE: COVER STORY

                      Copyright 2005 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              15 of 147 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                      July 18, 2005, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Global warming roils Congress

BYLINE: Dan Vergano

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 7D

LENGTH: 566 words

A heated war of words over a global warming research paper has boiled over in
Congress. Two powerful Republicans are brawling over an investigation that one
calls "misguided and illegitimate."

The fight is the latest chapter in a long-running feud over a 1998 climate
study. Long confined to websites and scientific journals, the dispute now
centers on conflicting views of how Congress examines science.


On Friday, the chairman of the House Science Committee, Rep. Sherwood Boehlert,
R-N.Y., sent a strongly worded rebuke to the House Energy Committee. Directed to
energy committee chief Rep. Joe Barton, R-Texas, Boehlert's letter condemned
extensive requests made in June by Barton's committee for research data and
financial information from three scientists.

Barton's committee also made similar requests to the National Science
Foundation, which has financed the researchers, and a U.N. climate panel that
cited their work.

Boehlert wrote that the "purpose seems to be to intimidate scientists rather
than to learn from them, and to substitute Congressional political review for
scientific peer review." Rep. Henry Waxman, D-Calif., made similar complaints in
a separate letter to Barton last week, as did the American Association for the
Advancement of Science.

In a statement, energy committee spokesman Larry Neal replied: "Chairman Barton
always appreciates heated lectures from Reps. Boehlert and Waxman, two men who
share a passion for global warming. We regret that our little request for data
has given them a chill. Seeking scientific truth is, indeed, too important to be
impeded by politics, and so we'll just continue to ask fair questions of honest
people and see what they tell us. That's our job."

Neal called his committee's inquiries a "modest but necessary step."

This latest chapter in a long-running climate science sideshow comes even as the
scientific consensus has firmed up that global warming is occurring. President
Bush, for example, acknowledged at a summit this month the consensus that
man-made greenhouse gases are increasing global temperatures.

The main issue in the energy committee requests is a 1998 Nature paper by
Michael Mann of Penn State, Malcolm Hughes of the University of Arizona and
Raymond Bradley of the University of Massachusetts that reconstructed average
global temperatures over recent centuries. The study concluded, as have about a
dozen similar efforts, that the 20th century was warmer than the preceding ones,
and temperatures have increased sharply in the 1990s.

After the U.N.'s Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change noted the study in a
2001 report, it turned into a symbol for opponents of climate change science,
such as Sen. James Inhofe, R-Okla. Citing the criticism of two Canadian
researchers, they see it as representing all the shortcomings of the scientific
argument for global warming's reality. The same argument appears in the energy
committee's requests to the three scientists.

Boehlert says the energy committee's intrusion into the debate "raises the
specter of politicians opening investigations against any scientist who reaches
a conclusion that makes the political elite uncomfortable."

Amid the debate, the three researchers replied to Barton's committee today, at
times answering the questions and in others referring them elsewhere for
information.






LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Alex Wong, Getty Images

                      Copyright 2005 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              17 of 147 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    June 15, 2005, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Evidence is underwhelming

BYLINE: James M. Inhofe

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 409 words

Today's debate: Our planet
Opposing view: Don't give into global alarmists, whose intents are questionable.


***

Despite the lack of a scientific consensus to warrant such measures, climate
change alarmists -- in the heat of the summer for the scariest effect -- are
promoting mandatory caps on carbon dioxide emissions in the USA. It's a classic
case of "ready, fire, aim."


Until recently, the foundation of climate change alarmism has been the so-called
hockey stick graph. The graph, constructed by Dr. Michael Mann, a professor at
the University of Virginia, and shaped like a hockey stick, purports to show a
link between rising temperatures and human activity.

Recent Canadian research discredited the graph because of its errors and
improper methodologies. An Environment Canada statistician agreed Mann's method
"preferentially produces hockey sticks when there are none in the data." Dr.
Hans von Storch, a contributor to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change,
called it "rubbish" methodologically, and Dr. Rob van Dorland, an IPCC lead
author, said the IPCC "made a mistake by only including Mann's reconstruction
and not those of other researchers."

In spite of this, some still seek to solve a problem even before it has been
established one exists. Two Senate bills would, like the Kyoto Protocol, cap
carbon dioxide emissions. Wharton Econometrics Forecasting Associates estimates
that the costs of implementing Kyoto would cost an American family of four
$2,700 annually. Two international leaders once described Kyoto's intent. Margot
Wallstrom, the European Union's commissioner on the environment, said Kyoto is
"about leveling the playing field for big businesses worldwide," and French
President Jacques Chirac called it "the first component of an authentic global
governance."

MIT professor Dr. Richard Lindzen sums up the current state of affairs best:
"Science, in the public arena, is commonly used as a source of authority with
which to bludgeon political opponents and propagandize uninformed citizens. ...
A fairer view of the science will show that there is still a vast amount of
uncertainty -- far more than advocates of Kyoto would like to acknowledge."
Based on that uncertainty, our constituents hardly need "global governance," but
they do deserve responsible governance at home.

---

Sen. James M. Inhofe, R-Okla., chairs the Environment and Public Works
Committee.





LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              18 of 147 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                      July 18, 2005, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Still dangerous, impractical

BYLINE: Michael Mariotte

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 422 words

Today's debate: Nuclear power
Opposing view: Terrorism adds to reasons why U.S. shouldn't resume going
nuclear.

***

Without a single viable reactor order since October 1973, the nuclear power
industry has been moribund for decades. Left to market forces and public
opinion, nuclear power would continue on its deserved road to oblivion. And
nothing has changed to make nuclear power more attractive:


*It continues to be the most dangerous method ever devised to produce
electricity.

*A scientifically defensible radioactive waste program continues to elude the
United States and every other nuclear nation.

*Building more nuclear reactors would simply add tempting new terrorist targets
across the country.

Donating billions of taxpayer dollars to the nuclear industry -- already the
most heavily subsidized energy industry over the past 50 years -- would provide
further confirmation that private investment already has rejected this obsolete
technology. If nuclear power, a mature technology by any definition, cannot make
it on its own, why should taxpayers have to shoulder a burden that Wall Street
has spurned?

Nuclear power's possible role in addressing climate change has been vastly
overstated. The nuclear fuel chain is not free of greenhouse gas emissions and,
according to several studies, to make even a modest difference in emissions (a
20% or so reduction) would require a nuclear program of incredible magnitude: in
the United States alone the construction of some 300 new reactors.

If we started today, that would be one every two months for the next 50 years at
a cost of hundreds of billions of dollars, increased risk of meltdown and the
need for several new Yucca Mountain-size radioactive waste sites and
proliferation-prone uranium enrichment plants. It's an impossible, and
undesirable, task and could not be accomplished in time to prevent global
warming.

Diverting our resources to nuclear power now would only prevent the deployment
of those underfunded energy technologies that really can make a difference at
far less cost, such as improved energy efficiency, wind, solar, non-nuclear
hydrogen and better electrical transmission systems.

The issue is not whether we should use nuclear power to address climate change:
the choice is to use nuclear power or address climate change. The Earth demands
that we choose the latter course.

***

Michael Mariotte is executive director of Nuclear Information and Resource
Service, an anti-nuclear power group.





LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              20 of 147 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    November 18, 2005, Friday, FINAL EDITION

'Earth' has one heckuva warm-up act

BYLINE: Bill Keveney

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 13E

LENGTH: 693 words

Heard the one about the traveling environmentalist?

Comedy and the fight against global warming will perform a rare duet in TBS'
Earth to America! (Sunday, 8 p.m. ET/PT), a two-hour, all-star show designed to
entertain and raise awareness of environmental issues.

The show, with stand-up comedy, taped vignettes and sketches, was to have been
taped Thursday night in Las Vegas. It features such A-listers as Tom Hanks,
Robin Williams, Steve Martin, Leonardo DiCaprio and Tim McGraw It's the
brainchild of Laurie David, whose credentials include comedy producer, Natural
Resources Defense Council trustee, and wife of TV's most famous comic crank,
Curb Your Enthusiasm's Larry David.

"We're calling for the country, the government, to admit global warming exists,
admit humans are causing it and to start working on solutions now," Laurie David
says.


Smaller previous versions of the event, which weren't televised, raised funds
for the NRDC. Rather than seek money, Earth to America! will ask viewers to join
a "virtual march on Washington," an effort to sign people up at
stopglobalwarming.org. She's not worried that the subject matter will put a
damper on the evening's fun, pointing to the success of the Comic Relief
specials aiding the homeless.

Global warming has been a politically divisive issue, but David says it
shouldn't be: Everyone is affected by consequences that the NRDC says include
melting glaciers, rising sea levels and disruption of natural habitats. When
asked whether some will dismiss the show as a production of Hollywood liberals,
David points to broad support, politically and geographically, for the virtual
march. The site claims 165,000 people signed up already.  It runs until Earth
Day 2006.

Actress Julia Louis-Dreyfus, a member of the NRDC's executive forum, says the
issue "is not the domain of Republicans and Democrats. It's so fundamental and
basic. It's about the air we breathe, the water we drink and the health of the
planet," she says.

David says many comics already do bits on environmental matters, whether it's
about smog or simply the weather.

Some, such as Bill Maher, were planning performances strictly for the special,
which is connected to the Comedy Festival, a larger show intended to become an
annual event. "I was one of the first ones to get a Prius, before it was cool,"
says Maher, referring to the fuel-saving Toyota hybrid, which Larry David drives
on Curb. "Robert Conrad called it a 'gay go-kart.'"

Maher, host of HBO's Real Time with Bill Maher, says comedy about serious
political issues is a great fit "or I'm out of a job." However, "the environment
is one of the hardest subjects to do in comedy. It doesn't have an obvious,
easy, funny target," he says. And global warming "is a slow-moving disaster."

In the show, Larry David, who co-created Seinfeld, will do a monologue, Laurie
David says, while Will Ferrell taped "a very endearing impersonation" of
President Bush, one of his specialties from Saturday Night Live. Triumph the
Insult Comic Dog will interview four congressmen, David says.

Louis-Dreyfus, also a Seinfeld grad, will introduce environmental activist
Robert F. Kennedy Jr. That sounds like a more somber moment. "It won't be when I
do it," says Louis-Dreyfus, talking from the set of her upcoming CBS comedy, Old
Christine.

As for serious moments, David says there will be "two or three." However, she
adds that the comedy comes first in Earth to America! and that viewers won't
feel like they're being lectured. "It's a great big comedy show with a little
bit of a message," she says. "If you make people laugh, they'll forgive you."

---
See stars

Celebrities performing and participating in TBS' Earth to America! special
include:

Jack Black

Cedric the Entertainer

Stephen Colbert

Rob Corddry

Leonardo DiCaprio

Will Ferrell

Al Franken

Christopher Guest

Tom Hanks

Dustin Hoffman

Steve Martin

Tim McGraw

Kevin Nealon

Ray Romano

Martin Short

Ben Stiller

Wanda Sykes

Jeffrey Tambor

Robin Williams

Triumph the Insult Comic Dog

The cast of Avenue Q





LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS, B/W, TBS (3); PHOTO, B/W, Getty Images

                      Copyright 2005 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              22 of 147 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    October 10, 2005, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Credit New Mexico for its energy policy

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 501 words

I agree wholeheartedly with USA TODAY's editorial "Energy hogwash," which says
the Bush administration's recent efforts on energy conservation are too little,
too late. However, including me among other "hollow-gesture" governors ignores
my long record on energy issues (Wednesday).

Unlike some in Washington, I know we cannot drill our way out of this energy
dilemma. Unless we develop new technologies, implement massive energy
conservation efforts and invest in alternative domestic sources, our nation will
continue to pay a heavy price -- not just at the gas pump, but also in our
foreign policy and in climate change.


As Department of Energy secretary, I worked hard to take our country forward on
energy issues, including mandating stringent efficiency standards for all air
conditioners -- standards the Bush administration has since tried to roll back
without success.

Now, as governor, I am making New Mexico a national leader on energy issues. I
have joined with California Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger and the Western
Governors' Association to create an 18-state Clean and Diversified Energy
Project. My administration has also implemented the most forward-looking clean
and renewable energy agenda in the nation. As a result of my efforts, and
support from the state Legislature, we now have a $700 state tax exemption on
hybrids; Clean Energy Revenue Bonds investing $20 million in efficient,
renewable public buildings; aggressive action to fight climate change and a new
commuter train in our Rio Grande Corridor set to start this winter.

New Mexicans also need help coping with this energy crisis in the short term. I
have called our state Legislature into special session starting now to consider
a $100 million gas-and-home-heating relief package that is specifically designed
to help working families make ends meet this winter.

I am focused both on helping New Mexico families make it through the frigid
winter months ahead and creating an energy future that ensures this crisis
doesn't become a chronic condition. I think these facts show New Mexico's
leadership role on clean, alternative and affordable energy policy.

Gov. Bill Richardson

Santa Fe

'Removed from reality'

Thanks for the editorial voicing a real-world concern for those of us who are
barely making ends meet.

Our elected officials are completely removed from reality and do not understand
that my family budget is already stretched to the limit. High fuel prices have
pushed that limit so that I cannot afford the cost of living.

I have always tried to conserve, whether it is gas, fuel oil or water. I feel
obligated to conserve in an effort to protect the environment and because, as
the editorial says, I can "barely afford that fuel to begin with."

The president's conservation comments should be directed to industries as well
as to individual consumers.

His conservation talk is just that: pathetic pandering.

Stewart Galloway

Round Lake, N.Y.




LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Debate

                      Copyright 2005 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              25 of 147 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    June 15, 2005, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Christian right's alliances bend political spectrum

BYLINE: Susan Page

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 2037 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

WASHINGTON -- Many evangelical Christians got involved in politics because of a
single issue: abortion.

But in recent years, without much notice, conservative Christians also have
helped force the State Department to place a higher priority on battling
religious persecution, set the stage for a cease-fire in Sudan, enact
legislation aimed at reducing prison rape in the USA and push for more funds to
fight AIDS in Africa.

In the process, they have forged coalitions with -- or sometimes simply pulled
in the same direction as -- activists who more often are their adversaries. The
occasional allies include liberal Jews and Planned Parenthood, the Congressional
Black Caucus and the ACLU, Gloria Steinem and the Dalai Lama.

"Evangelicals have broadened their perspective and widened their agenda," says
John Green, a political scientist at the University of Akron and co-author of
The Values Campaign: The Christian Right in American Politics. "It's not as if
the social issues have vanished; they still care about them. But foreign policy
issues, environmental issues, even social welfare issues have joined the agenda.
That has led them to develop broader alliances in some really odd ways."


"Conservative Christians will continue to fight hard on the life issue and the
definition of marriage," says Gary Bauer, head of an advocacy group called
American Values and a GOP presidential contender in 2000. "But there is a
willingness on another day to make common cause with liberals."

The latest examples: debt relief and global warming. Conservative Christians
were among those who pushed for an accord reached in London on Saturday by major
industrial nations to cancel at least $40 billion of debt owed by the world's
poorest nations to international aid organizations. And the National Association
of Evangelicals and other conservative Christian groups are putting their clout
behind efforts to limit the "greenhouse gas" emissions linked to global climate
change.

That campaign has been identified with mostly secular, mostly liberal
environmentalists who disagree with evangelicals on population control, among
other things.

'Critical piece of the pie'

"We offer a critical piece of the pie, namely that we represent conservative
evangelicals who are the mainstay of the GOP coalition that's running both ends
of Pennsylvania Avenue," says the Rev. Richard Cizik, the vice president for
governmental affairs at the National Association of Evangelicals and an
energetic supporter of the broader agenda. "You don't think we can persuade some
Republican senators? Well, you wait and see."

That could be tested in the Senate debate on the energy bill, which opened
Tuesday.

Sens. John McCain, R-Ariz., and Joe Lieberman, D-Conn. have sought evangelicals'
support for their amendment to limit global-warming pollution. Conservative
Christians working on the issue aim to release a consensus statement on it this
summer. Their advocacy is controversial among some evangelicals and could put
them at odds with the White House.

Evangelicals' engagement on a wider range of issues and their willingness to
forge surprising coalitions reflect the growing maturity and sophistication of
the most powerful emerging force in American politics today. And while the
alliances formed on, say, Sudan aren't likely to change anyone's mind when the
topic turns to abortion or same-sex marriage, they could help moderate the
bitter tone of the nation's politics.

"It offers the possibility on both sides to derail the demonization process,"
says Larry Eskridge of the Institute for the Study of American Evangelicals at
Wheaton College, a Christian college in Wheaton, Ill. "It maybe offers the
possibility of at least getting both sides to hear and respect the other's point
of view -- initiating dialogue and maybe thinking your political opposite
doesn't have horns growing out of their head."

"The less people see people as uni-dimensional, the better off we are," says
Eleanor Smeal of the Feminist Majority. Her group supports abortion rights that
are anathema to the evangelical Christian organizations, but they joined in
lobbying for a law against international sex trafficking.

Galvanizing a movement

For a half-century after the Scopes Trial debated evolution in 1925, many
fundamentalist Christian leaders eschewed politics as a worldly endeavor that
risked contaminating the sacred. But distress about the Supreme Court's Roe v.
Wade decision in 1973, which recognized abortion rights, helped galvanize an
evangelical political movement.

In the three decades since then, fundamentalists have had mixed success on
abortion. Twenty-nine states mandate counseling for women before they can obtain
abortions and 34 states require minors seeking abortions to either notify or get
consent from their parents. But a constitutional amendment banning abortion is
stalled, and a federal law outlawing a procedure that opponents call
partial-birth abortion is entangled in court challenges.

On other issues, however, evangelical Christians in recent years have played a
crucial role in lobbying for laws that have reshaped U.S. policy, including
diplomacy toward such key nations as China and Saudi Arabia. Among them:

*The International Religious Freedom Act, passed in 1998, stipulates that
promoting religious freedom is a basic aim of U.S. foreign policy and requires
the State Department to take specific steps to monitor and promote it. The
measure was pushed by a coalition of conservative Christians, Jews, Catholics,
mainline Protestants, Tibetan Buddhists and others.

*The Trafficking Victims Protection Act, passed in 2000, aims to dismantle the
international crime syndicates that send women and children from the developing
world into prostitution and sweatshops. Its supporters ranged from feminist
Gloria Steinem to Chuck Colson, a former Nixon aide and founder of Prison
Fellowship ministries.

*The Sudan Peace Act, passed in 2002, was promoted by evangelicals, the
Congressional Black Caucus and others outraged by the Muslim government's
attacks on Christians in the south. The measure and its threat of sanctions are
credited with laying the groundwork for a cease-fire in 2003 and a peace treaty
in 2004, though violence continues in Darfur.

*The North Korea Human Rights Act, passed last year, directs the administration
to do more to help defectors and emphasize human rights issues as well as
nuclear proliferation in dealing with the rogue nation. The bill was pushed by
Korean Americans and conservative Christians.

"In the last decade, evangelicals have provided the grass-roots muscle for the
most important human rights movement since the end of the Cold War," says Allen
Hertzke, a University of Oklahoma professor and author of Freeing God's
Children: The Unlikely Alliance for Global Human Rights, published in October.
He says they have created "a new architecture for human rights in American
foreign policy."

About two dozen leaders from a range of religious organizations, allies since
they worked on the Religious Freedom Act, continue to meet on most Tuesdays at
the Religious Action Center for Reform Judaism in downtown Washington. (In the
1960s, the center was a gathering place for liberal religious leaders planning
the March on Washington and plotting passage of landmark civil rights
legislation.)

When President Clinton was in the White House, left-leaning activists in the
group provided access to top administration officials. After Bush took office,
evangelical Christian leaders were the ones able to arrange sessions with senior
White House aides.

"Within the American political spectrum, the religious right and the
internationalist left stand at opposite poles, but on humanitarian issues, it's
more a circle than a straight line," former secretary of State Madeleine
Albright says. In a speech at Georgetown University in March, she said the two
extremes "may not always meet, but they do overlap."

Albright, a liberal Democrat, last month approached Sen. Sam Brownback of
Kansas, a conservative Republican, about co-sponsoring a conference in the fall
on international human rights issues. He has agreed.

Brownback, a leading figure on evangelical causes, has worked with such liberals
as Massachusetts Sen. Edward Kennedy on counseling families about Down syndrome
and California Sen. Barbara Boxer on women's rights in Afghanistan. He says such
alliances work best on issues that are "the right thing to do" but offer little
partisan gain.

"You get directly at the issue of abortion, of (same-sex) marriage, you've got
pretty hard, dug-in sides that are well-built into the base of each party," he
says. "They're tough to change, and there's political gain or loss in those."

Strains within the movement

The National Association of Evangelicals, which represents 52 denominations with
45,000 churches and 30 million members across the country, approved a sweeping
document in October called "For the Health of the Nation: An Evangelical Call to
Civic Responsibility." The statement lists seven priorities for conservative
Christians that include not only promoting religious freedom and opposing
abortion but also seeking "justice and compassion for the poor and vulnerable"
and "labor[ing] to protect God's creation."

But the move to a broader agenda -- particularly on the environment -- has
created strains among evangelicals, and between evangelicals and the Republican
Party they generally support. Oklahoma Sen. James Inhofe, a Republican who as
chairman of the Environment and Public Works Committee is taking the lead on the
energy bill, calls the coalition on global warming "a farce" and an effort by
"far-left environmentalists" to divert attention from family issues.

"Those people who are the antithesis of everything we believe are trying to
divide and conquer ... and they have divided us," says Inhofe, who is a
born-again Christian. He calls global warming "a hoax" and says evangelicals
should heed the biblical injunction to worship the creator, not the creation.

There is some unease among their new allies, too.

Rabbi David Saperstein, a veteran lobbyist in Washington for liberal causes,
says he worries about "the danger of legitimizing leaders and viewpoints and
organizations who are deeply problematic to you in other contexts." The Reform
Jews he represents work with evangelicals on the Sudan and religious freedom but
disagree with them on school prayer, judicial appointments, the separation of
church and state and other issues.

Cizik of the National Association of Evangelicals says critics within his camp
accuse him of "sidling up to the pro-aborts and the radical enviros." He rejects
"environmentalist" as too loaded a term to apply to himself; instead, he
describes himself as someone who believes in the "care of creation."

But he's a convert to the concept of political partnerships. "It's the only way
you get anything done in Washington," he says. "So be real."

Actually, the fact that the partnerships are surprising -- who knew that
fundamentalists and feminists agreed on anything? -- increases their clout. On a
polarized issue like global warming, that could make all the difference, says
Tim Profeta, a former Senate aide who now heads Duke University's Nicholas
Institute for Environmental Policy Solutions.

"What it will do, hopefully, is break down some of the political orthodoxies
that have arisen over this issue," he says, "and make people look afresh."



Expanding agenda, surprising alliances

Evangelical Christians, whose political priorities include opposition to
abortion and same-sex marriage, also have worked on other issues that involve
some surprising allies. Among them:

Issue Allies
International religious persecution Tibetan Buddhists, liberal Jews, Catholics
International sex trafficking Gloria Steinem, National Organization for Women,
Planned Parenthood
Civil war in Sudan Congressional Black Caucus members
Global warming Environmentalists
AIDS in Africa Rock star Bono
Prison rape ACLU, Human Rights Watch

Source: USA TODAY research



LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              27 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          December 28, 2005 Wednesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Big steps forward, some steps back;
Amid exploration of mysterious worlds come some more earthbound debates

BYLINE: Dan Vergano

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 7D

LENGTH: 608 words


Science enjoyed the best of times -- a daring landing on Saturn's frozen moon
Titan -- and the worst of times -- a stem cell scandal that rocked the
biomedical research world -- in this roller-coaster year.

This was set against a backdrop of debates over evolution, the theory that all
living things have evolved from earlier forms of life. A year-long fracas in
Dover, Pa., concluded last week with a federal judge's decision that intelligent
design "is not science" and cannot not be taught in science classes.

Advocates of intelligent design maintain that some features of the universe,
including living things, are too complex to have arisen by chance. In Kansas,
the state school board made a controversial decision to rewrite classroom
standards to allow the teaching of such views.

"In a way it was a bad year for evolution, given what happened in Kansas and
Dover and lots of other places," says Donald Kennedy, editor in chief of Science
magazine. "But at the same time, it was a really good year for evolution
research, really in every area of biology."

Indeed, Science awarded evolutionary research its No. 1 rank in its annual tally
of scientific highlights, noting discoveries of "evolution in action." Field
biologists, for example, documented how mating patterns in European blackcap
birds are splitting the species in two. And biologists showed that "stickleback"
fish species lose bony, protective plates in lakes without predators -- with the
flick of a single genetic switch -- while retaining them elsewhere.

Among other science standouts:

Planetary science

The European Space Agency's Huygens probe parachuted to the surface of Titan,
revealing a frozen world where liquid methane carves gullies and lakes. The
international Cassini mission uncovered new details about the sources of
Saturn's rings and discovered watery volcanism on another moon, Enceledus.
Farther out, astronomers discovered a planet, temporarily designated 2003 UB313,
which is larger than Pluto and much farther out in the comet belt. Closer to
Earth, NASA's Deep Impact mission to comet Tempel 1 was the first landing on
such an object. And incredibly, NASA's robotic Mars rovers just keep on going,
almost two years after arriving on the Red Planet.

Genomics

The $135 million International HapMap Project, which examines gene sections
shared among 269 volunteers worldwide, finished its first phase. HapMap data
recently found a gene that explains skin color. Completion of the chimp genome
was announced by researchers in September, the genetic blueprint opening an
avenue for the study of diseases and evolution in humanity's closest cousin. And
researchers made a start on decoding the genome of the woolly mammoth and said
more extinct creatures probably will yield to their technique someday.

Physics

By smashing two beams of gold atoms at near-light speeds, a Brookhaven (N.Y.)
National Lab experiment re-created the high-temperature conditions last seen in
the first moments of the universe's existence. The laboratory scientists found a
liquid sea of fundamental particles, which was a surprise. Early predictions had
indicated that they would find a primordial gas, not liquid.

Climate science

Scientists corrected long-standing errors in satellite and balloon estimates of
atmospheric temperatures that had shown a cooler climate than actually exists.
The fixes demonstrated that climate-model predictions of warmer temperatures
were accurate, a hotly contested point in discussions of climate change. And
just before Hurricane Katrina hit New Orleans, studies suggested that global
warming was increasing the power, but not the occurrence, of hurricanes.

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2005 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              29 of 147 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     April 25, 2005, Monday, FIRST EDITION

Step by step, NASA is doing what it takes to 'fix the culture'

BYLINE: Sean O'Keefe

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 680 words

One small step for NASA could turn into a giant leap for the space program.

In 2003, the Columbia Accident Investigation Board found that NASA's safety
culture contributed as much to the space shuttle Columbia accident as any
mechanical failure. The board assessed that we needed to "fix the culture" --
and thus was born one of the largest, most complex organizational changes ever.

During the past 13 months, the agency has developed a model for understanding
culture and how it changes. It has measured specific aspects of the culture
across all 19,000 employees, designed and tested an intervention method and is
implementing the strategy that will reach throughout NASA by the end of 2005.


While activity cannot be equated with achievement, the fact is the program is
already working. A recent survey taken in February of 2004 and then October
found "solid, measurable progress" from the initiative. It looked at nine
fundamental attributes of culture -- including employee-supervisor
relationships, management credibility, teamwork, work-group relations, the
safety climate and upward communications -- and each category showed
improvement. Employees are increasingly more comfortable raising safety
questions, and their concerns are being fully explored.

'Measurable progress' Statistically and anecdotally, the progress is real -- and
the process is working faster than what has been achievable in many
organizations. NASA set a very aggressive schedule, and the agency's mind-set
for achievement has helped to create solid, measurable progress.

This does not mean that NASA's culture is fixed. Organizations don't fix
cultures the way plumbers fix leaks; they address a set of issues so that a new
culture develops. In the tough world of organizational change, that's progress,
not success. At NASA, some people are embracing change, others are awaiting
their turn and still others will never buy in -- that's human nature.

Of course, there are those within the agency and in the space-exploration
community who still aren't convinced. USA TODAY recently reported the views of
those who think NASA's culture has not been fixed. Debates have emerged, as
reported Friday in The New York Times, on the methods for measuring the actions
taken to meet the recommendations of the Columbia Accident Investigation Board.
Such opinions show the dialogue is continuing.

The relationship between NASA employees and their work is unusual. NASA ranks
high in employees' ratings of workplace desirability. NASA employees are not as
motivated as others by financial gain or other extrinsic rewards. They are
motivated by their personal connection to what the agency does, what it wants to
do, and what it means to be part of space exploration and the discovery of the
universe.

Not just a job Space exploration is different from other pursuits. It has an
inherent worth, giving meaning to the tasks the organization performs. It
creates passion for the goals the organization is trying to accomplish. These
factors extend to the general community interested in space exploration, and to
every classroom in America. NASA's success means something to us as Americans.
In turn, everyone has an opinion about what should happen at NASA and whether
it's happening fast enough.

The fact is NASA exists to take on bold ventures for the sake of education,
science and exploration, national security and native curiosity. The initiative
to change the culture is designed to help NASA manage the risks and deal with
the challenges. When the shuttle returns to flight next month, or whenever, the
public should be confident that the process is managed by diligent professionals
cognizant of the risks they are charged to manage.

The ongoing progress at NASA is worthy of recognition. Scrutinizing NASA may be
a national pastime, but a safer, successful space program should be considered a
national treasure.

Sean O'Keefe served as NASA administrator during the Columbia tragedy and its
aftermath. He is now chancellor of Louisiana State University.




LOAD-DATE: June 08, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: The Forum

                      Copyright 2005 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              33 of 147 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     April 22, 2005, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Details take fun out of new A6

BYLINE: James R. Healey

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 10D

LENGTH: 1402 words

DATELINE: PAGE 215, AUDI A6 INFOTAINMENT/M

PAGE 215, AUDI A6 INFOTAINMENT/MMI OPERATING INSTRUCTIONS -- We find ourselves
here because of daylight-saving time.

DST changes, though infrequent, are regular. Twice a year, most Americans want
to adjust the clocks in their homes and cars.In the new 2005 midsize Audi sedan,
doing so is like a scavenger hunt. Look on the dashboard for obvious knobs or
buttons. Nope. Drag out the owner's manual and consult the index: "Clock -- 15."
Seems simple.But page 15 says: "Date and time of day can be set in MMI."That's
Multi Media Interface, Audi's version of the what-were-they-smoking control
absurdity pioneered by BMW's iDrive. MMI has its own, 255-page how-to manual.
The index has no listing for "clock." Investigative reporting turns up "time
setting -- 215."Page 215 directs the user to first push the "setup" button on
the MMI control. Then push the MMI button that corresponds to the word
"settings" on the screen. Then pick "time," push the master control to enter
that mode, then turn the knob to change the time. Be sure to back out of the
sequence properly or the clock reverts to the previous setting. Makes you want
to slap somebody.If you argue that the clock is seldom reset, you're missing the
bigger point: The logic that hides almost any function beneath layers of choices
is flawed logic. The auto industry needs an exorcist to eliminate such
thinking.No matter how well done the rest of the car is -- and the new A6 has
some sweetheart potential -- MMI-type experiences are another signal that German
brands should be placed on suicide watch. Quality problems keep most Audis,
BMWs, Mercedes-Benzes and Volkswagens off respected "buy" lists, such as
Consumer Reports magazine's recommended list, and have landed the brands' recent
models on the magazine's "used cars to avoid" list.It's systems such as iDrive,
MMI and Mercedes' Comand that can cause the problems and dissatisfaction that
lead to low scores on quality surveys, though MMI is less complicated than the
others and Audi has tried to make many functions available without toggling
through a thicket.The A6, quite comfy and more-or-less pleasant behind the
wheel, nevertheless supplies additional evidence that once-revered German brands
now need close adult supervision and aren't getting it.A6, the middle Audi, has
been the beauty queen. Just the right flow of line and the size. The power and
handling have been sufficient to carry the brand's flag as a very sporting
marque.The '05 A6, unable to leave well enough alone, adds an atrocious,
Edselesque grille, a hint of uglification in back via a trunk-lid ducktail, and
enough change in proportion and silhouette to make you pine for the
predecessor.The interior, on the other hand, is about as classy as they get.
Leather, wood, taut shapes.Mechanically, the Audi seems OK if not
breathtaking.The test car was powered by a 255-horsepower, 3.1-liter V-6 coupled
to a six-speed automatic transmission with manual-shift mode. That would have
been impressive but for time spent recently in the 280-hp Infiniti M35x V-6. The
Infiniti M is the new standard in the category.The A6 test car was annoying in
light-duty service. It took a significant amount of throttle pedal to wake up
the car when a stoplight changed to go. And under light acceleration, the
transmission tried to hit as many of its six gears as possible before the car
reached 30 mph or so. There's a slight pause at each upshift, so the car felt as
if the engine were cutting in and out.Audi says the adaptive transmission could
unlearn those behaviors after more time with a lead foot. But prudence,
responsible behavior and the law all demand easy driving through residential
neighborhoods and other congested areas, so what's to ever change
it?Lead-footing does remove some issues. Hit the gas hard, and the initial
hesitation vanishes. Upshifts are better spaced. Downshifts are quick and
crisp.Seats are very comfortable, and the back seems roomy enough for full-grown
humans, as long as they aren't trying to sit in the middle.Brakes are prompt to
the point of touchiness. You quickly adjust and come to disdain softer-feeling
binders. But the brakes also feel artificially boosted, as if they are stopping
according to something other than the pressure on the pedal.The doors are stiff
and hard to open. They snap firmly into their partway-open detents, which can
help prevent opening doors too wide in tight parking spots. But you always feel
as if you're trying to overcome the doors instead of opening or closing them.The
A6 felt a bit clumsy on some exit ramps with ever-tightening radii, mainly
because it didn't seem to follow the driver's steering inputs as well as rival
cars do. The body seemed to lean more than expected, despite suspension upgrades
intended to combat that.The excellent quattro all-wheel drive keeps everything
under control and pulls the car through without drama, but a sports machine
should feel sweet in all circumstances, and the A6 tester did not.The A6 is a
nice car, and the interior room is welcome. But there are plenty of nice cars in
the $40,000-to-$55,000 segment. The A6 3.2 could be the bargain at $43,000 with
all-wheel drive -- roughly $1,000 to $7,000 less than rivals.But Audi is an
engineering company, not a price brand, and it didn't seem to apply its
engineering talent to ensuring that the A6 would be better to drive in every
meaningful way than equivalent models from Acura, BMW, Cadillac, Infiniti and
Lexus.It could be a sign that Audi underestimated the competition, and it's
certainly emblematic of today's auto market that even slight slips in execution
can knock a car off the short list.TEXT OF INFO BOX BEGINS HERE2005 Audi A6*
What is it? Redesign of the brand's midlevel, four-door sedan. Available with
3.1-liter V-6 or 4.2-liter V-8. Quattro all-wheel drive is standard.
Manufactured at Neckarsulm, Germany.Front-wheel-drive model, called FrontTrak,
is due late this year as an '06 model.Station wagon version, called Avant, is
due midsummer as an '06. It will have 3.1-liter V-6 and quattro.* How soon? On
sale since November.* How much? V-6 model starts at $42,620, including $720
destination charge. V-8 starts at $52,220.Online car-shopping sites say typical
discounts range from $400 to $1,400 off window-sticker price.* How many? 20,000
annually.* Who'll buy? Bull's-eye: College-educated, married man, 50, $150,000
household income.* What're the drivetrains? 3.2 has 3.1-liter V-6 rated 255
horsepower at 6,500 rpm, 243 pounds-feet of torque at 3,250 rpm. 4.2 has
4.2-liter V-8 rated 335 hp at 6,500 rpm, 310 lbs.-ft. at 3,500 rpm.Both come
with six-speed automatic transmission with manual-shift mode and quattro
full-time all-wheel drive.* What's the safety gear? Expected bags and belts,
plus anti-lock brakes with brake-force distribution and brake assist for maximum
braking force in emergency stops; front-seat-mounted side-impact air bags;
side-curtain air bags; auto-on windshield wipers.* What's the rest? Standard
features include leather upholstery; dual-zone automatic climate control;
AM/FM/six-CD stereo; MMI control system; power steering, brakes, locks, windows,
mirrors, seats; cruise control; adjustable steering column; remote-control
locks; front and rear fog lights; free scheduled maintenance for four years or
50,000 miles.* How big? 193.5 inches long, 79.2 inches wide, 57.5 inches tall,
on a 112-inch wheelbase. Passenger space is listed as 97.9 cubic feet; trunk is
15.9 cubic feet. Weight ranges from 3,957 to 4,145 pounds, depending on model.*
How thirsty? V-6 is rated 19 miles per gallon in town, 26 on the highway. V-8 is
rated 17/23. Premium fuel is specified; regular is OK, but the power will be
slightly less.Trip computer in V-6 test car registered 15.5 mpg for 122 miles,
mostly around town.* Overall: Nice car, bad timing. Too many other nice cars in
the same price/power range are hitting the market, and some are better.More
online* Chat online with James R. Healey at 2 p.m. ET today at
talk.usatoday.com.* E-mail testdrive@usatoday.com.* Go to cars.usatoday.com to
hear James R. Healey's comments on the Audi A6, to see more photos of the A6, to
find previous Test Drive columns and to get information on pricing, incentives
and more.  The following fields overflowed: DATELINE = PAGE 215, AUDI A6
INFOTAINMENT/MMI OPERATING INSTRUCTIONS

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              42 of 147 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     April 22, 2005, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Details take fun out of new A6

BYLINE: James R. Healey

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 10D

LENGTH: 1434 words

DATELINE: PAGE 215, AUDI A6 INFOTAINMENT/M

PAGE 215, AUDI A6 INFOTAINMENT/MMI OPERATING INSTRUCTIONS -- We find ourselves
here because of daylight-saving time.

nDST changes, though infrequent, are regular. Twice a year, most Americans want
to adjust the clocks in their homes and cars. n nIn the new 2005 midsize Audi
sedan, doing so is like a scavenger hunt. Look on the dashboard for obvious
knobs or buttons. Nope. Drag out the owner's manual and consult the index:
"Clock -- 15." Seems simple. n nBut page 15 says: "Date and time of day can be
set in MMI." n nThat's Multi Media Interface, Audi's version of the
what-were-they-smoking control absurdity pioneered by BMW's iDrive. MMI has its
own, 255-page how-to manual. The index has no listing for "clock." Investigative
reporting turns up "time setting -- 215." n nPage 215 directs the user to first
push the "setup" button on the MMI control. Then push the MMI button that
corresponds to the word "settings" on the screen. Then pick "time," push the
master control to enter that mode, then turn the knob to change the time. Be
sure to back out of the sequence properly or the clock reverts to the previous
setting. Makes you want to slap somebody. n nIf you argue that the clock is
seldom reset, you're missing the bigger point: The logic that hides almost any
function beneath layers of choices is flawed logic. The auto industry needs an
exorcist to eliminate such thinking. n nNo matter how well done the rest of the
car is -- and the new A6 has some sweetheart potential -- MMI-type experiences
are another signal that German brands should be placed on suicide watch.  n
nQuality problems keep most Audis, BMWs, Mercedes-Benzes and Volkswagens off
respected "buy" lists, such as Consumer Reports magazine's recommended list, and
have landed the brands' recent models on the magazine's "used cars to avoid"
list. n nIt's systems such as iDrive, MMI and Mercedes' Comand that can cause
the problems and dissatisfaction that lead to low scores on quality surveys,
though MMI is less complicated than the others and Audi has tried to make many
functions available without toggling through a thicket. n nThe A6, quite comfy
and more-or-less pleasant behind the wheel, nevertheless supplies additional
evidence that once-revered German brands now need close adult supervision and
aren't getting it. n nA6, the middle Audi, has been the beauty queen. Just the
right flow of line and the size. The power and handling have been sufficient to
carry the brand's flag as a very sporting marque. n nThe '05 A6, unable to leave
well enough alone, adds an atrocious, Edselesque grille, a hint of uglification
in back via a trunk-lid ducktail, and enough change in proportion and silhouette
to make you pine for the predecessor. n nThe interior, on the other hand, is
about as classy as they get. Leather, wood, taut shapes. n nMechanically, the
Audi seems OK if not breathtaking. n nThe test car was powered by a
255-horsepower, 3.1-liter V-6 coupled to a six-speed automatic transmission with
manual-shift mode. That would have been impressive but for time spent recently
in the 280-hp Infiniti M35x V-6. The Infiniti M is the new standard in the
category. n nThe A6 test car was annoying in light-duty service. It took a
significant amount of throttle pedal to wake up the car when a stoplight changed
to go. And under light acceleration, the transmission tried to hit as many of
its six gears as possible before the car reached 30 mph or so. There's a slight
pause at each upshift, so the car felt as if the engine were cutting in and out.
n nAudi says the adaptive transmission could unlearn those behaviors after more
time with a lead foot. But prudence, responsible behavior and the law all demand
easy driving through residential neighborhoods and other congested areas, so
what's to ever change it? n nLead-footing does remove some issues. Hit the gas
hard, and the initial hesitation vanishes. Upshifts are better spaced.
Downshifts are quick and crisp. n nSeats are very comfortable, and the back
seems roomy enough for full-grown humans, as long as they aren't trying to sit
in the middle. n nBrakes are prompt to the point of touchiness. You quickly
adjust and come to disdain softer-feeling binders. But the brakes also feel
artificially boosted, as if they are stopping according to something other than
the pressure on the pedal. n nThe doors are stiff and hard to open. They snap
firmly into their partway-open detents, which can help prevent opening doors too
wide in tight parking spots. But you always feel as if you're trying to overcome
the doors instead of opening or closing them. n nThe A6 felt a bit clumsy on
some exit ramps with ever-tightening radii, mainly because it didn't seem to
follow the driver's steering inputs as well as rival cars do. The body seemed to
lean more than expected, despite suspension upgrades intended to combat that. n
nThe excellent quattro all-wheel drive keeps everything under control and pulls
the car through without drama, but a sports machine should feel sweet in all
circumstances, and the A6 tester did not. n nThe A6 is a nice car, and the
interior room is welcome. But there are plenty of nice cars in the
$40,000-to-$55,000 segment. The A6 3.2 could be the bargain at $43,000 with
all-wheel drive -- roughly $1,000 to $7,000 less than rivals. n nBut Audi is an
engineering company, not a price brand, and it didn't seem to apply its
engineering talent to ensuring that the A6 would be better to drive in every
meaningful way than equivalent models from Acura, BMW, Cadillac, Infiniti and
Lexus. n nIt could be a sign that Audi underestimated the competition, and it's
certainly emblematic of today's auto market that even slight slips in execution
can knock a car off the short list. n nTEXT OF INFO BOX BEGINS HERE n n2005 Audi
A6 n n* What is it? Redesign of the brand's midlevel, four-door sedan. Available
with 3.1-liter V-6 or 4.2-liter V-8. Quattro all-wheel drive is standard.
Manufactured at Neckarsulm, Germany. n nFront-wheel-drive model, called
FrontTrak, is due late this year as an '06 model. n nStation wagon version,
called Avant, is due midsummer as an '06. It will have 3.1-liter V-6 and
quattro. n n* How soon? On sale since November. n n* How much? V-6 model starts
at $42,620, including $720 destination charge. V-8 starts at $52,220. n nOnline
car-shopping sites say typical discounts range from $400 to $1,400 off
window-sticker price. n n* How many? 20,000 annually. n n* Who'll buy?
Bull's-eye: College-educated, married man, 50, $150,000 household income. n n*
What're the drivetrains? 3.2 has 3.1-liter V-6 rated 255 horsepower at 6,500
rpm, 243 pounds-feet of torque at 3,250 rpm. 4.2 has 4.2-liter V-8 rated 335 hp
at 6,500 rpm, 310 lbs.-ft. at 3,500 rpm. n nBoth come with six-speed automatic
transmission with manual-shift mode and quattro full-time all-wheel drive. n n*
What's the safety gear? Expected bags and belts, plus anti-lock brakes with
brake-force distribution and brake assist for maximum braking force in emergency
stops; front-seat-mounted side-impact air bags; side-curtain air bags; auto-on
windshield wipers. n n* What's the rest? Standard features include leather
upholstery; dual-zone automatic climate control; AM/FM/six-CD stereo; MMI
control system; power steering, brakes, locks, windows, mirrors, seats; cruise
control; adjustable steering column; remote-control locks; front and rear fog
lights; free scheduled maintenance for four years or 50,000 miles. n n* How big?
193.5 inches long, 79.2 inches wide, 57.5 inches tall, on a 112-inch wheelbase.
Passenger space is listed as 97.9 cubic feet; trunk is 15.9 cubic feet. Weight
ranges from 3,957 to 4,145 pounds, depending on model. n n* How thirsty? V-6 is
rated 19 miles per gallon in town, 26 on the highway. V-8 is rated 17/23.
Premium fuel is specified; regular is OK, but the power will be slightly less. n
nTrip computer in V-6 test car registered 15.5 mpg for 122 miles, mostly around
town. n n* Overall: Nice car, bad timing. Too many other nice cars in the same
price/power range are hitting the market, and some are better. n nMore online n
n* Chat online with James R. Healey at 2 p.m. ET today at talk.usatoday.com. n
n* E-mail testdrive@usatoday.com. n n* Go to cars.usatoday.com to hear James R.
Healey's comments on the Audi A6, to see more photos of the A6, to find previous
Test Drive columns and to get information on pricing, incentives and more. n The
following fields overflowed: DATELINE = PAGE 215, AUDI A6 INFOTAINMENT/MMI
OPERATING INSTRUCTIONS

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              50 of 147 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                      May 17, 2005, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Forecasters predictbig season for hurricanes

BYLINE: Patrick O'Driscoll

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 435 words

Federal climate forecasters predicted Monday another bruising Atlantic hurricane
season this year, with as many as 15 tropical storms and up to nine of them
hurricanes.

Gerry Bell, lead scientist for the forecast team of the National Oceanic and
Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), said it is too soon to know whether any
hurricanes this year will strike the USA. But in an above-average season, the
scientists expect at least two tropical storms to reach the U.S. coast.


Their official outlook is for 12 to 15 tropical storms, seven to nine of them
becoming hurricanes. Three to five could be major hurricanes, with winds of at
least 111 mph.

The annual forecast comes as Florida continues to rebuild after four hurricanes
crisscrossed the state last year, killing dozens of people and causing billions
of dollars in damage.

Six hurricanes struck the U.S. mainland last year. They were blamed for 60
immediate deaths and at least 94 other fatalities. The storms also left
$45billion in damage, the costliest year ever.

"One of the things that made last year seem extra intense was that there were so
many landfalls," said Bell, a meteorologist for NOAA's Climate Prediction
Center.

Hurricane season begins June 1 and runs through Nov.30, peaking from August to
October. In an average year, about 10 tropical storms (winds of at least 39 mph)
develop in the Atlantic and Caribbean. Six become hurricanes (winds 79mph or
more). Two reach "major" status.

But in eight of the past 10 years, the tally exceeded that. Bell said the trend
is likely to continue for another decade or longer because a global climate
pattern causes ideal conditions for hurricanes: warmer Atlantic waters, more
summer monsoons over western Africa and fewer monsoons in the Amazon basin.

The forecast is similar to last month's outlook from another research team based
at Colorado State University. The Colorado group predicts 13 tropical storms
this year, seven of them hurricanes and three of them major. Team leader William
Gray says the project's next update May 31 is likely to mirror Monday's forecast
by the federal government.

Monday's outlook follows a poll in April that found many residents of Atlantic
and Gulf Coast states unprepared and ill-informed about hurricanes.

The survey, part of a "National Hurricane Survival Initiative" by the National
Hurricane Center and state and private agencies, found 56% of people in 12
coastal states from Texas to Maine think they are not vulnerable to such storms.
Nearly half have no preparedness plan in case of a serious hurricane.





LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Nation

                      Copyright 2005 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              52 of 147 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    February 25, 2005, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Protect energy policy from big oil

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 278 words

This month, the Kyoto Protocol and the global tobacco treaty, formally known as
the Framework Convention on Tobacco Control, will enter into force despite
efforts by the Bush administration to derail these treaties ("Kyoto Protocol
takes effect for 140 nations," News, Feb. 16).

While the global community takes important steps to protect people and the
environment over commercial interests, corporations such as ExxonMobil and
Philip Morris/Altria plan to keep profiting from the United States' increasingly
isolationist position.

In spite of resounding international concern about climate change, the Bush
administration appears partial to energy policy prescriptions of the front
groups backed by ExxonMobil and the American Petroleum Institute.

The conflict of interest between oil corporations and energy policy mirrors the
conflict between big tobacco corporations and health policy.

In the face of the Bush administration's opposition, the global tobacco treaty
includes measures to protect health policy from interference by tobacco
corporations, their subsidiaries and affiliates in countries that ratify. We
need a similar regulation to protect energy policies from big oil.

Kathryn Mulvey

Executive director

Corporate Accountability International

Boston

Disaster relief

It is admirable that two former presidents are encouraging us to give money to
the Asian tsunami victims.

How much better it would be if they were helping the Americans in Florida
devastated by recent hurricanes who have yet to get much help ("Cloud remains
over Fla. months after hurricanes," Cover story, News, Monday).

Jim Hamra

Phoenix

LOAD-DATE: March 01, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: DEBATE

                      Copyright 2005 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              57 of 147 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                  September 29, 2005, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Shed oil dependence

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 554 words

Shed oil dependence

Hurricanes Katrina and Rita revealed the elephant in the cloakroom that
policymakers are not acknowledging. Houston's evacuees were caught in gridlock
because there were too many cars. People in New Orleans were caught in town
because they had no cars. What they shared with all Americans is our dependence
on cars -- the mark of our "freedom" to move "whenever and wherever." That
devotion adds to our oil dependence, which is imprisoning us under a thickening
atmosphere of water-warming greenhouse gases, intensifying hurricanes.


The administration's answer to auto-oil dependence is to promote more of the
same; the governor of Louisiana wants billions of dollars to build more highways
for the next evacuation.

We should use this moment to move toward a national intercity rail system
linking small and large cities and spurring rural development. Such moves would
also generate new transportation, conservation, energy-efficiency technologies,
new energy sources, good jobs, training and education. Sprawl and
energy-expensive houses should be discouraged.

This redirection of our wealth and ingenuity would be a big contribution to both
domestic and national security. It would promote a 21st century economy and
bring new job opportunities to the people like those stuck in the floods, and it
would encourage the world by our leadership in dealing with climate change.

Nancy Milio

Chapel Hill, N.C.

Ploys, not solutions

President Bush's call to save gasoline and spare your pocketbook is a real
no-brainer. But what does Bush do? He continues trotting around the Gulf Coast
area in an overly expensive public-relations project ("Rita's ruin becomes
clear," News, Tuesday).

Everywhere he goes, his force of body guards and the press -- with all their
associated added cost and fuel consumption -- further deplete tax dollars and
fuel.

Making the strategic fuel reserve available to gouging oil companies is no
answer, just another attempt to cover Bush's rear. Availability of crude is not
the problem; refining capacity is. And exploration for and development of new
crude sources is no answer either. That's just another cover and more money for
big oil. There is a fixed, limited supply of crude oil. So much and no more.

Alternative fuels are the only answer. How much has Bush pushed this? With
nothing but a few superfluous words. No wonder we're in trouble. And Congress
goes along with it!

James L. Nix

Hartselle, Ala.

Explain those profits

I understand that the price of crude oil has gone up and that refinery costs
include the cost of crude oil. This doesn't explain why refineries' profit
margins should necessarily increase ("High gas prices raise questions of
gouging," USATODAY.com).

Refineries have done nothing to entitle them to earn a greater profit -- 41
cents per gallon in 2004 vs. 23 cents per gallon a few years ago, according to
Tyson Slocum, a researcher with the consumer group Public Citizen -- simply
because crude oil prices have gone up.

I suppose that prices should increase to effectively gate demand when there are
limited supplies, but any additional profit realized should find its way back to
the consumer. So what are they doing with that windfall profit?

Wayne Hamilton

Raleigh, N.C.




LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Debate

                      Copyright 2005 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              58 of 147 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    January 11, 2005, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

NCAA plans to rethink rules for I-A status

BYLINE: Steve Wieberg

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 6C

LENGTH: 515 words

DATELINE: GRAPEVINE, Texas

GRAPEVINE, Texas -- The NCAA is backing off toughened membership criteria that
threaten to bounce Kent State, Ball State and a handful of other schools from
college football's most prominent and competitive division.

The association's highest rules-making body, the Division I board of directors,
will revise or rescind a controversial requirement that teams average at least
15,000 in home attendance each season to stay in top-tier Division I-A, chairman
Robert Hemenway, also the chancellor at Kansas, said Monday.

The board expects to weigh alternatives in April.


One option: erase the I-A designation. Classify current I-A and I-AA schools as
Division I, as basketball and every other sport does, and let television and
other marketplace influences determine which are big-time and which aren't.

Unofficially, big-time status would come from affiliation with the Bowl
Championship Series, which once was limited to the nation's six most powerful
conferences but now extends to all 11 leagues in I-A.

The NCAA still would sponsor a playoff for the former I-AA schools, holding them
to the same 63-scholarship limit they have today. The current system would
change little, in fact, beyond the title change.

"I think some combination of those sorts of thoughts will end up being something
we can build consensus around by April," said David Berst, the NCAA's vice
president for Division I.

Midlevel schools and conferences in I-A, led by Kent State President Carol
Cartwright, who heads the NCAA Executive Committee, had fought feverishly
against the new attendance minimum. It's one of several guidelines drawn up
three years ago and implemented in August 2004 in response to fears the I-A
brand was being diluted by a steady flow of I-AA schools moving up, seeking
status or a shot at a bowl.

Other guidelines range from a minimum number of home games vs. other I-A teams
(four last season and in 2005, five thereafter) to minimum offerings of
scholarships in football and other sports.

Failure to meet any of the provisions would cause a school to enter a 10-year
probationary period of sorts. Failure to meet them again in that time would mean
being barred that season from playing in a bowl.

Unofficial attendance figures posted by the NCAA show five schools fell beneath
the 15,000 cutoff last season: San Jose State (whose average of 6,479 was by far
the lowest in Division I-A), Buffalo, Kent State, Middle Tennessee State and
Ball State.

Baseball scheduling: College baseball's 56-game season is due for a trim.
Hemenway said Monday that the board of directors is insistent that the number of
contests be reduced -- though it's uncertain by how many. That would further
change a spring season already being restructured, potentially pushing the
College World Series into July by 2007. A series of proposals, designed to
minimize weather-related scheduling advantages for warm-climate schools, would
establish a uniform Feb. 1 start of practice and March 1 start for games (or the
Friday before if March 1 falls Saturday through Tuesday).

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO FIRST, B/W, Dino Vournas, AP

                      Copyright 2005 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              59 of 147 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    February 7, 2005, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Black actors' breakthrough year

BYLINE: Scott Bowles

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 1329 words

When the names of the best-acting nominees are announced at the Academy Awards
Feb. 27, one-fifth of them will be African-American, a record number.

But the real breakthrough for Hollywood's black actors came quietly on Jan. 21.

That weekend, Ice Cube's road trip comedy Are We There Yet? opened against
Assault on Precinct 13, a thriller starring Laurence Fishburne and Ethan Hawke.

"That's the first weekend I can remember when the only two big-studio movies you
had opening starred primarily black actors," says Tom Sherak, co-founder of
Revolution Studios, which produced Yet.

When Yet knocked off Coach Carter as the No. 1 film that weekend, it also marked
the first time that black-led movies claimed three of the top six spots at
theaters, according to box office tracking firm BoxOfficeMojo.com.


"We've been getting better for some time at making urban films," Sherak says of
the industry. "But to have your only two big movies of the weekend star
African-Americans? We turned a corner that weekend."

That shift will be apparent on Oscar night. Five of the best-acting slots are
taken by black actors; Jamie Foxx is up for both supporting and lead actor.

But the Academy Awards, observers say, have never been a barometer of the
Hollywood climate. A better picture of the industry's racial landscape comes
from what studios churn out the rest of the year in search of box-office hits.

And as people mourn the death last week of actor, director and civil rights
trailblazer Ossie Davis, experts point to signs the industry is changing. This
year's screen fare is cited as proof that black actors are now starring in major
films that only a few years ago would likely have gone to white stars:

 * Will Smith plays a love doctor who can't take his own advice in Hitch,
opening Friday.

 * Ice Cube replaces Vin Diesel as the hotshot government agent in XXX: State of
the Union, due in theaters April 29.

 * Cedric the Entertainer is the new Ralph Kramden in the film adaptation of the
TV classic The Honeymooners, out July 15.

And in a racial switch of the 1967 classic Guess Who's Coming to Dinner?, Bernie
Mac plays a father coming to terms with his daughter's white boyfriend (Ashton
Kutcher) in Guess Who, opening March 25.

"Filmmakers are no longer going back to what the industry standards are and to
the formulaic pattern," says Terrence Howard, star of Hustle & Flow, the
Sundance hit about a pimp trying to become a rapper. "Black actors are upping
their game, which is so clearly seen and is being readily received by the
public."

At least the young public. And in Hollywood, that's all a studio needs.

Experts say teens have helped force the door open wider to minority actors. In
the 1990s, young black audiences flocked to films "about black inner-city life,"
says Elayne Rapping, a professor of American studies at SUNY-Buffalo. "As a
result of the success of these films, black actors like Will Smith and Denzel
Washington, and most recently the remarkable Jamie Foxx, have risen in
visibility and bankability in more mainstream leading-man roles."

More recently, teens of all colors who became hooked on the acts of hip-hop
artists and stand-up comedians such as Smith, Queen Latifah and Chris Rock, are
following en masse to theaters.

"When you look at the appeal of someone like Ice Cube, it's across all borders,"
says Rory Bruer, distribution chief for Sony Pictures, which distributed Yet.
"Kids follow him from music to video to movies."

Sony's exit surveys on Yet's opening weekend found 49% of the audience was
white, 29% was black and 18% was Hispanic.

"Kids are more color-blind than our generation was," Sherak says. "All they care
about is being entertained. They're the most important audience we've got, so
they're forcing people to pay attention."

Nancy Utley, president of marketing for Fox Searchlight Pictures, says studios
have better learned to embrace films geared primarily toward black audiences.

"The African-American audience really supports movies with people of color in
them," says Utley, whose studio is releasing Roll Bounce, a 1970s nostalgia trip
starring rapper Bow Wow, due Sept. 16.

Some black-led films, though, are bridging all audiences. Barbershop, the $12
million comedy about an inner-city salon, stunned analysts by raking in $75
million in 2002. The movie spawned a sequel last year and a spinoff, Beauty Shop
, out March 30. Showtime is doing a TV sitcom version of Barbershop.

"The beauty of Hollywood is that the racism between black and white does have an
escape valve," Smith says. "Which is green."

Since Barbershop's success, studios have been more willing to make their movies
ethnically diverse with universal storylines "that will make African-Americans,
Caucasians, everyone feel that a movie is for them," Utley says.

Some stars say they feel the change, as well.

"The business is getting more color-blind," says Sophie Okonedo, who is up for
best supporting actress for Hotel Rwanda. "I'm looking at more scripts now that
don't call for an actor of any color. They just call for a good actor."

If actors are seeing juicier roles, they aren't necessarily seeing more of them.
According to a study last year by the Screen Actors Guild, roles that went to
black actors dipped 3% from 2002 to 2003, the most recent figures available.

And good scripts are rare. "I still turn down a lot more roles than I accept,"
says Don Cheadle, nominated for a best-actor Oscar for Rwanda. "A lot of scripts
still call for you to play the street hood or the sidekick. It can be
discouraging."

Some note that black actresses have not benefited as much.

"The rise of hip-hop and inner-city movies by and about black men has been
almost exclusively a plus for men, not women," Rapping says. They "are not
represented, either as producers or stars, in the way men are."

But that may change. Films geared toward black women are gaining momentum. Last
year's $2 million Woman Thou Art Loosed, the story of a woman struggling with a
legacy of abuse and addiction, took in $6.9 million. Diary of a Mad Black Woman,
about a black housewife's struggles with her dissolving marriage, opens Feb. 25.


Offscreen professionals have a tougher time. For black directors, "it was not a
good year," says Donald Bogle, author of Bright Boulevards, Bold Dreams: The
Story of Black Hollywood. "The only director ever nominated (for an Oscar) was
John Singleton (for 1991's Boyz in the Hood). We are still at a place that it
does give us pause."

Smith says that for decades, Hollywood opened the door only for black actors,
"so all of our talent went that way. Our performers have probably had a 30-year
head start on our writers, producers and directors."

He says black Hollywood should be following the lead of foreign directors. "It's
encouraging and discouraging for me when I see something like City of God,"
2002's acclaimed film about the slums of Rio de Janeiro. "Why aren't we blacks
in Hollywood making this type of movie? The stories are our same ghetto
stories."

But historians say the outlook for black filmmakers is changing. They are doing
films as varied as those offered to white directors.

F. Gary Gray, who directed 2003's The Italian Job, directs Be Cool, out March 4.
Barbershop director Tim Story directs the comic book adaptation of Fantastic
Four, due July 1. And Singleton tackles his own comic-book film with Luke Cage,
out in 2006.

Kevin Hagopian, who teaches media studies at Penn State University, says the new
roles for black actors and filmmakers should be seen as only the start of
change.

"We shouldn't be lulled into thinking that black performers have somehow
conquered racism. But the tide is turning."

---

Contributing: Susan Wloszczyna

LOAD-DATE: February 07, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Color, Barry Wetcher, Sony Pictures; PHOTO, B/W, Alfreo Dixon;
Rapper to actor: Will Smith stars with Eva Mendes in Hitch, out Friday. Roles
like Smith's often went to white actors in the past. <>Women take strides: Diary
of a Mad Black Woman, with Kimberly Elise, opens Feb. 25.

TYPE: COVER STORY

                      Copyright 2005 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              60 of 147 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                      July 1, 2005, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Subaru brushes up on Forester

BYLINE: James R. Healey

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 8D

LENGTH: 1503 words

Subaru's Forester small SUV has so much going for it: excellent all-wheel-drive
system, good crash-test scores, a "top pick" rating from influential Consumer
Reports magazine because of good road manners, top scores for reliability and
owner satisfaction, and slower-than-average depreciation.

But standing still is suicide in the car business, so Subaru made changes for
the 2006 model going on sale now: more power, more features, fewer models,
cleaner look.

The non-turbocharged models are called 2.5 X, 2.5 X Premium and 2.5 X L.L. Bean.
The turbocharged version is called 2.5 XT and comes only as an uplevel Limited
model.

The non-turbo engine gets eight more horsepower that kicks in at a lower engine
speed, so it's more useful in traffic. The turbo gets a hefty 20-hp boost.


Structure and size are unchanged, but the schnoz, rump and sides get cosmetic
tweaks. Many changes to interior trim make the inside generally a nicer place to
be.

Forester, Subaru tells us, no longer is just a small SUV that looks like a
wagon. Nope. It's now "Sport Utility Tough, Car Easy" (and that must be true,
because it's trademarked).

In prose similar to that used by every automaker, the Forester is said to be
"more refined, yet rugged." It has strengthened this, retuned that and improved
everything else. Not to pick on Subaru, but you have to wonder why automakers'
glorious self-evaluations often seem like descriptions of something other than
what you're driving.

Yes, the new looks and higher power are sweet upgrades. But no, the 2006
Forester is not the greatest thing since sliced bread. And even though Subaru
says some upgrades underneath were to improve the ride and handling response,
the steering on the non-turbo model tested for a week felt a little
over-boosted. Cornering, as performed on your garden-variety ever-tightening
freeway exit ramps, resulted in uncomfortable amounts of body lean.

Brakes on that tester felt squishy, spongy and ineffective. Could have been a
glitch, because the turbo model, also driven a week, had no such slop in the
stop, nor did other Foresters driven briefly.

All the test vehicles were preproduction models. Regular showroom models might
be better, but satisfy yourself of that before signing anything.

Newfound power is a lovely adjunct, useful in merging, passing, diving into
momentary traffic holes, squirting ahead at traffic lights and for simple
amusement purposes.

But the non-turbo test car stumbled when prodded gently from rest. It felt like
cars of the 1960s and '70s with maladjusted carburetors that made engines kind
of clear their throats before getting down to business.

A heavy throttle foot is a cure. But not all drivers are comfortable racing away
from stoplights as if they are trying to relive their teen years.

The turbo test car delivered its power better, making enough oomph available at
crawl-and-stall speed to be OK in city traffic, plus providing the additional
rush of acceleration starting at about 4,000 rpm that's typical of a
turbocharged engine.

Turbo engines are best on the highway, where they loaf at fuel-saving low
revolutions, but keep their turbochargers spinning fast enough to kick in right
now for passing and merging. Nothing better.

But not all are smooth at low speed, so the Forester 2.5 XT's traffic manners
are appreciated.

A general caution about what's become Subaru's Big Lie. The automaker harps on
the smoothness of its flat or "boxer" cylinder layout, like the engine
configuration of old Volkswagen Beetles and all Porsche 356 and 911 sports cars.
It just ain't so. While Subaru's boxer six-cylinder engines do seem smooth, the
four-cylinder powerplants such as those in the Forester cackle at idle, as if
there's something wrong, and have slight shakes and vibrations.

Also on the minus side, the gearshift pattern for the automatic transmission
lever is unnatural. Your hand doesn't like to move the lever in the ways the
shift pattern demands, resulting in a minor ergonomic skirmish every time you
handle the lever.  The manual transmission in the turbo test car shifted pretty
well, neither state of the art nor sloppy and difficult to maneuver.

Front seats are comfy -- especially so the leather in the 2.5 XT tester -- but
the lumbar support can't be retracted enough to fit some physiques.

There's generous knee clearance behind the front seat for rear riders. Just as
important, there's unusual room under the front seat for those in back to stick
their toes, a feature that amplifies the available space and the comfort level.
Still, portions of the front seat's rear framework are far enough back that even
a lithe child has trouble getting into or out of the back without twisting and
tangling feet on that front-seat framework.

The optional sunroof is enormous, giving rear riders a skylight and extra
ventilation if they want. The sliding roof will stop before it opens above the
back seat, in case only the front occupants favor the light and the breeze.

Satellite radio isn't available, so you'll have to jam in an aftermarket unit if
you prefer good radio to bad.

No ice, heavy rain or other inviting challenge was available during the test
periods. But from a dead stop on loose gravel, the Forester's all-wheel drive
gripped quickly, firmly, authoritatively and with almost no wheelspin. Subaru is
pretty thorough about its AWD designs, and there's no evidence to suggest it'll
be other than very good in snow and such.

Assuming the acceleration stumble and wretched braking of the 2.5 X tester was a
one-car catastrophe, it's pretty easy to applaud the latest Forester updates.

But there's a disquieting sense that the Forester has slipped behind the curve
on refinement, handling and features, and that perhaps this was the time for a
full-blown makeover rather than an update.



2006 Subaru Forester

*What is it? Freshening of the brand's midlevel sport-utility wagon; four-door,
all-wheel-drive, compact station wagon manufactured in Japan.

*How soon? On sale today at most dealers.

*How much? Forester 2.5 X starts at $22,390 including $595 destination charge.
2.5 X Premium starts at $24,740. 2.5 X L.L. Bean starts at $27,490. 2.5 XT is
$28,490. Loaded, about $31,000. Automatic transmission is standard on L.L. Bean,
$800 option on the others.

Expect to pay about full window-sticker price, the online car-shopping services
say.

*Who'll buy? Women, 57%; married, 70%; median household income, $86,000; 66%
went to college, 37% kept going and got postgraduate degrees

*How many? 56,000 a year.

*What's the drivetrain? 2.5 X has 2.5-liter four-cylinder rated 173 horsepower
at 6,000 rpm, 166 pounds-feet of torque at 4,400 rpm; five-speed manual
transmission (four-speed automatic is optional). 2.5 XT has 2.5-liter
turbocharged four-cylinder rated 230 hp at 5,600 rpm, 235 lbs.-ft. at 3,600 rpm;
five-speed manual (four-speed automatic is optional).

All-wheel drive in manual-shift models normally splits power 50/50 front/rear,
shifts as traction conditions change. AWD in automatic-transmission models is
continuously variable.

Manual-transmission models have Hill Holder, which prevents rolling backward
while starting uphill.

*What's the safety gear? Expected bags and belts, plus front-seat side-impact
bags, anti-lock brakes.

*What's the rest? Climate control; AM/FM/CD stereo with weatherband reception;
power steering, brakes, mirrors, windows, locks; cruise control; remote-control
locks; tilt-adjustable steering column; fog lights; rear-window wiper,
defroster.

*How big? 2 inches longer and narrower than Ford Escape and 7 inches lower.
Forester is 177.6 inches long, 68.1 inches wide, 62.6 inches tall on a 99.4-inch
wheelbase. Weight is listed as 3,165 to 3,350 pounds, depending on model. Rated
to carry 900 pounds of people and cargo, tow 2,400 pounds.

Passenger space is listed as 93.5 cubic feet (91.2 cubic feet when equipped with
sunroof). Cargo space is listed as 32 cubic feet behind rear seat (29.6 cubic
feet with sunroof), 57.7 cubic feet when the rear seat's folded (56.4 cubic feet
with sunroof).

*How thirsty? Non-turbo engine is rated 22 miles per gallon in town, 29 mpg on
the highway when equipped with manual transmission, 23/28 with automatic.
Regular gas is specified.

Turbocharged engine is rated 19/25 with manual, 21/26 with automatic. Premium is
specified and Subaru says it's not kidding: The engine runs poorly on regular
and could overheat.

*Overall: Nice small SUV, but there are plenty of those and some are much
cheaper.
---

More online
*Chat online with James R. Healey at 2 p.m. ET today at talk.usatoday.com.

*E-mail testdrive@usatoday.com.

*Go to cars.usatoday.com to hear James R. Healey's comments on the Subaru
Forester, to see more photos of the Forester, to find previous Test Drive
columns and to get information on pricing, incentives and more.




LOAD-DATE: July 01, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: TEST DRIVE

                      Copyright 2005 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              65 of 147 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   February 10, 2005, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

The value of book smarts

BYLINE: Harriet Rubin

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 968 words

Contestants on the popular reality TV show The Apprentice were challenged last
week to come up with a big idea to make Nescafe's instant coffee catch on in a
Starbucks-mad world.

Such are the trials of the remaining 14 contestants vying for the chance to be
Donald Trump's newest apprentice and run one of his companies. This season, they
are divided into two teams: "Street smart" players have only high-school
diplomas. "Book smart" players have university educations.


The show is a battle royal: ordinary joes who made their own breaks in life vs.
privileged kids who got all the breaks handed to them. The twist is that the
aggressive High Schoolers have amassed three times the net worth of the
credentialed Collegians. The latest score: High School, two wins; College, one.

So we may well ask: Do book smarts have anything to do with success, really?

Right now, the business cycle is NASCAR, not Camelot. As with Trump, it's about
winning by a few measly bucks, shaving a tenth of a penny off the cost of a
product or eliminating jobs. That approach favors those with street smarts.

But that'll change.

Although it seems that hardly anyone in business -- with the exception, perhaps,
of Apple CEO Steve Jobs -- is acting with vision, I believe business is on the
edge of a new cycle of imagination and bold products. And history shows it has
been book-smart people who have most often changed the world. (OK, Bill Gates
was a college dropout, but he loves books the way roaches love water.)

Books and automobiles

When the young management scholar Peter Drucker walked into General Motors in
the 1940s to study its rapid growth during a reign that lasted for decades, he
encountered at the heart of its operations a brilliant young manager. His name
was Donaldson Brown. Only after months of talking to Drucker did Brown trust him
with his hideous secret: He had a Ph.D. Brown kept that fact quiet because he
feared he might be fired just for being book smart. Yet Brown turned into one of
GM's most valuable leaders in an industry dominated by street fighters.

A young Henry Ford II also had bold ambitions for his company. He hired 10
book-smart managers after World War II. He called them his Whiz Kids, and they
gave the company its heady groove. Ford's accounting office had been adding
sales figures by weighing a stack of invoices on a scale. The Whiz Kids brought
revolutionary thinking to such simple tasks as bookkeeping and changed the way
business was done in all U.S. companies.

I last saw book smarts shine in technology in the late 1980s, when a
twentysomething Jobs of Apple, who surrounded himself with book-smart people,
lured John Sculley from Pepsi with the challenge: "Do you want to sell sugared
water for the rest of your life, or do you want to change the world?"

Sculley, Intel's Andy Grove and Nike's Phil Knight exemplified book smarts and
bold ideas. They devoured ideas about such unbusinesslike matters as history,
science, medicine, art, architecture and rhetoric.

Sure, street-smart leaders such as Ben Franklin and George Washington got
America through a devastating war. But it's worth noting that Gen. Washington
had to send to Britain for a manual on how to fight a war. Street-smart America
won by following a British book.

Washington and Franklin were succeeded by the bookish James Madison and Thomas
Jefferson. Perhaps when the Iraq war is over and the troops are home, an
exuberance of vision and imagination will again be released, followed by a new
respect for book smarts.

Beware 'ordinary men'

The Apprentice's High Schoolers failed once, when the team broke into fights in
front of people judging them on customer satisfaction. They looked like they'd
been raised by wolves. The book-smart people threw a party for the customers.
"College kids know how to party," one College team member said. But College's
win was pathetic: A key team member walked off the show whining about the
stress.

Does Trump, who is a little bit book smart and a little bit street smart, really
want to hire any of these people? Or does he want to go beyond his own
experience?

When ad genius David Ogilvy worried that his managers had lost sight of the fact
that the people they were hiring were like them, but not better than them, he
sat them down and issued a warning: "Ordinary men will hire men who are less
than they are, and then those will go on to hire men of even less stature until
the organization is replete with pygmies."

The oldest model of Apprentice was the schooling of Samurai: They were tested in
swordsmanship and poetry, based on the observation that some challenges come
down to beating another team, but the crucial tests require reinventing the
game.

So maybe book smarts and street smarts together only assure us of more crummy
customer service, more lousy TV programming, more vehicles for more brainless
Paris Hilton consumables.

Where does all of this leave Trump? He could benefit from apprenticing himself
to subtlety, ideas and vision. The roster of such masters is shrinking. Days
before the new season of The Apprentice aired, Walter Wriston, former chairman
of Citicorp, died. Wriston was a book-lover who happened to be a banker. He
transformed Citicorp into the first global bank and thereby changed his industry
from one dominated by straitjacketed regulators and bankers' hours into the
first cornerstone of the 24/7 global economy. Big ideas there.

Can you imagine someone like the young, book-smart Wriston being hired as
Trump's apprentice?

The point is, in today's competition for the next big idea, you should expect
it.

***

Harriet Rubin, author of The Princessa: Machiavelli for Women, is a member of
USA TODAY's board of contributors.

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Marcy E. Mullins, USA TODAY (ILLUSTRATION)

                      Copyright 2005 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              68 of 147 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    February 25, 2005, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Volvo's new V-8 adds excitement

BYLINE: James R. Healey

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 9D

LENGTH: 1460 words

Volvo finally has a V-8 engine, the company's first in a production vehicle, and
it's making its debut in the 2005 XC90 sport-utility wagon, which is Volvo's
best seller.

The V-8 is manufactured in Japan by Yamaha to Volvo specifications. It's meant
to hang onto the 20% of potential XC90 buyers who go elsewhere to get a V-8. In
about six months, the 4.4-liter V-8 begins showing up in Volvo cars.

The XC90 hasn't changed much since its introduction in November 2002. But the
smooth, powerful, exciting, satisfying new engine makes it seem very different.


The test drive of a well-furnished 2005 XC90 priced about $50,000 showed that
the engine does what an exemplary V-8 should. It provides low-speed power for
smooth chug-along driving. It has any-speed punch to take advantage of a hole in
traffic. It delivers high-speed zip for passing, merging and raw fun. And it
sounds great.

The V-8 is rated a healthy 311 horsepower, 325 pounds-feet of torque. It
temporarily complements, eventually supplants, the twin-turbocharged, 2.9-liter,
six-cylinder engine in the T6 version of the XC90. That inline-6 is rated 268 hp
and 280 lbs.-ft.

Base engine remains a 2.5-liter, turbo-charged five-cylinder, rated 208 hp, 236
lbs.-ft. That's marginal in the 4,500-pound XC90.

The V-8 juices up the starting price to $46,090, or $3,845 more than the T6
six-cylinder. The V-8 has additional standard features, but plenty of options
remain. A loaded XC90 V-8 is $56,000.

Combined with Volvo's pioneering anti-rollover system, plus standard safety
systems that include multiple air bags and sophisticated anti-lock brakes, XC90
V-8 is confident, secure and mighty appealing. Consider:

 * High-class furnishings, such as comfortable leather, restrained gadgetry and
embellishment, clever seat design that includes a built-in child booster in the
sliding center section of the second row.

 * Six-speed automatic transmission that's among the snappiest-,
smoothest-shifting on the market and provides a manual-shift mode.

 * Second-row seats with adult-scale space, if people in front don't slide back
really far.

 * Third-row seats with generous crash-absorption space between them and the
rear bumper.

 * Climate control adjustments that tailor heating and cooling better than most
rivals'.

 * Effective all-wheel-drive system that, on the V-8, does not require front
wheelspin to begin shifting power to the rear wheels. Worked flawlessly in heavy
rain on slick asphalt.

Volvo could have given the XC90 sportier handling by tuning the AWD to send half
or more of the power to the rear wheels in normal circumstances. Instead, it
puts just 5% back there normally -- shifting as much as 95% to the rears when
the fronts lack traction.

The front-drive bias results in nose-heavy understeer. Volvo considers that
safer than a neutral or rear-bias setup.

Given all the attributes, why consider any other SUV at the price?

Because XC90 has some annoyances. Not enough to take it off the short list, but
enough to give pause:

 * Price. Looks good vs. a BMW X5 V-8, say, but it's about $10,000 more than an
Acura MDX. MDX has no V-8, but for $10,000 less maybe you don't care as much.

 * Mileage. If you get close to the rated 14 miles per gallon in town, you
probably don't appreciate a V-8 in the first place. Drive it like you love it,
and you'll flirt with single-digit in-town fuel economy.

 * Pedals. The wide-footed or big-booted could have anxious moments trying to
get off the gas and onto the brakes. A re-sized or repositioned brake pedal
seems wise. Try a few full-bore panic stops to see if you can easily move from
gas to brakes in a hurry.

 * Pause. It does that if you slow nearly to a stop, then toe the gas to pick up
speed -- as in slowing for a red light that turns green just as you reach it.
Annoying, jerky. Volvo says the adaptive transmission eventually should learn to
quit that.

 * Snag.  To floor the gas, you have to push past built-in resistance. Volvo
says that's in all its cars, is common in Europe and is a warning that pushing
harder will cause the transmission to downshift -- the so-called kickdown. Less
nannyism, please. We like the kickdown. It's fun and often necessary in urban
traffic.

 * Drips. XC's tapered upper body leaves nothing to block the slop from falling
where you sit when you open the doors in rain or sleet. A common problem, it
seems worse than usual on the XC.

 * Confinement. The wide center stack of controls and the fat door-mounted
stereo speaker minimize space for leaning your legs sideways, which can be a
relaxing posture on long trips.

 * Door handles. You feel the seam where two materials meet on the interior
handles. It's unpleasant.

 * Missing features. Unavailable, though Volvo owner Ford Motor offers them in
lower-price cars: satellite radio, adjustable pedals.

Too many aggravations for XC90 to be the perfect SUV, but the comfort, good
looks and layers of safety make it tempting nonetheless. And the whiz-bang V-8
is so much fun and so satisfying that you're to be pardoned if you rationalize
away the gaffes quicker than a dealer can say, "Sign here."


Volvo XC90 V-8

* What is it? Volvo's first V-8 engine, tucked into the XC90 midsize, four-door,
all-wheel-drive sport-utility vehicle, which is Volvo's best-selling model.
Manufactured in Sweden, using a Yamaha V-8 shipped from Japan.

* How soon? Since late January.

* How much? Starts at $46,090, including $695 destination charge.

* What's the point? Attract the 20% of potential XC90 buyers who've gone
elsewhere for lack of a V-8.

* How many? About 10,000 a year in the USA.

* What's the drivetrain? 4.4-liter V-8 rated 311 horsepower at 5,850 rpm, 325
pounds-feet of torque at 3,900 rpm; six-speed automatic transmission with
manual-shift mode; full-time all-wheel drive that normally sends 95% of power to
the front wheels and shifts as much as 95% to the rear as needed for traction;
traction control.

* What's the safety gear? Expected belts and bags, plus anti-skid control;
anti-rollover system; anti-lock brakes; side-impact bags for driver and front
passenger; head-curtain bags for passengers in all three rows.

* What's different? V-8 model is distinguished from other XC90s by additional
standard features, including third-row air conditioning with separate controls;
built-in child booster seat in second row; rear audio controls; more
sophisticated ABS. Exterior differences include wheels, body-color trim and door
handles, gray grille, dual exhaust pipes.

All '05 XC90s have these changes: improved rain-sensing wipers; new design
seats; HomeLink remote-control standard instead of optional.

Standard features on all XC90s include dual-zone climate control; AM/FM/CD
stereo; power steering, brakes, windows, locks, mirrors, driver's seat; outside
mirror defrosters; cruise control; trip computer; fog lights; engine-protection
skid plate.

* How big? A few inches bigger than BMW X5, a logical rival; same size as other
XC90 models. The XC90 V-8 is 188.9 inches long, 74.7 inches wide, 70.2 inches
tall (including roof rack) on a 112.6-inch wheelbase.

Cargo space is listed as 43.3 cubic feet when third row is folded flat, 85.1
cubic feet with second and third rows flat. Rated to carry 1,210 pounds of
people and cargo and tow 5,000 pounds. Weight is listed as 4,610 lbs.

* How thirsty? Rated 14 miles per gallon in town, 20 on the highway. Premium
fuel is specified. Regular is OK with minimal power loss. Volvo says premium
helps most in hot weather, at high altitude or carrying heavy loads. Test
vehicle's trip computer showed 11.3 mpg around town.

* Overall: The smooth power that XC90 has needed since launch, but other
drawbacks hurt the package.

Engine made by Yamaha was safer fit

Why get relatively unknown Yamaha to develop a V-8 engine instead of using the
Jaguar 4.2-liter V-8 -- easily done because Volvo and Jag both are owned by Ford
Motor?

Better fit, Volvo says, which equals better safety.

Volvo says it computer-simulated front-end crashes of the XC90 to see how much
space was left unmolested in the engine compartment. The Jag V-8, turned
sideways as the Volvo application requires, was too wide. It would have been
shoved partway into the passenger compartment in such a crash.

Yamaha was willing to develop a narrow V-8 for Volvo at an attractive,
undisclosed price, hoping to establish itself as an engine supplier.

That could be tough. Automakers manufacture nearly all their own engines, even
though nowadays they buy most other major components -- frames, wheels,
interiors, transmissions -- from outside suppliers.

LOAD-DATE: March 01, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Volvo Cars of North America; Strong points: The automatic
transmission's snappy, and XC90 has nice leather seats and restrained gadgetry.

                      Copyright 2005 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              69 of 147 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                      April 1, 2005, Friday, FINAL EDITION

What the report didn't say . . .

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 487 words

Sometimes the most intriguing news is found in what's left unsaid. That was
certainly true Thursday, as a presidential commission issued a blistering, if
unsurprising, indictment of U.S. intelligence-gathering in the months leading up
to war in Iraq.

The commission found, as others had, that the nation's spy agencies were "dead
wrong" about Iraq having weapons of mass destruction. It cited a panoply of
failures -- from a lack of spies in the right places to the agencies' tendency
to squash dissenting views. The report describes how the agencies, unwilling to
admit that they lacked hard facts, instead relied on worthless information, bad
assumptions and a key source who was lying.


Many of the same weaknesses persist today. The agencies "know disturbingly
little about the nuclear programs of many of the world's most dangerous actors,"
the commission found.

On a practical level, those findings may help deter any backsliding on changes
already underway to unify the nation's splintered intelligence system. Those
reforms were driven by an equally scathing report issued by the 9/11 Commission
last August.

More interesting, though, is what's missing from this new report. The report
didn't attempt to connect the intelligence failures to the fateful decision they
encouraged: to go to war on what proved to be false grounds.

If the report is taken at face value, this was all the fault of the spy
agencies' blundering. The bipartisan commission found no evidence that
intelligence judgments were changed because of political pressure. The
commission chairs, senior federal Judge Laurence Silberman and former Virginia
senator Charles Robb, reiterated that finding on Thursday.

But in a few telling paragraphs among more than 600 pages, the panel allowed
that some analysts were influenced by the conventional wisdom, which said Saddam
Hussein was hiding an arsenal, and "the sense that challenges to it -- or even
refusals to find its confirmation -- would not be welcome."

Little wonder. In the months before the war, Vice President Cheney said there
was "no doubt" Saddam was amassing weapons. Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld
said that even "a trained ape" knew it was true. President Bush repeatedly made
the case not just that war in Iraq was necessary, but that it was urgent.

That is not a climate that would lead anyone to conclude that facts still needed
to be discerned. And it is one that needs change, beginning at the intelligence
agencies.

Even 9/11 and the deaths of more 1,500 U.S. troops in Iraq haven't budged them
from bad habits, particularly refusals to share information and encourage
differing views, the commission said. The nation's new intelligence czar will
need to knock heads.

For the political leadership, the task is simpler. They need only leave room for
facts to get in the way of their conclusions -- and use war only as a last
resort.

LOAD-DATE: April 01, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: DEBATE

                      Copyright 2005 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              70 of 147 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    April 20, 2005, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Picking apart the 'Big Bang' brings a big mystery

BYLINE: Dan Vergano

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 6D

LENGTH: 771 words

An atom-smashing fireball experiment has physicists puzzling over existing
theories about the moments after the "Big Bang" that scientists say created the
universe.

Researchers conducted the experiment over the past three years at the Energy
Department's Brookhaven National Laboratory in Long Island, New York.

Thousands of collisions of gold atoms took place in the laboratory's
Relativistic Heavy Ion Collider facility. The goal was to create a charged gas
that was more than 1 trillion degrees, up to 150,000 times hotter than the sun's
core. This was the climate scientists believe followed the Big Bang.


Instead, the collisions created pinprick-size fireballs with matter that behaved
like a high-temperature liquid, rather than a gas, for its infinitesimally brief
existence, the team reported Monday.

"It's a big puzzle and a big surprise," Brookhaven's Dmitri Kharzeev says. The
results were reported at the American Physical Society meeting in Tampa and are
scheduled for publication in the journal Nuclear Physics A.

Physicists hope that by understanding the sometimes unexpected behavior of
fundamental particles at very high temperatures, they can unravel rules of
matter that govern all conditions.

Their Big Bang experiment was a collaboration by four teams of scientists and
pooled results from separate particle-detecting experiments. Hundreds of
researchers were involved.

Their earlier findings suggested that the atomic collisions created a primordial
concoction known as "quark-gluon" plasma. But rather than behaving like a
charged gas, or plasma, and moving about on independent paths, subatomic
particles inside the collisions moved collectively in response to pressure
variations, like liquids.

"The fact that they can extract from those collisions glimpses of how this
matter behaves is a major success by itself," says physicist Hans Georg Ritter
of Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory in California.

Quarks and gluons are the sub-particles inside protons and neutrons, which are
the building blocks of atoms. Since the cool-down that followed the Big Bang
13.7 billion years ago, these subparticles are usually never seen liberated from
protons and neutrons. They are bound inside these particles by strong atomic
forces.

Trying to duplicate the moments that followed the Big Bang, the scientists used
the high-powered collisions between heavy gold atoms to separate quarks and
gluons from their proton and neutron containers. The scientists expected them to
mingle as a continuous, charged gas, but that does not appear to have happened.

A few observers had expressed fears that the colliding atoms would create
miniature versions of collapsed stars -- tiny black holes that would consume
Long Island, says Brookhaven's Sam Aronson. "But it's pretty clear that didn't
happen."

Instead, the team is left with an intriguing discovery that they say will affect
how physicists consider the first moments of the Big Bang. Kharzeev said
physicists are still pondering how the early universe really developed if matter
behaved as a liquid rather than a gas.

The post-collision particles acted like "perfect" liquids, which act almost
uniformly in concert and dissipate heat very rapidly. Researchers are attempting
to reconcile their findings with the behavior of the primordial fireball that
lasted 380,000 years after the Big Bang.

In 2003, the WMAP satellite probe detected the signature of this fireball in the
cosmic microwave background radiation that spans the entire sky.

Further, the discovery that the research team's collisions produced a perfect
liquid rather than a gas is particularly intriguing, the researchers suggest,
because it matches some aspects of string theory. This is an explanation of
fundamental physics that treats physics particles as tiny strings instead of
point-like objects and incorporates perfect liquids.

String theory aspires to become a "theory of everything" that unifies all forces
of nature, says physicist Dam Thanh Son of the University of Washington, who was
not on the discovery team. He said in an e-mail that the findings have not
furthered this quest by string-theory proponents. But it could be that the
results "will help us uncover a deep connection between the real world and
string theory," he said. "That would be fantastic."

Despite the success of the experiments, cuts in Energy Department financing
probably will reduce the program's operating time from 30 weeks to 12 weeks next
year, Aronson says. "It will be a major hit on the productivity of the program,
but we will continue."

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS, B/W, Brookhaven National Laboratory (2); From colliding atoms:
Instead of a hot gas of independent particles, left, experiments generated a
perfect" liquid of linked particles.

TYPE: SCIENCE

                      Copyright 2005 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              73 of 147 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                      June 20, 2005, Monday, FINAL EDITION

U.S. nuclear power industry working on quiet comeback

BYLINE: Kathy Kiely

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 815 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

WASHINGTON -- More than 26 years after a near-meltdown at the Three Mile Island
nuclear power plant, the Senate is considering an energy bill that includes
financial incentives for construction of nuclear plants. It's the latest sign of
the industry's quiet rehabilitation.

Sen. Pete Domenici, a New Mexico Republican who is the chief architect of the
bill being debated, has long been an advocate of nuclear energy. And President
Bush will repeat his call for boosting nuclear power when he visits the Calvert
Cliffs plant in Lusby, Md., this week.


They have some unexpected company:

*Senate Democratic leader Harry Reid of Nevada said that although he has been
"totally opposed to nuclear power" in the past, he's now willing to give it a
second look. "You're going to see a move towards nuclear power," he predicted.
"If it's done right, it will protect the environment."

*Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz., includes incentives for nuclear power in a measure
he plans to offer to reduce greenhouse gases in the atmosphere. McCain argues
that nuclear power can help solve global warming. "I am a green and I entreat my
friends in the movement to drop their wrongheaded objection to nuclear energy,"
he said in a Senate speech.

*Another recent convert: Sen. Frank Lautenberg, a Democrat whose home state of
New Jersey gets nearly 52% of its electricity from nuclear power. "Nuclear
issues are being forced on us by the realities of life," he said. "We are being
blackmailed by those who produce fossil fuels that we import, and more
traditional domestic energy production poses risks to the environment."

27 years with no new licenses

No nuclear power plant has been licensed in the USA since 1978, the year before
the Three Mile Island accident in central Pennsylvania. But interest is growing.
The reasons: rising prices for oil and natural gas, concerns that fossil fuel
emissions are harming the climate, and an increasing desire to make the nation
less dependent on energy supplies from the Middle East.

"It's now dawning on people that if you're talking about producing cleaner
energy that will really fulfill needs of large populations, nuclear stands
alone," Domenici said in an interview this week.

No one died at Three Mile Island. But the failure of mechanical systems, which
caused a partial meltdown of the reactor core and some release of radioactivity,
was "a public relations disaster for our industry," said Steve Kerekes of the
Nuclear Energy Institute.

Even so, nuclear power never went away. There are 103 nuclear plants operating
in 31 states, which Kerekes said generate 20% of the nation's electricity. Now,
three companies have told the Energy Department that they plan to file for
nuclear power plant licenses.

The Senate energy bill and a version passed by the House contain incentives to
encourage investment in nuclear power. Both bills renew federally backed
insurance for the nuclear industry, which Bush also supports. Under the Senate
bill, new nuclear plants could qualify for federally backed loan guarantees for
"innovative technologies."

The Senate energy bill also provides tax credits for companies that develop new
nuclear reactors. Keith Ashdown of Taxpayers for Common Sense, a non-partisan
watchdog group, called the credits one of "the worst" of the measure's
"giveaways to energy special interests" and estimated that it could cost
taxpayers "billions of dollars in tax breaks."

Potentially costly for taxpayers

Some environmentalists, including Stewart Brand, editor of The Last Whole Earth
Catalogue, are endorsing nuclear power as a way to reduce global warming. But
according to Dave Hamilton, director of global warming and energy programs for
the Sierra Club, "by and large the environmental community is united in thinking
that nuclear power is a bad idea that causes more problems than it solves."

Nuclear reactors do not produce greenhouse gases, but they do create radioactive
waste. There will be 52,000 metric tons of spent nuclear fuel in U.S. storage by
the end of this year, according to Dave McIntyre of the Nuclear Regulatory
Commission. Safety and security are key issues, especially amid concerns of
possible terrorism.

Hamilton said nuclear power is potentially costly for taxpayers because the
government will have to pay for the cost of waste storage and the bulk of any
cleanup after a reactor accident. But he says the industry has done a good job
of cultivating lawmakers. "They have done an exceptional job of lobbying."

The Nuclear Energy Institute's political action committee has contributed
$76,376 to candidates so far this year; 95% of the contributions have gone to
Republicans, The industry has also donated to Senate Democrats, such as Tom
Carper of Delaware, Ben Nelson of Nebraska and Mary Landrieu of Louisiana.

Contributing: Jim Drinkard






LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              81 of 147 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   September 26, 2005, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Our denial is at Category 5

BYLINE: Ross Gelbspan

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16A

LENGTH: 405 words

The wrenching tragedies that killed more than 1,000 people and uprooted more
than 2million from Alabama to the Texas coast are not only heartbreaking. They
are also frightening -- omens of some very destructive consequences of global
warming.

Katrina and Rita began as relatively small storms off South Florida with wind
speeds about 70 miles per hour. As they moved over the superheated waters of the
Gulf of Mexico, they intensified to categories 4 and 5 with wind speeds
exceeding 160 mph.


Climate scientists cannot attribute any single weather event to our heating of
the atmosphere. We have suffered severe floods, storms, droughts and heat waves
since the beginning of civilization. But those events have been increasing in
frequency and intensity over the past few decades, according to the World
Meteorological Organization.

Hurricanes take their energy from surface waters. This month, water temperatures
in the Gulf hovered in the high 80s. The implications seem clear. As the British
government's top environmental scientist, Sir John Lawton, declared: "This is
global warming."

For most of human history, the level of heat-trapping atmospheric carbon dioxide
(the chief "greenhouse gas") remained about 280 parts per million. But since the
late 19th century, when the world began to industrialize, that level has jumped
to 380ppm. Our burning of coal and oil has thrown the planet's historical
temperature equilibrium out of balance, with the Earth becoming "a net importer
of heat," according to a study in Science last June.

Even as floodwaters were being pumped out of New Orleans, a study published on
the website realclimate.org said, "An unchecked rise in greenhouse gas
concentrations will very likely increase ocean temperatures further, ultimately
overwhelming any natural (cycles)." A week before Rita hit Texas, researchers
writing in Science found no rise in the number of hurricanes since 1970. But
they found a "large increase ... in the proportion of hurricanes reaching
categories 4 and 5." In July, a Massachusetts Institute of Technology scientist
reported that tropical storms globally have become 50% more powerful since the
'70s.

The question that most requires our courage to answer is: Which, in the long
run, is more dangerous -- stronger hurricanes or our own Category 5 denial?

Ross Gelbspan is author of The Heat is On (1997) and Boiling Point (2004).





LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Debate

                      Copyright 2005 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              82 of 147 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   September 30, 2005, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Mega explores limits of space

BYLINE: James R. Healey

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 12D

LENGTH: 1435 words

Dodge's approach to full-size crew-cab pickups: exasperating.

Dodge redesigned the big Ram pickup for 2002 and gave it a not-really-big-enough
extended cab called Quad Cab. To remedy the misstep, Dodge has the 2006 Ram Mega
Cab. It's a true crew with a really, really big back seat. You've probably
rented smaller apartments.

But Mega comes only on a heavy-duty chassis with a 6-foot 4-inch cargo bed
instead of the more-common 5-foot 6-inch bed. You wind up with a truck that's
248 inches long -- 4 feet longer than a full-size SUV and 2 feet longer than
most big pickups.


"Ungarageable" is the obfuscatory industry designation. Meaning it's too big for
the regular Joe and Jane who might otherwise be delighted to hear there's
finally a commodious Ram crew.

The payback is inside, where you could just about sit four across (if there were
enough safety belts). The back seat has enough legroom -- 44 inches -- that you
can move past people sitting in back without banging against their knees.

Cargo space behind the back seat is as much as you get in the trunk of a small
car. Fold the second row and you have more cargo room than in some midsize SUVs,
though the seats don't fold down level with the floor.

The base Mega Cab is labeled Ram 1500, implying it's a so-called half-ton or
standard-duty model. But it's atop the big frame and hefty suspension of the
2500-series (so-called three-quarter-ton) trucks. The Mega Cab is offered on
2500 and 3500 (one-ton) models, also.

Steering and suspension are a bit more genteel on the 1500 than on the 2500 and
3500 Megas, but you won't mistake the Mega Cab 1500 for any normal, full-size
pickup.

Mega can tow and haul more than an average full-size, true-crew can: 1,880 to
2,430 pounds for the 1500. The 3500 Mega goes up to 2,970 pounds.

But those aren't championship numbers. Chevrolet's Silverado 1500HD crew cab,
Ram Mega's closest rival because it's also built on a heavy-duty frame, is rated
to carry 2,838 to 3,129 pounds.

Dodge says it sacrificed some payload capability to give the 1500 Mega a
smoother, softer ride. Chevy's approach was opposite: maximum capacity in
exchange for a stiffer ride.

The Cummins diesel is optional on the 2500 and standard on the 3500. The diesel
saves fuel compared with the gas engine and is perhaps easiest of all pickup
diesels to live with because it is quiet and smooth.  Dodge says most Mega Cab
models will have the Cummins because that's what the heavy-duty market likes.
The Cummins adds $5,600 to the price and 600 pounds to the weight.

To cut time and money from Mega Cab development, Dodge used a chassis already in
production. The only one of proper size was the heavy-duty chassis from the Ram
2500 Quad Cab, long-box (8-foot) model. Mega Cab is the same overall size as
that, but the cargo bed is nearly 2 feet shorter, and the passenger compartment
is about that much longer.

"We looked at a conventional crew, but we're late to the party, so let's do the
best-in-class crew," says Joe Veltri, director of marketing and product planning
for Dodge trucks.

What stood out driving diesel and gas versions of the Mega Cab on back roads and
suburban streets:

*It's quiet. Unexpectedly so for a truck. The diesel gives off a light, distant
clatter, but it's less audible than in Chevrolet and Ford diesel pickups. The
Hemi gas engine burbles faintly through the exhaust but otherwise is pretty
quiet.

*It's almost comfortable. Redesigned seats are an improvement over past Ram
seating but could use less lumbar intrusion and slightly softer, or
better-formed, cushions. Adjustable pedals are optional, but even without them,
finding a proper driving position is easy. Rear seats recline, taking advantage
of all that space to improve comfort.

*It's agile. OK, that's relative. If you just hopped out of, say, a Miata, you
wouldn't agree. But compared with other big trucks, Ram Mega Cab steers and
corners with confidence and without drama. Stops are less impressive, taking a
lot of leg for a little result.

*It's classy. The orange fake wood can go back to the petro-chemical plant, but
other surfaces have a premium look and feel. Controls generally are agreeable to
operate (though small sliders for climate control are cheesy). The five-speed
automatic transmission shifts promptly and smoothly, better at changing gears
than transmissions in some premium cars.

*It's not fully modern. Those temperature sliders, for instance, are out of date
in an age of smoothly rotating knobs, and no automatic climate control is
available. It lacks the retained power feature that lets you finish listening to
the favorite song, or put the windows all the way up after you take out the
ignition key. Coming soon, Dodge says, without specifying when.

Power window switches are the kind that kids could kneel on and send the windows
up to pinch fingers or worse. Dodge says it will change those -- but wouldn't
say when -- to safer types that require the user to lift and hold the switch.

There's no handy sliding-cleat tie-down system in the cargo bed, as Nissan
introduced on the Titan and Toyota now offers on the compact Tacoma pickup.

The 4x4 system is part-time only because the full-time version new on '06
standard-duty Rams won't fit Mega Cab's heavy-duty axles.

* It's expensive. The cheapest model is $33,000, and you can run the tab past
$50,000.

*It's tall. You'll need a step stool to get in and out if you don't park near
high curbs or buy the optional running boards.

Don't buy this truck just to get the Mega Cab. To be at ease with it, you need
to be handy at wheeling around a vehicle that weighs as much as two Camrys and
sticks out into the traffic aisle when parked in almost any lot or garage.

Ram Mega Cab is a smooth, powerful, comfortable, prince of a pickup with
limousine-like passenger space best suited to those who are big-truck friendly
and don't need class-leading payload ratings.


2006 Dodge Ram Mega Cab
*What is it? Heavy-duty full-size pickup with enormous crew-cab passenger
compartment; first true crew cab on the modern Ram. Available with two-wheel
(4x2) or part-time four-wheel (4x4) drive in three models with increasing
payload and towing capabilities: 1500, 2500 and 3500. Manufactured at Saltillo,
Mexico.

*How soon? On sale since early September.

*How much? $32,760, including $900 destination charge, for the base 1500, 4x2,
SLT, Hemi gasoline V-8 model; $48,595 for the high-end 3500, 4x4, Laramie with
Cummins diesel. About $56,000 with all options.

*What's the drivetrain? Standard on 1500 and 2500: 5.7-liter Hemi gasoline V-8
rated 345 horsepower at 5,400 rpm, 375 pounds-feet of torque at 4,200 rpm;
five-speed automatic transmission.

Optional on 2500, standard on 3500: 5.9-liter six-cylinder Cummins diesel rated
325 hp at 2,900 rpm, 610 lbs.-ft. at 1,600 rpm; six-speed manual.

*What's the safety gear? Expected belts and bags, anti-lock brakes. Head-curtain
air bags are optional.

*What's the rest? Standard equipment and options vary according to model.
Details at www.dodge.com.

*How big? 247.7 inches long, 80 inches wide, 74.7 (4x2) or 78.7 (4x4) inches
tall on a 160.5 (4x2) or 160.3 (4x4) inch wheelbase.

Passenger space is listed as 133.8 cubic feet. Storage space is listed as 7.7
cubic feet behind rear seat, 72.7 cubic feet when second row is folded.

The 1500 model, depending on equipment: weighs 6,082 to 6,628 pounds, can carry
1,880 to 2,430 pounds and can tow 7,200 to 8,650 pounds.

*How thirsty? Mega Cab models are considered heavy-duty trucks and aren't
required to undergo government fuel-economy testing or to post fuel-economy
numbers on the window sticker. Dodge internal tests show 13 mpg in town for the
5.7-liter Hemi gasoline V-8, 15 mpg in town/19 mpg on the highway for the
Cummins diesel.

Trip computers in test trucks showed 8.4 mpg around town for 1500 Hemi, 15.9 mpg
in back-road driving for Cummins diesel. Dodge questions the Hemi reading,
saying the preproduction test truck could have had a faulty mileage computer.

*Overall: People space like you can't believe, but you pay for it with
cumbersome size.

---
More online
*Chat online with James R. Healey at 2 p.m. ET today at talk.usatoday.com.

*E-mail testdrive@usatoday.com.

*Go to cars.usatoday.com to hear James R. Healey's comments on the Dodge Ram
Mega Cab, to see more photos of the Mega Cab, to find previous Test Drive
columns and to get information on pricing, incentives and more.






LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Daimler Chrysler; PHOTO, B/W

TYPE: TEST DRIVE

                      Copyright 2005 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              86 of 147 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    January 11, 2005, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Forecast for 2005: Mostly clear skies

BYLINE: Sue Kirchhoff and Barbara Hagenbaugh

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 1798 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

WASHINGTON -- For better -- and for worse -- this year's economy is expected to
look a lot like 2004.

Inflation is expected to be below worrisome levels. Housing and consumer
spending should remain firm, and the Federal Reserve will likely continue
raising interest rates in baby steps. But those hoping for a return to the 1990s
pattern of frenzied job creation and frenetic business spending are likely to be
disappointed yet again.

While the job market should steadily improve, the wage gap between lower-skilled
workers and their better-educated peers could grow. U.S. exports will
accelerate, but possibly not enough to cut the yawning trade deficit, given weak
growth abroad.


"We are well-positioned for fairly healthy economic conditions (over the) next
year," Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond President Jeffrey Lacker said in a
speech last week.

While most economists see the recovery as self-sustaining, they also see risks.
The outlook for energy prices is uncertain, while high debt levels make some of
them question the strength of consumer spending. Record budget and trade
deficits threaten foreign investment in the USA. Corporate profits are expected
to ease from their previously rapid pace. Terrorism is a wild card.

Many economists, including those at Merrill Lynch and Global Insight, predict
slightly slower growth in 2005 than the strong 4% rate of last year. Few expect
the economy to actually accelerate.

"The truth is, despite all the market angst at the start of 2005, the economy
appears to be in the comfortable middle," says David Kelly of Putnam
Investments.

Employment

More jobs, little change in unemployment rate

U.S. businesses are expected to create 175,000 to 225,000 net jobs a month,
perhaps rising from the 186,000 average seen in 2004. Job growth will be driven
by a stable economy and a possible slowing in productivity growth, which lets
companies produce more with fewer workers.

Rob Weinberg, who runs San Diego marketing and consulting firm The
MarketBuilding Team, is preparing to hire staff in response to
stronger-than-expected business.

"The elections came and went, and everyone breathed a huge sigh of relief,"
Weinberg says. "I'm hearing from people about contracts that have been on hold
for months."

Still, the unemployment rate is expected to decline only slightly from the 5.4%
registered in December, or even rise, as people re-enter the job market. Despite
the creation of 2.2 million jobs in 2004, employment is still below 2001 levels.
Factories, which lost about 3.3 million workers since 1998, should hire 10,000 a
month in 2005.

Economists caution that higher employment might not translate into higher pay,
especially for millions of hourly employees whose earnings did not keep pace
with inflation during much of 2004. Better-educated, skilled workers should fare
better.

"We will be adding jobs, but many of the gains will continue to be concentrated
at the higher end," says Jared Bernstein of the non-profit Economic Policy
Institute.

Economy.com expects business to create good-paying jobs in the professional,
technical and health care services, among others. Construction employment is
expected to slow, along with mining and other commodity production. Average
hourly earnings adjusted for inflation should rise 1.3%, the consulting firm
says.

SurePayroll, which performs payroll services for firms across the country, says
small-business employment grew 4.4% in 2004, based on a survey of about 140,000
companies. But average paychecks dropped 4.8%. SurePayroll President Michael
Alter expects pay to decline in 2005, just not as much.

"We have manufacturing firms in Wisconsin. We pay their workers $14 an hour. If
they hire a new worker, everyone knows the new worker will take $10, but they're
happy to take the job," Alter says.

Energy

Oil prices could fall as supplies continue to rise

The oil markets started the year much as it ended 2004: on a seesaw -- down one
day, up the next. Expect more of the oil market roller-coaster ride in 2005,
most energy analysts say.

"We're going to still see volatility in the oil market," says Mark Baxter,
director of the Maguire Energy Institute at Southern Methodist University.

Concerns about availability of oil supplies, which led the market to record
highs in 2004, have eased somewhat, particularly as unseasonably warm weather
has reduced demand for heating oil this winter. And gasoline inventories are far
ahead of where they were this time last year.

Sizable increases in supplies, coupled with consumers' desire to conserve energy
in light of recent price increases, will lead to declining prices in 2005,
particularly in the first half, says IFR Markets senior energy analyst Tim
Evans. He says oil prices could be in the low $30s at some point this year.

But Wachovia economist Jason Schenker expects the average oil price will be $46
a barrel this year, up from $41 in 2004. He argues that continued growth in
economies around the globe will increase demand.

Inflation/interest rates

Competition should keep prices stable as rates rise

Prices are expected to creep higher this year as continued economic growth gives
businesses latitude to raise prices.

But strong competition from businesses at home and abroad will prevent companies
from raising prices too much.

And some economists, including those on The Bond Market Association's advisory
committee, expect inflation to slow a bit this year, in part in response to
expected lower energy costs.

Richard Yamarone, director of economic research at Argus Research, says he
expects the inflation rate to rise slightly in 2005, but, "The inflation genie
is not out of the bottle." He notes that while prices in some sectors continue
to rise, other costs, including for personal computers and energy, are falling.

"It's not so problematic that it's going to cause economic growth to crumble,"
Yamarone says.

Low inflation will give the Federal Reserve room to continue to raise interest
rates at a slow, steady pace, preventing a jarring rise in rates that could
dramatically slow the economy. The Fed last year raised its target for
short-term interest rates five times to 2.25% in a bid to bring rates to a more
"neutral" level, where rates neither stimulate nor slow the economy.

This year, economists expect the Fed's target will end the year around 3.5%, a
level close to the neutral level.

Housing

Demand will keep higher rates from stifling sales

New and existing home sales are expected to dip slightly below 2004's record
level. Home prices should rise about 5% to 6% on average, down from the
double-digit gains of 2004. Still, economists caution that since the mid-1990s
they've regularly, and wrongly, predicted the historically strong housing market
will cool.

Housing analysts expect rates on 30-year, fixed mortgages, now about 5.8%, to
remain under 7% through 2005 -- with some expecting rates below 6.5%. Even if
rates rise faster, the market should remain solid because demand outstrips
supply in many areas.

"If you look at this real estate boom we've been through, we've had years where
interest rates have gone up, but housing continued to expand in a very healthy
way," National Association of Realtors chief economist David Lereah says.

Tracey Boy Bethune, manager of the Winston-Salem, N.C., office of Allen Tate
Realtors, expects another good year in 2005. The firm, the largest independent
realtor in the Carolinas, is preparing for higher interest rates by discussing
alternative financing plans with buyers. But it doesn't expect higher rates to
take much of a bite out of business.

"Transactions will be on the rise. This region, and the growth that we see with
the overall economic outlook, is positive," Bethune says.

"As far as the average price, we will venture to say that it will trend up as we
see more full-amenity communities and more executive-level opportunities open
up."

Some economists warn housing prices have reached unsustainable levels, rising
nearly 50% on average in the past five years. Federal Reserve members see signs
low interest rates are breeding some market speculation. But a recent study by
the staff of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York discounted the idea that a
national housing bubble could pop.

Dollar

More declines on horizon, but free fall not expected

The dollar could decrease in value for the fourth consecutive year in 2005 but
is unlikely to go into a dangerous tumble as the U.S. economy remains the most
attractive place to invest.

The dollar has fallen 25% in value in relation to a basket of major foreign
currencies in the last three years, according to the Federal Reserve. The
decline has been larger against some other currencies and is hovering near an
all-time low against the euro.

Continued concerns about near-record U.S. trade and budget deficits and their
potential effect on the U.S. economy will likely lead to more declines in the
dollar this year, some economists, including Global Insight chief economist
Nariman Behravesh, say.

But Behravesh says a number of factors will keep the dollar from going into a
free fall. The European and Japanese economies are showing signs of faltering,
making the USA still one of the most attractive places for foreign investors to
park their money.

"The U.S. is still the only major engine of growth," he says. "It's in no one's
interest for something nasty to happen to the U.S."

William Hummer, chief economist at Wayne Hummer Investments in Chicago, expects
the dollar will actually strengthen against the euro, in part because of the
comparative strength of the U.S. economy. The expectation that the Fed will
continue to raise interest rates will also lure investors who are seeking the
greatest return on their money, he notes.

Manufacturing/trade

U.S. factories were walloped by the 2001 recession. Last year, the sector began
to revive: Profits and production rose; orders for computer software soared and
orders for construction machinery surged more than 30%.

Manufacturers Alliance chief economist Daniel Meckstroth says the software
sector could slow, while autos and construction equipment production will be
down. The weaker dollar should help exporters by making U.S. products cheaper
abroad.

Ilia Lekach, CEO of Parlux Fragrances of Fort Lauderdale, expects his
hot-selling Paris Hilton perfume, deals with Guess clothing maker and tennis
stars Maria Sharapova and Andy Roddick, and the weaker dollar to help him in
emerging markets such as Eastern Europe.

"In general, I'm very optimistic about this year," Lekach says. "The euro (has
been) very strong, so America can export a lot."

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, Color, Sam Ward, USA TODAY (ILLUSTRATION); GRAPHIC, Color,
Adrienne Lewis, USA TODAY, Source: Labor Department (LINE GRAPH); GRAPHIC, B/W,
Adrienne Lewis, USA TODAY, Source: Labor Department (BAR GRAPH); GRAPHICS, B/W,
USA TODAY (ILLUSTRATION) (6); GRAPHIC, B/W, Adrienne Lewis, USA TODAY, Source:
The Associated Press (LINE GRAPH); GRAPHIC, B/W, Adrienne Lewis, USA TODAY,
Source: Commerce Department (LINE GRAPH); PHOTO, B/W, Stephen R. Cutri for USA
TODAY

TYPE: COVER STORY

                      Copyright 2005 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              89 of 147 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    February 25, 2005, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Unfinished business lingers as Bush trip ends

BYLINE: Judy Keen

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 737 words

DATELINE: BRATISLAVA, Slovakia

BRATISLAVA, Slovakia -- President Bush told thousands of people in
Hviezdoslavovo Square on Thursday that they and the United States are "allies
and friends and brothers in the cause of freedom."

The remark summed up the goal Bush set before he left for Europe: to "make sure
the Europeans understand . . .  that as we move beyond the differences of the
past, that we can work a lot together to achieve big objectives."

But the loudest applause came not when Bush boasted that the Iraq war was part
of the "cause of freedom" but when he promised to make it easier for Slovaks to
get visas to travel to the USA.

Bush's words and the crowd's applause, muted by gloved and mittened hands, also
were not enough to drown out the chants of protesters.


Dasa Gaaloga came to hear Bush speak not because she likes him, she said, but
because "I just want to see him."

Gaaloga, 23, a student, reflected the views of several people in the crowd when
asked how people here feel about the Iraq war and Bush's relationship with
Europe.

"I'm not for the war, but something had to be done, and now it's over," she
said. "Now Bush should pay more attention to Europe's problems."

Bush got the same message from some of the world leaders he met with during the
trip.

French President Jacques Chirac and German Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder went to
Brussels, where Bush attended NATO and European Union summits, with several
concerns. After Bush met with them there and with Russian President Vladimir
Putin here on Thursday, plenty of unfinished business remained:

 * Bush inched closer to joining Great Britain, Germany and France in
negotiations with Iran over halting its nuclear program. But there was no
agreement on what incentives might be offered to persuade Iran to stop enriching
fuel that could be used in nuclear weapons.

 * Bush said he wants to work with Germany to share research and develop
technology to reduce global warming, an issue of particular concern to
Schroeder. But Bush did not make a specific proposal.

 * France became the last of NATO's 26 members to join its effort to train Iraqi
troops and will contribute to a trust fund to do so. But Bush did not win
acknowledgment from the leaders of Germany, France and Russia, all of whom
opposed the war, that the invasion was a wise move or that Iraq is on the path
to stability.

 * Bush and Putin agreed to disagree on the Russian president's commitment to
democracy. Bush said he believes Putin's assurances that "there can be no return
to what we used to have."

Putin said he will "take into account" some of Bush's concerns. But he did not
promise to ease restrictions on the media and his political opposition.

The protests that accompanied every stop on Bush's five-day trip and interviews
with people on the street in Belgium, Germany and Slovakia suggested that many
Europeans have not been won over.

"I don't like him," said Yasmine Marrein, 24, an administrative assistant in
Brussels. "I think he searches for war."

European newspapers praised Bush's commitment, in a speech Monday in Brussels,
to support a unified, strengthened Europe. But there also was criticism and
skepticism. "Bush's new love affair with the Europeans is a love affair of
convenience, not a love match," said an editorial in Belgium's left-of-center Le
Soir.

A poll in Germany's Die Welt said Germans have more confidence in Putin than in
Bush, and 67% said Germans have no reason to still be grateful to the United
States for its help rebuilding Germany after World War II. Novy Cas, a tabloid
in Bratislava, criticized Slovakia's prime minister, Mikulas Dzurinda, for
making "subservient" comments about Bush.

Still, Bush's European counterparts seemed eager to dispel the impression that
disagreements over Iraq have permanently soured their relationships with him.

Putin called Bush an "interested partner" and said their meeting was friendly
and took place "in a very trustful atmosphere." Chirac said there's been no
change in their "very warm relations." Schroeder thanked Bush for a "very
friendly conversation."

Some Europeans are ready to move on. The war with Iraq "had to happen," said
Viera Gregorova, 55, an advertising executive in Bratislava. "It is time to talk
about something else."

Tomas Palko, 18, a student in Bratislava, said, "Europe needs America, so Europe
needs Bush."

LOAD-DATE: March 01, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Kevin Lamarque, Reuters; Bush and Putin: The presidents
clasp hands after a news conference at Bratislava Castle in Slovakia on
Thursday. (Story, 1A)

                      Copyright 2005 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              90 of 147 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                      June 17, 2005, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Tennis' big stars get ready to pick up pace

BYLINE: Douglas Robson

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 15C

LENGTH: 735 words

The French Open's red dust has barely been bleached out of the players' socks,
but there's no time for extra washings. Wimbledon, the year's third major,
starts Monday.

With the annual European swing cramming two Grand Slam tennis tournaments only
two weeks apart, there is little time to transition from clay to grass -- two
surfaces with little in common.

Just ask Spain's Rafael Nadal. The newly crowned French Open champ saw his
24-match winning streak go kaput in his first contest on grass, losing last week
to 147th-ranked wild card Alexander Waske of Germany in Halle, Germany.


"On grass, everything is faster, the points are shorter," reigning Wimbledon
women's champ Maria Sharapova of Russia says. "A lot of players are going to be
tough (to beat) next week."

Sharapova will be among them. Just 17 when she shocked Serena Williams to win
the All-England Club title last year, the No.2-ranked "global brand" arrives as
a top contender.

Two-time defending champ Roger Federer of Switzerland is the favorite on the
men's side. But for the first time in more than a year, the world No.1 has shown
vulnerability. He hasn't won a Grand Slam tournament this season after capturing
three of the four in 2004.

A host of other big servers and hard hitters will be thankful that the
clay-court season is behind them, including most of the American men, none of
whom advanced past the second round in the French Open.

One exception is Andre Agassi, 35, who pulled out of Wimbledon with a bad back
and appears to be closer to retirement.

Several favorites, including Sharapova, Federer and the USA's Andy Roddick, won
warm-up tournaments. A look at some of the leading contenders:

Men's favorites

Federer is the odds-on pick to win his third consecutive Wimbledon title. He
defeated Australian Open champ Marat Safin of Russia in three sets to win the
Gerry Weber Open last weekend, a major warm-up for Wimbledon.

The smooth-stroking 23-year-old arrives with a 29-match winning streak on grass,
but he also has something to prove. "There has to be a little doubt in Federer's
head right now," U.S. Davis Cup captain and ESPN commentator Patrick McEnroe
says.

*Second-seeded Roddick also is looking to regain his swagger after a
disappointing season by his standards. The former No.1 has won three minor
titles in 2005 but bowed out of the French Open in the second round and hasn't
made the final of a major since last year's Wimbledon, where he lost to Federer.
Roddick's cannon serve and imposing game, however, are perfect for grass.

*Nadal, 19, is not considered a serious threat on grass -- yet. The well-built
teen, seeded No.4, has the brawn, defensive skills and never-say-die mentality
to win someday.

*Other men with legitimate title shots include 2002 champ and No.3 seed Lleyton
Hewitt of Australia, fifth-seeded Safin and perennial local hope Tim Henman,
seeded No.6.

Women's favorites

Sharapova, coming off a win last weekend in Birmingham, England, is geared to
make another title run, though this year she arrives as a marked woman.

That kind of pressure doesn't faze the 18-year-old star, who openly covets the
top ranking and whose go-for-broke shot-making is perfectly suited for the slick
lawns of Wimbledon.

"I feel like I'm a more experienced player, a more complete player than a year
ago," she says.

*Fourth-seeded Serena Williams, nursing a gimpy ankle since May, missed the
French Open and has played a limited number of matches this spring. The two-time
Wimbledon champion and 2004 runner-up will be primed to follow up on her
Australian Open title in January, her seventh Grand Slam tournament title.

"I like (the Williams sisters') chances at Wimbledon, but they haven't played a
lot of tennis this year," ESPN commentator Mary Carillo says.

*French Open champ Justine Henin-Hardenne has the goods to add Wimbledon to her
four majors, as she proved by making the final in 2001. The No.7 seed from
Belgium is playing into form after missing much of the last 12 months because of
injury and illness, but she has the range of skills to claim her first
All-England Club championship.

*Top-seeded American Lindsay Davenport returns to a surface that gives her flat,
imposing groundstrokes extra bite. A semifinal loser to Sharapova last year, the
28-year-old is gunning for her second Wimbledon title.






LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              91 of 147 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    August 18, 2005, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Kodak ads build up its digital image

BYLINE: Theresa Howard

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 518 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK

NEW YORK -- It won't be a snap to sharpen its image, but Kodak tonight begins a
blitz of new ads and products designed to make consumers see it as a world-class
digital-imaging company.

The opening shot will be hard to miss: Ads will air simultaneously at 9 p.m. ET
on the major broadcast networks and selected cable channels and Internet sites.

The effort comes at a critical time. Kodak has been restructuring for a digital
future for several years. Its EasyShare camera, rolled out in 2001, is the
top-selling digital camera in the USA. In June, its digital product sales
outpaced film-based products for the first time.


But Kodak also posted a net loss of $143 million in the second quarter on
near-equal global revenue from digital and film products of about $1.8 billion
each. Many consumers still don't associate Kodak with digital products -- and
those who do think of it more for the kind of snapshots in its trademark warm
and fuzzy ads than for high-end (and high-margin) technology.

"In order to sell across the board ... we need to be cool, hip and with-it,"
says Carl Gustin, Kodak chief marketing officer. "We still need a little bit of
emotion, but we can't live on puppy dogs, weddings and daddy's little girl."

Kodak's digital photo products to date earned top marks with consumers in a J.D.
Power and Associates study out Tuesday. It had the highest satisfaction scores
for products priced $200 to $399 and $199 or less. Those categories make up
about 85% of the market -- but products priced $400 and up are the most
profitable, and Kodak wants a piece of that action. "They are doing a very good
job in some segments of the market that are lower margin than others," says J.D.
Power partner Ron Conlin. "Their challenge will be profitability."

The ads -- with the theme "Keep it forever. Keep it Kodak" -- combine
traditional Kodak imagery with a push for new digital products, including the
V550 zoom camera that shoots stills or 80 minutes of video, a credit-card-size
portable photo album called the Picture Viewer and the EasyShare-One, which adds
Wi-Fi capability to the popular camera. Users can shoot, store, e-mail and print
wirelessly. Beyond consumer gear, some ads also will highlight Kodak's
professional products.

"We're overhauling product design, the look, the feel, the style, the color, our
software and how they all operate," he says. "Whether it's a commercial printing
press or medical imaging or consumer camera, there is going to be a distinct
Kodak look. This permeates everything."

To mix new technology with old feelings in the ads, Ogilvy & Mather in New York
created a gallery of current and historical photos taken with Kodak equipment.
Photos and products are displayed in a 30,000-square-foot exhibit hall built to
be the setting for the campaign.

In the ads, a tour guide directs "visitors" to photos, commercial imagery and
digital products. The campaign is the first consolidated global effort for all
Kodak businesses. Spending will equal 2004's -- about $500 million worldwide.






LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W

                      Copyright 2005 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              92 of 147 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   December 7, 2005, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Storm 'hindcast' sketches hurricane picture for 2006

BYLINE: Patrick O'Driscoll

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 412 words

Next year's hurricane season will be "very active," with well-above-average
numbers of major storms, a leading tropical forecast team predicted Tuesday.

Unlike this year's record assault on U.S. shores, there is a "very low"
probability that so many intense hurricanes will strike the USA, according to
the Tropical Meteorology Project at Colorado State University.

In its first outlook for 2006, the project team expects 17 named tropical storms
in the June-through-November season. In a normal year, the Atlantic produces
about 10 storms. This year, it had its most on record with 26, including four
hurricanes that blasted U.S. shores: Dennis, Katrina, Rita and Wilma. The 26th
storm, Hurricane Epsilon, was still churning in the Atlantic as the new forecast
was announced.


The team, led by scientist Philip Klotzbach and professor William Gray, predicts
nine storms next year will become hurricanes, five of them major, with at least
Category 3 intensity (winds 111 mph or more). On average, the Atlantic basin
gets six hurricanes a year, two to three of them major.

Coastal regions of the USA were battered by four hurricanes both this year and
last, with Charley, Frances, Ivan and Jeanne hitting Florida in 2004. Gray says
it is too early to say how many might reach land in 2006. The number will depend
on short-term weather patterns and ocean wind currents.

The new forecast does predict an 81% probability that at least one major
hurricane will strike the USA in 2006. Gray says the prediction is based on two
factors: how many reached land in similarly active years in the past century,
and water temperatures in the north Atlantic. The warmer the water, the more
storms are likely to hit -- and the ocean now is warm, he says.

This month's forecast will be updated five times from April through October.
Never before has the December outlook called for so many storms.

Gray says that's because the December prediction is a "hindcast," based mainly
on statistics of past seasons. He says certain global patterns at this time of
year help predict how active next season will be. This year they include winds
in the stratosphere, ocean currents, and warm sea temperatures.

"We've never had one year that has as many favorable signals at this stage for
the next year's season," Gray adds. His December calculations have correctly
predicted either an above-average or below-average season in five of seven years
since 1999.





LOAD-DATE: December 07, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, b/w, Sources:NOAA and Tropical Meteorology Project(Chart);
PHOTO, B/W, AP

                      Copyright 2005 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              93 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 16, 2005 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Corvette Z06 makes you wanna gas it;
High-performance stunner of a sports car just glorious fun

BYLINE: James R. Healey

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 13D

LENGTH: 1282 words


Sports Illustrated magazine has a fine tradition -- a swimsuit issue in February
to snatch readers out of the cold-weather doldrums. Thus given license, we'll
examine a machine best in fair weather just as the weather's gone foul many
places to remind us that dry roads aren't gone forever from the Snowbelt.

In the spotlight: Chevrolet's 2006 Z06 Corvette sports car. It is a breathtaking
reminder that driving is, and ought to be, glorious fun.

The Z06 is a higher-performance version of the already high-performance
Corvette. And what's great about it is the same thing that's great about the
Corvette generally. You get stunning acceleration, handling, braking, steering
and style in a car you can comfortably drive every day for a price the exotic
foreign guys can't touch.

Heck, even the exotic Detroit guys can't beat it, dollar-for-dollar.

"We wanted to do a car that could compete with a lot of the supercars out there
at $200,000 or $400,000, but one you could actually afford," says Harlan
Charles,  Corvette product manager.

To get the rigid framework and light body needed for supercar performance, the
Corvette engineers nearly redesigned the car. Z06 uses an aluminum frame instead
of the heavier, mostly steel frame under other Corvettes. Z06 has lightweight
carbon fiber fenders instead of not-quite-as-light fiberglass fenders.

The Z06 test car was driven mainly around town and was a joy even without
full-bore, open-road romps. Here's what makes life a ball in a Z06, which starts
at about $66,000:

*Drivetrain. The engine is a 7-liter V-8, rated 505 horsepower and 475
pounds-feet of torque. Chevy says it will top out at 198 mph and will blast from
standstill to 60 mph in a breathtaking 3.7 seconds, without leaving first gear.
Ford has a car that will do that, too; in fact, tops out at 205 mph. But it's
the $151,000 GT, and so few are built you probably couldn't get one. Dodge
Viper's 500-hp V-10 will post some impressive numbers, but it starts at $84,000.

The test car had a six-speed, manual transmission that was firm and mechanical;
short throws; positive, no-sweat engagement. Not a snick-snick, sports-car
shifter, it's more in keeping with the muscular nature of the Vette. The clutch
engaged easily, making Z06 remarkably well-behaved in slog-and-chug traffic.

*Styling. Z06's changes are enough to take the almost-there regular Corvette's
design all the way there. The muscled hunker, the low snout and high tail, the
big wheels and businesslike back end bristling with exhaust pipes --
excruciatingly exciting.

*Handling. It's a general category that includes everything from parking-lot
agility to stability during high-speed emergency maneuvers. However you define
it, Z06 seems to have it covered. You feel confident the car will do what you
ask. The tradeoff is a stiff ride over potholes and bumps, but it's not that
stiff by sports-car standards and is smooth enough on better pavement.

Z06's electronic stability system is a gem. You can turn it completely off. Or
you can switch off just the traction-control portion, a useful choice in mud, on
some snowy surfaces, and anywhere else you need to spin the wheels to keep
going. Or you can switch to competition mode. That allows some wheel-spin and
some sliding in corners.

Charles says most drivers get their best track times using that mode, even
though it's tempting to shut the whole system off on a racetrack. A G-force
meter measures just how much sideways acceleration you were able to generate in
the corners, Hot Shot, and holds the reading so you don't have to look down
during the corner to see how you're doing.

Lots of fun cars turn sour if you have to rely on them. But the Z06 seems to
avoid that because it has:

*Simple, easygoing manners. About the only oddities are pushbutton door latches
on the inside, instead of yank-handles, and the proximity key that lets you
start the car with a pushbutton on the dashboard as long as you have the key fob
in your pocket or purse or otherwise nearby. It's only a little stretch to say
the Z06 is about as agreeable as a midsize Japanese family sedan: Get in and go.
No fuss, no muss. You don't get that sort of accommodation in most cars that
will perform as well as the Z06. They tend to be high-strung, perhaps jerky in
traffic, or hard to enter and exit.

*Real space. The cargo area is a generous 22 cubic feet, albeit pretty flat and
unable to accommodate thick or tall cargo. Contrast that with the Ford GT's 1
cubic foot. Or Viper's 6.2. Or the $132,000 Mercedes-Benz SL600's 10.2. Cup
holders and stash space on the console, and a useful large glove box, make it
clear that Corvette's designers understand the beauty of a car you can and will
use.

*Comfort. The bucket seats are the kind that make you forget you're in them.
They just fit right.  Interior panels leave enough  space around your legs and
thighs that you don't feel jammed in. Yes, the Z06 -- any Corvette -- is
low-slung, but the seat is high enough that you don't have to fall in or seek
help getting out.

*Fuel economy. In a high-performance car? Yes, relatively speaking. Z06 is rated
a commendable 16 miles per gallon in town, 26 on the highway. The trip computer
in the test car showed 15.1 mpg around town, driven with the modest amount of
restraint possible in such a machine (that is, no full-throttle acceleration
runs past the police station; no attempts to verify the 198-mph top speed).

Any gripes? Yes: noise. Not squeaks or chirps or rattles, thank goodness. But
the rumbles and groans and sighs common to any car, but usually masked by
insulation and an encapsulated passenger compartment, are amplified through the
Z06's cargo area. It's a big, open space right behind the driver's head.

If you've any automotive pulse at all, a moment behind the wheel of a Z06 will
bewitch you. If the car were a lover instead of a machine, it's one that would
make you abandon your family, leave your job, forfeit your hard-won position in
the community for just one more fling.
2006 Chevrolet Corvette Z06

*What is it? An even-higher-performance version of the high-performance,
two-seat, rear-drive, plastic-body Corvette sports car. Manufactured at Bowling
Green, Ky.

*How soon? On sale since late September.

*How much? Starts at $65,800, including $800 destination charge. Expect to pay
as much as $10,000 more than window-sticker price, the online shopping services
say.

*Who'll buy? Similar to other Corvette buyers, Z06 buyers typically are 35- to
55-year-old married men with median annual household incomes of $135,000,
Chevrolet says.

*How many? About 5,000 per year, plus or minus, depending on demand.

*What's the drivetrain? 7-liter, pushrod-style V-8 rated 505 horsepower at 6,300
rpm, 470 pounds-feet of torque at 4,800 rpm; six-speed manual transmission;
limited-slip differential; traction control.

*What's the safety gear? Standard: Front-impact air bags, anti-lock brakes,
stability control. Optional: side bags.

*What's the rest? Leather upholstery; dual-zone climate control; AM/FM/CD/MP3
audio; high-intensity discharge (HID) headlights; power steering, brakes,
windows, locks, mirrors, driver's seat; auto-on headlights; auto-dimming
mirrors; fog lights; run-flat tires.

*How big? 175.6 inches long, 75.9 inches wide, 49 inches tall on a 105.7-inch
wheelbase. Weighs 3,130 pounds. Cargo space is listed at 22 cubic feet.

*How thirsty? Rated 16 miles per gallon in town, 26 on the highway. Test car's
trip computer showed 15.1 mpg mostly around town.

Premium fuel (91 octane or higher) is required to avoid potentially damaging
engine knock, Chevy says. Lower grades can be used temporarily if you avoid
demanding driving, according to Chevy.

*Overall: Celebration on wheels.

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Color, Wieck
PHOTOS, B/W, General Motors (2)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2005 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              95 of 147 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 23, 2005 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Canadian PM gets unintended lift from critic;
Martin draws on charges of U.S. meddling before election

BYLINE: Rebecca Cook Dube

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 900 words


TORONTO -- A month before national elections, Canada's prime minister is basking
in criticism from the United States, while his main challenger struggles to fend
off praise from allies of an unpopular Bush administration.

David Wilkins, the U.S. ambassador to Canada, unwittingly fanned anti-American
sentiment here last week with a blunt warning to Prime Minister Paul Martin to
stop using the United States as a campaign issue.

Wilkins' comments backfired. Across Canada, they prompted outraged editorials
and letters to the editor -- "Ambassador's criticism is manna for Liberals,"
read a headline in Toronto's Globe and Mail. Wilkins was forced to deny that he
was meddling in Canadian politics. Since then, Martin has made Washington a
favorite campaign theme, vowing to defend Canadian interests against U.S.
pressure.

Martin provoked the war of words Dec. 7 when he suggested at a United Nations
conference that the United States lacks a "global conscience" for declining to
join the Kyoto Protocol limiting greenhouse-gas emissions.

That incensed the Bush administration. "It may be smart election-year politics
to thump your chest and criticize your friend and your No. 1 trading partner
constantly," Wilkins said in a speech in Ottawa. "But ... the last time I
looked, the United States was not on the ballot for the Jan. 23 election."

The flap is likely to mean a boost at the polls for Martin's Liberal Party, says
Darrell Bricker, president of Ipsos Reid Public Affairs, a polling firm in
Toronto. After the holidays, Bricker says, look for aggressive Liberal campaign
ads tying Conservative Party leader Stephen Harper to President Bush. Some
voters will be drawn to Martin's Liberals "to stop what they see as a
mini-George Bush," Bricker says.

The controversy underscores Canadians' ambivalence toward their country's
closest ally and largest trading partner. Ottawa and Washington have worked
together to integrate their economies and, since 9/11, to defeat the Taliban and
al-Qaeda in Afghanistan and combat the threat of terrorism at home. However,
Canada did not support the U.S.-led war in Iraq. The two governments have
sparred repeatedly over border security, a planned U.S. missile shield and U.S.
imports of Canadian lumber.

In a November poll, 73% of Canadians expressed an unfavorable view of Bush,
according to results by Innovative Research. In the same poll, though, 68% said
they had a favorable view of Americans.

The results show "that the rising tide of anti-Americanism in this country is
driven not out of a dislike for the American people but as a visceral dislike of
Mr. Bush and the war in Iraq," Rudyard Griffiths, executive director of the
Dominion Institute, a group that promotes Canadian history, told the National
Post newspaper.

Meanwhile, Harper has been left to stiff-arm praise from U.S. conservatives.
Commentator Patrick Basham praised Harper's free market, socially conservative
values recently in an opinion piece in  The Washington Times. "If elected Mr.
Harper will quickly become Mr. Bush's new best friend internationally," Basham
predicted.

Harper quickly wrote to the newspaper to point out his differences with Bush on
Iraq, abortion rights and the lumber fight.

Basham, a senior fellow with the Cato Institute, a libertarian think tank, says
he was surprised by the swift and harsh reaction to his friendly op-ed piece.
"The (Canadian) left congratulated me on destroying Stephen Harper, and from
conservative Canadians I got, 'How can you do this to us?'"

U.S. relations have taken center stage in this campaign in part because there's
little else to debate.

The election was called after Harper's Conservatives and other opposition
parties engineered a no-confidence vote against Martin's Liberal-led government.

The Liberals have been hurt by the disclosure of a kickback scheme in Quebec in
the 1990s, even though Martin has not been implicated and revelations of the
scandal first broke in June 2004.

Until Wilkins' speech, the biggest campaign issue was how to subsidize child
care.

Anxiety about American influence, however, is a timeless theme.

"When there are no issues, you turn to the anti-American stuff. It always
plays," says David Biette, director of the Canada Institute at the Woodrow
Wilson International Center, a think tank in Washington.

"Canadians have real mixed feelings," says Tim Woolstencroft, managing partner
of the Strategic Counsel, a polling firm in Toronto. "They love Americans. They
like trade. They like traveling in the U.S. On the other hand, Canadians want to
remain a distinct country, and they want their government to stand up for
Canadian interests."

Woolstencroft says that if Republicans in Washington want to help Harper, they'd
best keep quiet.

Don't worry, American experts say. "It's vanity on the part of Canadians to
think the United States is actually interfering," says Diddy R.M. Hitchins, a
professor at the University of Alaska Anchorage and president of the Association
for Canadian Studies in the United States. "Canada is so insignificant to the
United States administration. It's not even on the horizon."

Martin and Harper should be mindful that America-bashing can go too far,
Woolstencroft says. Canadians like a little nationalism in their politics, but
they know who their No.1 trading partner is.

"If it starts to endanger good relations, they'll be concerned," he says.
"Canadians are pragmatic."

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Paul Chiasson, AP
PHOTO, B/W, Jonathan Hayward, AP
PHOTO, B/W, Chris Wattle, Reuters

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2005 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              97 of 147 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    January 24, 2005, Monday, FINAL EDITION

ABC's 'Housewives' promo remains a hot topic

BYLINE: Gary Levin and Robert Bianco

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 4D

LENGTH: 912 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES

LOS ANGELES -- Desperate Housewives creator Marc Cherry apologized for the
ruckus over Nicollette Sheridan's suggestive promo with the NFL's Terrell Owens.


At a session with 16 actors and producers from Housewives late Sunday (Jamie
Denton was the only absentee), Cherry told TV reporters gathered for a
semi-annual press tour that there was no deliberate attempt to stoke controversy
with the bit, which aired Nov. 15 before the Philadelphia-Dallas game.

In fact, he said, the original plan was for Sheridan to jump into the arms of
beefy commentator John Madden as a joke: "A woman as glorious-looking as
Nicollette Sheridan throwing herself at John Madden is just funny." But Madden
couldn't make it.


In Cherry's script, Sheridan's towel didn't come off, either. Nonetheless, "I
didn't realize Monday Night Football was such the family viewing experience," he
said, but rather more a home for suggestive beer commercials and "big-breasted
cheerleaders."

Sheridan said the promo "was designed to amuse and entertain," and she found the
uproar "absurd."

Cherry also wants to dispel rumors that other actresses had turned down meaty
roles in TV's biggest new hit. "No offer was tendered" to Pamela Anderson, who
has claimed otherwise in recent interviews.

And Heather Locklear's name did come up as Cherry, struggling to sell the show
in 2003, realized that a star might help. But he and co-producer Chuck Pratt
(who had worked with her on Melrose Place) argued over which role she'd play,
and she signed an NBC deal before the impasse was broken.

Other news from the press tour:

 * NYPD through. On March 1, ABC's long-running, groundbreaking cop classic NYPD
Blue will leave the air. And in the current climate, producer Steven Bochco says
he'd probably never be able to get it back on.

"There's no question in my mind that over the course of the last 10 years and
accelerated over the last five years, the medium has become increasingly
conservative. I don't think today we could launch or sell NYPD Blue in the form
that it launched 12 years ago."

And yet Bochco remains optimistic about the future of adult, 10 p.m. network
programming. The genre may have suffered a setback, he says, but "you're never
going to put the genie back in the bottle. Television programming . . .  just
keeps getting more realistic and more sophisticated as time goes by. There are
bumps along the road, and you back up a step or two and then you make another
leap forward as people kind of relax. It's a long-term thing, but we're never
going to see TV going back to what it was 20 years ago."

As for Blue itself, Bochco says he wants the show's exit to feel like a
"well-earned end." There will be no special guests and no huge melodramatic,
climactic events. "We're not blowing up buildings and we're not killing anybody
off," he says. "I don't think at the end of our last episode you'll feel that
the life of this precinct has stopped or ended. It will continue on, but you
just won't get to visit it every week."

It may be a while, however, before we see Blue star Dennis Franz back on
television. When his show ends, he's going to travel and spend time with his
family, and then start looking for movie roles. Does he think he'll ever find a
role like Andy Sipowicz again? "No. This has just been a true gift."

 * Down to third. NBC was riding high in first place last season among its
target young-adult audience. But now look how quickly the loss of Friends and
lack of new fall hits can change the picture.

"We don't like being in third place," NBC Universal Television Group president
Jeff Zucker told TV critics here Friday. Fall was "tougher than we expected,"
LAX and Hawaii "weren't good enough," and the animated Father of the Pride
simply "didn't work out," he said.

Zucker says Joey, even though ratings are below NBC's projections, is "very
likely" to return next season, and the network is negotiating a new deal for The
West Wing -- at a reduced price. At the same time, Zucker says NBC is "in
discussions" to extend Katie Couric's $15-million-a-year contract with Today,
which expires in 18 months. This follows reports that CBS is eyeing her as Dan
Rather's replacement.

 * Lesbian Law. Law & Order producer Dick Wolf confirms what you probably
already guessed: Outing Elisabeth Rohm's character Serena as a lesbian in the
last 30 seconds of her final episode was a stunt designed to let the character
and the actress go out with a bang. "It was unabashedly a water-cooler moment.
And the fact that we're discussing it shows that I think it worked as a
water-cooler moment," he says.

 * Idol chases Contender. Running from the American Idol onslaught, NBC is
moving producer Mark Burnett's boxing reality series The Contender again, this
time to Wednesdays at 8 p.m. starting March 9 after a 90-minute March 7
premiere. It will now face ABC hit Lost instead. Zucker said the choice was a
case of "picking your poison."

 * NBC newcomers. Law & Order: Trial by Jury, the fourth edition of the crime
drama, will air Fridays at 10 p.m. starting April 1, after two previews March 17
and 24. (They'll feature Jerry Orbach in his last performances.) The Office, a
remake of the acclaimed British comedy, premieres March 22 at 9:30. And
Revelations, an apocalyptic thriller, premieres April 13 at 9.

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Frederick M. Brown, Getty Images; PHOTO, B/W, Dan MacMedan,
USA TODAY; Still apologizing: Housewives producer Marc Cherry is flanked by
stars Teri Hatcher, left, and Felicity Huffman. <>Last days: Dennis Franz and
NYPD Blue producer Steven Bochco are ready for the show's end on March 1.

                      Copyright 2005 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              101 of 147 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    February 25, 2005, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Motown founder bridged racial divide

BYLINE: Lois Hatton

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13A; Commentary

LENGTH: 432 words

Black History Month brings to mind Martin Luther King Jr., Rosa Parks and other
names we all know. Yet while Motown founder Berry Gordy Jr. is known as a
successful businessman, he is not recognized as a major player in the civil
rights struggle. He should be.


In producing hit records for African-American artists such as Diana Ross and The
Supremes, The Temptations, Stevie Wonder and many others, Gordy did his part in
the fight for racial equality at a time when King and other civil rights icons
were leading the charge nationally.

He was able to use music as a way to reach into the homes of Americans and
subtly create social change by putting African-Americans in a positive light on
the nation's stage.

Gordy, who was born in 1929 in Detroit, grew up in a middle-class family. As a
young man, he worked at Ford Motor Co., where he developed his business
philosophy and learned the assembly-line method that he would later use to make
Motown a success.

In 1957, along with his sister Gwen and another friend, Gordy wrote his first
hit song, Reet Petite, for Jackie Wilson. This initial success led to greater
ones, and he founded the record company Hitsville USA, in which he had two
labels, Tamla and Motown. Gordy knew that in order to be successful, his artists
needed to be more than good musicians. They also had to present themselves as
gentlemen and ladies -- well dressed, well groomed and well mannered.

To accomplish this, he developed the assembly-line approach to artist
development. He had a Detroit socialite teach the young women how to walk on
stage with poise and good posture. When it came to wardrobe, he called on the
best designers, hair stylists and makeup artists because he wanted to create a
successful image of clean-cut respectability.

Indeed, the All-American image paved the way for appearances by his artists on
Dick Clark's American Bandstand, The Ed Sullivan Show and other variety shows.
The Motown sound unified young people -- black and white -- who enjoyed
listening to the same type of music and embracing the same dance trends.

Berry Gordy Jr. developed one of the most successful independent record labels
in history. In 1990, he was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame.

One of Gordy's most important accomplishments, though, was his ability to use
music as a way to bring about racial equality. He helped to create a climate in
which people were willing to look at African-Americans as equals.

***

 Lois Hatton is a columnist and inspirational speaker who lives in Brookings,
S.D.

LOAD-DATE: March 01, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              110 of 147 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    June 15, 2005, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Aruba's postcard image comes under siege

BYLINE: Laura Bly

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 8D

LENGTH: 708 words

Famous for its strategic location south of the Caribbean's "hurricane belt," the
island of Aruba is grappling with a storm of unwanted publicity after last
month's disappearance of Natalee Holloway, 18, on a school graduation trip.

And while major U.S. tour operators say they have logged no cancellations to a
popular vacation spot that draws about 530,000 Americans a year, its longtime
reputation as one of the region's safest places is coming under scrutiny.

Just 15 miles north of Venezuela, the small, multi-ethnic Dutch protectorate is
known for its dry, sunny climate, expansive beaches and lively nightlife,
including 11 casinos. And, says the guidebook Frommer's Portable Aruba, a "low
crime rate is the envy of nearly every other island in the region. Where else
would you see tourists over 60 and women in their 20s hitchhiking without a
qualm? Aruba's boomed in the past couple of decades, and the rapid changes and
influx of new people have disturbed the way of life a bit. ... But you may find
that you feel safer in Aruba than at home."


That status was challenged by Holloway's disappearance May 30. Prosecutors have
detained three young Arubans who reportedly drove Holloway to a beach after
leaving Carlos 'N Charlie's, a night spot in the capital, Oranjestad.

Detailed crime statistics are hard to come by: In 2003, the most recent year
with available data, there were 4,236 crimes, though no specifics on those
against tourists. According to Aruba's attorney general, five homicides were
reported last year. But police have not provided a breakdown of offenses since
1995, says Martijn Balkestein of the Central Bureau of Statistics.

The U.S. State Department's travel advice for Aruba states that "street crime is
low, but there have been incidents of theft from hotel rooms. Armed robbery has
been known to occur. Valuables left unattended on beaches, in cars and in hotel
lobbies are easy targets for theft. Car theft, including that of rental vehicles
for joy riding and stripping, can occur."

By contrast, the department notes that violent crime in Jamaica is a "serious
problem ... while the vast majority of crimes occur in impoverished areas, the
violence is not confined. In several cases, armed robberies of Americans have
turned violent when the victims resisted handing over valuables." The
department's lengthy "Tips for Travelers to Mexico," meanwhile, includes such
cautions as "be careful when ordering beverages in local nightclubs and bars,
especially at night" and "U.S. citizens should not hitchhike or accept rides
from strangers."

But the State Department's 2005 International Narcotics Control Strategy Report
notes that "while Aruba enjoys a low crime rate, prominent drug traffickers are
establishing themselves sporadically on the island ... drugs are easily found
within walking distance of Oranjestad's cruise pier and are frequently peddled
to cruise ship tourists. The expanding use of (Ecstasy) in clubs by young people
attracts increasing attention."

The mystery surrounding Holloway's disappearance has generated speculation on
travel blogs and message boards, says Amy Ellis of Aruba-TravelGuide.com. But
although "a few people are rethinking their trips because they think the case
should have been solved by now, I'm not hearing of many cancellations," Ellis
says.

Says Justin McNaull of AAA Travel: "The reality of travel is that you can get
mugged anywhere, (and) the greatest danger to Americans traveling abroad is car
crashes.  If this stands up as being an isolated incident, it's unlikely to have
a long-term impact."


Aruba by the numbers
Size: 70 square miles (slightly larger than Washington, D.C.)

Population: 97,000

Annual number of tourists: 728,157 (1.3 million cruise ship visitors)

Political status: Part of the Netherlands; autonomy in internal affairs came in
1986 upon separation from the Netherlands Antilles; Dutch government responsible
for defense, foreign affairs

Languages: Dutch, Papiamento (a Spanish-Portuguese-Dutch-English dialect),
English, Spanish

Average per capita income: $22,000

Average literacy rate: 97%

Unemployment rate: 7%

Sources: CIA World Fact Book, Aruba Tourism Authority




LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              112 of 147 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    June 29, 2005, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Consumer confidence hit a 3-year high in June

BYLINE: Sue Kirchhoff

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 462 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

WASHINGTON -- Consumer confidence jumped to the strongest in three years in
June, an independent research group said Tuesday, a day when energy prices fell
from recent highs.

The New York-based Conference Board said its consumer confidence index -- based
on a survey of 5,000 households -- rose to 105.8 in June from 103.1 in May, the
highest since June 2002.

Some economists warned, however, that the confidence numbers could ease ahead,
unless oil prices recede further. Oil fell sharply after hitting a record high
above $60 a barrel Monday. The price of a barrel of crude oil dropped $2.34, or
4%, to $58.20 as traders sought to cash in on the recent price gains. The price
is still 61% above a year ago.


Despite the run-up in energy costs, consumers' assessment of current conditions
rose to 120.7 from 117.8. Their six-month outlook also improved. For instance,
19.4% of consumers expect to have higher incomes in the next six months, up from
17.8% in May. That was the best reading on income growth so far this year, and
it helped push the Dow Jones industrial average up 114.85 to close at 10,405.63.


Lynn Franco, director of the Conference Board's Consumer Research Center, said
the survey missed the peak in oil prices, adding that if oil prices "translate
into higher and higher prices at the pump, that might discourage consumers."

Some economists said the confidence numbers, alongside recent good economic
data, bolstered their view that the economy remains on track -- and that the
Federal Reserve will continue to raise short-term interest rates to forestall
future inflation.

"Although you would never know it from either the newspaper or from the
financial markets, the economy is performing admirably," said Stephen Stanley of
Greenwich Capital Markets.

But others, including economists at Economy.com, said they did not expect
confidence to gain much more ground, if any, saying consumers were struggling
with high energy prices and debt burdens, low savings and slow wage growth.

The Fed's policy committee, which has increased interest rates eight times since
last June, begins a two-day meeting today. The Fed is expected to announce
another quarter-point increase in its target for short-term rates, to 3.25%,
when its meeting ends Thursday.

The Conference Board said the percentage of consumers calling current business
conditions "bad" dipped to 15.5% from 16.4%, while those calling conditions
"good" held steady at 26.9%.

Of those polled, 22.6% called jobs "hard to get," down from 24.1% in May. At the
same time, 22.6% called jobs plentiful, down from 22.9% in May. That's the first
time in three years that the "hard to get" figure was not higher than the
"plentiful" percentage.





LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              114 of 147 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                      July 1, 2005, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Bush plan targets malaria, education

BYLINE: Judy Keen and Steve Sternberg

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 335 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

WASHINGTON -- President Bush, who will be pressed at an economic summit in
Scotland next week to increase direct aid to Africa, said Thursday he wants to
increase spending for fighting malaria, educating girls and ensuring legal
protections for women.

Some humanitarian groups said Bush isn't doing enough. "We hope (this) ... is
just the beginning of a much bigger U.S. commitment," said Chad Dobson of relief
agency Oxfam America.


Africa and climate change will be the focus of the summit of the Group of Eight
major industrial nations that starts Wednesday. British Prime Minister Tony
Blair wants G8 participants to increase aid to Africa to 0.7% of their gross
national product. The United States' contribution is smaller, but national
security advisor Stephen Hadley said that by 2010, yearly U.S. aid -- including
the new programs -- would be $8.6 billion, up from $4.3 billion in 2004.

Cash alone won't solve Africa's woes, Bush said. "Economic development is not
something we do for countries, it is something they achieve with us."

Congressional approval is needed for Bush's plan to:

*Spend $1.2 billion over five years to reduce malaria deaths by half in targeted
countries. Malaria kills a million people a year, most of them children. About
90% of cases occur in Africa, the World Health Organization says.

Louis Da Gama of the Massive Effort Campaign, an AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria
advocacy group, said that at least $3.5 billion is needed worldwide to control
malaria.

*Spend $55 million over three years to improve legal rights for women and help
crime victims.

*Spend $400 million over four years to train teachers, distribute textbooks and
provide scholarships for girls.

"Any step forward helps, but this is a very small baby step," said Gene
Sperling, director of the Center for Universal Education at the Council on
Foreign Relations. A British commission said Africa needs $7 billion a year for
education.





LOAD-DATE: July 01, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              122 of 147 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     August 29, 2005, Monday, FINAL EDITION

'End of the Line' unravels history of single sourcing

BYLINE: Russ Juskalian

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 923 words

End of the Line: The Rise and Coming Fall of the Global Corporation
By Barry Lynn
Doubleday, 312 pages, $26
---

For most people, "the butterfly effect" is either the title of an Ashton Kutcher
movie or a far-fetched theory that states, for example, a butterfly flapping its
wings in Brazil could, through a series of events, cause a tornado in Texas.

But to some, such as Barry Lynn, author of End of the Line: The Rise and Coming
Fall of the Global Corporation, the butterfly effect represents an immediate
threat to global stability. His version of the theory goes something like this:
You order a computer from a U.S. company that gets its memory chips from a local
business in Taiwan. That business in Taiwan gets its epoxy-resin, a plastic used
in casings for the chips, from one company in Japan. Through unforeseen
circumstances, an explosion shutters the epoxy factory. No epoxy from Japan
means no memory chips from Taiwan. In turn, the computer company has to stop its
assembly line, and you are left waiting -- for want of a little plastic.


The more complicated the flow chart of dependencies and the more companies
involved in making a product, the greater the risk of this kind of disruption.

So much for the glory of global economies.

In End of the Line, Lynn, a fellow at the New American Foundation and former
executive editor of Global Business magazine, attempts to unravel the history of
this risk and to caution us of future catastrophe if we do not heed the warning
signs.

Global corporations, he says, rely too much on single-source suppliers and run
inventories too lean to be prepared for supplier interruptions. It is this very
interdependence, once heralded by the drafters of free trade deals as
peace-inspiring and stabilizing, that threatens the current economic system,
Lynn says.

The reader should be aware that while a strength of the book is Lynn's depth of
research into the political, economic and cultural climates that led to our
current business model, he explains his findings in an academic style that is
difficult. The result of the spate of dates, acronyms, analysis and theory is
not an easy-flowing read like Thomas Friedman's The World is Flat.

Lynn draws together the history of the global corporation by following the likes
of Jack Welch at General Electric, Robert Galvin at Motorola, Jose Ignacio Lopez
at General Motors, and others at firms such as Flextronics and Taiwan
Semiconductor Manufacturing.

He spends considerable time on the events that gave rise to the modern global
corporation, emphasizing the relentless need to cut costs, boost efficiency and
raise profits. An important turning point, Lynn says, came when Mitsubishi
bought 51% of the Rockefeller Center in October 1989.

Here was a company from an Asian country "that had been smashed by American and
industrial might four decades before" taking control of a proud American
property and pushing out previous tenant RCA (also a symbol of U.S. independence
and prosperity).

The sale of the Rockefeller Center jolted the American psyche, displaying on the
surface what had been going on for a while: Japan was squeezing American
business out of business by way of increased efficiency and single (or
single-region) sourcing of supplies. To compete, U.S. companies adopted the
Japanese system of lean inventory and tighter schedules, according to Lynn.
Outsourcing the manufacturing of components to highly specialized companies that
provided high volume on single supplies was the answer.

The Rockefeller deal was a wake-up call for American business, and the response
marked a change in momentum -- a shift in how American corporations would
compete in an ever-increasingly global world. Lynn frames his book around the
threat of global catastrophe as a result of such single sourcing and
hyperdependency.

He gives examples of supply-side shutdowns that have already caused disruptions
on a global scale. In spite of these accounts, however, there is a problem in
that Lynn's framing of his argument -- and indeed the very title of this book --
implies not that we face a risk at the hands of shareholder avarice, but that we
face a threat that is nearly unavoidable.

His data are right, but he never convinces the reader that the threat of
interdependence is anything more than another variable to be worked into the
cost of doing business globally -- that strategies aimed at lessening such a
risk are already being devised. Lynn even closes the book with the cautious
optimism that an opportunity exists to revamp the system.

His most convincing moments are made not when he is spreading the gospel of a
doomsday machine quietly festering inside the current model of corporate
capitalism, but when he writes about a shift in power between shareholders and
consumers.

His most pertinent questions in the saga of the corporation arise in asking whom
the CEO serves and whether enough thought has been given to corporate longevity
vis-a-vis maximizing immediate return on capital. The threat that Lynn
identifies is real, and it is clear that CEOs, shareholders and legislators
should take note of what he has to say. His book is a great primer on the
history of the corporate movement toward outsourcing, logistics and single
sourcing (particularly in manufacturing as opposed to technology and services).

But it falls just short in making the argument that global economic collapse is
around the corner because of corporate interdependence.





LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W (CHART); PHOTO, B/W

TYPE: MONEY BOOKSHELF

                      Copyright 2005 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              129 of 147 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    October 10, 2005, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Victoria's Secret tones down suggestive displays

BYLINE: Olivia Barker

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 465 words

Shoppers are getting their panties in a twist over racy marketing again. And
this time, appropriately enough, the outrage is over lingerie.

Victoria's Secret stores in McLean, Va., and Wauwatosa, Wis., are targets of the
latest clothing controversy. Local residents are railing against scantily clad
-- and provocatively posed -- mannequins: women on all fours, others intertwined
on a bed, still others in "garters and whatnot, and the only thing missing is a
whip," says Stan Zurawski, who's leading the charge in Wauwatosa.


It's a familiar cycle: Retailers ratchet up the raunch because they want to be
edgy. Concerned shoppers react with neighborhood meetings and protests, and the
company tones things down. (Remember the now-defunct Abercrombie & Fitch catalog
that showed topless models?)

In McLean, concessions have meant, among other changes, straightening up and
flipping around a thong-wearing mannequin whose largely bare derriere had
greeted passersby. (Opponents are still not satisfied: A second protest is
planned for today after a gathering Friday drew 40 to 50 people.)

In Wauwatosa, a reclining mannequin has been turned over so that its thong-clad
bottom is no longer "mooning" the window, as Zurawski put it. But that's
"absolutely not good enough for us," he says.

What makes this episode interesting is that Victoria's Secret is straining the
seams in a fashion climate that's more about modesty: Bodies are largely
shrouded this season by demure, ladylike looks.

Edginess is what Victoria's Secret fans like, says retail consultant Candace
Corlett of WSL Strategic Retail. "Good for them for smart marketing," she says.
And, in responding to the outcry, "good for them for having a conscience."

Meanwhile, other outfits are continuing to embrace the extreme this season.
Diesel's ad campaign celebrates "the world of individual hedonistic pleasure
pursuits"; one shot features women with whips.  Hipster chain American Apparel
has softcore-styled ads including a tight focus on barely-covered backsides of
women.

It's unclear how many Victoria's Secret stores have staged the display, as well
as how many the company planned to unveil. Calls placed to Anthony Hebron, a
spokesman for Limited Brands, Victoria's Secret parent company, weren't returned
on Thursday and Friday. On Wednesday, Hebron explained the company mission: "All
we're trying to do is market what we sell. You see bras and underwear. That's
lingerie. That's what we sell."

Some mall customers don't see what the fuss is all about, either. McLean patron
Karimah Hatcher calls the controversy "ludicrous ... Is someone supposed to find
that sexy? It is not a real woman."
---
Contributing: Theresa Howard, Laura Petrecca and Jenny Clevstrom






LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Color, Katye Martens, USA TODAY

                      Copyright 2005 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              135 of 147 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   December 8, 2005, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Oval ready for first test

BYLINE: Tom Weir

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 8C

LENGTH: 614 words

DATELINE: TORINO

TORINO -- Although the din created by nail guns, drills and saws still tends to
interrupt conversations at Oval Lingotto, the last major construction project of
the Torino Winter Olympics appears ready for February's Games.

Friday, Torino's indoor oval for long-track speedskating -- the Winter Olympics
sport that awards the most medals -- will get its first test when a three-day
World Cup event begins.

International Olympic Committee President Jacques Rogge will be on hand for the
evaluation, which is more than a year overdue.

The oval was supposed to host a World Cup event last year, but that meet had to
be moved to Salt Lake City. The building site previously housed a factory, and
when asbestos contamination was discovered, the cleanup put the oval's
construction a year behind schedule.


The Italians have handed off the time-pressed task of fine-tuning Torino's ice
to a Canadian, Mark Messer. He is the "ice maker" at the Calgary oval that
hosted the 1988 Winter Olympics and which ranks second only to Salt Lake City's
2002 Olympic oval for producing recent world records.

Asked Wednesday whether Torino's ice will be world-class, Messer responded,
"I'll let you know on Monday."

The challenge for the Olympics is to keep the indoor climate constant while
battling temperature and humidity changes occurring outside.

During the Games, the ice will need to be as hard as possible for distance
races, to create glide, and then significantly softer a day or two later, so
sprinters can dig in and get grip during short races.

"Usually it takes a couple of years to learn the nuances of a building," Messer
said. "We don't have that kind of time. So it's going to be a crash course this
weekend, without the crash."

With carpenters still generating sawdust during the final, cosmetic stages of
construction, Zamboni machines have been working overtime to keep the ice
surface mirror-like.

And because the vent pipes above the ice still have a coat of construction
grime, the building probably will need a thorough cleaning that may include
removing the current ice sheet and installing a new one.

"But it's 100 times better than it was last week," said Messer, explaining that
the oval is finally rid of a hazy cloud that was created by diesel exhaust.

After two workout sessions at Oval Lingotto, U.S. medal contenders Chris Witty
and Chad Hedrick said they have no complaints.

Witty, the defending women's 1,000-meter gold medalist, was glad to see bigger
grandstands that will increase the crowds by about 3,000 over those of Salt Lake
City.

As for the dirt, she said, "It's just a fine dust on the ice" and hasn't
affected her blades.

Said Hedrick, who set a world record in the 1,500 last month in Salt Lake City,
"Everything looks like it's a little behind schedule, but the lap times today
were really fast."

Michael Crowe, the USA long-track team's managing director, said the oval is in
far better shape than what he expected after a May visit.

In May, Crowe said, "Both ends were still open. There was maybe one-third of the
decking on the roof. It wasn't even a shell yet."

And none of the refrigerating machinery and pipework had been installed.

The oval's late completion conceivably could benefit the U.S. team, Crowe said.
In the 2002 Winter Olympics, the USA dominated long-track speedskating after
having two seasons of skating on the Salt Lake City oval, honing its home-ice
advantage.

In Torino, European teams haven't had any extra access.

"The good thing is that it doesn't give anybody an advantage," Crowe said.
"There's not going to be a big home-ice advantage here."






LOAD-DATE: December 08, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, USA TODAY; PHOTO, B/W, Michael Kooren, Reuters

                      Copyright 2005 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              136 of 147 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   December 8, 2005, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Where conservation and development coexist

BYLINE: Nick Jans

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 1207 words

I sit staring from the plane window, down at a seemingly endless, un-peopled
expanse of lakes, river and forest. Even from a height of 25,000 feet, the
landscape spills over the rim of the horizon. As an Alaskan, I'm used to
thinking large, but this place stuns me, its vastness as incomprehensible as the
distances between stars. What I'm looking down on is a mere fragment of western
Canada's Mackenzie River basin, an area more than twice the size of Texas. Even
the Mackenzie itself is all but swallowed by the scale of things.

There's far more than wild country here. Though off the average American's
radar, the largest oil pool outside of Saudi Arabia lies in the Mackenzie basin
-- the vast tar sands deposits in Alberta -- along with untold trillions of
cubic feet of natural gas there and farther north, on the river's great arctic
delta.


The upward spiral of energy prices, together with promising new technologies,
have made large-scale development of these fields economically viable. In fact,
an 800-mile, $7 billion natural gas pipeline from the delta south through this
pristine wilderness is in its planning stages; some of this gas would be used to
provide the huge amounts of heat needed to extract the oil from those sands.

We all know where this is headed. It's the same old story: Big energy companies
come in, and Nature gets walloped in the name of progress. But what's remarkable
so far about the Mackenzie drainage development is the mantra that's being
chanted by an unlikely consortium of environmentalists, Indian tribes, and big
industry: conservation first.

The unlikely alliance

A sharply focused organization known as the Canadian Boreal Initiative (CBI) has
emerged as a top-level player in shaping the future of the Mackenzie basin and
the course of development across Canada's boreal region -- at 1.4 billion acres
stretching across the northern brow of the continent, one of the largest
contiguous forestlands in the world. Working closely with all the various
interests, led by respected conservationists and scientists and funded by the
Pew Charitable Trusts (a major U.S. public charity that promotes environmental
conservation), the CBI has fostered a plan as wide as the boreal landscape
itself.

Titled the Boreal Forest Conservation Framework, this charter calls for
preserving at least 50% of the entire boreal in perpetuity and ensuring
ecologically sound, sustainable development of the rest. Instead of
preservationists and developers waging an endless series of pitched battles
where there are only victories and defeats, the traditional opponents are
cooperating as environmental stewards, in conjunction with local and national
government agencies.  The Mackenzie basin, teetering on the edge of massive
change, is a key testing ground that the CBI hopes will supply a workable vision
for development across Canada.

The framework's signers agree that Canada's boreal is far more than a
convenient, big-box store of raw materials. In fact, the boreal's primary value
might well be environmental. It's one of the largest carbon sinks in the world,
in essence a massive air filter that pulls billions of tons of climate-warming
carbon dioxide from the atmosphere and locks it into the peaty soil. And, to
make the point more concrete that Canadians and Americans share that same air
and have a highly vested interest in that fact, consider that more than 325
American bird species, as many as 3 billion birds in all, migrate to the boreal
to feed and raise their young each spring. Up to 17% of the birds at backyard
feeders in the lower 48 states and 38% of waterfowl are equally Canadian.
Without the boreal, they wouldn't exist.

Creating a balance

The obvious issue is somehow balancing necessary development with equally vital
conservation. Clearly, the United States has a huge economic stake beyond our
northern horizon, which encompasses far more than oil and gas. A third of our
softwood lumber and huge quantities of other raw materials come from Canada's
wilds.

Despite its almost unimaginable vastness, and despite the efforts of the CBI and
its adherents, the boreal is shrinking at an alarming rate. Wood product demand
gobbles up 5 acres every minute, and about a third of it has already been
allotted to timber developers. Small surprise that some bird species are in
sharp decline.

And with massive new projects such as the Mackenzie gas pipeline and
accelerating oil development on the immediate horizon, and the world's growing
appetite for ever-dwindling resources, the boreal's future is far from secure.

Ironically, the very imagination-defying scale that defines it seems an
impediment to focusing public concern. There is no single, sexy image or sound
bite. Nonetheless, this might be one of those rare times when we get to have our
cake and eat it, too. Enough of the boreal remains intact to provide a window --
albeit a time-sensitive, narrowing one -- of opportunity.

As audacious and pie-in-the-sky as it seems, CBI's vision seems to be catching
on. Oil giant Suncor, which owns rights to the Alberta tar sands, and paper
giant Domtar are among the framework's signatories. In the Mackenzie valley,
where that enormous natural gas project will one day carve its path across the
land, the Dehcho Indian tribe has already withdrawn 52% of its vast holdings as
conservation areas. The Dehcho are attempting to hammer out financial agreements
with the energy companies as they work toward settling land claims and treaty
issues with the Canadian government.

A model?

Though progress has been marked by outbursts of contention and litigation, what
happens in the Mackenzie might yet provide a template for applying the framework
principles elsewhere in Canada. While the synergy of contributing factors is
arguably unique -- outstanding Indian tribe's land claims, huge areas of
yet-virgin wilderness and a relatively small, environmentally conscious
population -- the watching world is being offered a working model for
cooperative, conservation-oriented, sustainable development on a large scale.

Why should we care? The question is, how could we afford not to? The economic
and environmental stakes are huge for all of us, and the reverberations of the
outcome will flow across borders like air, alive with wild wings.

Conservation first -- what a concept.  Maybe, just maybe, we might learn
something from Canada.

Nick Jans lives in Alaska and is a member of USA TODAY's board of contributors.



By the numbers

*No. 1: Canada's ranking, among all nations, as a U.S. trading partner.

*No. 1: Canada's ranking, among all nations, in oil exported to the USA (Mexico
is second, Saudi Arabia third).

*176 billion barrels: Proven oil reserves in the oil sands of the boreal's
Mackenzie River basin.

*15%: Percentage of the world's proven oil reserves in the boreal's Mackenzie
River basin.

*25%: Percentage of the world's remaining original forestland in Canada's boreal
forest.

*60%: Percentage of Canadian forest products that come to U.S. markets.

Source: Province of Alberta; Canadian Boreal Initiative; American Forest and
Paper Association; 2005 World Almanac.




LOAD-DATE: December 08, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Alejandro Gonzalez, USA TODAY (Illustration)

                      Copyright 2005 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              137 of 147 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    December 9, 2005, Friday, FINAL EDITION

New Lexus does sporty right

BYLINE: James R. Healey

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 13D

LENGTH: 1429 words

What's this? A Lexus with an engaging personality?

Must be a mistake. The automaker's department in charge of preventing that must
have been on a latte break when the 2006 IS 250 and IS 350 sedans slipped past.

Lexus vehicles, it should by now be no surprise to anyone, are the industry
standard, scoring tops in consultant J.D. Power and Associates quality measures
and winning enthusiastic recommendations from widely followed Consumer Reports
magazine.

But fun? Go buy a whoopee cushion.

The '06 IS is, perhaps, that very whoopee cushion. If it proves to have the good
quality that has become Lexus' hallmark, then it offers a nearly unbeatable
combination that makes some expensive rivals all but irrelevant. Hard-core fans
of BMW 3 Series, a direct competitor, aren't likely to abandon their cars en
masse for the Lexus. It isn't quite that Germanic. And partisans of Infiniti
G35, another direct competitor, would have to think twice before surrendering
their back seat room and more widely available all-wheel drive. But neither
group would be making a backward move if they did defect.


IS 350 is the top model in the IS line that's new for '06, replacing a sporty
car often overlooked in the brand's lineup because it seemed too small for
American tastes and not quite fierce enough to go head-to-head against BMW.  But
the new IS, while still tight inside, is better-looking and goes, stops and
steers about as well as you could want in a car not specifically built for
racetracks.

It comes in three versions: IS 250 with rear-wheel drive, IS 250 with all-wheel
drive, IS 350 rear drive. The IS 350 and the IS 250 AWD were tested.

Pushing the IS 350's ignition button gets a growling response from under the
hood that is a titillating precursor to the delight that awaits. Lexus says it
will whiz from standstill to 60 mph in 5.6 seconds and blast to a top speed of
142 mph.

Whiz, indeed. If you're accelerating hard and using the automatic transmission's
manual-shift mode, you'll find that the engine hits its redline almost before
you're ready to shift. You can get some help from a clever visual alert. The
driver can program the tachometer and speedometer to display orange rings at any
engine or car speed.

Manually or automatically executed, the gear changes are slick, smooth and
quick, making you wonder what's the point of a manual transmission. Not quite as
soul-satisfying as Audi's DSG manual-shift automatic, but not far behind.

The less-powerful IS 250, especially with the extra weight of AWD, accelerates
less thrillingly, but still quickly enough to keep you from thinking you made a
horrible mistake. And the 250 engine runs with the same kind of high-class,
smooth urge as the 350's.

The payback for sacrificing 350's tingling power for 250's AWD is when you need
the AWD. There was no snow or ice to really wring it out. But it performed
marvelously on roads awash with heavy rain. No side-to-side and end-to-end
grabbiness. Just straight-ahead go-power, and sure-footed confidence in slippery
corners.

Here's the great thing: You needn't care about any of that to enjoy the comfort,
agility, striking looks and crisp interior presentation. You might buy an IS
because you mistake it for simply a well-done, small luxury sedan. You will get
more than you bargained for.

The tested IS sedans had optional, high-performance tires with very stubby
sidewalls. That's good for helping snap around corners with little body lean,
but it usually means an abominable ride because the sidewalls don't flex much.
Not so these cars. They soaked up single jolts pretty well and only began to
churn the occupants when driven over a series of bumps.

The six-speed automatic transmission, standard on IS 350 and optional on the
250, can be manually shifted either via the floor-mounted lever or fingertip
paddles on the steering wheel. The paddles are ugly but well placed and work
with a light touch. Eventually you begin to appreciate the function more than
you dislike the form.

Can't say as much for the second-row seat. Folks in front have to be pretty
short to leave any room for rear riders. When the front seat is slid back, it
almost touches the rear seat cushion.

Lexus created a new platform for the IS. It's not derived from the previous IS
or other models in production. So it's hard to understand why Lexus didn't make
it just a bit larger. If you are buying a four-door sedan, you expect to use the
back seat. Otherwise you'd be shopping for coupes and two-door sedans.

The IS 250 AWD has an annoying bump in the front floor on the driver's side,
necessary to clear the AWD machinery underneath. You might find it unbearably
intrusive or just kind of stupid-looking, depending on your driving position.

The IS 350 had -- you won't read this here very often -- a good navigation
system. Easy to use; big, bright, easy-to-follow display; quick to recalculate
when you stray from the intended route.

Included on the 350 test car was a rearview camera for help when backing up.
Such cameras have been available on luxury vehicles for years, but the one in
the IS stands out for its especially clear and bright picture of what lurks
behind. It is no HDTV but is refreshingly easy to view compared with some
equipment on the market.

The parking-assistance warnings, which light up and beep if you get close to
obstacles, is tuned about right. Many such systems sound the alarm too soon, so
you begin to disregard them and, whack, you bump something expensive.

An all-wheel-drive version of the 350 would be nice. So would a useful rear
seat. And so much new hardware can result in first-year goofs. But if none of
those concerns you, the IS ought to be atop your shopping list.



2006 Lexus IS 250 & IS 350

*What is it? Small, high-performance, four-door sedan manufactured in
Toyota/Lexus factories at Tahara and Kyushu, Japan. Available with 2.5-liter (IS
250) or 3.5-liter (IS 350) V-6. IS 250 is available with rear-wheel (RWD) or
all-wheel drive (AWD). IS 350 is rear drive only.

*How soon? On sale since Oct. 14. A gas-electric hybrid version, IS 450h, is due
in late spring.

*How much? IS 250 RWD starts at $30,580, including $590 destination charge. IS
250 AWD starts at $34,875. IS 350 is $36,030. IS 350 with all factory options is
about $48,000.

Expect to pay full window-sticker price, or close to it, the online car-shopping
services say.

*Who'll buy? Lexus says they're likely to be 35 to 45 years old, 50% to 60% men,
have $100,000 to $120,000 annual household incomes.

*How many? About 45,000 a year, more than quadruple sales of the previous
version, called IS 300.

*What's the drivetrain? IS 250 has 2.5-liter V-6 rated 204 horsepower at 6,400
rpm, 185 pounds-feet of torque at 4,800 rpm; six-speed manual transmission.
Six-speed automatic with steering-wheel-mounted paddle shifters is $1,170 option
on IS 250 RWD, standard on IS 350.

IS 350 has 3.5-liter V-6 rated 306 hp at 6,400 rpm, 277 lbs.-ft. at 4,800 rpm,
six-speed, automatic transmission with paddle shifters.

Traction control is standard.

IS 250's AWD system is similar to what's on the larger GS 300 AWD. Normally, 30%
of power goes to the front wheels, shifting up to 50% to the fronts if the rear
wheels slip.

*What's the safety gear? Expected bags and belts, plus front and rear
head-curtain air bags and front-seat, side-impact air bags; anti-lock brakes;
anti-skid control.

*What's the rest? Standard features include automatic climate control; power
steering, brakes, windows, mirrors, seats, locks; auto-dimming inside mirror;
tilt-adjustable and telescoping steering column; cruise control; sunroof;
AM/FM/six-CD stereo with MP3 input receptacle.

*How big? Smaller than an Infiniti G35 inside and out; similar outside to BMW 3
Series sedan, smaller inside. IS is 180.1 inches long, 70.9 inches wide, 56.1
inches tall on a 107.5-inch wheelbase. Passenger space is listed as 88.3 cubic
feet, trunk as 13 cubic feet.

Weight ranges from 3,455 to 3,651 pounds, depending on model.

*How thirsty? Rated 20 to 24 miles per gallon in town, depending on model, 28 to
32 mpg on the highway. Trip computer showed 16 mpg in town in IS 350 test car,
20 mpg in mixed city-highway driving in IS 250 AWD.

Lexus says premium fuel is required, not merely recommended, because of the
engines' special fuel-injection system.

*Overall: Wonderful piece of work for those who don't need much of a back seat.





LOAD-DATE: December 09, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS, B/W, Toyota (3)

                      Copyright 2005 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              141 of 147 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                      April 4, 2005, Monday, FINAL EDITION

United Tech outperforms peers year after year

BYLINE: Ron Insana

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 1424 words

United Technologies is not the household name that some of its bigger peers have
become. Yet to look at the $40 billion conglomerate and its unassuming CEO,
George David, it probably should be. Its stock has gone up nearly 700% the past
12 years. Its revenue is growing in the double digits, and its operating profit
margins are surging. Its Carrier air conditioner, Otis Elevator and Sikorsky
helicopter brands are well known by the average American. David -- whom Chief
Executive magazine just named its CEO of the Year -- is fully intent on keeping
United Tech the best-performing U.S. conglomerate stock for years to come. I
recently talked business with this highly regarded CEO. Here are excerpts,
edited for clarity and space.

Ron Insana: So, how's business at United Tech?

George David: We had an organic revenue growth number of 4% for 2005, and when
we had our regular analysts meeting a week or two ago we bumped it up to 6%. We
expect revenue of $41 billion this year, up from $37.4 billion last year. We
also said that doesn't include Kidde or the Rocketdyne acquisition, which will
add $1.5 billion to $2.5 billion.


Insana: How are the U.S. and global economy?

David: I think the economy's not so bad. We sell physical stuff. And, in fact,
we had startling growth rates in physical volume last year. But take it apart
and look at what, to me, are some really core things: for instance, our new
elevator orders. You know, typically, the elevator business is a mature
business. Our new elevator unit orders award last year were 14% higher than
2003. Our entire corporation shipments were 15% higher than 2003. In our Asian
business, where we have a very strong business, the shipments were up 42%. These
are big numbers.

Insana: Let me address Otis. You've said you don't feel that the increase in
elevator sales, particularly in China, is part of an elevator "bubble." If
China's growth is not sustainable, will elevator sales start to come down and
affect your growth?

David: China's growth is sustainable, so I don't go along with your 'if'
qualification. We measure elevator populations in countries as units installed
per thousand people. And in China, the number today is about a half an elevator
per thousand people. In most countries of the world outside of the U.S., people
live in elevator- and storied apartment houses. It's true all over Europe, all
over Asia, South America, certainly true in China. And in a mature market like
Europe, the installed population is about six elevators per thousand people. And
so we're on our way to some portion of six, and that's why it is so far away
from saturation. The United Nations says 250 million more people will urbanize
in the next several years. The Chinese population is today only 32% urban. That
compares with 70% urban in the U.S. and Europe. It's not a bubble.

Insana: Now do you see that kind of growth in other areas of the world?

David: Here's a surprise out of left field. Our business with Russia is growing
30%-plus per annum. It's a different problem altogether because urbanization is
driving China. Rebuilding the housing stock in the nation is what's driving
Russia. We helped them. We did one of our typical things. We're always very
early into emerging markets, and the second the (Berlin) wall came down we were
all over Russia. In hindsight, we were there maybe too early. I travel all over
Russia, and one of the things that is kind of a stark, personal, sad memory is
that the housing conditions there are absolutely appalling. They are horrible
houses. And so what's happening in Russia is they're not urbanizing; they're
just rebuilding. And we are the market leader in Russia by a big margin, 40% or
so share. We're the market leader in China in the elevator business; market
leaders of other businesses there also. But it's amazing to see these kinds of
growth rates happening. The other thing that's happening
in Europe is that there was a very large construction boom in the '60s and '70s.
So, lo and behold, it's time to reconstruct.

Insana: Which U.S. businesses are doing well?

David: We have a huge and powerful business in Carrier. The biggest single
business unit in Carrier is its North American residential business. It's big in
air conditioning of course, but we're way the market leader in gas furnaces, and
those two businesses together are 30% of the North American residential market.
And also something else that's not widely recognized is that 65% of Carrier's
demand is so-called add-on replacement. And that's the same point I made earlier
about redoing the elevators in Europe. We do the air conditioning and the
heating systems in American houses. So we've seen these huge growth rates.

Insana: What if the housing market goes bust?

David: Demography is a fundamental driver in an economy and overwhelmingly
important. In a humorous way, I've been a genius my entire life, and the reason
was that I was born in 1942. I'm the front edge of the baby boomers. So I have
always bought assets cheap and sold them high. And I've discovered that this is
the peak year for the baby boomer children entering college. The point is that
some years from now, they're going to be in the housing market, too. So what if
we get a pullback here for two years?

Insana: Well, you get that impression when talking to CEOs, everyone seems to
feel that 2005 will be fine. But you don't get that same sense of security about
2006. Are you worried?

David: I think we've got a couple of years here that look pretty good to me. The
most powerful driver in the American economy in the last 50 years has been
productivity. It took our government, notably the chairman of the Federal
Reserve, some time to recognize that. Meanwhile, people like us were seeing in
our own companies 6% or 7% productivity growth.

Insana: Now your stock price has gone up rather dramatically and sells in line
with the market's price-earnings multiple. Is it priced for perfection, like
some say the market is, or undervalued?

David: Every CEO thinks his stock price could be higher. Actually in our peer
population, we tend to have a lower multiple, and we're always wigged out about
that because it's like your golf handicap. It's better than it is. A measure one
of our people cooked up a year ago or so: current price to trailing five-year
earnings. While we're in the lower part of our peer population with respect to
the current multiple, we're No. 1 on backward-looking multiples. If that remains
true, then the compounded rate will have been higher for our stock price than
anybody else.

Insana: The relative outperformance of your stock to your peers is pretty
noticeable.

David: It does pop out. We love our 12-year chart.

Insana: What's the key variable that you watch to make sure earnings growth
stays on track?

David: In the 1992 era we were a 5% return company, with respect to operating
income margins. Today it's 14%. I think we've still got a long way to go. We've
told analysts 18%, 19% is not unreasonable. We're a market leader in almost
everything we do. On top of that, we have various means to ensure productivity,
quality and discipline to move the company around. So I feel quite comfortable
in telling Wall Street to keep looking for operating income margin expansion.
The weaker dollar, which adds some bump on the foreign exchange and
acquisitions, will also help.

Insana: You get very high marks as a CEO. What is different about your style?

David: That's a broad question. You get a big benefit out of continuity.
Corporations work on momentum. It takes constant exertion of energy into any
company to make it go, especially when there are 200,000 people. You always
benefit from long tenures as a CEO. I've been around for a long time. You learn
by repetition. You get to recruit a stable team. The top people at the company
basically stay in their jobs for a long time and they get good at it.

I race big sailboats in my spare time. There are typically 12-person crews in
these boats, and they're 50 feet long, so there's a little bit of tight quarters
and there's a lot of high-energy, high-force work involved, especially sailing
in very windy conditions. And if you drop a new person into the crew, he'll get
an elbow in the face because he hasn't known the moves of his guys on the left
and right side of the rail. But when it's all the same 12, nobody gets shoved
around because everybody knows what the move is before it happens. A company is
the same way.

LOAD-DATE: April 04, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Eileen Blass, USA TODAY; Growth potential: United
Technologies' elevator unit has seen tremendous growth. CEO George David says
its Russian business is up 30%-plus a year.  Housing conditions there are
absolutely appalling, he says. Ron Insana is an anchor on CNBC's Street Signs.

                      Copyright 2005 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              145 of 147 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   September 6, 2005, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

City's magic fades, world seems darker

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 20A

LENGTH: 1121 words

New Orleans was on my list of places to visit before I die. Well, in March 2003,
I decided to make that dream a reality. My sister and I headed off to that
wonderful, magical, mysterious city.

When people think of New Orleans, the image of Mardi Gras usually surfaces. But
there is more to that amazing city:


*Cafe du Monde, with its dark, rich coffee and its powdered doughnuts. Sitting
in the cafe watching people pass is one of my fondest memories. The cafe may not
be there anymore.

*Getting out of the airport and feeling that scorching heat and a wonderful,
laid-back atmosphere. It was hard to believe it was the United States.

*Warm and friendly people, with a Southern drawl and a hospitality that I have
never seen anywhere else in the world. I wonder how many of those people are
gone now.

*A streetcar that takes you back to another place and time.

*The majestic trees in the Garden District that have existed longer than most
can remember. I wonder whether their strong trunks held.

*The cemeteries through which the wonderful and mysterious history of New
Orleans could be discovered. Some things are irreplaceable.

*The French Quarter -- an inexplicable mixture of culture and debauchery that
cannot be found anywhere else.

*The jazz that could be heard on every corner at any time of the day. Where are
those wonderful sounds now?

When I took a tour of the city, our guide told us to take a good look because
one day, in our lifetime, New Orleans would probably sink and cease to be. I
never would have thought that not two years later, it might actually come to
pass.

A world without the richness and vibrancy of New Orleans ... everything seems a
little darker and quieter now, don't you think?

Deena Liatsopoulos

Montreal

Lights out on New Orleans

I think the tragedy will never end if New Orleans is rebuilt. Let's spend the
money on getting people back on their feet and lock the door on the way out of
the Big Easy. The lights are already turned off.

Judy Hudgens

Conroe, Texas

Shame on slick oil firms

Another year, another natural disaster. So, as Americans get out their
checkbooks to help fellow citizens, there are those who lurk in the shadows to
take advantage.

Let's see who likes to help: groups such as the Red Cross, the United Way, the
Humane Society, the Salvation Army and the American public. Then there are those
who take advantage: looters, vagabond repairmen and the greatest vultures of
all: oil companies.

Just when this country is on its knees, in comes big oil and, instead of helping
everyone with all of its windfall profits, it jacks up the prices even more to
really put us out for the count. Analysts call it supply and demand, but I think
a little relief in prices would be a nice goodwill gesture when people are
hurting the most.

Jason Bialous

Williamsburg, Va.

Why weren't we prepared?

My heart breaks for Americans hit by Hurricane Katrina. This is the paramount
crisis in America.

Yet again our federal government is unprepared for disaster on our native soil.
Wake up, Americans. We want to believe that we are more safe, secure and wise
since 9/11. Katrina has shown us that we are not.

I have worked disaster services for the American Red Cross. The Bush
administration will fail miserably in its plans to put Homeland Security in
charge of disaster relief. What are they going to do? Color code and
administrate us to death? This is not the time for another glory-bound market
spun attempt to salvage the "Bushdoggle" that is Homeland Security.

This administration's policies are a disgrace and a failure. Our National Guard,
whose mandate is to stand on national soil to protect and serve America, has
been deployed to Iraq on an ill-fated and untrue mission. I can only imagine the
grief of those now taking a double hit as a direct result of President Bush's
plans.

It is time for Americans to give up the idea that Bush will be a commander in
chief who serves the people of the United States. How much longer are you
willing to follow him?

Melissa Sharpe Jenkins

Kitty Hawk, N.C.

Stop the blame game

As I sit watching the news coverage of Hurricane Katrina, I am saddened by the
news media's quest to place blame on somebody -- the mayor, governor and any
other agency they think is responsible for Louisiana's and Mississippi's
unpreparedness for this major hurricane.

My question to these critics is: "How can anybody prepare for the unexpected?"
Hurricane Katrina is a natural disaster. It is pathetic to me that people who
are not dealing with the situation can even try to contemplate what the people
in these states are having to deal with right now.

My second question is about the looting. Yes, it is a horrible and cruel thing
to watch, but what is more important, saving lives or sending people to a jail
that doesn't exist?

So why are the media focusing on the looting and asking irrelevant questions
such as, "Why isn't the law more important?" I do not think that the officials
of the cities consider the law less important. It's obvious that rescue and help
are the more important issues right now.

Additionally, if the people outnumber the police, what can the police do?

This is a horrible and sad time for all of the affected areas and our country.
Why make it worse by pointing fingers? Does it solve anything?

Tracy Brown

Memphis

Don't shortchange giving

I read Dan Paul's comments in Wednesday's paper and felt compelled to reply
("Hurricane's hit merits global support," Letters).

Paul complains that the rest of the world isn't likely to come to the aid of the
United States as much as the USA came to other countries' aid during disasters
across the globe. While the reader's point is probably true, it is certainly not
surprising. The United States is considered to be one of the richest countries
in the world. Many other countries simply cannot donate much to help us get
through this natural disaster.

I also take offense at Paul's attitude for the simple reason that I do not give
donations to an organization or individual with an expectation of a return. I do
it because it is right.

It's also important to note that I am a Canadian citizen who resides in the
United States. Canada has sent hundreds of volunteers to help with the search
and recovery effort and is soliciting donations from corporations and
individuals alike to send to the area. Paul may not realize how much help comes
from outside the United States, but it does.

And many people around the world care and send their prayers even if they can't
make a monetary donation.

Scott King

Strongsville, Ohio





LOAD-DATE: September 06, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Matt Rourke, The Austin American-Statesman, via AP; PHOTO,
B/W, Mike Silva, The (Shreveport, La.) Times, via AP; PHOTO, B/W, Scott Morgan,
Getty Images

TYPE: Letters

                      Copyright 2005 Gannett Company, Inc.
