
                               4 of 227 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            August 3, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Clinton, Trump show stark contrast on climate change;
Dem's warning of major crisis derided by GOP candidate as radical

BYLINE: Gregg Zoroya, and Doyle Rice, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 881 words


Presidential candidates Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump offer Americans starkly
different views on global warming: Clinton says it is an urgent concern. Trump
dismisses it as a minor problem.

"There's never been a bigger contrast between the two candidates and the two
platforms," said Tiernan Sittenfeld, senior vice president of the League of
Conservation Voters.

The Trump campaign decried Clinton's policy proposals  Tuesday as an "extreme,
reckless anti-energy agenda ... to appease radical donors (who) will destroy
millions of jobs and force millions more into abject poverty."

The GOP nominee said nothing about climate change in his acceptance speech July
21 at the Republican National Convention. He told a rally in South Carolina in
December that global warming was "a hoax, a lot of it," a modest change from a
tweet in 2013 that called global warming "bulls---."

He's rejected climate science even though climate is  thoroughly researched,
said Jeremy Symons of the Environmental Defense Action Fund.

"Climate change is real," the Democratic nominee said in her acceptance speech
Thursday. Clinton said she was proud the United States had signed a climate
accord in Paris that commits the world's nations to slow the rise of greenhouse
gases blamed for warming the climate.

Clinton "cares deeply about protecting public health and the environment,"
Sittenfeld said

The gap between presidential candidates has grown since the 2008 election, when
GOP nominee John McCain expressed concern about climate change, said Kevin
Curtis, executive director of the Natural Resources Defense Council Action Fund.

Clinton's campaign website has more than 30 pages of proposals for fighting
climate change. They include installing a half-billion solar panels by the end
of her term and ensuring that every U.S. home is powered by renewable energy
within 10 years.

Those goals are "ambitious," Curtis said. "And we think that's great. If she's
elected, we'll be badgering her to do more."

Trump has promised to slash funding for the Environmental Protection Agency.
Last week, he was asked on Fox News if global warming was caused by human
activity. "It could have a minor impact," Trump said. "But nothing, nothing to
what they're talking about."

The Sierra Club issued a paper July 12 saying that if elected, Trump would be
the only world leader who did not believe in the science of climate change.

"Leaders of all nations accept the scientific consensus that man is fueling
climate change by burning fossil fuels and are calling for urgent action," the
report states. Support comes from leaders of 195 countries, including North
Korean dictator Kim Jong Un.

"We wanted to be very clear about where Donald Trump ranks among other world
leaders, and he's at the very bottom," said Michael Brune, executive director of
the Sierra Club.

Trump spokesman Jason Miller said  the Sierra Club "lobbies for the closure of
American coal mines and celebrates the loss of countless, good-paying energy
jobs for American workers."

The platforms adopted by the Republican and Democratic Parties underscore the
candidates' glaring differences.

The Republicans emphasize American energy independence. Their platform advocates
reviving construction of the Keystone XL Pipeline, which would bring crude oil
from Canada to Nebraska, and killing an EPA plan to reduce power plant
emissions. It seeks to take regulatory control away from the federal government
and give it to the states.

Though the party encourages the development of renewable energy sources such as
wind and solar, it says it should be done entirely by private capital. It says
coal is clean, an assertion that rankles environmentalists.

"It is a fantasy and wishful thinking," Symons said. "Coal kills thousands of
people a year."

The Democratic platform says climate change "is an urgent threat and a defining
challenge of our time" and takes dire note of rising seas, brutal drought,
"superstorms" and multiplying wildfires. It argues that embracing clean energy
technology will create "millions of new jobs" and cut home and business
expenses.

"It's the most pro-environment platform we've ever seen," Sittenfeld said.

The libertarian Cato Institute calls the Democratic platform "chock full of
government actions that promise to initiate, broaden and extend the current set
of rules, regulations and orders seeking to reduce ... our reliance on fossil
fuels as our primary source of energy production."

"A Democratic administration will seek a further expansion of the reach of the
federal government into our daily lives," the institute said on its website.

Decades ago, Sittenfeld noted, environment issues enjoyed bipartisan support.
The Clean Water Act of 1972 was passed with support from both parties and signed
into law by President Richard Nixon, a Republican.

Whether the sharp divide between Trump and Clinton will move voters is unclear.
Though the number of voters who say they believe in climate change has increased
-- including 47% of conservatives -- the percentage "alarmed" by global warming
is still small, said research scientist Anthony Leiserowitz, director of the
Yale Program on Climate Change Communication.

"American engagement with this issue is at levels that we haven't seen since the
latest high water mark in 2008," he said.

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo John Minchillo, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               8 of 227 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             March 3, 2016 Thursday
                                 FIRST EDITION

February singes record as a sizzler, relatively speaking

BYLINE: Doyle Rice, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 226 words


Earth's temperature soared to a record high last month, a whopping 1.5 degrees
above average as measured by weather satellites.

That's a huge amount in climate science, where records are often broken by
hundredths or tenths of degrees. The level makes February the most unusually
warm month ever recorded, scientists from the University of Alabama-Huntsville
(UAH) said.

Scientists blamed the warmth on a combination of man-made global warming and the
near-record El Niño climate pattern.

"The record might have as much to do with an extraordinarily warm month in the
Arctic as it does with warming caused by the El Niño," said John Christy, who
runs UAH's  Earth System Science Center.

Some areas in the Arctic experienced temperatures as much as 29 degrees warmer
than average last month. The data from the UAH team comes from satellites, which
measure and calculate the temperature of the atmosphere about 5miles above the
Earth's surface. Satellites have been taking the readings for 40 years.

Satellite temperature data include remote desert, ocean and rainforest areas
where reliable surface data are not otherwise available, according to UAH.

Monthly temperature data measured at the Earth's surface is released mid-month
by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration  and NASA. NOAA said
January  was the warmest January since records began in 1880.

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Peter Schneider, European Pressphoto Agency

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               9 of 227 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            October 21, 2016 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

3 debates, and barely a mention of climate change

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 500 words


Aside from the possibility that mankind will blow itself up, no issue is more
important to the long-term future of the planet than global warming. Rising sea
levels, devastating flooding, heat waves and droughts are already causing human
misery and economic disruption. Yet discussion of climate change has been oddly
lacking from the seemingly endless presidential campaign.

In the three  debates, the topic was mentioned only fleetingly. At the second
debate, the red sweater worn by town hall audience member Ken Bone attracted far
more attention than the candidates' response to his question about energy
policy.

The lack of attention to the issue is disappointing, but not surprising.
Human-induced climate change doesn't lend itself to brief sounds bites, and
political systems are particularly unsuited to dealing with this kind of
problem.

For one thing, global warming is a slow-motion crisis that will unfold, largely
invisibly, over decades. No individual extreme weather event -- this week's
record heat in the East, or the excessive rainfall in the Carolinas from
Hurricane Matthew -- can be conclusively linked to human disruption of the
climate.

Moreover, as with pension promises to public employees, today's politicians will
be long gone when the worst effects manifest themselves. The powerful fossil
fuel lobby resists change; it underwrites organizations that challenge the
science and confuse the public. And no individual city, state or nation can
solve the climate problem; that will take a global effort in which individual
countries have economic incentives to cheat on their emissions-reduction
pledges.

Given all these obstacles, the progress of the past year has actually been
remarkable. Last year's Paris treaty to curb greenhouse gas emissions has been
ratified by 81 parties and is set to take effect on Nov. 4. A narrower agreement
limits emissions from jetliners. And, last weekend in Rwanda, more than 170
nations agreed to phase out powerful, heat-trapping refrigerants known as
hydrofluorocarbons.

Continued progress depends in large part on U.S. leadership, the extent of which
will depend on the outcome of the presidential election. As on so many other
issues, the candidates have diametrically opposed positions.

Democrat Hillary Clinton thinks climate change is real; she says she'd work with
international leaders to stabilize and reduce emissions, and with local leaders
to invest in flood-protection projects.

Republican Donald Trump, meanwhile, has said that he's "not a great believer in
man-made climate change," that he would cancel the Paris climate agreement, and
that there are bigger risks to worry about.

Certainly, there is room for discussion about the precise degree to which human
activity is contributing to global warming. There is also room for debate on the
best ways to address the problem. But Trump's blithe dismissal of the
overwhelming scientific consensus on climate change is yet one more reason the
Republican nominee ought not be president.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: OPINION

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              10 of 227 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             March 15, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Come hell or high water;
Climate change deniers risk both the planet and their place in history

BYLINE: Steve Olson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 751 words


The campaigns to remove the names of 19th century racists and colonialists from
buildings and monuments raise a troubling question for today's political and
business leaders: How will history judge those who would consign future
generations to a world severely damaged by climate change?

When U.S. Sen. John Calhoun described slavery as a "positive good" in 1837,
abolitionists had already documented the many ways in which slavery was anything
but good.

When the British businessman and politician Cecil Rhodes wrote in 1877 that "it
is our duty to seize every opportunity of acquiring more territory," colonialism
was already under attack as immoral and counterproductive.

If any issue is as morally fraught today as slavery and colonialism were, it is
climate change. Scientists have been warning for more than three decades that
continued release of greenhouse gases into the atmosphere will lead to
catastrophic changes in the Earth's climate and ecosystems. Yet humans are now
releasing about twice as much carbon from fossil fuels as in 1980.

Laws of physics

Betting against the predictions of climate scientists essentially amounts to
betting against the laws of physics. As the atmosphere becomes more opaque to
the infrared radiation given off by the Earth's surface, the planet inevitably
will warm. Sure, a small group of contrarian scientists thinks that some sort of
countervailing mechanism will offset the warming. But they have little or no
evidence to support their convictions.

As essential life support systems begin to fail, people will ask whether the
crises they are confronting could have been averted. Inevitably, they will focus
on the politicians and business leaders who impeded action when the warnings
became clear. If those decision-makers are already dead, they will be condemned
posthumously, as Calhoun, Rhodes and other past leaders are being condemned
today. If they are still alive, they will be asked to account for their actions.

I recently came across a similar case of retrospective condemnation, though on a
smaller scale.

When Mount St. Helens began to rumble and spout ash and steam in the late winter
of 1980, the governor of Washington, the prominent scientist Dixy Lee Ray,
established danger zones around the mountain to keep people away from potential
eruptions. But the zones were much too close to the volcano, largely because Ray
and other government officials did not want to disrupt the Weyerhaeuser Co.'s
logging of the old-growth forests it owned right next to the mountain.

When Mount St. Helens erupted on May 18, 1980, only three of the 57 people who
died were inside the danger zones, and two had permission to be there.
Ironically, the only victim of the volcano who was breaking the law was the one
person people tend to remember from the eruption: the cantankerous octogenarian
Harry R. Truman, who refused to leave his lodge on the northern flank of the
mountain.

Tarnished legacy

Ray's failure to establish adequate safety zones tarnished her legacy as the
first woman governor of Washington. But Ray, who died in 1994, was lucky. If the
volcano had erupted on a weekday rather than a Sunday morning, 10 times as many
people could have died, including hundreds of Weyerhaeuser loggers in the
surrounding woods.

Today's climate change deniers cannot expect to be so lucky. Exactly how climate
change will play out remains to be seen.

Already, troubling signs of the traumatic and often unexpected consequences of a
warming world are appearing: massive die-offs of starfish off the coast of the
Pacific Northwest, a geologically sudden increase in sea level, enhanced flows
of refugees from parts of the world stressed by warmer temperatures and drought.

Leading Republican presidential candidates Donald Trump and Ted Cruz have also
led the field in their resistance to climate science and remedies. If one of
them is elected and blocks action, the consequences -- for him and for the
planet -- could be severe.

In her new book Great Tide Rising: Towards Clarity and Moral Courage in a Time
of Planetary Change, Oregon State University philosopher Kathleen Dean Moore
calls for the use of moral reasoning, where people "affirm what they think is
true or good or right and then, the crucial step, back their claims with
reasons."

Future generations will apply that standard to us. We would be wise to apply it
to ourselves.

Steve Olson is a Seattle-based science writer. His latest book, Eruption: The
Untold Story of Mount St. Helens, was published this month.

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Lee Celano, The (Shreveport, La.) Times, via AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              19 of 227 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           February 18, 2016 Thursday
                                 FIRST EDITION

IN BRIEF

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 476 words


Florida pair claim share of Powerball jackpot

The holders of one of three winning Powerball tickets from a historic prize
drawing were identified Wednesday as a Florida couple who accepted the check as
The Nickel 95 Trust at Florida Lottery headquarters.

A winning ticket in the Jan. 13 drawing with a grand prize of nearly $1.6
billion was sold at a Melbourne Beach, Fla., Publix Supermarket. The other two
winning tickets were purchased in Chino Hills, Calif., and Mumford, Tenn.

David Kaltschmidt, 55, and Maureen Smith, 70, claimed their winnings Wednesday.
The Melbourne Beach couple has played the winning numbers for about 30 years,
but not regularly. They took the money in a lump sum payment of $327 million.
Kaltschmidt, who has worked for Northrup Grumman for 34 years, will retire.
Smith is a homemaker.

After winning, "we just kept quiet," Smith said, not telling anyone they had won
and sought legal advice. Their relatives didn't find out until last week.

The Tennessee winners claimed their part of the prize two days after the drawing
-- after announcing it on the Today show. The California winner has yet to claim
the winnings. --Chris Bonanno, Florida Today

Soggy El Niño takes hiatus in California

The drenching rains and heavy snow from El Niño that forecasters predicted would
put a dent in California's lengthy drought are taking a hiatus this month.

A rather welcome, soggy January turned into a hot and dry February, raising
doubts the climate pattern can deliver respite to California's  5-year-old
drought. The Department of Agriculture and Stanford University found the extreme
dryness killed 29million trees and left another 29million at risk.

A brief period of rain and snow will break the spell late Wednesday into
Thursday before dry weather returns for the remainder of the month, the Climate
Prediction Center said. March promises to usher in a return of the wet weather
in the West, including California, said John Monterverdi, a San Francisco State
University meteorologist.

El Niño, a climate pattern marked by unusually warm water in the tropical
Pacific Ocean, often brings plenty of wintertime rain and snow to California and
the western U.S.

--Doyle Rice

Also ...

Four U.S. F-22 stealth fighter aircraft conducted exercises with South Korean
jets south of Seoul on Wednesday to "demonstrate the capabilities" of the
U.S.-South Korean alliance, the Pentagon said. The military show of strength
came 10 days after North Korea fired a long-range rocket that drew international
consternation.

Scientists confirmed Wednesday that last month was the warmest January since
records began, continuing a nine-month streak of record-breaking monthly
averages. January's global temperature of 55.5 degrees was about 1.9 degrees
above the long-term average temperature for the month, the National Oceanic and
Atmospheric Administration said.

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Mark Lambie, El Paso Times

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              23 of 227 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             April 22, 2016 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Get politics out of climate debate

BYLINE: John Coleman

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 365 words


On this Earth Day 2016, there is a great deal of frenzy about how our Earth is
going to become uninhabitable, as the civilized activities of man allegedly
trigger unstoppable global warming and climate change.

With the Obama administration set to commit the U.S. to the Paris  climate
agreement by signing our nation onto the document Friday, it is obvious that
science has taken a back seat at the United Nations.

The environmentalists, bureaucrats and politicians who make up the U.N.'s
climate panel recruit scientists to research the climate issue. And they place
only those who will produce the desired results. Money, politics and ideology
have replaced science.

U.N. climate chief Christiana Figueres has called for a "centralized
transformation" that is "going to make the life of everyone on the planet very
different" to combat the alleged global warming threat. How many Americans are
looking forward to the U.N. transforming their lives?

Another U.N. official has admitted that the U.N. seeks to "redistribute de facto
the world's wealth by climate policy." The former head of the U.N. climate panel
also recently declared that global warming "is my religion."

When all the scare talk is pushed aside, it is the science that should be the
basis for the debate. And the hard cold truth is that the basic theory has
failed.  Many notable scientists reject man-made global warming fears. And
several of them, including a Nobel Prize winner, are in the new Climate Hustle
movie. The film is an informative and even humorous new feature length movie
that is the ultimate answer to Al Gore's An Inconvenient Truth. It will be shown
one day only in theaters nationwide on May 2.

As a skeptic of man-made global warming, I love our environment as much as
anyone. I share the deepest commitment to protecting our planet for our children
and grandchildren. However, I desperately want to get politics out of the
climate debate. The Paris climate agreement is all about empowering the U.N. and
has nothing to do with the climate.

Weather Channel founder John Coleman has spent more than 60 years as a
meteorologist, including seven years as the original weathercaster on ABC's Good
Morning America.

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              31 of 227 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             July 28, 2016 Thursday
                                FA CHASE EDITION

A bird's-eye view of climate change

BYLINE: Terry Byrne, @terryism, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 670 words


On a remote, craggy cliff 18 miles off the coast of Maine, a parent waits.
Weepy-eyed and web-footed, the pudgy, painted puffin braces against a capricious
wind -- and fickle foothold.

At last count, hardscrabble Eastern Egg Rock was home to 150 breeding pairs of
Atlantic puffins, each vying to incubate a one-per-season puffball in burrows
carved beneath boulders. Having clawed back from the brink -- in 1901, only one
puffin pair remained in Maine -- climate change is now poised to do its own
number on these charismatic birds. As last month's scientific audit, "The State
of North America's Birds" warns, 49% of the continent's seabirds are caught up
in the crisis.

Thursday night, Gene Karpinski, head of the League of Conservation Voters, will
speak to climate change at the Democratic National Convention. The issue has put
politicians at odds, galvanized voters and saddled scientists with a burden of
proof.

Birds are used to being in human's sights. Not too long ago, our  American bald
eagle was in danger of vanishing in a puff. Patriotic symbolism couldn't shield
it from human activity: hunting, habitat squandering, pesticide use. It took the
Endangered Species Act of 1973 to restore that  bird to its perch of power.

Also in 1973, a young ornithologist -- a diminutive Don Quixote named Stephen
Kress -- got into the recovery act.

"It was love at first sight," Kress, 70, says of first viewing puffins as a teen
near the U.S.-Canadian border. He learned they once flourished in Maine, the
southernmost limit of their range, but by 1885 the effects of agri-fishers
raiding the henhouse, daily plucking eggs from rocky crevices and laying nets on
ledges to snare meaty adults, had taken a grievous toll.

Not abiding by fate, Kress negotiated with the Canadians for six puffin chicks
to try re-colonizing 7-acre Eastern Egg Rock. Backed by the National Audubon
Society and Barbara's, maker of Puffins cereal, he worked through the
decades-long "jigsaw puzzle" of Project Puffin. Their team hand-reared
"pufflings" with vitamin-fortified fish in man-made burrows and stationed
interns  from May to August to keep predators, like eagles, at bay. Fledged
puffins set out on two- to three-year sea cruises while scientists set up sound
recordings,  decoys and mirrors to lure them home.

And waited.

Eight years later, the first prodigal puffin pair returned to roost. Things were
looking pretty peachy  until waters in the Gulf of Maine began rising faster
than 99% of the Earth's oceans, Kress says,  throwing delicate fish populations
out of whack.

Audubon's annual Christmas bird count reveals nearly 350 North American birds
are "climate-affected," moving farther north. "For those species that are
already farther north, they've got nowhere to go," Kress says. "Their fate,
their future, really is in our hands."

Last weekend, I saw it firsthand, setting foot on the puffins' hallowed breeding
grounds, a towering babble of gulls, guillemots and terns situated 17 precarious
feet above sea level.

An all-female summer squad  yanked us ashore. Among their duties: Daily at 0600,
one climbs atop the  shack, ironically dubbed "The Hilton," for a bird census.
They label active burrows, tag birds and monitor avian diets and growth. By
luck, we spy an adult puffin whiz by at high speed, a bowtie of sushi dangling
from its slack-jawed rainbow beak, only to disappear underground. Interns fish
out the baby for inspection. Puffin chicks' weights are steadily declining, they
sadly report.

The changes for these colorful birds come in dribs and drabs.

"Ocean conservation is a hard thing for people to understand because it's
happening underwater, and you can't see most of it," Kress explains. "But
seabirds are above ground, so we can see through their eyes."

Dimpled, tears-of-a-clown eyes. In ill-fitting waistcoats, they wait. For a
meal. A mate. Another morning.

Ever facing forward, because, to quote Emily Dickinson, "hope is the thing with
feathers."

Byrne is fledgling birder and a multiplatform editor at USA TODAY.

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Photos by Terry Byrne, USA TODAY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              32 of 227 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          September 28, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

The flub and fib roundup;
The first presidential debate between Democrat Hillary Clinton and Republican
Donald Trump certainly kept fact-checkers busy. Here are a few of the
less-than-accurate claims:

BYLINE: FactCheck.org

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 1869 words


Trump's  Tax Returns

Clinton said the only tax returns anyone has seen from Trump "showed he didn't
pay any federal income tax." That's not correct.

Clinton: "Maybe he doesn't want the American people, all of you watching
tonight, to know that he's paid nothing in federal taxes, because the only years
that anybody's ever seen were a couple of years when he had to turn them over to
state authorities when he was trying to get a casino license, and they showed he
didn't pay any federal income tax."

Trump paid federal income taxes in three out of five years from 1975 to 1979,
according to a report to the New Jersey Casino Control Commission, which viewed
Trump's tax returns when the Trump Plaza Corp. applied for a casino license  in
1981.

Although the returns were not disclosed, the report indicated that Trump paid
$18,714 in taxes on $76,210 in income in 1975, $10,832 in taxes on $24,594 in
income in 1976 and $42,386 in taxes on $118,530 in income in 1977. Trump
reported income losses of $406,379 in 1978 and $3,443,560 in 1979, and thus paid
no federal income tax for those years.

Ford Jobs Leaving?

Trump claimed that Ford is moving its small-car division overseas and that, as a
result, thousands of jobs are leaving Michigan and Ohio. Trump is half right.
Ford is moving its small-car division to Mexico, but Ford's CEO insists not a
single job will be lost in the USA.

Trump: "So Ford is leaving. You see that, their small-car division leaving.
Thousands of jobs leaving Michigan, leaving Ohio. They're all leaving. And we
can't allow it to happen anymore."

Ford CEO Mark Fields confirmed on Sept. 16 that "over the next two to three
years, we will have migrated all of our small-car production to Mexico and out
of the United States," the Detroit Free Press reported.

The Free Press wrote that the "impact on Ford's U.S. employment will be minimal
in the near-term."

The Free Press article states that last year, "the automaker made a commitment
to invest $9billion in U.S. plants and create or retain more than 8,500 jobs as
part of a new four-year contract with the UAW (United Auto Workers). Of that,
$4.8 billion goes to 11 facilities in Michigan."

Payment to Iran

Trump left the false impression that the Obama administration failed to disclose
the full amount paid to Iran in January to settle a long outstanding claim.

Trump claimed $400 million paid to Iran in January "turned out to be wrong. It
was actually $1.7 billion." But the administration accurately described the
total payment as $1.7 billion -- $400 million in principle and $1.3billion in
interest -- on the day it was announced.

In criticizing the Iran nuclear deal during the debate, Trump referenced the
$400 million payment to Iran. Trump described the payment as being "for the
hostages," because it was paid on the same day in January that Iran released
U.S. prisoners. The Obama administration has insisted the United States did not
pay Iran ransom for the prisoners' release.

The $400 million was the first installment in a $1.7 billion payment to resolve
a dispute that dates to 1979, when Iran paid the United States $400 million for
military equipment it never received. The United States refused to provide the
equipment after the shah of Iran was overthrown during the Iranian Revolution in
1979.

The agreement ended a claim that Iran had filed against the United States in an
international tribunal in The Hague. President Obama announced it Jan. 17 as
part of a series of agreements involving Iran.

In August, The Wall Street Journal reported new details on the payment, and the
administration acknowledged that it delayed paying Iran until the prisoners were
released -- fueling criticism that it was ransom.

Climate Change  a Hoax?

Clinton said Trump thinks "climate change is a hoax perpetrated by the Chinese."
Trump denied it. He did tweet that the Chinese created the "concept of global
warming" but later said it was a joke. Trump has called global warming a hoax
repeatedly.

Clinton said she thinks climate change is real: "I think science is real."

On Nov. 6, 2012, Trump tweeted, "The concept of global warming was created by
and for the Chinese in order to make U.S. manufacturing non-competitive."

On Jan. 18, Trump told Fox News, "Well, I think the climate change is just a
very, very expensive form of tax. A lot of people are making a lot of money. ...
I often joke that this is done for the benefit of China. Obviously, I joke. But
this is done for the benefit of China, because China does not do anything to
help climate change. They burn everything you could burn; they couldn't care
less."

Ninety-seven percent of scientists say it's "extremely likely" that human-caused
global warming is real.

Still Wrong on 'Birther' Claims

Trump claimed without evidence that in 2008, the Clinton campaign pushed "very
hard" the false story that President Obama was born in Kenya, not in Hawaii.

Trump, who finally acknowledged Sept. 16 that "Obama was born in the United
States," had a long, somewhat rambling response when asked by the moderator,
Lester Holt of NBC News, why he continued to question that Obama was born in
Hawaii even after the president produced his long-form birth certificate in
2011.

Holt: "Mr. Trump, for five years, you perpetuated a false claim that the
nation's first black president was not a natural-born citizen. You questioned
his legitimacy. In the last couple of weeks, you acknowledged what most
Americans have accepted for years: The president was born in the United States.
Can you tell us what took you so long?"

Trump: "I'll tell you very -- well, just very simple to say. Sidney Blumenthal
works for the campaign and close -- very close friend of Secretary Clinton. And
her campaign manager, Patti Doyle, went to -- during the campaign, her campaign
against President Obama, fought very hard. And you can go look it up, and you
can check it out.

"And if you look at CNN this past week, Patti Solis Doyle was on Wolf Blitzer
saying that this happened. Blumenthal sent McClatchy, highly respected reporter
at McClatchy, to Kenya to find out about it. They were pressing it very hard.
She (Clinton) failed to get the birth certificate.

"When I got involved, I didn't fail. I got him to give the birth certificate. So
I'm satisfied with it. And I'll tell you why I'm satisfied with it."

Holt: "That was ..."

Trump: "Because I want to get on to defeating ISIS, because I want to get on to
creating jobs, because I want to get on to having a strong border, because I
want to get on to things that are very important to me and that are very
important to the country."

Holt: "I will let you respond. It's important. But I just want to get the answer
here. The birth certificate was produced in 2011. You've continued to tell the
story and question the president's legitimacy in 2012, '13, '14, '15 ..."

Trump: "Yeah."

Holt: "... as recently as January. So the question is, what changed your mind?"

Trump: "Well, nobody was pressing it, nobody was caring much about it. I figured
you'd ask the question tonight, of course. But nobody was caring much about it.
But I was the one that got him to produce the birth certificate. And I think I
did a good job.

"Secretary Clinton also fought it. I mean, you know -- now, everybody in
mainstream is going to say, oh, that's not true. Look, it's true. Sidney
Blumenthal sent a reporter -- you just have to take a look at CNN, the last
week, the interview with your former campaign manager. And she was involved."

It is false that  Solis Doyle, Clinton's 2008 campaign manager, was involved in
spreading the rumor of Obama's birthplace.

Solis Doyle said -- in the CNN interview that Trump cites -- that a "rogue
volunteer coordinator" in Iowa was immediately fired when the campaign found out
that the aide forwarded an email promoting the birther conspiracy.

Solis Doyle said she called Obama campaign manager David Plouffe and apologized
for the incident. "This was not the kind of campaign we wanted to run," she said
she told Plouffe.

The Blumenthal case is more complicated, but it doesn't provide clear evidence
that the Clinton campaign was "pressing it very hard."

Blumenthal was a senior adviser to President Bill Clinton, and he remained in
close contact with Hillary Clinton after she became secretary of State.

Blumenthal didn't send a reporter to Kenya. McClatchy's former bureau chief
James Asher said he had a meeting with Blumenthal during the 2008 campaign, and
at that meeting, Blumenthal encouraged McClatchy to chase the story of Obama's
birth.

Blumenthal denies urging Asher to investigate Obama's birthplace, and Asher has
nothing in writing -- so there is no clear evidence to support Asher's account.

Stop and Frisk

Trump and Clinton dueled over whether ending stop-and-frisk police stops in New
York City had been accompanied by more crime and killings. Clinton said crime,
including murders, is down, and Trump said, "Murders are up." Turns out, both
are correct.

Trump: "Stop and frisk has a tremendous impact on the safety of New York City.
Tremendous beyond belief. So when you say it has no impact, it really did, a
very, very big impact."

Clinton: "It's also fair to say, if we're going to talk about mayors, that under
the current mayor, crime has continued to drop, including murders."

Trump: "No, you're wrong. You're wrong."

Clinton: "No, I'm not."

Trump: "Murders are up. All right. You check it. You check it."

Democratic Mayor Bill de Blasio was sworn in Jan. 1, 2014, after being elected
on a promise to halt the stop-and-frisk practice.

During his first year in office, homicides did fall -- by two -- to 333, the
lowest number on record.

Last year, the number of killings went up by 5.7% to 352 -- the third-lowest
year on record but still 17 more than in 2013.

This year, the number is down once again, but if the current rate continues, the
total for the year would be slightly above where it was before De Blasio took
office.

According to the most recent weekly report issued by the city's police
department, 257 murders had been reported in 2016 as of Sept. 18, which is 4.3%
below the same period in 2015. That's slightly less than one per day, but at
that rate, 2016 (a leap year with 366 days) would end up with 345 killings, 10
more than the 335 recorded in 2013.

Despite the uptick in murders last year, the city did record the lowest number
of major crimes on record in 2015.

FactCheck.org's Eugene Kiely, Brooks Jackson, Robert Farley, D'Angelo Gore,
Vanessa Schipani, Lori Robertson, Caroline Wallace and Ilana Nathans contributed
to this story. For a full list of sources, please see FactCheck.org.

Vice presidential debate

Tuesday,

Oct. 4

Longwood

University,

Farmville, Va.

The vice presidential debate will be divided into nine

10-minute segments.

Second presidential debate

Sunday,

Oct. 9

Washington University,

St. Louis

The second presidential

debate will be a town

meeting, where half of the questions will come from participants and the other
from the

moderator. The

moderator's questions will be based on public interest topics determined via
social media and other sources.

Third presidential debate

Wednesday, Oct. 19,

University of Nevada-Las Vegas

The third presidential debate will have the same format as the first, with six
15-minute segments.

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Robert Deutsch, USA TODAY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              44 of 227 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            August 4, 2016 Thursday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Auto industry balks at 2025 emissions regulations;
Cars will cost more than consumers are willing to pay, it says

BYLINE: Brent Snavely, @BrentSnavely, Detroit Free Press

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 510 words


A simmering debate that normally occurs behind closed doors over whether changes
should be made to fuel economy and greenhouse gas emissions standards has
spilled out into the open.

It happened at an automotive conference here as government regulators clashed
with auto industry groups.

Two groups that represent automakers argued that regulators have set standards
that must be met by 2025 far too high. They also say the regulations are out of
step with the cost of developing the technology and what consumers want to buy.
Regulators said evidence shows automakers are capable of meeting current
standards and potentially even higher standards.

The auto industry, environmentalists and government regulators are in the middle
of reviewing possible changes to regulations that will influence how automakers
spend billions over the next decade as well as the kind of cars and trucks they
will develop and sell at auto dealerships.

For consumers, the outcome of the regulatory battle ultimately will determine
what kind of cars automakers develop and sell. More aggressive regulations are
likely to force automakers to develop cars that get better fuel economy, or
electric and hybrid cars with a better range, as well as reduced greenhouse gas
emissions, which is better for the environment. However, those cars could cost
more, and automakers argue that most consumers will not want to pay for the
regulations currently in place for 2025 and would add to the price of cars.

Mitch Bainwol, CEO of the Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers, said the
standards are inconsistent, too aggressive and will force automakers to sell
cars that will cost more than consumers are willing to pay.

But Chris Grundler, director of air quality for the federal Environment
Protection Agency, argued the industry has made more progress than expected over
the last four years, proving that it is capable of making even more progress
over the next 10 years.

Despite pleas from the auto industry, the federal government issued a report
last month that kicked off a yearlong review process of the standards that
concluded that very little needs to be changed.

"To me, I think the standards and the policy is working spectacularly," Grundler
said during a speech at the Management Briefing Seminars, a conference that drew
several hundred industry executives and analysts this week.

"Automakers are outperforming these standards while they are hitting new sales
records. ... So we think the industry is very well-positioned to meet the
customer expectations while reaching significant new levels of environmental
performance."

What's more, Grundler said, there is an urgent need for the automotive industry
to rapidly reduce greenhouse gas emissions because of the growing threat of
climate change.

"Here's the challenge. Science tells us if we are going to avoid the worst of
climate change we need to reduce greenhouse by 80% by 2050," Grundler said.

The EPA regulates greenhouse gas emissions while the National Highway Traffic
Safety Administration is in charge of regulating fuel economy.

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo file photo by STEVE FECHT, GANNETT

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              45 of 227 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            November 4, 2016 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Arctic sea ice is slipping away - and you're to blame

BYLINE: Doyle Rice

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 313 words


Think you aren't personally responsible

for climate change?

Think again.

The average American causes

about 600 square feet of Arctic

sea ice to vanish each year, according

to a study released

Thursday, and something as simple

as your summer road trip may

be to blame.

The study, the first to provide

this level of detail about the link

between carbon pollution and

Arctic ice, shows how human carbon

emissions are playing a devastating

role.

The study found that summer

Arctic sea ice will be gone in 30

years -- and that means more volatile

weather patterns -- unless

carbon emissions are reduced

rapidly.

Sea ice is frozen ocean water

that melts each summer, then refreezes

each winter. Its summertime

area has been shrinking

each year by nearly 34,000 square

miles, according to the National

Snow and Ice Data Center.

The study, which combined observations,

statistics and dozens

of computer models, appeared in

the journal Science. A lack of Arctic

sea has been linked to the ongoing

drought in California and

some of the recent massive snowstorms

along the East Coast, said

study lead author Dirk Notz of

the Max Planck Institute for Meteorology

in Germany.

For each ton of carbon dioxide

that a person emits anywhere on

Earth, 32 square feet of Arctic

summer sea ice disappears, Notz

said. That's equal to one roundtrip

flight from New York to

Europe, or a 2,500-mile car ride.

Carbon dioxide, the greenhouse

gas most responsible for

man-made climate change, is

emitted from the burning of fossil

fuels such as gas, oil and coal.

The average American emits

about 20 tons of carbon dioxide

per year, which translates into

about 600 square feet of Arctic

summer sea ice melting away, the

study said. The rapid retreat of

sea ice is one of the most direct

signs of climate change on our

planet, according to the study.

"The article confirms some of

my worst fears," said Penn State

meteorologist Michael Mann,

who was not involved in the

study.

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              47 of 227 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 29, 2016 Thursday
                                 FIRST EDITION

50 STORIES FROM 50 STATES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 5850 words


It was quite a year. We said hello to President-elect Donald Trump. We said
goodbye to Prince, Muhammad Ali and John Glenn. We saw the power of peaceful
protest at Standing Rock. And we saw the power of hate and gun violence, once
again, this time at a gay nightclub in Orlando. We listened as an anonymous
survivor of a sexual assault by a Stanford swimmer changed the national
conversation on rape. We witnessed history as the first Latina was elected to
the Senate.

There was unspeakable loss and times that affirmed our faith in America. As 2016
comes to a close, USA TODAY revisits one story from each state -- the big news,
the best investigations and the moments we can't stop talking about.

Alabama

UNPARALLELED LOSS IN STATE'S 'LITERARY CAPITAL'

Harper Lee, among America's  most influential authors, died Feb. 19 in her
hometown,  Monroeville, Ala. To Kill a Mockingbird -- about a lawyer who defends
a black man falsely accused of rape in the Jim Crow South -- won the 1961
Pulitzer Prize, sold more than 30million copies in English, is taught in schools
and has inspired artists from Truman Capote to Taylor Swift. "What that one
story did, more powerfully than 100 speeches possibly could, was change the way
we saw each other and then the way we saw ourselves. Through the uncorrupted
eyes of a child, she showed us the beautiful complexity of our common humanity
and the importance of striving for justice," President Obama said in awarding
Lee a National Medal of the Arts in 2011. Mockingbird was her  only novel until
2015's Go Set a Watchman, which, despite tepid reviews, reaffirmed her as a
stalwart anti-racist.

ALASKA

WHERE CLIMATE CHANGE IS A DAILY REALITY

Alaska was so warm this year, snow was shipped in for the Iditarod sled dog
race, ice melt forced polar bears into the paths of schoolchildren, and the
state saw its biggest landslide in decades, partly due to retreating glaciers.
Here, climate change is not abstract -- especially in the state's western
corner, where people's relationship with nature is a matter of life and death.

ARIZONA

SHERIFF ENDS YEAR WITH A BANG -- OR WHIMPER?

Sheriff Joe Arpaio, aka "America's toughest sheriff," was criminally charged
with contempt of court in October. In November, he lost his election, defeated
after 24 years in office. Known nationally for immigration crackdowns and racial
profiling, advocates for migrants celebrated. "Sheriff Arpaio didn't lose by
coincidence; he was taken down by the people he hunted," Carlos Garcia said. Not
one to leave quietly, Arpaio renewed his claim Dec. 15 that President Obama's
birth certificate was forged (a theory  debunked by fact-checkers and ultimately
abandoned by  Trump).

Arkansas

THE DUGGARS ARE STILL COUNTING

TLC may have pulled the plug in 2015 on its hit series 19 Kids and Counting
after  the revelation Jim Bob and Michelle Duggar's son, Josh, sexually molested
five young girls, including his own sisters, but in 2016, the Duggar family
still made headlines. This year: Jinger Duggar married soccer player Jeremy
Vuolo. Jessa and husband, Ben Seewald, announced they're expecting a  second
child. So did Jill. And Josh Duggar got out of rehab and returned to Arkansas,
months after he'd checked into a "faith-based" facility in Illinois.

California

CHANGING  DISCOURSE ON SEXUAL ASSAULT

Her words were raw and excruciating. "You don't know me, but you've been inside
me, and that's why we're here today," said Emily Doe, the anonymous victim of a
sexual assault in 2015 by Stanford University swimmer Brock Turner. The powerful
impact statement she read in court gave voice to sexual assault victims and
forced the nation to have an important conversation about rape culture. Turner,
who assaulted Doe near a trash bin while she was unconscious, was sentenced to
six months in prison, a seemingly lenient punishment that drew national outrage.
He  served only three months. In the aftermath of the case, California passed a
law requiring longer sentences to be served in state prison for defendants
convicted of assaulting unconscious victims. Doe was named one of Glamour
magazine's 2016 Women of the Year.

Colorado

PEYTON MANNING SAYS GOODBYE TO THE NFL

Future Hall of Famer Peyton Manning capped  an  18-year career by winning Super
Bowl 50 in his final NFL game -- propelling the Denver Broncos to a 24-10
victory over the Carolina Panthers. Like Broncos president and former Denver QB
John Elway, Manning retired  as a champion. He became the oldest quarterback to
start a Super Bowl and the first to win Super Bowls with multiple franchises.

Connecticut

GUN VIOLENCE AD WITH A  TWIST GOES VIRAL

Gun violence can be stopped if you know what to look for. That's the message of
the ad  "Evan," which went viral this year. A  folk song sets the tone for a
romance that unfolds with expert pacing. Then it  comes to a shattering halt.
The spot is from the Sandy Hook Promise, a non-partisan, non-profit group
launched by families who lost loved ones four years ago in Newtown.

Delaware

JOE BIDEN FOR PRESIDENT IN 2020? POSSIBLY, MAYBE

Joe Biden, a former Delaware senator and  two-term vice president, said he's not
ruling out anything -- including a run for the White House -- as Democrats look
to the future after a stinging election. Biden ran for president in 1988 and
2008. In announcing his decision not to run for 2016, a grieving Biden, whose
son, Beau, died of brain cancer at age 46 in 2015, said the country needed "a
moonshot" to cure cancer. President Obama put him in charge of that initiative
in January.

Florida

AFTER PULSE SHOOTING, WE MOURN THE VICTIMS

Omar Mateen's voice went from emotionless to frenzied, speaking with police
negotiators  June 12. Referencing U.S. airstrikes in the Middle East, Mateen,
29, of Fort Pierce  killed 49 and left dozens injured at Pulse, a gay nightclub
in Orlando, in one of the deadliest shooting rampages  in U.S. history. He was
killed after a three-hour standoff. After initial plans to turn Pulse into a
memorial, owners recently decided to keep the LGBT club.

Georgia

DAD IN 'HOT CAR' CASE GUILTY ON ALL CHARGES

Prosecutors said he knew his 22-month-old son sweltered in a hot car for seven
hours. The jury agreed. Justin Ross Harris was found guilty in November on all
charges in the  death of son Cooper in 2014. Prosecutors argued  that Harris
wanted to live a child-free life. He was sentenced to life in prison without the
possibility of parole plus 32 years.

Hawaii

75 YEARS AFTER ATTACK ON PEARL HARBOR

More than seven decades after Japanese forces struck the heart of the  Navy's
Pacific Fleet in a fiery ambush at Pearl Harbor, thousands of veterans, military
officials, dignitaries and a dwindling number of survivors gathered there Dec. 7
to remember the dead and the start of a war that changed the world.  Pearl
Harbor gave birth to the "Greatest Generation," said Tom Brokaw. Tuesday,
Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe toured the site with President Obama, marking
the first formal visit by a Japanese leader.

Idaho

WHO'S TEACHING THE CHILDREN?

We trust them with our kids, but what don't we know about teachers' troubled
pasts? A USA TODAY Network investigation found flaws in the nation's fractured
systems for checking teachers' backgrounds. Several teachers have left or been
removed from positions after misconduct came to light, including Idaho high
school teacher James P. Verity. Verity lost his teaching license in Oregon over
allegations of a sexually charged relationship with an 18-year-old student but
found a fresh start teaching  in neighboring Idaho. The  investigation prompted
a state-by-state audit of a privately run database of disciplined teachers.

Illinois

CHICAGO HITS GRIM MILESTONE

Gun violence defies comprehension in Chicago. In 2016, the nation's
third-largest city surpassed 700 murders. There is no shortage of maladies
plaguing Chicago. It is mired in billions of dollars of debt, unemployment for
young black men hovers just below 50%, and Chicago's African-American population
has plummeted by nearly 200,000 since 2000 as the black middle class has looked
for greener -- and safer -- pastures. The city blames the violence on a
combination of increased gang activity and weak gun laws, but anti-violence
activists point to a lack of economic opportunity. Diane Latiker, who heads the
Chicago organization Kids Off the Block, said, "Chicago has long been one of a
Tale of Two Cities. Nothing has changed."

Indiana

USA GYMNASTICS ENABLED SEX PREDATORS

The issue of sexual misconduct by coaches has haunted USA Gymnastics for
decades, but an  investigation by The Indianapolis Star  revealed the
organization's  policies enabled predatory coaches to continue working with
children, despite warnings of misconduct. At least 368 gymnasts have alleged
some form of sexual abuse at the hands of their coaches, gym owners and other
adults working in gymnastics. And it's likely an undercount.

Iowa

GOV. BRANSTAD HEADING TO CHINA

He helped deliver Iowa's electoral votes to Donald Trump.  Gov. Terry Branstad
will serve the new administration as U.S. ambassador to China. Branstad  has
known Chinese President Xi Jinping since 1985, when Xi visited Iowa on an
agricultural mission, and considers him "an old friend." He's conducted numerous
trade missions to China to promote Iowa agriculture products. Branstad, 70, is
the longest-serving governor in U.S. history, serving four terms from 1983 to
1999 and a term and a half since 2011.

Kansas

BOY DIES ON  WORLD'S TALLEST WATERSLIDE

It was called Verrückt, the German word for crazy or insane. At 168 feet high,
it was taller than Niagara Falls and the Statue of Liberty. Officials announced
the ride would be demolished after  the death of Caleb Schwab, 10,  son of Rep.
Scott Schwab. Caleb died from a fatal neck injury  suffered on the ride in
August at the Schlitterbahn Water Park in Kansas City. The ride propelled rafts
with two to three riders at speeds of up to 65 mph.

Kentucky

GOODBYE TO THE GREATEST, MUHAMMAD ALI

The world mourned when boxing legend and Louisville native Muhammad Ali died
June 3 at  age  74. Ali was an Olympic gold medalist and three-time heavyweight
champion,  but he was so much more. His flair in the ring ("Float like a
butterfly, sting like a bee!") and genius for trash talking ("I'm so mean, I
make medicine sick") won him worldwide celebrity. At the height of his fame, he
became a leading civil rights and anti-war voice. His opposition to the Vietnam
War in 1967 cost him the belt and led to a three-year ban from boxing. After
retiring, Ali was diagnosed with Parkinson's disease in 1984. Even in illness,
Ali was an inspiration, his trembling hands lighting the Olympic torch for the
1996 Atlanta Games. His Louisville funeral was attended by thousands, including
former president Bill Clinton, who saluted him as a "universal soldier for
humanity."

Louisiana

HEY, REMEMBER US?

While America descended from its  Olympics high and focused on the  presidential
election, Louisianans were fighting for survival. In August, the Southern state
experienced  flooding so horrific that the Red Cross called it the worst natural
disaster since Superstorm  Sandy. About 40,000 homes and 13 lives were lost.
The lack of national interest in the flood could be because Americans are
becoming numb to the onslaught of human suffering. "There is a bit of disaster
fatigue," says Susan Moeller, professor of media and international affairs at
the University of Maryland.

Maine

CANNABIS CHRISTMAS? NOT YET, MAINERS

Although  Maine narrowly voted in favor of legalizing marijuana in November,
those opposing the measure aimed to snuff out the flame. If a recount, which
could take until January, upholds passage, Maine will follow  Massachusetts to
become the second Northeastern state to legalize marijuana. The law would allow
adults to have up to six mature plants, 12 immature plants and an unlimited
number of seedlings without a state license.

Massachusetts

DAVID ORTIZ, BOSTON'S GREATEST BALL PLAYER, IS OUT

He didn't go out the way he wanted: David Ortiz, the 6-foot-3 Red Sox slugger
from the Dominican Republic, ended his 20-year career in a sweep to the
Cleveland Indians in October. It wasn't long, though, before chants of "Thank
you, Papi," began, and Ortiz saluted the city he came to embody. After joining
the Red Sox in 2003, Ortiz brought three World Series rings to Boston in nine
years, including its first in eight decades. He became the city's voice,
delivering a defiant, legendary speech in the wake of the Boston Marathon
bombing. He'll go down as one of the greatest Red Sox players of all time --
perhaps the most important.

Michigan

12 MONTHS LATER, FLINT'S WATER REMAINS  UNSAFE

President Obama declared a state of emergency in Flint, Mich., in January, but
the city's water still isn't safe to drink without  a filter. Lead levels spiked
after the city swapped water suppliers in 2014. The state skipped necessary
anti-corrosion treatments, letting lead leach from miles of old service pipes
into residents' taps. Everyone who drank the city's tap water was exposed,
including as many as 8,657 children, Census data showed. The harmful impacts are
considered most severe on young brains and nervous systems. In one of its last
votes of the year, Congress approved legislation worth more than $120 million to
deal with the  crisis.

Minnesota

GENRE-DEFYING ICON PRINCE IS GONE

When music legend Prince died in April, it seemed as though the whole world
stopped to mourn. The pop icon blended funk and rock with his own fierce
individualism, winning seven Grammys, one Oscar and a spot in the Rock and Roll
Hall of Fame. His body was found in an elevator at his estate in suburban
Minneapolis. The cause: an accidental, self-inflicted overdose of a painkiller.
The singer didn't have a will, leaving the fate of his fortune to play out in
court.  Fans celebrated the sassy prodigy who created Purple Rain, Let's Go
Crazy and When Doves Cry -- all on a single album. Prince album sales rose
11,500% the week after his death, per Nielsen data.

Mississippi

SHOCKING ACT OF RACISM BY STUDENTS

It was a story one could hardly believe was written in 2016. One or more white
students placed a noose around the neck of a black football player at the Stone
High School in Wiggins, a small town near Biloxi. The NAACP said the  incident
happened in October during a break in football practice, and the noose was
"yanked backward" while on the student's neck. "This is 2016, not 1916. This is
America," said Mississippi NAACP President Derrick Johnson. Days later, a
student was disciplined, according to the school district's lawyer, who could
not name the student or the specific punishment, citing privacy rules.

Missouri

RAMS FANS FURIOUS AS TEAM LEAVES ST. LOUIS

After 21 years in St. Louis, Rams fans learned in January their beloved
franchise officially would move back to Los Angeles. Builders broke ground on
Rams owner Stan Kroenke's $2.6billion Inglewood stadium project in November. It
will include an entertainment, retail and office development covering nearly 300
acres near the L.A. airport. "I think this is going to be one of the greatest
complexes in the world," NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell said of the Inglewood
plan.  The Rams are 4-10 and recently fired coach Jeff Fisher.  That seems to be
OK with some locals. "Whoever they play, I'm rooting against them," St.
Louis-area resident Peter Mueller, 22, said as he watched the L.A. Rams in
September.

Montana

RYAN ZINKE FOR INTERIOR SECRETARY

President-elect Donald Trump nominated Montana Rep. Ryan Zinke to lead the
Interior Department in December, saying the former Navy SEAL strikes the right
balance between protecting the nation's natural resources and overly onerous
federal regulations. Trump said, "America is the most beautiful country in the
world, and he is going to help keep it that way with smart management of our
federal lands." Zinke said he is honored by the nomination, describing himself
"as someone who grew up in a logging and rail town and hiking in Glacier
National Park."

Nebraska

FAMILY VACATION TURNS INTO NIGHTMARE

The horrific death of Lane Graves, a  Nebraska toddler killed after an alligator
pulled him into a lagoon at Disney's Grand Floridian Resort in June, tugged on
every parent's heartstrings. Matt and Melissa Graves were enjoying  vacation
when a 7- to 8-foot gator  emerged from the man-made lake and grabbed Lane, 2,
as he played in about a foot of water. A report from the Florida Fish and
Wildlife Conservation Commission found that the boy did not do anything to
provoke the alligator -- in fact, the report highlighted how other park visitors
alerted Disney employees about seeing gators in the area. Since the attack,
Disney has posted additional warning signs around the park and built fences and
other barriers around some waterfront areas.

Nevada

WOMAN MAKES HISTORY IN THE SENATE

Democrat Catherine Cortez Masto became the first woman to represent Nevada in
the U.S. Senate -- and the first Latina in the chamber's history --  after
defeating Republican Rep. Joe Heck in a tight race in November. The contest --
which brought in more than $90million in outside money -- keeps the seat in
Democratic hands after Senate Minority Leader Harry Reid decided not to seek a
sixth term after serving nearly 30 years in the Senate.

New Hampshire

HEROIN AND OPIOID ABUSE WREAK HAVOC

In New Hampshire, the heroin and opiate epidemic is a public health crisis. "I
have never seen anything like this," Sen. Kelly Ayotte, R-N.H., said during an
appearance  this year before the Senate Judiciary Committee. "This is about real
people dying." Although opioid and heroin addiction have earned the distinction
as the greatest drug threat in the USA, the federal government's effort to
counter it has been spotty. "The biggest area where we have fallen short is
filling the gap between people who need treatment and those able to get it,"
said Michael Botticelli, director of the National Drug Control Policy. White
House officials are  moving quickly to get $500 million flowing into the
hardest-hit areas since  President Obama signed the 21st Century Cures Act in
December to tackle the public health crisis.

Maryland

ZERO CONVICTIONS IN FREDDIE GRAY CASE

Freddie Gray, 25, died of neck injuries  sustained while shackled and handcuffed
without a seat belt in the back of a police car in April 2015. After Gray's
funeral, protests broke out across the city, and rioting resulted in buildings
burned to the ground. After Baltimore's medical examiner determined Gray's death
was a homicide, many residents wanted the six indicted officers to pay.  Judge
Barry Williams acquitted three of the officers, including the van's driver and
the highest-ranking officer. On July 27,  charges against the three remaining
officers accused in the death of Gray were dropped, bringing an end to a
tumultuous criminal case with zero convictions.

New Jersey

AIDES GO DOWN FOR BRIDGEGATE SCANDAL

Two former associates of New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie took the fall for a
politically motivated bridge shutdown that ensnared motorists in a massive
traffic jam three years ago in Fort Lee. A jury found Bridget Anne Kelly,
Christie's former deputy chief of staff, and Bill Baroni, the former deputy
executive director of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, guilty of
charges tied to the George W. Bridge closure, which was considered payback after
Fort Lee Mayor Mark Sokolich, a Democrat, refused to endorse the governor for
re-election. During their six-week trial, the associates suggested Christie knew
early on about the closure, which left motorists stranded and streets packed for
five days. Baroni and Kelly are scheduled to be sentenced Feb. 21.

New York

TRUMP SETTLES  FOR $25 MILLION IN LAWSUIT

During his presidential campaign, Donald Trump vowed not to settle the
class-action lawsuits against Trump University, saying, "I don't want to settle
cases when we're right." But on Nov. 18, a little more than a week after winning
the election, the president-elect agreed to settle fraud cases involving Trump
University for $25 million. The deal does not require Trump to acknowledge
wrongdoing.  The cases included a lawsuit by New York state and two class-action
suits in California against the university, which promised to reveal Trump's
real estate investing "secrets" to those who enrolled.  The New York attorney
general's fraud lawsuit described the defunct university as a scam that lured
aspiring real estate developers, requiring them to shell out up to $35,000.

New Mexico

NAVAJO GIRL KIDNAPPED, MURDERED IN  DESERT

Ashlynne Mike, 11, and her brother Ian, 9, were near their home in Lower
Fruitland on May 2 when a man lured them into his van. He drove them into the
New Mexico desert where he molested Ashlynne and bludgeoned her to death with a
tire iron. Ian, who was released, was found walking along Navajo Route 13.
Ashlynne's family discovered her body the next morning in the desert. Suspect
Tom Begaye Jr., who police said confessed, was charged with first-degree murder,
felony murder, kidnapping resulting in death, two counts of aggravated sexual
abuse resulting in death and two counts of kidnapping of a minor.

North Carolina

'DID YOU SHOOT HIM?'

In a few frantic seconds, something tragic happened on what might  have been an
ordinary weekday afternoon in Charlotte. Plainclothes officers intending to
serve a warrant Sept. 20 on someone else at an apartment complex spotted a
person with a gun, they said. They confronted Keith Lamont Scott as  he waited
for his son's school bus, family and friends said. Scott's wife, coming from
their nearby apartment, captured video footage, in which four shots can be
heard. "Did you shoot him?" she demanded of officer Brent Vinson. Police and
prosecutors said Vinson was justified in shooting because Scott threatened the
officers with a gun, or  appeared to. Charlotte grappled with several nights of
protests as another fatal police shooting sprang into the national
consciousness.

North Dakota

STANDSTILL NEAR STANDING ROCK

Find another way. That's what government engineers said Dec. 4 to builders of
the 1,172-mile Dakota Access pipeline project. It was a victory for
demonstrators who had gathered since  spring to protest planned construction of
the nearly complete oil pipe under a lake at the edge of the Standing Rock
Indian Reservation, about 30 miles south of Bismarck. The protest was the
longest in recent history, as well as the largest gathering of Native Americans
in modern times. Law enforcement officers used tear gas and  water cannons on
the cold but determined crowds. Many of them lived in a sprawling camp of
teepees, mobile homes and cars. Sioux protesters got support from people around
the country, including veterans, who came in as reinforcements. But the dispute
is not over: Pipeline builder Energy Transfer Partners said it doesn't want to
reroute the segment and blasted the Obama administration. It's unclear whether
things could change under the incoming Trump administration.

Ohio

GOODBYE, JOHN GLENN

John Glenn left Earth for a third and final time Dec. 8, when the Ohio-born,
space-race hero died at 95. Glenn  was a decorated fighter pilot who flew scores
of missions in World War II and the Korean War. As a test pilot, he set a
transcontinental speed record. He was a CEO of Royal Crown Cola. He served four
terms in the U.S. Senate, taking a spin as a presidential candidate in 1984. Not
to mention the Cambridge-born, New Concord-raised nice guy  was the first
American to orbit the planet, circling that big blue ball three times before his
risky, dramatic re-entry in the Friendship 7 spacecraft Feb. 20, 1962. In 1998,
he orbited Earth again in the space shuttle Discovery, becoming the oldest
person ever in space, at 77. As a fellow, pioneering Mercury astronaut radioed
on the Friendship mission in 1962, "Godspeed, John Glenn."

Oklahoma

ONE OF THE MOST SEISMIC PLACES

Oklahoma opened 2016 with a swarm of 70 small earthquakes in one week after
jumping from two earthquakes of magnitude 3.0 or higher in 2008 to 890 in 2015.
In March, the U.S. Geological Survey released a report citing the oil and gas
drilling process as the cause. The USGS blamed wastewater disposal, in which
high-pressure water is injected into rock formations underground. Oil and gas
companies argued that the vast majority of wells cause no problems. Despite
depending on the industry for jobs and taxes, Oklahoma strengthened regulations,
and the rate of quakes has declined. Lawsuits against several petroleum
companies are pending over damage caused by the earthquakes.

Oregon

A TENSE, DEADLY STANDOFF

On Jan. 2, a group of armed anti-government activists led by rancher Ammon
Bundy, below, rang in the new year by seizing a federal building at the Malheur
National Wildlife Refuge in Oregon. They said tough restrictions on grazing and
other uses of federal land threaten their way of life. The ensuing standoff with
authorities lasted more than a month. When Bundy and several others tried to
leave the compound to attend a community meeting, law enforcement officials
moved in. During the arrest, Robert "Lavoy" Finicum, the group's de facto
spokesman, was fatally shot. Bundy, his brother  and five other leaders of the
occupation were acquitted of conspiracy and weapons charges.

Pennsylvania

A TRIO OF HIGH-PROFILE SEX ABUSE CASES

1. A grand jury began investigating six Catholic dioceses after more than 50
priests or religious leaders were found to have abused children over a 40-year
period in the Altoona-Johnstown Dioceses and two bishops helped cover it up. In
August, the Diocese of Harrisburg acknowledged that 15 priests who had served
the diocese had been accused of sexually abusing children.

2. Penn State University is still dealing with the aftermath of Jerry Sandusky's
trial, nearly five years after his indictment. The university was told it would
be fined nearly $2.4 million by the U.S. Department of Education in connection
with the former assistant football coach's conviction for the sexual abuse of 10
minors.

3. Comedian Bill Cosby was charged with drugging and raping a woman at his
suburban Philadelphia home in 2004. The case has been bogged down by pretrial
motions for most of the year, but Cosby's trial is scheduled to begin in 2017.

Rhode Island

DON'T COME AFTER WOMEN'S YOGA PANTS

Hundreds of women, girls and other supporters proudly donned yoga pants in
October as they peacefully paraded around the Rhode Island neighborhood of a man
who derided the attire as tacky and ridiculous in a letter to the editor
published in the Barrington Times. "They do nothing to compliment a women over
20 years old," Alan Sorrentino wrote. "In fact, the look is bad. Do yourself a
favor, grow up and stop wearing them in public." The letter backfired. Women
from as far as Texas and Australia said they'd wear yoga pants in a show of
solidarity. Parade organizer Jamie Burke said women are "fed up with the
policing of our wardrobes and our bodies."

South Carolina

DYLANN ROOF IS GUILTY

Dylann Roof, a self-admitted white supremacist, was convicted in December of the
deaths of nine African-American parishioners at Emanuel African Methodist
Episcopal Church. After six days of testimony, a federal jury took less than two
hours to find him guilty of all 33 counts lodged against him. Felicia Sanders, a
survivor of the attack in June 2015, called the verdict "music to my ears."
Roof, 22, will represent himself at sentencing, a move that strips his defense
team of its decision-making powers. In January, the panel will deliberate on
whether Roof faces a life sentence or the death penalty.

South Dakota

CONTROVERSY OVER URINE SAMPLE

People in South Dakota who refuse to cooperate with police for a urine sample
may be forced to endure involuntary use of catheters. Though the practice isn't
new, it has been criticized as invasive and a constitutional violation. Courtney
Bowie, legal director for the American Civil Liberties Union of South Dakota,
said the practice raises legal concerns. A man charged with felony drug
ingestion asked a judge to throw out evidence in his case. He claimed his
rights were violated because he was subjected to an involuntary catheter, after
police suspected drug use. Involuntary urine samples are permitted in South
Dakota with a signed court order  but have been challenged in  Indiana and Utah.

Tennessee

A DEADLY STORM OF WIND AND FLAME

Tennessee was a tinderbox. The Great Smoky Mountains National Park and the
resort town of Gatlinburg, Tenn., reopened to the public this month after
devastating wildfires caused 14 deaths and damaged about 2,500 buildings.
Prosecutors charged two teens with the blazes. The Sevier County fires came near
the end of a disastrous year for fires in Tennessee, where 1,427 blazes have
spanned 44,027 acres. The state and larger Southeast region are experiencing
severe and at times exceptional drought.

Texas

JUSTICE SCALIA DIES, LEAVING COURT VACUUM

U.S. Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia, the loquacious leader of the Supreme
Court's conservative bloc and a leading force in American life for three
decades, was found dead at a Texas ranch in February, kicking off a fierce
battle over the future of the high court. After Scalia died, Senate Republicans
refused to consider President Obama's nomination of federal appeals court Judge
Merrick Garland as a replacement, and the remaining justices deadlocked 4-4 in
four cases. The court began hearing cases again in October but is stuck in a
holding pattern until a new justice (picked by President-elect Donald Trump) can
be confirmed and seated.

Utah

INDEPENDENT SHAKES UP PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION

Most Americans might not know his name, but Evan McMullin was the independent
candidate for president  some said could beat Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton
in Utah. He didn't. McMullin's unlikely surge in the state was a closely watched
story line. The former CIA officer is Mormon and had taken on more traditional
GOP stances than the party's standard-bearer. Had he locked down Utah, it would
have been the first time since 1968 that a non-major-party candidate won a
state.

Vermont

GROUND ZERO FOR FEELING THE BERN

Bernie Sanders, the surprisingly strong challenger for the Democratic
presidential nomination, won nearly two dozen states in the primaries before
endorsing Hillary Clinton.  Credit the Vermont senator's winning personality.
You tell us: Is the following exchange a real one he had with USA TODAY's Susan
Page or a Saturday Night Live skit?

Q: Is it conceivable you would run for president again?

Sanders: You know, it's conceivable that I may fly to the moon.

Q: With all respect, it's not conceivable that you may fly to the moon.

Sanders: If Elon Musk (founder of SpaceX) called me, I could go to Mars. See,
you're wrong. I'm going to make Mars a progressive planet. I'll be there first,
planting the flag. People don't think big enough! [Note: It's not SNL.]

Virginia

CHICKEN ABUSE VIDEO LEADS TO FIRINGS

Animal rights group Compassion Over Killing captured  video from inside several
Tyson Foods facilities in Virginia of workers stomping, kicking and suffocating
breeder chickens. In one of the videos, released in August, a  worker warned the
undercover investigator that "you can't let nobody see you do that" as he
stepped on a chicken's head, suffocating it. "You don't know if he's working for
the animal rights," he said.  Workers seen in the videos were fired, and all
live-poultry workers were retrained on the company's animal welfare policies,
according to Tyson.

Washington

AMAZON TAKES 'GRAB AND GO' TO A NEW LEVEL

Amazon -- the company that made leaving your house to shop optional -- has made
leaving your wallet at home optional, too. At least at its brick-and-mortar
store in Seattle,  which has neither cashiers nor self-checkout lines. How it
works: Shoppers tap their phone at a sensor by the store's entrance and are
identified by a camera. As they browse, cameras, microphones and sensors capture
the action. When shoppers leave, items get charged to their Amazon account. If
you don't live in Seattle, sorry. There are no plans to open more locations.

West Virginia

NEW CRISIS SURFACES: POISON IN THE WATER

The water crisis in Flint, Mich., renewed focus on the nation's water quality.
West Virginia's orphaned water systems perhaps best illustrate areas for
improvement in water testing and cleanliness. A USA TODAY Network investigation
found that more than a dozen of the state's utilities didn't have owners or
operators. Enforcement efforts for those utilities amounted to little more than
a continuous stream of warning letters as utilities failed to test year after
year. All the while, residents continued drinking untested -- and potentially
contaminated -- water. In Coal Mountain, W.Va., residents boil their water and
bleach their own supply.

Washington, D.C.

PREPARING FOR TRUMP NATION

D.C. isn't a state, but one could argue the District's story is the most
important of the year. Donald Trump, sweeping to victory as the 45th president
of the United States in a bitterly fought campaign that defied the polls,
pledged to "be a president for all Americans." A sharply divided nation can't
agree on whether a Trump White House will save  or destroy us, but it can agree
on this: The federal government is wasteful and is led by officials who would
say and do almost anything to get elected before abandoning their constituents
for powerful special interests. Whoa.

Wisconsin

JERIKA BOLEN'S MORTAL DECISION

Jerika Bolen's final months on Earth, and her heartbreaking decision to leave
it, made the nation fall in love with the 14-year-old girl from Appleton. Bolen
was thrust into the public eye when she announced she'd give up her fight with
Spinal Muscular Atrophy Type 2, a painful and incurable disease. Bolen's story
inspired people nationwide  to help grant her dying wish by hosting a prom in
her honor. Her decision wasn't without controversy. It reanimated a debate over
right-to-die issues. Disability rights groups asked authorities to investigate
Jerika's care, and those with her condition urged her to change her mind. But
Bolen followed through on her decision and died at a Wisconsin hospice in
September.

Wyoming

YELLOWSTONE'S PERILOUS YEAR

Wyoming's treasured Yellowstone National Park, which surpassed 4 million visits
last year, saw tragic deaths in 2016. In June, a 23-year-old Oregon man plunged
into a boiling, acidic spring. Yellowstone officials said Colin Nathaniel Scott
was trying to test the water so he and his sister could "hot pot," the act of
soaking in the park's thermal pools. In August, a park concession worker fell
off a cliff overlooking the Grand Canyon of the Yellowstone River. Park
officials said  Estefania Liset Mosquera Alcivar, 21, of Ecuador, was chatting
with a friend when she went over the canyon's edge.

Contributing: Mary Bowerman, Ed Brackett, Emily Brown, William Cummings, Alia E.
Dastagir, Matthew Diebel, Tim Gardner, Anne Godlasky, Josh Hafner, Mabinty
Quarshie, Cara Richardson, John Riley, Sean Rossman, Elizabeth Shell, Steph
Solis and Charles Ventura

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Alyssa Pointer, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              60 of 227 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 8, 2016 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Scientists to brave stormy seas for 90-day Antarctic trip

BYLINE: Doyle Rice, @usatodayweather, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 358 words


A three-month scientific voyage to explore the ocean around Antarctica will
bring together 55 scientists from 30 countries in a first-of-its-kind mission
this month.

On the Antarctic Circumnavigation Expedition, researchers will study the impact
of climate change and pollution in the Southern Ocean around Antarctica.

"A better understanding of Antarctica is critical, not just for its preservation
but for the whole planet," the expedition said in a statement.

The Russian research vessel Akademik Treshnikov will depart from Cape Town,
South Africa, on Dec. 20. On board will be experts in glaciology, climatology,
biology, oceanography and other disciplines. Twenty-two different scientific
projects will be undertaken.

"The poles are essential for climate balance, but they are also the regions
where changes are most apparent," said Philippe Gillet of the Swiss Federal
Institute of Technology, one of the groups that sponsored the mission.

The expedition aims to spark the interest of a new generation of young
scientists and explorers in polar research.

Though there were missions around Antarctica in the 1950s, this will be the
first to explore the little-known islands around the continent, said David
Walton, the expedition's chief scientist.

"We hope to link some of the well-known areas to some of the largely unknown, to
promote new ways of looking at the Southern Ocean and the islands," Walton said.

The mission will mainly study the ocean and islands around Antarctica. Work on
the continent will occur only near the Mertz Glacier Tongue, where the team will
use a sophisticated Canadian underwater vehicle to examine marine life under the
ice shelf, Walton said.

The mission is organized by the Swiss Polar Institute, a group of scientific
institutions and universities based in Lausanne.

Support staff such as helicopter pilots and field guides will be on board. Even
a Nobel laureate will join  to experience the research firsthand,  Walton said.

Stormy seas are possible for some of the voyage: "We are going in summer and so
the weather will at times be quite good, but around some of the islands, we are
expecting rough seas," he said.

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Richard Youd, Australian Antarctic Division

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              61 of 227 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          February 10, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

IN BRIEF

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 346 words


supreme Court blocks Obama's climate plan

The Supreme Court dealt a blow to President Obama's signature climate change
initiative Tuesday by halting the administration's effort to reduce power plant
pollution while a legal battle rages on.

The move by the court's five conservative members was a shock to
environmentalists, who had expected the justices to deny, as a federal appeals
court did last month, a petition filed by mostly Republican-led states and
industry leaders.

Now the Environmental Protection Agency must halt enforcement of the "Clean
Power Plan" until the lower court decides on the merits of the GOP-industry
lawsuit against it. Oral arguments don't begin until early June, and a decision
could be another year away.

--Richard Wolf

Meteorologists: ship blew it by sailing into storm

Royal Caribbean should have known better.

That's the word Tuesday from weather experts who closely monitored the
development of the storm that rocked the line's Anthem of the Seas on Sunday and
Monday.

The 168,666-ton vessel should not have sailed southward from New York into the
path of the growing weather system, which eventually packed winds of up to 100
mph and created waves higher than 20 to 30 feet, WeatherBell meteorologist Ryan
Maue said.

Southeast Regional Climate Center climatologist Jordan McLeod, suggested that,
at the very least, Royal Caribbean is guilty of poor weather analysis.

--Gene Sloan

Winter storm pelts Ohio Valley, Mid-Atlantic

A winter storm slogged through the Ohio Valley and Mid-Atlantic states Tuesday,
dumping light-to-moderate snow on cities such as Louisville, Cincinnati,
Washington and Philadelphia.

Snow totals of 2-6 inches will be common in most areas, with higher amounts
along the Appalachians in parts of Pennsylvania, West Virginia and Virginia,
according to Weather Bug meteorologist Doug Kahn.

Several school systems were closed in the Louisville and Cincinnati metro areas.

The heaviest snow from the storm so far Tuesday was in Ohio, where 4-5 inches of
snow fell near Wilmington, according to the National Weather Service.

--Doyle Rice

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo PETER KNEFFEL, european pressphoto agency

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              64 of 227 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            October 21, 2016 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

'Bama medical tent popping up all over

BYLINE: Dan Wolken, dwolken@usatoday.com, USA TODAY Sports

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 2C

LENGTH: 1186 words


When Alabama played for the College Football Playoff title last season, its
pop-up medical tent on the sideline was a matter of significant curiosity. There
had never really been anything like it before in football, allowing an injured
player to be examined privately without having to go back to the locker room.

The collapsible tent, which is attached to the base of a trainer's table and
then pulled over the top in a matter of seconds, was a fairly ingenious
invention both in its practicality and design. And Jeff Allen, who conceived the
project and unveiled it last year as Alabama's head football trainer and
assistant athletics director for sports medicine, knew it soon would be in
demand across football at all levels.

Along with two engineering students at Alabama who brought the idea to life,
Allen has formed a company called Kinematic Sports to market and sell the
SidelinER tent. Allen told USA TODAY Sports this week that they had opened an
office in Tuscaloosa and had sold 45 tents to college football programs and
another 10 to other customers, including high schools and hospitals. According
to the company's website, a basic unit can be ordered for $5,000.

"It's been amazing how this thing took off," Allen said. "Even though I thought
it was going to work, I'll never forget the day I saw the prototype. I was like,
'Wow, this is going to work.' I remember saying, 'Once this thing gets out
there, everybody is going to want one of these.' And that's really the response
that we've seen.

"We did not have to do a whole lot of marketing or advertising. It kind of took
care of itself."

Now Clemson has one, as do Ohio State, Louisville, Arkansas, Marshall, SMU,
Troy, West Virginia, Northwestern, Mississippi, Florida State and on and on and
on. It probably won't be long before nearly every Football Bowl Subdivision
program has one, but it's not simply a matter of trying to mimic Alabama.

Besides being easy to transport, it allows the medical training staff to examine
a player at a moment of distress and potential panic without 100,000 people
watching.

"It just makes so much sense in terms of protecting the privacy of the athlete.
And the other thing I found medically is it changes the environment of trying to
do an evaluation on an injured athlete without the distraction of the crowd,"
Allen said. "I tell people the most critical time in evaluating is five to 10
minutes after the injury, and to have that type of environment makes a
difference. I notice a big difference in our athletes in there. They request it
like, 'Let's go.' So it's really been amazing."

The success of this project could lead to more in the future. In June, Alabama's
board of trustees approved the Integrative Center for Athletic and Sport
Technology (I-CAST), which connects athletics with people in engineering,
kinesiology and sports medicine and will try to develop new technologies to
benefit performance and injury recovery.

"It's going to benefit our athletic department and the university," Allen said.
"It's a great example of the collaboration that Alabama has between athletics
and academics. It's not the norm at a lot of places, but we're lucky here with
the culture and climate the way it is."

COACHING CAROUSEL CLIPS

With the situations at Southern California, Auburn and Texas A&M stabilizing for
the moment, there's less hysteria about the coaching carousel than there was a
few weeks ago. Given the major openings at LSU and Baylor and possible openings
at Texas and Oregon, there will still be significant movement, according to
several people with ties to the coaching industry. But it might not be the
Armageddon many were predicting.

The key, according to one person with knowledge of the industry, is what happens
at Texas. If Charlie Strong can't save his job, Texas is expected to pursue
Houston coach Tom Herman. But if that marriage falls apart for whatever reason,
it could trigger  dominoes that impact multiple top-25 programs. Among the names
that could be mentioned in connection with Texas are Florida's Jim McElwain,
Mississippi's Hugh Freeze, Washington's Chris Petersen, North Carolina's Larry
Fedora and California's Sonny Dykes. It's also likely Florida State's Jimbo
Fisher, Fedora and Freeze will be in play at LSU if interim coach Ed Orgeron
doesn't do enough to be elevated permanently.

If Strong does keep the job at Texas, he will be in the market for a new
defensive coordinator. So will Brian Kelly at Notre Dame and possibly  Fisher
and Mark Dantonio at Michigan State. That could create a frenzied market for
coordinators and big paydays for defensive coaches currently at smaller
programs.

Arguably the most sought-after coordinator will be Wake Forest's Mike Elko, who
has been with Dave Clawson since Bowling Green. Elko has done a tremendous job
all three years at Wake Forest, and his defense is allowing just 17.9 points per
game this season. He's primed to be this year's Don Brown, who went from Boston
College to Michigan. Houston's Todd Orlando, Louisville's Todd Grantham and
Washington's Pete Kwiatkowski are among those whose services will be highly
coveted.

Don't be surprised if the name Bo Pelini starts popping up more and more in
coaching searches. Though Pelini didn't win the right games at Nebraska and
rubbed some fans the wrong way with his irascible personality, he is proving
again at Youngstown State that he's a high-quality football coach. The Penguins
are 5-1 and ranked in the top 15 of the Football Championship Subdivision poll.
Pelini could be a natural fit at Purdue or Minnesota, if that job opens.

FAUX PAS OF THE WEEK

Washington State coach Mike Leach is famous for his tangents, rants and
conspiracy theories. Sometimes it's endearing. This week it was not. Leach, for
the second consecutive year, accused Arizona State of stealing signs and called
on the Pac-12 to investigate.

Leach went even further this time, raising rumors that Arizona State used
microphones and cameras in an attempt to pick up what plays opponents called
from the sideline.

There are two problems here.

First, Leach is simply whining. Though some coaches might frown on it, trying to
pick up your opponents' signs is part of the game. If you're paranoid about it,
change your signs or figure out a way to shield them.

Second, accusing an opponent of not just breaching protocol but breaking rules
in a systematic and complex manner -- and doing it under the specter of rumors
without any evidence -- is just wrong.

Coach Todd Graham, for the record, stood up for Arizona State this week, telling
The (Phoenix) Arizona Republic, "We do everything exactly by the rules. Period."

YOUR WEEKLY HARBAUGH

The mid-October heat wave that settled over much of the USA this week brought
unseasonably warm temperatures to Ann Arbor, Mich. So, of course, Jim Harbaugh
spun it as a potential edge in Michigan recruiting.

"Now we're the new Mediterranean: a lot of coastline, and how about that out
there today? Eighty degrees out there. It is so beautiful here, it's awesome,"
Harbaugh said on his radio show this week. "Global warming is good for Michigan,
it's good for recruiting."

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Kevin Jairaj, USA TODAY Sports

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              66 of 227 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          December 14, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Trump's standoff with Mexico could hit wall;
Evidence is scant that there's an exodus of jobs heading south

BYLINE: Matt Krantz, and Paul Davidson, @mattkrantz, @PDavidsonusat

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 787 words


Donald Trump's vow to stop jobs from heading across the Mexican border might
sound good, but it's not the grand plan to save jobs that some hope.

The number of companies shifting production from the U.S. to Mexico is far from
the epidemic implied by the president-elect. Just six U.S. companies out of a
universe of thousands trading on a major exchange, including United
Technologies, medical technology firm Becton, Dickinson and motion control parts
maker Rexnord have indicated over the past 12 months plans to shift production
from the U.S. to Mexico, according to a USA TODAY analysis of S&P Global Market
Intelligence, which compiles a database of discontinued operations. Trump  has
targeted two of these firms: United Technologies' Carrier unit and Rexnord. No
companies have announced plans to move plants to China during that same period,
according to the S&P Global database.

It's not a complete list,  as many companies don't go out of their way to
broadcast plans to relocate south of the border. But a review of company
conference call transcripts, earnings reports and news reports show the trend to
move jobs to Mexico isn't growing, but is one that happened years ago largely in
the automotive sector. U.S. consumers and businesses are now reaping the
benefits of these past moves.

At the same time, skilled workers with the ability to work in highly automated
plants are retained or even see expanded opportunity in the U.S.

About 65,000 U.S. factory jobs were offshored to  foreign countries in 2014 and
2015, each. Those lost jobs were offset by a roughly equal number created in the
U.S. as  manufacturers moved production back home or foreign firms built plants
here to tap the U.S. market, says Harry Moser, head of the Reshoring Initiative.
The group serves as a consultant for firms looking to "reshore," or bring
factories back to the U.S.

Some companies that are moving jobs to Mexico are boosting jobs requiring more
skill in the U.S. Take Merit Medical. Bernard Birkett, chief financial officer
at the company, said in September it is "focusing on moving high-volume,
labor-intensive products to our Mexico facility where we can benefit from lower
cost environment." But here's the important offset: "Then in turn, filling that
capacity that's been created in our U.S. facilities, with products coming
through from (research and development) and also through acquiring new
products."

Trump, though, continues to pressure the few U.S. companies considering a move
with threats of tariffs and other vows of protectionism, perhaps threatening
higher paid jobs. "Companies are not going to leave the United States anymore
without consequences. It's not gonna happen," Trump announced as he celebrated
the decision of United Technologies, a large government contractor, to partially
halt plans to move production of its Carrier air conditioning and refrigeration
unit to Mexico, where labor costs are lower.

Just how many companies are actually moving production south is a challenging
question to answer. The Alliance for American Manufacturing says there have been
1,600 incidents of parties making Trade Adjustment Assistance claims to the
Department of Labor since 2015. These are claims where workers are shown to
suffer financial hardship due to production being outsourced overseas or
competition from imports. But these aren't just companies making claims, but
also individuals, unions or state agencies, so there could be overlap.

The Alliance says it doesn't have a list of companies that have moved. There
isn't a central repository for companies to file their plans to move production
to Mexico. Relocation plans aren't recorded in financial statements, either,
making generating a list difficult.

But evidence is scant there's an exodus. Just seven companies in the broad
Standard & Poor's 1500 discussed plans to move to Mexico in conference calls and
investment conferences, according to S&P Global data, including Merit Medical
and Standard Motor. There have been additional moves by companies such as Ford,
which plans to move some of its small car production to Mexico, and casket maker
Hillenbrand, which plans to close a U.S. plant that makes wooden caskets and
move production to an existing plant south of the border.

Oreo cookie maker Mondelez cut 600 positions from its Chicago bakery after a
July 2015 investment in more automated production lines in Mexico. Much of the
job loss was due to technology, says Laurie Guzzinati, spokeswoman at Mondelez.
Even if the investments were made in Chicago, 300 positions would have still
been lost, she said. She says the company still makes Oreo cookies in three
other U.S. plants and has invested $450 million in other U.S. plants since 2012.


LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              81 of 227 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              July 18, 2016 Monday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Green energy funding falls from 2015 highs;
Financing for solar, wind, other alternatives down 23% compared to same period
last year

BYLINE: @bill_loveless , Special for , USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 644 words


The year 2015 is turning out to be a tough act to follow for new investments in
clean energy in the U.S. and around the world.

A report by Bloomberg New Energy Finance reveals that financing for solar, wind
and other alternatives to fossil fuels in 2016 is down substantially from last
year, when a record $348.5billion was dedicated to projects.

For the first six months of 2016, those investments totaled $116.4billion, some
23% lower than during the same period last year.

For the second quarter this year, spending was $61.5billion, 12% above the
figure for the first quarter, but 32% below the $90 billion recorded in the same
period in 2015.

"It is now looking almost certain that the global investment total for this year
will fail to match 2015's runaway record," Michael Liebreich, chairman of the
advisory board at BNEF, said in a statement accompanying the report.

It's a topic that's attracting closer attention now that the U.S. and nearly 200
other countries are preparing to implement a 2015 climate agreement aimed at
reducing carbon emissions that result primarily from burning coal and other
fossil fuels.

The discrepancy between this year and last appears that much larger now that
BNEF, an energy news and analytics firm owned by the media giant Bloomberg, has
revised upwards its estimates of spending in 2015.

The firm's original estimate put 2015 investments at $328.9billion, or nearly
$20 billion less than the latest count.

Among the biggest changes to the 2015 totals is an upward revision of $29billion
in asset financing of utility-scale wind and solar projects, primarily in China
and the U.S., and a downward change of $10 billion in spending on small
distributed generation, such as rooftop solar, particularly in Japan, BNEF said.

And as more solar projects are built, the costs of photovoltaic panels and
construction come down, contributing to a lower trajectory for investment now,
according to the report. Moreover, solar spending has shifted from small
projects to utility-scale projects, which are cheaper for every megawatt of
capacity installed.

"One shouldn't look at these latest Q2 figures too negatively," Abraham Louw,
associate for energy economics at BNEF, said in the statement. "Last year's
investment of $348.5 billion was really quite groundbreaking -- up 11% over 2014
and 30% over 2013."

Among the regions with the steepest declines for the first half of 2016 was
China, where investments fell 34% to $33.7 billion.

The fall-off in the U.S. was far less, down 5% to $23.1 billion.

Europe and Brazil were the only regions recording increases in clean energy
investment. The numbers in Europe were up 4% to $33.5, while those in Brazil
rose 46% to $3.7billion.

The leading category of investment so far this year, as it has routinely been in
the past, is asset financing of renewable energy projects. They combined for
$92billion worldwide, down 19% from spending at this time in 2015. The largest
of those projects is a $3.9billion investment in the 588-megawatt Beatrice Wind
Farm in the North Sea, off Scotland's coast.

Among the big new ventures in the U.S. is the 400-megawatt Cimarron Bend wind
farm in Kansas, with an investment of $610million.

Like Louw, BNEF's Dan Shurey urged caution in interpreting the quarterly
results.

"Policy and support mechanisms can still very much swing investment numbers
wildly month to month," Shurey, a senior associate with the firm, said in an
e-mail response to questions.

"However, the general trend is very much upward. The question is whether
longer-term investment trends will keep pace with capital requirements to meet
global climate emission targets," he added. "In my view, it is still too early
to tell, based on these quarterly figures alone."

Loveless is a veteran energy journalist and podcast host in Washington. He is
the former anchor of the TV program Platts Energy Week.

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Remko de Waal, AFP/Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              87 of 227 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            November 8, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Celebrities lend star power to new music, social documentaries

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 3D

LENGTH: 555 words


Jennifer Lawrence (A Beautiful Planet) and Katie Couric (Under the Gun) have
turned up the wattage on true-life tales that otherwise may have been overlooked
by moviegoers in 2016. But this fall boasts an unusually high number of
celebrity-supported documentaries delving into politics, music, social change
and heartwarming adventures. USA TODAY's Patrick Ryan picks a few highlights.

The Ivory Game

Backed by: Leonardo DiCaprio

About: Along with throwing his weight behind last month's climate change
documentary Before the Flood for the National Geographic Channel, environmental
activist DiCaprio is also an executive producer on Netflix's Ivory Game.
Co-directed by Kief Davidson and Richard Ladkani, the film explores the dark
underbelly of ivory trafficking, following an undercover team of experts on a
suspenseful, sometimes heart-wrenching journey from African countries where
elephants are poached to shops in Hong Kong and China where their tusks are
sold.

Where to watch: Now streaming on Netflix; in theaters in New York and Los
Angeles.

The Eagle Huntress

Backed by: Daisy Ridley

About: Ridley narrated and produced this empowering documentary, which premiered
at Sundance Film Festival in January and follows a Mongolian teenager not unlike
the actress' fearless Star Wars: The Force Awakens character, Rey. With the
support of her father, 13-year-old Aisholpan Nurgaiv trains to be the first
woman to take part in Mongolia's Golden Eagle Festival, a frigid hunting
expedition through the mountains in which she competes against 70 older male
competitors.

Where to watch: Now playing in New York and Los Angeles; expands to additional
cities Friday and Nov. 18; opens nationwide Nov. 23.

We Are X

Backed by: Gene Simmons

About: The Kiss frontman has been waving the flag for this music documentary in
which he appears, charting the ups and downs of heavy-metal band X Japan, known
for its "visual kei" style of heavy makeup and flamboyant costumes. The
enigmatic group, which has sold more than 30 million singles and albums
combined, has attracted A-list fans such as Beatles producer George Martin, Stan
Lee and Simmons but is still mostly unknown to North American music fans.
Produced by the same team as the Oscar-winning Searching for Sugar Man (which
follows another elusive artist, Rodriguez), We Are tracks the band's tumultuous
three-decade history, culminating in a 2014 concert at New York's Madison Square
Garden.

Where to watch: Now playing in seven cities including New York, San Francisco
and Atlanta; expands to 10 additional cities Friday and more throughout November
and December.

Tower

Backed by: Meredith Vieira and Luke Wilson

About: The longtime news anchor and Old School actor produce a gripping
documentary about  the United States' first mass school shooting. Told through a
mix of rotoscope animation and archival footage, the film weaves together the
untold stories of witnesses, heroes and survivors in the University of
Texas-Austin massacre on Aug. 1, 1966, when engineering student Charles Whitman
killed 16 people and wounded three dozen  before he was  shot and killed by
police.

Where to watch: Now playing in six cities, including Chicago, San Francisco and
Portland, Ore.; expands to Atlanta, Philadelphia and Charlottesville, Va., on
Friday and more throughout November, December and January.

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Kino Lorber

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              90 of 227 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            March 2, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

STORY STOCKS

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 138 words


Marathon Oil

Price: $7.96

Chg: -$0.25

% chg: -3.0%

Day's high/low:

$8.07/$7.56

Reacting to a downward spiral in oil prices that has eroded its financial
position, the Houston-based energy company announced that it will sell 135
million shares at $7.65 each to bolster its balance sheet.

United Technologies

Price: $95.05

Chg: -$1.57

%chg: -1.6%

Day's high/low:

$95.05/$92.07

Honeywell abandoned a bid worth more than $90 billion for rival United
Technologies, saying it did not want to force a deal with an unwilling partner.
United Technologies rejected the offer last week.

Hertz Global

Price: $9.54

Chg: $1.04

%chg: 12.2%

Day's high/low:

$9.75/$8.82

The car-rental company reported fourth-quarter adjusted earnings of 5 cents a
share, which represented a big turnaround from the loss of 22 cents a share it
recorded in the year earlier quarter.

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: graphic

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              91 of 227 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             March 28, 2016 Monday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Jobs report could push Fed to lift interest rates;
If survey is strong, it could 'make a case' for a raise in April

BYLINE: Paul Davidson, @PDavidsonusat, USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 467 words


If a cautious Federal Reserve is going to make some noise and raise interest
rates in April after standing pat the past two meetings, this week's employment
report will likely need to set off a thunderclap of its own. The jobs report
will take center stage in a busy week of economic news that will also reveal
whether a January surge in consumer spending was sustained last month and
manufacturers are emerging from a prolonged slump.

Consumption jumped 0.5% in January, a 10-month high, as Americans broadly
stepped up their purchases, especially on utilities amid a return to normal
winter temperatures after a warm spell late last year. But last month, a core
reading of retail sales dipped, temperatures were higher than average and wage
growth slowed after showing signs of a pickup, notes Lewis Alexander, chief U.S.
economist of Nomura. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg estimate the Commerce
Department will report Monday that consumer spending ticked up just 0.1% in
February.

Consumer confidence was shaken last month by stock market turbulence and a tepid
jobs report for January. But stocks have staged an impressive rally recently,
and payroll growth rebounded in February. Alexander says those developments
likely more than offset a recent climb in gasoline prices, which at $2 a gallon
are still lower than they were a year ago. Economists expect the Conference
Board on Tuesday to report a  rebound in its closely watched consumer confidence
index to a solid 94 from 92.2.

The jobs report is always the biggest economic release of the month, and
Friday's survey for March will be even more closely scrutinized. St. Louis
Federal Reserve chief James Bullard told Bloomberg last week that if it's
strong, "you could probably make a case" for lifting the Fed's benchmark
interest rate in April. The central bank hoisted the rate in December for the
first time in nearly a decade, but global economic and market turmoil led
policymakers to keep it at a historically low 0.4% in January and March. Job
gains bounced back to a healthy 242,000 in February after slowing to 172,000 in
January. Another 200,000-plus showing likely would confirm that solid
consumption and a recovering housing market are more than offsetting sluggish
industrial output and business investment. Economists expect the Labor
Department to report 200,000 job gains.

Manufacturers, meanwhile, may be poised to come off the mat after being
clobbered by  global troubles and the oil industry's downturn. An index of
factory activity has registered contraction for five straight months, but
economists expect the Institute for Supply Management to announce that it broke
into expansion territory in February. That would "quell concerns that the
slowdown" in manufacturing "will hamper overall economic growth," Barclays says.


LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Justin Sullivan, Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              94 of 227 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           October 5, 2016 Wednesday
                                CA CHASE EDITION

Keeping a focus on sports' future;
Report, conference look ahead

BYLINE: Erik Brady, @ByErikBrady, USA TODAY Sports

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 1673 words


Sports is more often about the present (today's  games) and the glorious past
(Babe Ruth, Michael Jordan) than it is about the future (player to be named
later). But Wednesday, a passel of professional sports team owners and reps will
gather at TD Garden in Boston to discuss the years ahead.

Jeremy Jacobs, who owns the Boston Bruins, will host the dog and pony show. No,
wait -- that colloquialism is more than a century old. Perhaps it's better to
think of the dog in virtual reality and the pony in augmented reality, because
the point is to peek into sports' crystal ball: Trying to divine, among other
things, how team owners can continue to reap rising rights fees in a brave new
world.

Jacobs, chairman of sports concessionaire Delaware North, commissioned a report
called "The Future of Sports" that came out late last year. It looked into the
future by as much as 25 years but with a bit of a pie-in-the-sky feel, given
predictions of athletes perfected in labs and hologram replays. The report's
second iteration -- sort of Back to the Future -- will be presented Wednesday,
and it largely aims at targets closer in time, often zeroing in on what's
possible in the next four or five years.

"Twenty-five years was not a horizon that we could appreciate," Jacobs tells USA
TODAY Sports from his Buffalo office overlooking Lake Erie. But the forecast for
the next few years "makes me realize this is not the future -- this is today.
What we thought was a long way off turns out not to be." He cites the driverless
cars that were a driving feature of the first report: "That was futuristic. Now
it's realistic."

The 54-page document at the heart of the conference looks at young consumers
known as Generation Z (and how their engagement with sports differs from that of
their forebears), the coming gold rush of globalization (meaning an emerging
audience of new fans from Uganda to Slovenia to China) and machine medicine that
can take biometric data from wearable sensors to produce info that can be used
to prevent injuries (and perhaps pinpoint when an athlete's skills are fading).

Delaware North invited owners and other team representatives from its partners,
including NHL teams and teams from other sports leagues that use Delaware North
as their concessionaire. Victoria Hong, director of corporate communications,
says about a dozen teams and about 100 people have said they'll be there.

Jacobs says he and fellow owners are interested in how they can monetize
whatever is coming next. "We want to capture the new revenue that evolves" from
what comes, he says, "but more importantly we want to protect what we have."

Were the futurists who produced the reports conscious of that as they worked on
this one? Contributing editor Ethan Watters says only up to a point.

He says he, editor-in-chief Josh McHugh and contributing editor Po Bronson were
conscious of bottom lines "but in certain ways we tried to keep it at bay"
because "that doesn't play to our strengths. So we want to see the broader
landscapes and the currents that are happening out there. To say, 'And now you
do this' would be outside of our task."

The section titled "Globalized Fandom" provides the sort of insights that could
lead to big opportunities. It says that "near-universal access to broadcast and
social media have unlocked billions of potential fans" and suggests professional
teams and leagues will race to claim an emerging audience powered by a coming
rise of the global middle class. The report posits that by 2030 the European
middle class will have doubled -- and the Asian middle class six times -- the
spending power of the North American middle class.

"The biggest piece of this is global capitalization flows that are happening and
likely to happen," McHugh says. "It's not, 'Here's an app that's going to make a
half-million bucks next year.' It's more step back and see where these rails are
that encircle the world."

figuring out millennials

The futurists drew from experts in academia and Silicon Valley, just as before,
but this time some of their best experts were kids. That's because the report
gives a starring role to Generation Z, which it defines as those born from 2000
onward.

"We brought a team of Gen Z-ers onboard," Bronson says, "because last year there
was so much interest in, 'How do we figure out Millennials?'"

The report suggests  these kids from the younger side of the Millennial divide
are the most informed young sports fans in history and that sports programming
and data are such a deep part of their culture that they feel a certain sense of
ownership.

And that, Watters says, is the trick to reaching them: "They want to be sports
content creators and partner with franchises in terms of mashing up highlights
in all sorts of interesting ways that show they want not just to consume content
but create it. They are a supercreative generation."

Their currency is measured in data minutes or gigabytes, and, because they have
trained themselves to ration data, Bronson thinks they will not buy sports
channels when they come of age.

"'Why would I want to buy a whole channel?'" Bronson quotes their future
thinking. "'Can't I just buy the minutes that I watch?' We're all worrying about
the unbundling of television into individual channels. But they're saying, 'Why
is there a channel?'"

They use ad blockers, not because they don't like ads but because the ads slow
the loading of pages. "They actually love ads, because ads make things feel
legit," Bronson says. "If you run a show without ads, anyone can put that on
YouTube. But a show with good-looking ads, that's big-time."

McHugh says the coming generation will be willing to pay for sports content,
"but what they won't do is pay for anything they don't want. It's offensive to
them."

The report generalizes members of this generation in multiple ways: They don't
watch whole games, catching the rest on the highlights. Only one in nine uses
Twitter; about 25% of kids 13 to 17 left Facebook this year. They like "dark
sharing" (sites that can't be measured by Web analytics programs). They follow
stars more than teams and care more about transcendent moments than who won or
lost.

"When a sports documentary comes on, they don't think: 'Too bad we have to watch
that because there is no game,'" Bronson says. "They think, 'Awesome!' To them
it's just as exciting and meaningful and rich as the game itself."

And, McHugh says, citing The People v. O.J. Simpson drama series, "When you add
narrative structure to it, it can elevate beyond watching a game."

Chose your reality

Here's a near-future prediction for you: Lots of kids are going to be sick on
Christmas.

That's because some people get nauseated when they play games on virtual-reality
headsets, according to Watters, who says he felt deeply ill himself when he
tried it.

"There are going to be how many million headsets under Christmas trees this
year, and a lot of kids are going to throw up their Christmas candy," he says.
"You put it on for five minutes at a conference and it's so impressive; you take
it off and feel OK. But you put it on for 20 minutes, you put it on for an hour,
and there is a significant subset of the population -- not talking 10%,
potentially much more -- who will feel violently ill."

The report says this is caused by a number of factors that exacerbate the
disconnect between the brain's natural sensing and the headset's visuals but
suggests that's less of a problem when watching video (where the point of view
stays the same) than in playing games.

"Virtual reality is in for a major speed bump, and augmented reality is just
going to make an end run around them," Watters says. "Pokemon Go was a display
of early augmented reality. Virtual reality is eventually going to be something
significant and meaningful, but augmented reality is going to get there faster."

The report explains the difference between them concisely: Virtual reality puts
you inside a virtual world -- while augmented reality puts virtual things into
the real world.

"Last year there was a lot of heat around virtual reality, and it is  very
exciting," McHugh says. "But what we say is augmented reality has an infinite
canvas in a way that virtual reality doesn't."

The report foresees a future in which augmented reality will transform the
stadium experience, with personal replay devices built into your glasses (swipe
left in the air to go back in time); data overlays on the live action (pitch
speeds, for instance, and defensive rotation stats); and highlights of a
pinch-hitter available off to the side as he warms up (should you choose to tap
and watch).

Rate of change

Jacobs says originally his company's forays into the future were meant to be
internal documents. Then he decided maybe they were something Delaware North's
"clients and customers and friends" would want to see. The point, he says, is
for sports organizations not just to be early adopters but perhaps to become
partners and investors in what's coming.

Jerry and Lou Jacobs, his sons who are co-CEOs of Delaware North, will be in
from Buffalo for Wednesday's conference at TD Garden. It's something of a home
game for their brother Charlie, who is CEO of the company's Boston holdings.

"You remember the Palm Pilot and how that was going to change the world?" Jerry
says. "And it's just a little blip in our history now. The rate of change is so
fast that being in front of this and being nimble is the key to operating our
businesses. Because if you're behind, you're way behind."

Charlie measures the rate of change by that thing in your pocket: "Ten years ago
there was no iPhone, and now we are in our seventh iteration of it."

Lou says the idea behind all this "is the start of a conversation. It is not in
any way meant to be predictive in the sense that this is the way the world is
going to be."

Oracles have been peering into the future for millennia. Predicting what's next
is never easy.

"It's so subjective and so fluid," Jeremy Jacobs says drily, "that there's no
right or wrong answer. These guys have got the world."

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Pablo Martinez Monsivais, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              98 of 227 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             March 11, 2016 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

GMO labels feed unwarranted fears

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 515 words


Forcing companies to label genetically modified foods sounds simple enough.
Don't consumers have a right to know what they're eating?

Like a lot of seemingly straightforward ideas these days, though, this one is
anything but. Mandatory labeling -- set to take effect July 1 in Vermont unless
Congress overrides state laws -- has risks and consequences its backers rarely
acknowledge. On balance it's a bad idea. A key reason is that it validates the
notion that genetically modified organisms (GMOs) are dangerous, which is simply
not true.

Using science to make crops more resistant to drought or insects builds on the
ancient practice of selectively breeding plants to produce better
characteristics. Doing this in a lab at the genetic level makes it faster, more
precise and  more effective. But it also makes the issue harder for
non-scientists to grasp. That leaves a big opening for misinformation and
fear-mongering, which critics of GMOs have exploited to make people afraid.

The facts are reassuring. "The science is quite clear," says the American
Association for the Advancement of Science. "Crop improvement by the modern
molecular techniques of biotechnology is safe." And after looking at more than
130 research projects over a quarter century, the European Union found that GMOs
"are not per se more risky than ... conventional plant breeding." Perhaps the
best evidence is that Americans have been eating GMOs for years -- 75% to 80% of
foods contain them -- with no detectable ill effects.

These days, though, scientific evidence can easily fall victim to scary warnings
based on emotion but devoid of fact. This helps explain why so many people
believe that vaccines are dangerous, for example, despite exhaustive studies
that prove otherwise. Or why people persist in believing that climate change is
a hoax, despite overwhelming evidence it's real.

The scare-mongering over GMOs has been just as effective. A Pew study showed
that while 88% of scientists believe GMOs are safe, only 37% of Americans do.
GMO critics prey on this doubt; the idea that GMO foods must be labeled
reinforces the idea that consumers should steer clear.

The Food and Drug Administration has refused to require GMO labeling, saying
that  labels are justified only when food producers make false or misleading
claims or misbrand food.

The risk from mandatory labeling is the same as any action that ignores science
and plays to unfounded fear. If consumers shun GMOs, the food industry will have
to respond by producing less of them. That could have a particularly harsh
impact in poorer parts of the world, where food is already scarcer and more
expensive, and where GMOs can make an enormous difference.

Consumers who want to avoid GMOs already have ways to do that. They can look for
voluntary labels that certify products "100% organic" or "GMO free."

When states such as Vermont act on their own, food makers will confront a costly
patchwork of conflicting requirements. Better that Congress set a single
standard allowing voluntary labeling without lending any credence to
unscientific scare theories.

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Tim Roske, AP

DOCUMENT-TYPE: OPINION

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              100 of 227 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             March 18, 2016 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Dem candidates claim ZIP code enclaves;
Support clustered in communities

BYLINE: Fredreka Schouten, and Christopher Schnaars, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 981 words


Before Bernie Sanders came along, Trevor Sullivan had never donated to a
presidential campaign.

Sullivan, 28, the owner of the all-vegan Pingala Cafe and Eatery in Burlington,
Vt., said no other candidate is more aligned with his values or more focused on
the "environmental crisis" climate change poses than Sanders. Inspired by his
yoga-teaching wife, he donated $888.88 to Sanders' campaign in January.

"The number eight has a lot of lineage as being a sacred number in a lot of
religions," he said.

Sullivan and other Sanders supporters put places such as Sanders' home town of
Burlington, San Francisco's Mission District and bike-friendly swaths of Seattle
on the nation's fundraising map, according to a USA TODAY analysis of the ZIP
codes funding the campaigns of Sanders and Hillary Clinton, his rival for the
Democratic presidential nomination.

Sanders also counts college towns such as Cambridge, Mass., and Ithaca, N.Y.,
among his top ZIP codes -- a snapshot of the ways Sanders' unorthodox campaign
expanded the fundraising landscape beyond the donor-rich corridors of New York,
Los Angeles and Washington.

The patterns are starkly different for Clinton.

The analysis shows her biggest financial fuel coming from the nation's two
centers of power. Six of the 10 ZIP codes providing the most campaign cash to
Clinton sit in Manhattan -- from Chelsea's art gallery-filled streets downtown
to the upscale neighborhoods uptown that abut Central Park's green expanses.

Neighborhoods in Washington and one of its wealthiest suburbs, Chevy Chase, Md.,
make up the four remaining ZIP codes on Clinton's top 10 list.

"It's a little microcosm of the race," said Viveca Novak of the Center for
Responsive Politics, which tracks political money. "She's the Democratic
establishment, and he's the renegade who's been able to successfully raise money
in new ways."

Sanders, a self-described Democratic socialist, has proved adept at raising huge
sums in small amounts. Fueled by online donations, Sanders raised $42.7 million
in February, the largest one-month haul of any candidate in the 2016
presidential field and nearly $13 million more than Clinton collected that month
for the primary battle.

The ZIP code analysis examined donations larger than $200 made through Jan. 31.

Campaigns aren't required to disclose donors' names and addresses for
contributions that do meet that threshold, and candidates have not yet revealed
details of their February donations to the Federal Election Commission.

The majority, 71%, of Sanders' contributions fall at or below the $200 mark.
That allows him to return repeatedly to those donors for cash before they reach
the $2,700 limit on what an individual can donate  for the nomination battle.

Only 17.6% of Clinton's contributions have come in amounts that small. More than
half of Clinton's donations had hit the $2,700 cap as of Jan. 31, according to
the non-partisan Campaign Finance Institute. Only 3% of Sanders' had.

The 05401 ZIP code, which encompasses a sizable portion of Burlington, serves as
the top source of his campaign money that came in amounts larger than $200. The
grand total: $89,462.81. Sanders was mayor of the city -- pop. roughly 42,400 --
from 1981 to 1989.

Sanders' No. 2 ZIP code, 94110, includes San Francisco's Mission, a rapidly
gentrifying neighborhood where high-end clothing boutiques and shops selling ice
cream made with organic buffalo milk have joined the discount stores and
empanada shops that served the neighborhood's traditionally working-class Latino
population. Software engineers, game designers, programmers and Web producers
are among his donors from that neighborhood and the nearby Castro section of the
city, which ranks No. 4 on his top ZIPs.

Clinton's top ZIP code, Manhattan's 10011, takes in Chelsea and portions of
Greenwich Village. In all, she has raised more than $828,000 from the
neighborhood. Her Chelsea-area donors include billionaire media executive Barry
Diller, whose Frank Gehry-designed corporate headquarters building sits across
from the Chelsea Piers and the Hudson River.

Chelsea resident Jay Pagano has donated $375 to Clinton and counts himself among
her longtime supporters.

"I think she has a wealth of experience in politics, governing the country and
in foreign affairs, and that makes her the most qualified person to be
president," Pagano said this week during an interview from a phone-bank
operation in New York organized by a pro-Clinton union. He called voters in
Illinois, urging them to support Clinton in Tuesday's primary.

His Chelsea neighbors seem divided in the race. The neighborhood ranks No. 7 on
Sanders' list of top 10 ZIP codes, the analysis shows.

Pagano, 70, said he recently wore a Clinton button near his building when a
patron at a nearby cafe screamed at him, "Hillary sucks!"

"I was shocked," he said, "but I attribute it to the fact that it's a very
divided electorate."

Pagano is president of the Fire Island Pines Property Owners Association, a gay
enclave on the New York barrier island. Support for Clinton is high there, he
said.

"Gays feel that she has been with us all along and deserves our support," he
said, although Clinton did not announce her support for same-sex marriage until
2013, soon after she left her post as secretary of State.

"I think that a lot of the country evolved and evolved very quickly on the issue
of gay marriage," Pagano said. "I don't think Hillary was a laggard."

There is considerable overlap in the sources of their contributions, the
analysis shows.

Sanders counts four New York ZIP codes among his top 10, for instance. Clinton
has raised large sums from San Francisco neighborhoods supporting Sanders, but
they rank below New York and Washington as top sources of her campaign money.
She's also collected donations from Sanders' home town of Burlington but is well
behind him in financial support from Vermont's largest city.

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              106 of 227 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             August 29, 2016 Monday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Demilitarize cops to protect protesters

BYLINE: Lindsey Allen, Annie Leonard and Erich Pica

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 497 words


One of the earliest policy impacts of the Black Lives Matter movement was a May
2015 federal ban on transferring certain militarized equipment to local police
departments. The ban largely began in response to startling images of police
officers, their weapons raised, confronting unarmed protesters. Those images
shocked not only the general public but military experts as well.

But after the horrible killing of five  officers in Dallas, several law
enforcement officials urged the White House to lift the ban on militarized
equipment for local police departments. As election season reaches full boil,
the posturing from those claiming to stand for "law and order" poses real
threats to one of the hallmarks of American society: the right to peacefully
protest.

The ban on military equipment was a direct response to the national debate on
greater police accountability, criminal justice reform and an honest and
effective approach to end systemic racial injustice. But it also influences
every activist in this country who believes in the right to protest without the
threat of violence.

It's impossible for any groups to win fights against Arctic drilling, the
Keystone XL Pipeline and new fossil fuel leasing, or for action to combat global
climate change, without the opportunity to protest. But persuading people  to
protest under threat or intimidation becomes more difficult when police are
ill-trained and militarized. Federally arming police with weapons of war
silences protesters across all justice movements.

Peaceful protest and civil disobedience have played a critical role in changing
minds and policies in this country -- from shutting down bridges and freeways in
the fight for civil rights to shutting down coal plants in the fight for our
planet's future, from suffragettes marching in the streets for the right to vote
to activists raising the alarm about AIDS awareness. These tactics of disruption
have frequently been the only avenue available to stop legal, yet devastating,
practices.

We have seen abuses of power exerted by militarized police forces across the
globe -- an over-reaching police apparatus can intimidate and stifle
demonstrators through consistent, peremptory and heavy-handed exhibitions of
lethal force. Some news media outlets regularly misrepresent peaceful protest as
violent and threatening. But people demanding justice,  accountability or  basic
human rights without resorting to violence should not be greeted with machine
guns and tanks.

Peaceful protest is democracy in action. It is a forum for those who feel
disempowered or disenfranchised.

As we grapple with the fundamental problems in our criminal justice system, we
need to build a safer environment for freedom of assembly and expression. Let's
keep grenade launchers and armored vehicles off our streets.

Lindsey Allen is executive director of Rainforest Action Network. Annie Leonard
is executive director of Greenpeace USA. Erich Pica is president of Friends of
the Earth U.S.

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              111 of 227 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           February 3, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Sanders and Clinton rally backers ahead of primary;
He questions her 0.3-point victory in Iowa caucuses

BYLINE: Nicole Gaudiano, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 637 words


Sen. Bernie Sanders and Hillary Clinton held events Tuesday rallying their New
Hampshire supporters ahead of the state's first-in-the-nation presidential
primary on Feb. 9, even as Sanders refused to concede defeat to Clinton in Iowa.

Sanders told reporters his Iowa team is checking the veracity of Clinton's
0.3-point win there, the closest Democratic contest in the history of the
state's caucus.

"I don't want to misspeak here," the Vermont independent said after a rally
here. "But it may be the case that some delegates were selected based on a flip
of a coin. Not the best way to do democracy."

Concerns over possible  fraud were raised Monday  when C-SPAN posted a video
indicating that a Polk County caucus chair and a Clinton precinct captain didn't
count caucusgoers.

Sanders holds a double-digit lead in polls in New Hampshire. The state has a
history of favoring presidential candidates who live in the neighborhood,.

Clinton was introduced by husband and former president Bill Clinton, who in 1992
declared himself "the comeback kid" with a second-place finish in the New
Hampshire primary."Well, we are here and we're awake," the former president said
to laughter. He said his wife has a lifetime's experience achieving change, a
theme the Clinton campaign is pressing. Hillary Clinton argues she will be more
successful than Sanders in actually implementing proposals. She didn't directly
criticize Sanders, but she told the New Hampshire audience to make up their
minds about which policies make sense. "You ask yourself, does this just sound
good on paper?" she said. "Can this get done?"

Surveys that show Sanders more than 20 points ahead of Clinton in New Hampshire
represent a danger for his campaign, said Chris Galdieri, an assistant professor
of political science at Saint Anselm College in Manchester, N.H.

"It might be impossible for him to meet those expectations," Galdieri said. "If
everyone expects a massive blowout and then Clinton only loses by 17 points, she
could plausibly argue that she's beaten expectations."

Sanders said his campaign did "phenomenally well" in Iowa and continued to call
the results there a "virtual tie." He told a cheering crowd in Keene that Iowa
marked the beginning of his political revolution.

"Last night in Iowa we took on the most powerful political organization in this
country," he told more than 1,000 supporters gathered at the Colonial Theater.
"Last night we came back from a 50-point deficit in the polls. Last night we
began the political revolution, not just in Iowa, not just in New Hampshire, but
all over this country."

Sanders then quickly returned to his message about an economy that he says is
rigged in favor of the wealthy and maintained by a corrupt campaign finance
system.

"Together we'll create an economy that works for working families and not just
the one percent," he said. "Yes, Wall Street, you will have to pay more in taxes
so our kids will get a good education."

The crowd embraced Sanders' call for tackling climate change, offering free
tuition at public colleges and providing workers with family and medical leave.
Some said they like Sanders for his authenticity.

"He's progressive and genuine and our generation can feel that and see that,"
said Claire Kunzler, 26, a student at Keene State College. "That's what we
want."

At a rally later Tuesday at the Claremont Opera House in Claremont, Sanders drew
loud applause when calling for a $15 minimum wage and pay equity for women.

"There is no rational economic reason why women are making 79 cents on the
dollar compared to men," he said "Together we are going to change that."

Sanders, downplaying expectations, told reporters, "We look forward to winning
here but we take nothing, nothing for granted."

Contributing: Susan Page and Emilie Teresa Stigliani, the Burlington Free Press


LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo John Minchillo, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              114 of 227 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           September 27, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

James respects protest but will stand;
Cavaliers star decries criticism of Kaepernick

BYLINE: Michael Singer, @msinger, USA TODAY Sports

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 3C

LENGTH: 406 words


LeBron James says he'll stand for the national anthem, but his respect for Colin
Kaepernick couldn't be more apparent.

James, speaking at the Cleveland Cavaliers media day Monday, spent a significant
portion of his podium time praising the San Francisco 49ers quarterback, whose
protest began in late August to call attention to police brutality and social
injustice.

Though James said he'd stand for the anthem, he added, "That doesn't mean I
don't respect and don't agree with what Colin Kaepernick is doing. ... What I
don't like about the situation is the negative attention that been thrown upon
him from certain people, because it's not deserved.

"He was very educated, very smart, very candid, very demanding about what he
wanted to do. He did it in the most peaceful manner I've ever seen someone stand
up and do something."

James, who led the Cavaliers to their first NBA championship in June, probably
knew these types of questions were coming, evident in his polished responses.
The same went for coach Tyronn Lue, general manager David Griffin and guard
Kyrie Irving. It was likely a reflection of a leaguewide memo sent last week
urging players to take substantive action in creating "positive change."

James, Carmelo Anthony, Dwyane Wade and Chris Paul spoke at the ESPY Awards in
July, essentially foreshadowing this movement. "Let's ... explore these issues,
speak up, use our influence and renounce all violence," James said then.

He reiterated that Monday despite the  questions pertaining to the title
defense. Although there will come a time shortly for James and his teammates to
focus on their repeat quest, it wasn't surprising to hear him address the
current social climate, as he has done in the past.

"I look at my son being four years removed from driving his own car and being
able to leave the house on his own, and it's a scary thought right now to think
if my son gets pulled over, and you tell your kids, 'If you just apply, and you
listen to the police, that they will be respectful and things will work itself
out,'" James said. "It's a scary-ass situation that if my son calls me and said
he's been pulled over, that I'm not that confident that things are going to go
well, that my son is going to return home."

James organized a pre-training camp workout last week in Santa Barbara, Calif.,
for all of his teammates, but there was no ignoring the cultural climate.

"It's tough being a parent right now," he said.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Ken Blaze, USA TODAY Sports

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              120 of 227 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           January 13, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

News from across the USA

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 2069 words


Alabama Birmingham: Two men armed with a gun and pepper spray tried to rob the
Grille29 restaurant outside Brookwood Village. The robbers left empty-handed.
One of the suspects fired a shot as they fled the parking lot, but no one was
injured, AL.com reported.

Alaska Nenana: Eighth-grade students won the Verizon Innovative App Challenge.
The kids won a $5,000 prize for their school, and they each will receive a new
tablet, newsminer.com reported. Their app, called EDU@HOME, helps parents stay
more closely connected with their children's schoolwork.

Arizona Phoenix: The state paid $3million to settle a lawsuit from a former
Department of Corrections teacher who was raped and beaten by an inmate two
years ago, records obtained by The Arizona Republic show.

Arkansas Jonesboro: Country music stars Merle Haggard and Marty Stuart will
perform March 3 at the Convocation Center at Arkansas State University,
ArkansasOnline reported.

California Ventura: Nobody was hurt when a 30-foot fishing boat ran aground, the
Ventura County Star reported.  Several hundred gallons of diesel fuel were
onboard, and salvage operations were planned.

Colorado Denver: A man who police say was armed with a gun when two police
officers approached his vehicle died after he was shot by at least one of the
officers, KUSA-TV  reported.

Connecticut New Haven: Four men wrongfully convicted of a 1996 shooting here
that left one person dead and two injured are seeking a $33million settlement
from the state, the New Haven Register reported.

Delaware Newark: The city banned open carry of firearms in city buildings as
well as in nonmunicpal buildings leased by the city, The News Journal reported.
Those with concealed-carry licenses may be armed as long as the guns remains
concealed.

District of Columbia: The National Air and Space Museum's 70mm IMAX film
projector showed its last movie, Star Wars: The Force Awakens. The theater will
have a new laser digital projector when it reopens in March, The Washington Post
reported.

Florida Pensacola: Florida Gulf Coast University President Wilson Bradshaw's
authority to negotiate contracts was taken away from him Tuesday, The Pensacola
News Journal reported. Bradshaw now must get the approval of the board chair
before offering, renewing or extending contracts to employees who report
directly to him.

Georgia Atlanta: The U.S. Agriculture Department will pay 48,000 households a
total of $22million in a lawsuit settlement stemming from the state's problems
with providing food stamps, The Atlanta Journal-Constitution reported.

Hawaii Lihue: A Hawaiian green sea turtle that was rescued from a storm drain
here is now being monitored by biologists after its release at a Kalapaki Beach,
The Garden Island reported.

Idaho Boise: The U.S. Department of Agriculture says El Niño is benefiting the
state's  snowpack this winter. According to the first water supply outlook
report for the 2016 water year, the majority of the watershed basins are at 95%
to 175% of normal.

Illinois Chicago: The number of shootings in the city rose past 100 a little
more than a week into the new year, The Chicago Tribune reported.

Indiana Lafayette: The Lafayette Police Department has received more than 100
reports of slashed tires from across the city, and is looking for a suspect
based on an image from a home surveillance camera, The Journal & Courier
reported.

Iowa Des Moines: Jennie Wolnerman, one of the last survivors of the Holocaust in
the state, died over the weekend in her home here at age 91, The Des Moines
Register reported.

Kansas Hoisington: Remote-controlled drop traps with video cameras are helping
the state in its  battle against feral swine, The Wichita Eagle reported.

Kentucky Frankfort: Gov.  Bevin  notified federal authorities that he plans to
dismantle kynect, the state's health insurance exchange created under the
Affordable Care Act, The  Courier-Journal reported.

Louisiana Lafayette: The Advocate reported that  the U.S. Department of
Agriculture estimated the state's 465 cane growers would produce 1.45million
tons of raw sugar from the 2015 crop.  Jim Simon, general manager of the
American Sugar Cane League, estimated that 10% to 15% was lost because of the
weather.

Maine Bridgewater:  Multiple injuries were reported after black ice caused a
crash between a car and a pickup truck hauling a snowmobile trailer along U.S.
Route 1.

Maryland Frederick: Following a proposal from a group that wants to grow
cannabis at a greenhouse, the Frederick County Council is mulling medical
marijuana production on land zoned for agriculture, The Frederick News-Post
reported.

Massachusetts Boston: Officials ruled that a weekend blaze at an apartment
complex in  the Jamaica Plain neighborhood was caused by a candle left
unattended on the first floor. Boston Fire Department spokesman Steve MacDonald
says the  fire caused $50,000 in damage to the Pondview Apartments on Centre
Street.

Michigan East Lansing: Though intercity buses already are using a new
glass-front terminal building, Amtrak officials don't yet have a firm date on
when they'll move in and vacate an aging train station a few hundred yards away,
the Lansing State Journal reported.

Minnesota St. Paul: The state's tax take rebounded in December. A new shows that
the state netted $43million more than was projected earlier. It's about 1.2%
more than expected.

Mississippi Southhaven: A choir director at a DeSoto County high school was
charged with two counts of sexual battery, The Commercial Appeal reported.

Missouri Kansas City: Work is scheduled to begin this month on a $7.5million
project at Union Station that will expand Science City and add a bridge from the
front of the station to the parking garage, The Kansas City Star reported.

Montana Helena: State parks in Montana saw a third consecutive year of record
use.  Montana's state parks recorded more than 2.48million visitors last year --
up 11% from the previous record in 2014 and 34% above the 10-year average.

Nebraska Lincoln: Visitors will be able to learn more about wearable technology
and high-tech fibers at the University of Nebraska State Museum on Sunday. The
event is set to run from 1:30 p.m. to 4:30 p.m. at Morrill Hall, south of 14th
and Vine streets.

Nevada Reno: A survey by national moving company United Van Lines found that
Nevada is the second most popular destination in the Western USA  for folks
moving to a new area, the Reno Gazette-Journal reported. Only Oregon was a more
popular destination for movers in the West, according to the 2015 National
Movers Study.

New Hampshire Pembroke: Ken Gloss, a frequent guest appraiser on PBS' Antiques
Roadshow, will speak about the value of old and rare books at the Pembroke
Public Library on  Wednesday at 6:30p.m.

New Jersey Union Beach: Pluggy's Too, one of the most popular purveyors of pork
roll on the Jersey Shore, has closed, the Asbury Park Press reported. The
sandwich shop and grocery closed Jan.4 to take a week off, according to a sign
on the front window, but that temporary break apparently turned permanent.

New Mexico Upham: Spaceport executive director Christine Anderson said
commercial space flights could be launching as soon as the 2018 fiscal year.

New York Mount Vernon: The mayor's stepbrother resigned from his post as a city
firefighter, roughly a week after court documents were unsealed revealing he
pleaded guilty to federal gun charges, The Journal News reported.

North Carolina Raleigh:

A three-member State Bar panel rejected a request from prosecutors to find
Christine Mumma, head of the N.C. Center on

Actual Innocence, guilty of professional misconduct without a full hearing on
the allegations, The News & Observer reported. Mumma is an advocate for those
who claim they were falsely accused.

North Dakota Minot: The Downtown Business and Professional Association  put a
hold on a plan to use city economic development dollars to help businesses
dealing with disruptions from a three-year infrastructure upgrade project, the
Minot Daily News reported.

Ohio Cleveland: A fire over the weekend significantly damaged one of the first
restaurants of celebrity chef Michael Symon, WKYC-TV reported. The host of ABC's
The Chew says he's glad no one was hurt.

Oklahoma Oklahoma City: Authorities have one man in custody after a K-9 police
cruiser was stolen during a traffic stop.

Oregon Portland: A federal judge  dismissed a nude protester's claim that police
violated his rights by arresting him while he played violin stark-naked outside
the federal courthouse here. According to The Oregonian, the judge said Matthew
Mglej's nudity didn't advance a specific message, so it wasn't protected by
either the First Amendment or the state constitution.

Pennsylvania Macungie: Bear Creek Mountain Resort here opened for its first full
day of skiing last week.  But the resort shut down on Sunday as rain turned the
man-made snow into slush, The Morning Call reported.

Rhode Island Providence: Police are investigating after a teen was found
suffering from multiple gunshot wounds outside  the Neutaconkanut Recreation
Center on Plainfield Street.

South Carolina Greer: With annual volume exceeding 400,000 vehicles, the BMW
plant near Greer now makes more cars per year than any other factory in the
German automaker's global network,  The Greenville News reported.

South Dakota Interior: Badlands National Park began  a series of public meetings
about a possible entrance fee increase. A proposal that would go into effect in
2017 would raise the per-person walk-in rate to $12 from $7, double the
motorcycle rate to $20, raise the vehicle rate to $25 from $15 and bump the
annual pass to $50 from $30.

Tennessee Ooltewah: Hamilton County Schools' superintendent transferred the
basketball coach of Ooltewah High School, Andre Montgomery, off campus after
three of his players were charged with raping a teammate, The Chattanooga Times
Free Press reported. The incident allegedly happened Dec.22 at a Gatlinburg
cabin while the team was at a tournament, and school officials called off the
remainder of the team's season after the apparent hazing came to light.

Texas Canyon Lake: Authorities are investigating the deaths of two brothers from
Kyle whose bodies have been found in Canyon Lake. Both victims were wearing life
jackets, but lake water temperatures had dipped into the 50s.

Utah Lake Point: Authorities are searching for two suspects in the stabbing a
truck driver after an argument over a parking spot, KUTV-TV reported.

Vermont Burlington: A lawyer  asked federal investigators to examine financial
deals involving Burlington College and Jane Sanders, wife of Democratic
presidential candidate Sen. Bernie Sanders, the Burlington Free Press reported.

Virginia Esmont: Caromont Farm in Albemarle County is looking for volunteers to
help with its baby goats. The kids, as baby goats are called, need help being
bottle-fed and keeping warm, which is done via cuddling, the Richmond
Times-Dispatch reported.

Washington Yakima: There are about 100 buildings here  that officials are
working to get fixed up or demolished.  The Yakima Herald-Republic reported that
the City Council previously approved up to $100,000 in an effort to address such
structures. Since September, 20 dangerous buildings have been renovated or
completely torn down.

West Virginia Charleston: In 2015, five guns were found at airports in the
state, including two at Yeager Airport near Charleston, two at Tri-State Airport
near Huntington and one at Mid-Ohio Valley Regional Airport near Parkersburg,
the Gazette-Mail reported.

Wisconsin Belle Plaine: People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals claims
Dillenberg Fur Farm, in Shawano County, broke state animal cruelty laws by
inhumanely euthanizing mink and foxes, treating them roughly and failing to
provide veterinary care to injured animals. The Shawano County Sheriff's Office
confirmed it is investigating the claims, Green Bay Press-Gazette reported.

Wyoming Casper: The

holding company for Wyoming State Bank is planning to merge with a Nebraska
holding company.  The Boards of Directors for First Wyoming Bancorporation and
First Express of Nebraska have unanimously approved the deal. The transaction is
subject to regulatory approval.

Compiled by Tim Wendel, Nicole Gill and Jonathan Briggs, with Carolyn Cerbin,
Linda Dono, Mike Gottschamer, Ben Sheffler and Nichelle Smith. Design by Tiffany
Reusser.  Graphics by Alejandro Gonzalez.

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: graphic

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              122 of 227 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          February 10, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Sears says it will move quicker on closures;
Retailer looking for other ways to cut costs after Q4 miss

BYLINE: Hadley Malcolm, @hadleypdxdc, USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 355 words


Sears  will accelerate planned store closures and continue to purge other assets
to keep its business turnaround afloat after reporting Tuesday that the holiday
season will fall short of expectations.

Sears expects sales to come to $7.3 billion for the quarter ended Jan. 30,
compared with $8.0 billion in the year-ago quarter and below analyst estimates
for $7.4billion, according to S&P Global Market Intelligence. Sears reports
fourth-quarter and full-year results Feb. 25.

Sears estimates sales at stores open at least a year, a key measure for
retailers, fell 7.1% in the quarter at Sears and Kmart U.S. stores as the
company's apparel business dragged down store performance.

The company attributed its weak showing to unseasonably warm weather and
"intense competition."

As a result of its falling sales, Sears plans to speed up 50 planned closures of
unprofitable stores this year and look at other ways to cut costs by between
$550 million and $650 million, including evaluating staffing levels. The company
has not disclosed which stores are set to close.

Sears will also sell at least $300million worth of additional assets in the
first half of the year and is considering a sale of the Sears Auto Center
business. That will be on top of moves the company made last year to start
selling off its significant real estate portfolio into a real estate investment
trust in order to raise cash.

The Hoffman Estates, Ill.-based retailer has been struggling for years to regain
traction with customers who no longer feel compelled to walk through the door,
lured away by online retailers, more exciting apparel at brands such as Target
and H&M and appliance deals at places such as Lowe's and Home Depot.

Its shares have lost roughly half their value in the past year.  The stock
closed down 8.9% to $15.25 on Tuesday.

Sears has been heavily pushing a transformation toward what it calls a
"member-centric" model based on a loyalty program and more personalized
promotions for customers. In Tuesday's announcement, the company also said it
plans to improve its apparel offering with changes to product sourcing,
assortment and pricing.

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Spencer Platt, Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              129 of 227 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              May 20, 2016 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Cancer advocate acted more like an angel

BYLINE: Liz Szabo, @lizszabo, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 690 words


Jody Schoger understood what it meant to be isolated.

Schoger once described how she "curled up like a turtle" in her hospital bed
while fighting the life-threatening infection that followed surgery for breast
cancer in 1998. The infection developed after Schoger endured chemotherapy and
four operations, including one to remove damaged tissue that left her wound
"open to the bone."

"I remember never even opening the blinds, just hibernating," Schoger told me.
"I even started sleeping with the blankets pulled over my head. I was at the
edge of the world."

Schoger never wanted anyone else to feel that alone.

She spent the last years of her life working to bring people affected by breast
cancer together, connecting them to information and each other.

Through her blog and a breast cancer support group that she co-founded on
Twitter, Schoger became a teacher, a guide and a fearless friend to countless
men and women, most of whom she never met in person.

The Twitter group called #BCSM, or Breast Cancer Social Media, has grown into a
global community. Its hashtag has been used by more than 38,000 people.

Today, that community is in mourning. Schoger died Wednesday at age 61 from
breast cancer, which returned 15 years after she was first diagnosed.

I'm in mourning, too, because Schoger had become my friend.

We met online in 2009, when we both joined Twitter. I reached out to her while
researching stories on breast cancer, not once but many times over the years.

I stopped quoting Schoger after her breast cancer returned. Not because she was
too sick but because I realized I was no longer able to be objective about her
as a journalist. I had begun praying for her.

Schoger, who has been an angel to so many strangers, no longer needs my prayers.

But the world needs more people like her.

Schoger was an antidote to so much of what is wrong with the world -- the
hatred, the intolerance, the selfishness, the ignorance.

Over five years, Schoger and her collaborators organized 229 Twitter chats,
recruiting some of the top names in medicine to answer participants' questions.
Schoger knew that 60% of women with breast cancer never attend a support group.
She guessed that many might be willing to follow a Twitter chat, even if they
were too shy to speak up.

Women who joined these chats were hungry for information, sending an average of
700 Tweets during the hour-long conversations, according to an abstract that
Schoger and her collaborators presented at a medical conference in 2014. Twitter
users have typed more than 416,000 tweets with the #BCSM hashtag, according to
Symplur, which tracks health care social media.

#BCSM is a rarity in the online world, both for its intelligence and its tone.

Its organizers insist that any information shared must be supported by medical
evidence. People who try to use #BCSM as a forum for spreading pseudoscience --
such as the notion that a particular herb has miraculous healing powers -- are
quickly shot down.

#BCSM is also extraordinary because of the positive tone set by Schoger and her
collaborators, breast cancer survivor Alicia Staley and breast surgeon Deanna
Attai.

When Schoger and I first connected on Twitter, the medium still gleamed like a
new toy. Schoger made the medium seem warm and welcoming.

As Twitter has surged in popularity, it's increasingly become a place to bully
people rather than build them up. That has made communities such as #BCSM even
more important.

Beyond its weekly chat, #BCSM has become an around-the-clock source of support.
Women in distress can tweet to the group at any hour of the day.

Breast cancer survivor Anne-Marie Ciccarella recalls turning to the group one
night when her anxiety about an upcoming scan kept her awake. "I was all alone
in the house. I grabbed a phone. I typed something like, 'I hate this, the
sleepless nights,'" Ciccarella said. "Someone from halfway around the world who
was awake sent back a tweet saying, 'You're not alone. We're here. Just know
there's a whole community behind you.'"

That community will endure because there are so many women who have taken up
Schoger's call to action.

Szabo covers medicine for USA TODAY.

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Robert Hanashiro, USA TODAY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              136 of 227 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            October 21, 2016 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Local beer and global tastes in one diverse scene;
North Carolina city mixes art and innovation with a side of Southern charm

BYLINE: Ashley Day, USA TODAY

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 3D

LENGTH: 706 words


On one side of the bar, primitive tools and shield-like menu boards evoke
medieval times. Opposite sit framed pictures of Tom Selleck and Sloth from The
Goonies, who  also are painted in a mural on the building's exterior. The sun
has just set and though it's our third brewery stop, Burial Beer Co. is the
first to become crowded and chaotic.

The bartender sets down a tasting flight of four, details the brews, then adds a
fifth glass -- "and that is the saison you forgot," he shares before getting
back to the demanding crowd.

I light up and look back at my newfound friends, Brewgrass festivalgoers whom
I've just told that everyone in Asheville offers up extra tastes when I'm
indecisive, and I didn't even know he'd taken my flight card.

A cook at Rhubarb offered a sample of the gnudi last night when I opted for duck
confit after an extended ordering dilemma; a woman next to me at Chai Pani let
me try her fried okra after I didn't believe my server's recommendation (they
were right); and the veteran beer travelers and I have been sharing tastes from
Hi-Wire Brewing to Twin Leaf to here at Burial.

It's no secret that Asheville is the place for beer lovers in the Southeast, but
those who have visited will tell you the scene is travel-worthy for anyone in
America, with 20 breweries and counting -- the second most per capita behind
Bend, Ore.

"It's like the Napa Valley of beer," says Adam Charnack, owner and operator of
Hi-Wire Brewing. "People look to Asheville as this cultural bright spot in the
area, and there's a lot of really talented people doing cool things. We're a
really artistic community, and I think food and beer fit that, and culturally
beer's a big part of that."

What sets this beer town apart is that it's as much, if not more, of a dining
destination. Asheville is as innovative and diverse as it is warm and welcoming.
In one day I have pizza with local shrimp at All Souls, Brussels  sprouts
battered in local beer at Village Social, raw local trout at Cúrate and a sour
ale aged with local coffee at The Funkatorium. On another, I try Indian chaat
(street food) at Chai Pani, Korean dumplings at Gan Shan Station, American sake
at Ben's Tune-Up (a beer garden made entirely of recycled materials), and
coconut brown ale in a brewery with ping pong tables and foosball inside at Twin
Leaf Brewery.

Here, as much thought goes into the barbecue, doughnuts and tacos as the
farm-to-table fare, Spanish tapas and steakhouses. It's still a capital of the
South with its own biscuit chain, Biscuit Head, perfectly good vegetables deep
fried as menu sides, and an old-school soda fountain preserved inside a former
Woolworth's store (now home to an art gallery). But international specialties
have taken root.

"They have Himalayan and Mediterranean and French and Indian and southern --
it's so eclectic for a town this size," says visitor Tommy Davis of Ringgold,
Ga. "Normally you have to go somewhere like New York, Atlanta or Chicago to get
the variety of restaurants here."

Of course, Americana abounds. The city channels Portland, Ore., at Trade & Lore,
a coffee shop where hipsters can pay extra for the effort of a manual brew and
stay for spoken word on a stage above the dining area; Brooklyn with kombucha on
tap all around town; and Austin with its trademark barbecue spot, Buxton Hall
Barbecue, gracing national headlines and drawing lines.

"It's really wonderful to be in a place where nobody's resting on their
laurels," says Katie Button, chef of Cúrate and The Nightbell, and a cookbook
author as of this month. "There are so many people doing so many interesting
things here in a community that supports really unique, independent businesses."

Only here, Poppy Handcrafted Popcorn offers tasting flights of six of its
rotating flavors (like vanilla berry); One World Brewing includes home-brewer
recipes on the rotating taps in its nano-brewery beneath Farm Burger downtown;
the city's first hard cider company, Noble, is on almost every beverage menu I
perused.

Beyond the bites, Asheville remains an appealing destination with Appalachian
beauty, quirky culture and art and exceptionally friendly locals. It's also
perfect for a fall visit with stunning foliage and plenty of patios to enjoy it.


LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo photos by Ashley Day, USA TODAY
above, a tasting flight at Hi-Wire Brewing

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              137 of 227 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            October 25, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Kroenke's soccer venture tricky;
Rams owner finds role in England much different

BYLINE: Martin Rogers, mjrogers@usatoday.com, USA TODAY Sports

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 3C

LENGTH: 778 words


After the Los Angeles Rams slipped to a third consecutive defeat in a scrappy
game against the New York Giants on Sunday, owner Stan Kroenke stuck around in
London just long enough to take care of a bit of business. A billion-dollar
business, in fact.

Kroenke is known as "Silent Stan" for his reticence with the news media and
public, earning him an air of mystery in his dealings amid the U.S. sports
landscape, where the Rams, the NBA's Denver Nuggets and the NHL's Colorado
Avalanche are among his holdings.

Yet in the United Kingdom, he is regarded as even more of an enigma. Kroenke is
majority owner of English Premier League team Arsenal, valued as the
fifth-biggest soccer club in the world, but there is a slight catch.

With Arsenal being publicly traded, it means there is an annual shareholders
meeting, which took place at Emirates Stadium on Monday and offered a rare
glimpse of secretive Kroenke.

"We don't know what he thinks, and we don't actually know what he does for
Arsenal," shareholder Howard Blue told USA TODAY Sports. "It is all a bit
confusing, and it makes it hard to say if he is good for the club or not."

True to form, Kroenke didn't say much, save for presenting a gift to coach
Arsene Wenger in commemoration of 20 years of service and stating that he hoped
Wenger would remain in charge past the end of his contract.

He had to listen as shareholders, virtually all fans of the club, questioned the
organization's fiscal dealings. Kroenke even faced a vote on his re-election to
the board -- until chairman Chips Keswick informed those gathered that he held
proxies in Kroenke's favor totaling 79%, making a mixed show of hands from the
floor moot.

The autocratic nature of U.S. sports means that such occasions, where a board of
directors of a sports entity must provide accountability and explanation of its
actions for public consumption, are rare. Even if the Rams' tumble stretches to
the end of the season, Kroenke won't sit before blue-and-yellow-clad doubters in
Los Angeles anytime soon.

"Wouldn't happen in American sports," Arsenal CEO Ivan Gazidis told USA TODAY
Sports, referring to the open nature of the proceedings. Gazidis played a
pivotal role in developing Major League Soccer and was MLS deputy commissioner
until taking the Arsenal job in 2008.

While some might have found Monday's scrutiny tiresome, Gazidis said he enjoyed
the opportunity to interact with those fans invested enough to, well, invest.

One thing that rankles the Arsenal fan base is that Kroenke is a different kind
of owner from the likes of Roman Abramovich, Chelsea's oil billionaire chief,
and the ultra-wealthy Abu Dhabi consortium that purchased Manchester City. Those
entities have plowed in vast sums of cash on top of their original investment,
primarily to fund the acquisition of new star players.

Kroenke, as is his right, bought Arsenal as an investment, not a plaything.

"When you look at what those teams have done and the way it has built up their
clubs, it does make you think what might have happened if we had someone else
take over," shareholder and lifelong fan Tony King said. "(Kroenke) will go at
some stage, and he will have made a lot of money. We don't have a problem with
that, but I don't know if he will have taken Arsenal forward."

Kroenke is too distant to be the target of concerted vitriol, but such an
approach also makes him difficult to warm to, and -- for the most part --
Arsenal fans haven't. That said, Monday's meeting was fairly tame compared with
previous shareholder events, with such things tending to hinge on how the team
is doing at that moment. Arsenal is in second place.

If the great moneymaking scheme in U.S. sports is getting taxpayers to fund new
stadiums, in England it's all about TV rights. Global interest in the EPL means
that broadcast funds continue to pour in at an escalating level.

That presumably is what appealed to Kroenke when he began picking up shares in
2007, as it did with the Glazer family (Tampa Bay Buccaneers and Manchester
United) and John Henry (Boston Red Sox and Liverpool).

Being involved with a leading EPL club is a moneymaking train that can be
derailed only by poor management -- or demotion from the top tier of English
soccer. Arsenal has no fear of that, having finished fourth or better in each of
the past 20 seasons. It has a shrewd coach in Wenger, who has developed and
dealt players astutely. Gazidis has gained the backing of key board members with
his arrangement of commercial deals, which are expanding.

Kroenke, whatever he does and however little he says, might not win any
popularity contests. But when it comes to the bottom line, he is almost certain
to triumph.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Kirby Lee, USA TODAY Sports

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              138 of 227 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            November 4, 2016 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Continental inches luxury brand forward;
Lincoln sedan is roomy, comfort- able and loaded but unlikely to draw many new
buyers

BYLINE: Chris Woodyard, @ChrisWoodyard, USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 572 words


The 2017 Lincoln Continental luxury sedan will make a few buyers very happy, but
it's not the long-awaited car that turns Lincoln into a competitor for leading
global luxury brands.

Roomy, comfortable and loaded with  modern conveniences, it's a competent big
car that people already inclined to like Lincoln should love, but it's unlikely
to draw many new buyers to Ford's luxury brand.

It's a large and roomy luxury sedan with an attractive interior and modern
features, but the Continental's styling and performance betray the fact that
it's based on essentially the same structure as the Lincoln MKS it replaces.
Lincoln engineers reworked the existing architecture as thoroughly as they
could. The Continental's wheelbase and track are unique.

I tested a well-equipped all-wheel-drive Reserve edition with the 400-horsepower
V-6. Its features included Revel audio, 30-way power heated and cooled front
seats, heated steering wheel, navigation, Bluetooth phone and audio
compatibility, Apple CarPlay, navigation, large power sunroof, inflatable rear
seat belts, 20-inch polished aluminum wheels and more. It stickered at $72,560.
All prices exclude destination charges.

The Continental competes with large front-wheel-drive based luxury sedans such
as the Buick LaCrosse and Cadillac XTS. It could conceivably also compete with
Hyundai's new Genesis G90, a rear-wheel-drive based large sedan that hopes to
crack the luxury market. Like the Continental, those cars offer all-wheel drive.

The engine produced plenty of power. It's a heavy car, though. Lincoln only
provides the curb weight of a base 3.7-liter front-wheel-drive model, but even
that's a few pounds heavier than the Cadillac XTS with similar horsepower. The
Continental accelerates well in a straight line, but its heft -- and an aging
architecture that dates to when Ford owned Volvo -- reveals itself in hard
acceleration and quick maneuvers. Lincoln's adjustable dampers reduce that, but
the Continental doesn't challenge the handling of leading contemporary luxury
sedans.

Exterior styling sets a new course, with a tall and formal profile, big
rectangular grille, innovative door handles integrated into the chrome strip
running along the bottom of the windows, long roofline and vaguely Bentley-esque
rear fenders.

The Conti's best side is inside. My car's seats, doors and dash had black
leather, and warm brown wood decorated the steering wheel, doors and center
console. The 30-way front seats provide a wide range of adjustments and a
massage feature that should be useful on long drives. The optional Revel audio
system has precisely machined bright aluminum speaker grilles.

The 2017 Continental is a significant improvement for Lincoln. It's a car likely
to delight the brand's loyalists and dealers, if not one destined to lure buyers
from other luxury marques.

Power: Plenty of oomph from the largest engine.

Heft: It's heavy -- and handles that way.

Controls: Easy to use, a welcome change.

What? A full-size luxury sedan.

Where? Made in Flat Rock, Mich.

When? In showrooms now.

How big? 16.8 feet.

What makes it go? Choice of three V-6s at 305 horsepower, 335 horsepower or 400
horsepower.

How thirsty? Rated at 16 miles per gallon in the city, 24 mpg on the highway and
19 mpg overall.

How much? Starts at $44,500, including destination charges, but goes north of
$72,000 with higher trim levels and options.

Overall? Lincoln makes progress but still has a ways to go.

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Photos by Lincoln

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              148 of 227 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            February 26, 2016 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Weekend sessions test car setup, safety

BYLINE: Curt Cavin, @curtcavin, USA TODAY Sports

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 3C

LENGTH: 709 words


IndyCar's pursuit of protection from flying debris for its drivers takes the
next step with materials being tested this weekend at Phoenix International
Raceway.

Safety expert Terry Trammell told USA TODAY Sports on Thursday that IndyCar
"very reasonably could have a functional device for 2017."

Trammell was reached in Arizona after visiting with a company providing at least
one concept for a non-halo device, although Trammell declined to discuss
specifics.

The materials to be tested in the Verizon IndyCar Series' open session Friday
and Saturday will be studied for effectiveness in withstanding the forces of
abrasive debris such as excessive tire rubber along with the sand and pebbles
present in desert climates.

Justin Wilson died in August a day after suffering blunt force trauma when he
was struck in the head by an untethered piece of nose cone from another driver's
car during a race at Pocono Raceway. Nose cones will be tethered to the cars
this year at large oval venues such as Pocono and Indianapolis Motor Speedway.

Trammell said Wilson's frontal impact was similar to what Formula One driver
Felipe Massa experienced in Hungary in 2009 when a spring struck his helmet
visor and broke his skull. (Massa recovered and is racing again.) The key to
this process, Trammell said, is to determine how much energy can be absorbed by
the new materials.

Without divulging the companies, IndyCar President Jay Frye told USA TODAY
Sports that more than one of them had military contracts and their ideas were
rooted in lightweight, cost-effective devices that could be implemented in the
car design and transferred between cars. Specific costs haven't been formulated,
but it's likely they could come in well below $25,000 per car.

Some of the potential manufacturers are small, nimble companies with the ability
to react quickly, Frye said. "That was eye-opening. We thought this would be at
some astronomical cost, but a couple of these are quite promising," he said.

Participating this weekend will be 21 car-and-driver combinations -- 11 from
Chevrolet, 10 from Honda -- with another driver set to watch the race unfold.
Rookie Alexander Rossi was signed by Andretti Autosport too late to be ready for
action. The manufacturers will roll out the chassis updates they've been allowed
to make during the offseason.

In this game of speed, it's time to start showing cards. James Hinchcliffe
thinks everyone will.

"I think they have to, because we get so little track time on a race weekend,"
Hinchcliffe told USA TODAY Sports. "There's no points (awarded this weekend),
there's no prize money, but everybody will be there with the (pieces) they've
developed over the winter. And if you go there and you're 20th, you don't have a
lot of opportunity to improve the car and the setup that much before we go back
and race in April."

IndyCar will make its return to the 1-mile oval April 1-2; its last race there
was in 2005 and won by Sam Hornish Jr.

While this is an oval track, the bodywork configuration used this weekend will
be in play at the street circuits and road courses. So 81% of the season is with
this fundamental package. Hence the need to maximize a testing opportunity.

"We can't get caught in a game of sandbagging, because at the end of the day
(chassis changes) are set; there's nothing anybody can do about it," Hinchcliffe
said. "We've got what we've got, so let's see what we've got."

Said Team Penske's Juan Pablo Montoya: "For me, it's perfect. I felt we
struggled last year on the short oval. We had really good speed, but we
struggled in traffic. That's going to be (a point of emphasis) for us. It's hard
to know where you need to really be and how good you need to be. We'll see what
it brings."

Surely both manufacturers will realize gains, but Honda was able to convince
IndyCar it was at a competitive disadvantage last year, which gained it more
areas of this aero kit to modify. Honda was not allowed to change its
superspeedway package.

Ryan Hunter-Reay said it would take time to experiment with the new variables.

"I haven't been on a short oval with this package, and I haven't been to Phoenix
(to drive a car)," he said. "A lot's going to happen this week."

Cavin writes for The Indianapolis Star, part of the USA TODAY NETWORK.

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Matthew O'Haren, USA TODAY Sports

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              151 of 227 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             April 25, 2016 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Why food companies are telling us to;
More and more, business growth and profit- ability is tied to a healthy brand
image

BYLINE: Hadley Malcolm, @hadleypdxdc, USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 823 words


After spending years trying to persuade consumers to buy more of their
famous-name products, now some of the biggest players in the food industry are
trying to get people to eat less of them.

Burgers are shrinking, cookies are becoming thinner, package sizes are getting
smaller, and in at least one case, a company is telling customers to cut back on
its more indulgent foods.

It's a strategy that was thrust into the spotlight earlier this month when Mars
Inc., maker of M&Ms and Uncle Ben's rice, said it would start labeling some of
its meal products to indicate that they should only be eaten occasionally, due
to being higher in sugar, salt or fat.

It may be the most glaring example, but Mars isn't the first company to chase
business growth with this seemingly counterintuitive approach. A look at grocery
aisles and restaurant menus shows how prevalent the trend has become toward
products with leaner messaging.

McDonald's announced last week it's testing new sizes for its iconic Big Mac,
including a smaller "Mac Jr."

Mondelez introduced "thin" Oreos last year -- a smaller cookie, smaller package
size and fewer calories per serving.

Coke and Pepsi have started hawking miniature soda cans over 2-liter guzzlers;
Starbucks temporarily sold frappuccinos in a mini size last summer.

Other changes nudge customers to make healthier choices, such as posting calorie
counts on menu boards, which Subway became the largest restaurant chain to do
earlier this month. It will be a requirement for restaurants of a certain size
by next year.

As customers become increasingly concerned with package labels and legislation
starts mandating what food businesses must divulge -- like calorie counts and
foods with high levels of sodium -- downsizing has become yet another tactic
major companies are using to hedge against the demise of processed foods.

"It has everything to do with survival," says Will Rosenzweig, executive
director of The Food Business School, which is part of the Culinary Institute of
America. "We've just reached a point where you can't ignore that if you're on
the wrong side of this health and climate thing, you're going to be in a
declining business."

Rosenzweig and other branding experts were hard-pressed to think of other
examples of companies blatantly labeling products to tell customers to consume
them less frequently. But the move could be a pre-emptive attempt to avoid the
kind of scrutiny the alcohol and tobacco industries have faced, Rosenzweig says.

"You've got the precedent of what happened to the tobacco companies, where it
showed for so many years they were basically obfuscating their health impacts
and then faced tremendous scrutiny and fines," he says.

And still, companies are only willing to go so far. Notably absent from Mars'
new labeling initiative is its candy bars, which spokesman Craig Annis says
customers already understand shouldn't be eaten all the time.

The wording and look of the new labels haven't been finalized yet, and neither
has the list of products that will get the warning, which Mars plans to post on
its website in coming months.

The changes are only expected to apply to about 5% of Mars' global portfolio --
foods like pasta sauces and its flavored rices could be slapped with the
"occasional" label -- after the company plans to reduce salt, sugar and fat
across its savory products.

Still, the strategies highlight how, in the modern food age, business growth and
profitability are increasingly tied to the cultivation of a healthy brand image.

"To target growth, you have to be relevant," says Mary Zalla, global president
of consumer brands at Landor, a strategic branding and design firm. "I don't
think there's any food company that can ignore the impact and the growing
relevance that consumers place on health with regard to food."

Which is why companies that sell otherwise inherently unhealthy products are
aggressively rolling out healthier versions and smaller sizes, or making grand
commitments to reduce their reliance on artificial ingredients or cut fat and
sodium.

Health-centric messaging has become a vital weapon to how a company positions
itself with the public, and ultimately, gets its products into Americans'
mouths.

Mars' decision is part of a global wellbeing initiative over the next five years
that includes improving the nutritional content of its food and getting
customers to cook more at home, even if that means customers may not buy certain
products as often.

"How can we help have a positive impact on people who consume our products?"
Annis says. "Sometimes that requires some difficult decisions. Consumers are
looking for brands and businesses that they can trust to provide them with a
product that meets their high standards ... but also stands for something."

Smaller sizes, like mini Coke cans, have at least one added benefit to the
bottom line too: higher margins -- they cost less to produce but companies can
charge more per ounce.

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo McDonald's

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              156 of 227 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             June 14, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Missouri's Odom remains steady amid uncertainty;
New Tigers coach doesn't shrink from challenges

BYLINE: Dan Wolken, @danwolken, USA TODAY Sports

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 4C

LENGTH: 1219 words


Next to the big-screen television, which is hooked up to two video game systems
on which he claims to be undefeated, Barry Odom keeps cabinet drawers full of
sweet snacks for visitors to his office.

It is important to Odom, a former Missouri player and assistant who has lived
here for nearly all of his adult life, to make people feel just as comfortable
playing a video game with him as talking with him about the biggest concerns in
their lives. It is an essential part of the healing process that must take place
to get past the stigma of last fall, when racial tension on the University of
Missouri campus spilled over into a boycott by the football team.

"There's always going to be issues," Odom said. "In life, you have issues. As a
family, you have issues. I'm going to hit those head on. I'm not going to
backpedal or run from it. Let's go get better and find a way to make Missouri
the best university and athletic program in the country, and that takes work."

Odom, 39, received the opportunity of a lifetime in December when  he replaced
Gary Pinkel, who abruptly stepped down for health reasons. But his dream job
also comes with unusual challenges that will test whether Missouri is truly
built to compete in the Southeastern Conference over the long haul.

After Missouri won SEC East football titles in 2013 and 2014, its athletics
department has spent much of the last year putting out fires and trying to
regain lost momentum.

Whether it's the campus protests, Pinkel's retirement, quarterback Maty Mauk's
suspension and subsequent dismissal in January, an NCAA investigation into the
basketball program  or the softball team formally protesting an administrative
inquiry into the coach, it has been pretty much been constant chaos since Mack
Rhoades took over for longtime athletics director Mike Alden in April 2015.

"By no stretch are we past everything, but at least we can begin and start to
focus on the future," Rhoades said. "Bottom line for us, you're either going to
get worse from it or better, and there's only one option. We're going to get
better."

That's where, he hopes, Odom comes in.

Difficult road ahead

Though Odom was viewed by some as a hire who could help heal the wounds from
last fall, this was not about continuity.

Odom, in fact, made fairly significant coaching staff changes, dropping
offensive coordinator Josh Henson, offensive line coach A.J. Ricker, longtime
defensive line coach Craig Kuligowski and popular strength and conditioning
coach Pat Ivey.

Odom has had to work hard  to get the message across to Missouri staffers that
he was not simply carrying over the way things were done under Pinkel.

"There have been some challenges with that, because I've said a million times I
have such great respect for Gary and what he did," Odom said. "I'm going to do
some of the things he did as a program, but there's things we're doing
differently. We're not just wiping the calendar clean and putting a new date on
it and saying this is what we're doing because it's been done this way for 15
years."

The truth is, Missouri's next coach was going to have a more difficult road
regardless of the boycott fallout because the program's fundamental challenges
haven't changed.  It doesn't have a palatial football complex, which is pretty
much standard these days in the SEC. It doesn't have the richest pipeline of
in-state talent.

Pinkel overcame that because of the way his staff developed and used talent and
because Missouri's entry into the SEC coincided with the East's traditional
powers experiencing malaise.

With Georgia, Tennessee and Florida apparently on the upswing, Odom won't have
that luxury. Rhoades acknowledged that Pinkel's quick success in the SEC might
have given some at Missouri a false sense of security.

In other words, hiring Odom solely because he could heal a fractured campus
would have contradicted everything else Rhoades is trying to accomplish.

"I knew the hire would resonate well with our fans because he's a former player,
all those things, but for me I had to be extremely careful," Rhoades said. "The
No.1 question that Barry or any potential head coach had to answer for me was,
'Is he the right leader for our program?' That means national relevance. ...

"I think a lot of people or some people get the impression that if you're the
internal candidate, you've got the easiest path in terms of getting the job, and
that was completely opposite for Barry. He had the hardest path."

preparation is key

Though Odom is relatively  unknown outside Columbia, his football credentials
are unquestioned within the coaching profession. An overachieving linebacker out
of Lawton, Okla., he ended up at Missouri because Oklahoma State's new staff
under then-coach Bob Simmons didn't want him. Two years after his playing career
ended, Odom landed the head coaching job at Rock Bridge High School in Columbia.
He got an offer from Pinkel in 2003 to work as a graduate assistant.

After working his way up from administrative roles to Missouri's safeties coach,
Odom got a call from Memphis coach Justin Fuente offering the opportunity to be
defensive coordinator.

In Memphis, Odom's potential quickly became apparent. Despite  roster
challenges, Memphis jumped from 117th nationally in total defense to 50th in
Odom's first year. By his third in 2014, the Tigers won a share of the American
Athletic Conference title and allowed  19.5 points per game.

His return to Missouri as defensive coordinator last season was one of the
program's few positive developments, as the Tigers finished sixth nationally in
total defense.

Odom expects the defensive line to remain the foundation of the program. From
Aldon Smith and Sheldon Richardson to Shane Ray and Kony Ealy to Terry Beckner
and Charles Harris on the current team, Missouri has a wealth of talent.

"If you could pick a spot for me as a coordinator," Odom said, "I'd try to build
it around the line, and they can cover up a lot of stuff everywhere else."

Though  unflashy Odom will generate the least amount of buzz at SEC media days
in July, it won't be any surprise if he maximizes this opportunity.

Odom compiled a book of every offensive coordinator he ever faced with
information on formations and tendencies that stretched back to the beginning of
their careers to understand their evolution as a coach. He's so obsessed with
preparation, he said, he will test himself all the way up until game time,
drawing an opponent's routes on paper until he thinks he has a grip on what he's
about to face.

But Odom also doesn't want his players living in a football bubble.

And like it or not, the conversation about those issues isn't going away.
Questions about the boycott and the social climate on campus, particularly for
African-American recruits and their families, probably  will be attached to
Missouri for some time.

"Some of the ideas and some of the things that our players have seen and been
exposed to, it's nothing different than what they see in the everyday world.
They just happen to be two minutes up the street," Odom said. "The worst thing I
could do would be to not address it or not talk about it. I'm trying to get our
guys to open up and see there's life outside of this. Yeah, we're trying to win.
... But, man, your college opportunity is so short, let's take advantage of
every chance we get."

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Tim Tai, Missouri Athletics

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              162 of 227 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          November 30, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Trump flip-flops, and that's not a bad thing

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 524 words


During his campaign for the White House, Donald Trump made a series of
unattainable promises and took a series of extreme positions.

Now, as president elect, he's having to reconcile his stances with the situation
he finds himself in, also known as the real world. And that has meant some
significant course corrections, to put things politely, or flip-flops, to use a
less generous term. By one count, Trump has made at least 15 about-faces in the
three weeks since the election.

Last week, for instance, he acknowledged he would not seek appointment of a
special prosecutor to pursue a criminal case against his former rival, Hillary
Clinton, after vowing to do so in the second presidential debate. He also
expressed an openness to revising his positions on torture and the Paris
agreement on climate change.

These came on top of a number of earlier changes. Soon after the election, Trump
said he wanted to keep some portions of the Affordable Care Act, after vowing to
repeal it in full. He also admitted that deporting all 11 million undocumented
immigrants would be impractical and that some of his wall along the U.S.-Mexico
border might actually be a fence. He even had kind words for President Obama
after vilifying the incumbent for years.

Normally, we'd criticize a politician for all these flip-flops. And, with the
erratic Trump, there's always a possibility he'll flip right back to his
previous positions. But, on the whole, his moves are a  welcome acknowledgment
that the actual responsibilities of being president are a lot different from
being a candidate.

Calls to jail Clinton for her use of a private server while secretary of State
might have energized a Republican base, but an actual prosecution would generate
a firestorm of controversy for politicizing the legal system.

Similarly,  repeal of  Obamacare, without a careful plan to replace it, would
cast some 20 million people into limbo and do little for the GOP's popularity.

While Trump is at it, we'd like to see him tone down some of his other reckless
campaign pledges, such as his promises to tear up the Iran nuclear pact and
various trade deals.

But the president-elect is likely to soon find that these course corrections
themselves will have consequences. Many hard-line conservatives will start to
see him as too moderate. And even voters drawn to his maverick qualities, who
might not have taken him literally, will start to see him as just another
conventional politician who tells people what he thinks they want to hear.

Even with vague platforms that are hard to pin down, elected officials often
fall short of their promises. The website Politifact, for instance, finds that
Obama has only delivered on 45% of the original campaign pledges he made back in
2008. He broke his promise 23% of the time and agreed to a compromise that
produced partial results 26% of the time. (The remainder were either blocked or
are still playing out.)

Trump's campaign was engineered to win, not to govern after a victory. Now the
question is whether he can adjust to reality without breeding even more of the
cynicism that helped propel him into office in the first place.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Pablo Martinez Monsivais, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              165 of 227 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            January 12, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Penn's 'Rolling Stone' piece on 'EL Chapo' A huge debacle

BYLINE: Rem Rieder, @remrieder, USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 904 words


We've gotten used to the Chinese media picking up satirical articles as real
news, as when the People's Daily ran with The Onion's story about North Korean
strongman Kim Jong Un being the "sexiest man alive."

But the phenomenon hit closer to home over the weekend when entertainment site
Deadline.com fell for the latest bit of inspired nonsense from New Yorker
humorist Andy Borowitz.

Riffing off actor Sean Penn's controversial interview in Rolling Stone with
notorious drug lord El Chapo, Borowitz wrote, "Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, the leader
of the terror group known as ISIS, has cancelled a long awaited meeting with the
actor Sean Penn, a spokesman for the group announced on Sunday."

Without skipping a beat, Deadline posted an item headlined, "ISIS Leader Cancels
Meeting With Sean Penn: Report."

It's kind of amazing that Deadline didn't know what Borowitz does, or didn't
have the slightest bit of skepticism about the "story," which included such
clues as Penn having "gotten himself outfitted in brand new desert-camo attire
in preparation for the meeting," and a spokesman for al-Baghdadi saying the
terrorist chief "loves all of Sean's films, even that one he did with Madonna."

The episode is yet another cautionary tale about the dangers in today's
overheated digital journalism climate, in which virtually everyone quickly picks
up each other's stories.

But it also reflects a world in which the line between reality on the one hand
and the Onions and Andy Borowitzes of the world on the other often seems to
blur.

After all, who could have envisioned a presidential campaign in which a major
candidate asks fifth-graders to point out the worst student in their class,
totally humiliating one Iowa lad, and another appears to blame a debate
moderator's tough questions on her menstrual cycle.

Or a Hollywood actor scoring an exclusive interview with a fugitive and
world-class (and very dangerous) drug dealer?

Penn's tale of derring-do as he made contact with  since-captured El Chapo was a
true blockbuster. And an ethical nightmare for journalism.

That's because Penn and Rolling Stone effectively gave editorial control over
the piece to one of the world's most notorious criminals.

In a disclosure at the top of the 10,000-word-plus article, Rolling Stone
revealed that "an understanding was brokered with the subject that this piece
would be submitted for the subject's approval before publication."

Letting any story subject edit a magazine or newspaper is a truly bad idea.
Giving such power to a criminal with so much blood on his hands is so far beyond
the pale, you can't see the pale from there.

Rolling Stone says El Chapo, aka Joaquín Archivaldo Guzmán Loera, didn't ask for
any changes. Which is completely beside the point.

And why would he? The tone of the piece is as sympathetic as it possibly could
be, which is quite a feat when writing about a murderous criminal. Once he got
into the drug business, we learn, El Chapo quickly established himself as "a
Robin Hood-like figure who provided much-needed services in the Sinaloa
mountains." El Chapo as social worker. Albeit it that rare social worker "known
to deliver a single shot to the head for any mistakes made in a shipment."

Yes, what about all that killing? Well, you'll be relieved to know that "El
Chapo is a businessman first, and only resorts to violence when he deems it
advantageous to himself or his business interests." You'll also be relieved to
know that Penn, his Boswell, "took some comfort" in this.

We also learn that when the two men meet, El Chapo "smiles a warm smile." Oh,
and he has "indisputable charisma."

Their meeting in Mexico was a (seven hour!) getting-to-know-you session. Clearly
it went well. They set a time for an actual interview. Tragically, the
authorities close in on El Chapo, he narrowly escapes and all bets are off.

But contact is re-established via actress Kate del Castillo, and El Chapo agrees
to respond via video if Penn sends him some questions. And what questions they
are. "How has your life changed from then to now?" "Do you dream?" "How is your
relationship with your mom?"

This should be good practice for El Chapo should he once again bust out of jail
and decide to compete in a beauty pageant. Tip to El Chapo: Don't forget the
world peace angle.

In fairness, there also are plenty of questions about the drug business. But the
answers are, as you might expect, completely self-serving, and given the format
there was no opportunity for follow-up.

And there were no questions about the more than 60 journalists who have died or
disappeared in Mexico over the past decade, thanks in part to the drug industry.

One byproduct of the interview: Mexican authorities say the actor's adventures
with the drug kingpin helped lead to El Chapo's capture.

But what was Rolling Stone thinking? The magazine took a huge hit to its
credibility with its entirely discredited story about rape at the University of
Virginia. Of all publications, it shouldn't be ceding editorial control to
criminals. Sure, the El Chapo story has brought it lots of attention. But at
what cost?

Joel Simon, executive director of the Committee to Protect Journalists, has no
problem with reporters interviewing criminals. But, he told The Washington Post,
"if you as a journalist interview someone like El Chapo, you better deliver some
valuable and important information, in my view."

Sean Penn and Rolling Stone flunked that test.

Big time.

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Alfredo Estrella, AFP/Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              166 of 227 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            January 12, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Facebook co-founder plans to sell 'New Republic'

BYLINE: Roger Yu, @RogerYu_, USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 229 words


Chris Hughes, co-founder of Facebook who bought The New Republic in 2012 but has
struggled to retain readership following his controversial business strategy, is
looking to sell the venerable political news magazine, admitting that he
"underestimated" the difficulty of running a publishing business.

"I bought this company nearly four years ago to ensure its survival and give it
the financial runway to experiment with new business models in a time of immense
change in media," he wrote Monday to staffers and on blogging site Medium.com.
"After investing a great deal of time, energy, and over $20 million, I have come
to the conclusion that it is time for new leadership and vision at The New
Republic."

Hughes' turbulent reign at the magazine was highly publicized in 2014 after
staffers openly and publicly pushed back against his plan to cut back on the
print schedule by half, shift more resources to digital media and lay off
writers and editors.

"I will be the first to admit that when I took on this challenge nearly four
years ago, I underestimated the difficulty of transitioning an old and
traditional institution into a digital media company in today's quickly evolving
climate," Hughes wrote.

Hughes defended his performance in the letter, saying its mobile website is now
faster to load and that his digital strategy brought in "younger and more
diverse" readers.

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Jason Gardner

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              176 of 227 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             March 15, 2016 Tuesday
                                CA CHASE EDITION

Trump turning off Millennials;
And that is some very good news for Hillary Clinton, who has been struggling to
close the gap with younger voters

BYLINE: Susan Page and Jenny Ung, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 777 words


Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders has expanded his double-digit lead among Millennials
in the Democratic presidential race, but a new USA TODAY/Rock the Vote poll
finds a way for Hillary Clinton to solve her generation gap: Donald Trump.

Opposition to Trump nearly unites the rising generation.

In a hypothetical Clinton vs. Trump contest in November, voters under 35 would
choose Clinton by a crushing 52%-19%, a preference that crosses demographic
lines. Among whites, she would be backed by nearly 2-1, 45%-26%. Among
Hispanics, by more than 4-1, 61%-14%. Among Asian Americans, by 5-1, 60%-11%.
Among African Americans, by 13-1, 67%-5%.

And the yawning gender gap she has against Sanders would vanish: Clinton would
carry young men and women by almost identical margins of more than 2-1.

Nearly one in four Republicans would defect to the Democrats if the GOP
nominated Trump against Clinton. Just 7% of Democrats would defect to the GOP.

"Trump would kind of make a mockery out of America," worries Cameron Lee Craig,
25, a stay-at-home mom from Amelia, Ohio, who was among those surveyed. "He's
kind of a jerk."

The poll, the second in a series, is part of USA TODAY's One Nation initiative,
a series of forums across the country on the most important issues of 2016. The
online survey, taken by Ipsos March 3-10, polled 1,541 adults ages 18 to 34.

Sanders  leads Clinton among younger voters by 54%-37%, an even bigger advantage
than the 11-point edge he held in January's survey. Millennial women now back
Sanders by a jaw-dropping 61%-30% while the divide among Millennial men is much
closer, 48%-44%.

"He's a people-person and will bring a freshness to the country," Tracy Wanjiku,
21, a caregiver from Alameda, Calif., says in explaining her support for
Sanders. But in a Clinton-Trump standoff in November, she says, "I would vote
for Hillary -- not that I'm in much favor of her, but I think Donald Trump ...
his idea of politics is way too over-the-top. It's scary, to be honest."

Andres Palmer, 21, of Farmington, N.M., disagrees. Trump is "kind of aggressive
in the way he wants to run the country," Palmer acknowledges, but he adds, "It
does seem like he knows more about what he's talking about than the candidates.
The other candidates just seem like they have rocks for brains."

In the Republican primary race, Trump continues to lead the field, but he has
hit a ceiling in his support among Millennials. In January's poll and the new
one, he was supported by 26% of Republicans and independents. He hasn't gained
from the exit of seven rivals since the start of the year. Meanwhile, Florida
Sen. Marco Rubio's support has doubled to 18% and Texas Sen. Ted Cruz's support
has nearly doubled, to 14%. Retired neurosurgeon Ben Carson, who withdrew after
the survey started, was backed by 14%.

Clinton is much more broadly acceptable in her party than Trump is in his. One
in five Republicans in the survey say they would stay home in a Clinton-Trump
election, compared with one in 10 Democrats.

Millennial voters were a key part of the electoral coalition that elected Barack
Obama in 2008. In surveys of voters as they left polling places that November,
Obama carried voters under 30 over Republican John McCain by a lopsided 66%-32%.
Clinton hasn't generated enthusiasm among young voters -- Sanders has -- but
Trump's support significantly lags even McCain.

Millennial voters who back different candidates tend to cite different
priorities. Sanders supporters are much more likely than Clinton supporters to
say the ideal president would be "authentic" and would "share my values."
Clinton supporters are more likely to value strong experience in government.

Trump supporters are much less likely to value governmental experience and much
more likely to say the ideal president would have strong experience outside
government.

"If he were put in office, he would be able to straighten out the economy and
climate change and fix global warming," Ashley Yago, 33, of Greeley, Colo., said
of Trump in a follow-up interview.

But Tanner Marroquin, 20, of Lawrence, Kan., would vote for Clinton over Trump.
"I don't like having stubborn people in places of power," he says. The next
president should be "more community-based rather than a monarch."

"I'm leaning toward Bernie Sanders" in the Democratic primaries, says Olga
Figueroa, 27, of Silver Spring, Md. "I am a little more trusting of him." But in
a Clinton-Trump race, she would vote for Clinton. "Hillary may have been a
little inconsistent throughout her political career, but at least she has a very
straightforward and clear platform if she gets into the White House."

Trump, she says, "is a little extreme."

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: graphic Tannen Maury, European Pressphoto Agency

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              178 of 227 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              April 1, 2016 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Obama, Asian leaders huddle on region's concerns

BYLINE: David Jackson, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 419 words


While making final preparations for his nuclear security summit, President Obama
spent Thursday discussing challenges in Asia that span  North Korea's nuclear
weapons to China's military and territorial ambitions.

Obama, who welcomed world leaders to the White House for a working dinner, held
private meetings earlier in the day with the top officials from Japan, South
Korea, and China, sessions devoted mainly to North Korea's nukes.

"We continue to face the threat from North Korean provocations," said Ben
Rhodes, Obama's deputy national security adviser for strategic communications.
"We have to take necessary measures to protect ourselves and our allies."

The president held a joint meeting in the morning with Japan Prime Minister
Shinzo Abe and South Korea President Park Geun Hye. Though they are rivals on
many issues, Abe and Park are more united over concerns about North Korea, which
in recent months has conducted a fourth nuclear bomb test and launched a
long-range rocket into space.

Dan Kritenbrink, senior director for Asian affairs at the National Security
Council, said he expects Obama, Abe, and Park to "clearly demonstrate their
unity in our commitment and our firm resolve to deter and defend against North
Korean aggression."

The leaders  were  expected to discuss the battle against the Islamic State and
climate change.

North Korea also topped the agenda when Obama met in the afternoon with Chinese
President Xi Jinping.

Rhodes noted that U.S. officials have long been talking with Chinese, Japanese,
and South Korean officials about the threat posed by North Korea, and "we're in
discussions about the deployment of additional missile defense" in the area.

Obama and Xi also have other topics to discuss as well. They include Chinese
military expansion into the South China Sea, which is creating friction with
neighboring countries, and allegations that Chinese interests have hacked into
U.S. computers.

While the topic is not expected to surface in the Obama-Xi talks, China has also
become an issue in the American presidential campaign to replace Obama.
Republican front-runner Donald Trump says China is using trade rules to take
jobs away from the U.S.

China, Japan, and South Korea are key participants in the fourth bi-annual
Nuclear Security Summit, an event Obama first organized in 2010. Thursday's
working dinner at the White House precedes Friday plenary sessions devoted to
reducing nuclear stockpiles, improving security at nuclear facilities and
producing peaceful nuclear energy.

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              180 of 227 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            April 13, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Zuckerberg steps into political fray;
Facebook CEO lays out 10-year plan, takes swipe at Trump

BYLINE: Jon Swartz and Jessica Guynn, @jswartz, @jguynn, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 459 words


Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg laid out a 10-year plan to connect the world that
sounded as much like a political cause as a grab for potential billions in
dollars.

In a sweeping address that took on sharp political tones at times, Facebook's
31-year-old CEO told the f8 developers' conference here how Facebook aims to
reach the planet's 7billion people -- half of whom do not have Internet access.
And he took very direct aim at those who would limit free trade and immigration.

"We are one global community," he said. "Whether we are welcoming a refugee
fleeing war or an immigrant seeking opportunity, coming together to fight a
global disease like Ebola or to address climate change.

"Give everyone the power to share anything with anyone" was the theme of the
keynote, positioning Facebook as a unifying force for good against the current
political winds of divisiveness.

Zuckerberg detailed a plan to bring people together through an ambitious
strategy of unfurling technology that jumps borders and crosses cultures, a
sharp rebuke to Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump, who has
advocated building a wall along the U.S.-Mexico border and banning Muslims from
entering the U.S.

"As I look around the world, I'm starting to see people and nations turning
inward, against the idea of a connected world and a global community,"
Zuckerberg said. "I hear fearful voices calling for building walls and
distancing people they label as 'others.' I hear them calling for blocking free
expression, for slowing immigration, for reducing trade and in some cases even
for cutting access to the Internet.

"It takes courage to choose hope over fear. People will always call you naive
but it's this hope and optimism that's behind every important step forward," he
said.

The keynote, the most politically charged Zuckerberg has ever delivered, staked
him as a business leader on the world stage. Speaking to a crowd of 2,600
developers from around the world, one-third of whom used a passport to get to
the conference, Zuckerberg presented his vision in three pillars:

Artificial intelligence, which will help Facebook better sift through and
understand all of the photos, videos and posts;

Connectivity,  making Facebook and the Internet available everywhere and to
everyone;

Virtual and augmented reality, which Zuckerberg says one day will bring friends
together.

Not everyone buys into Zuckerberg's plans for global domination. In February,
India dealt a  setback to Facebook's plans to use Free Basics service to deliver
a limited version of the Internet,  including Facebook, at no cost.

"Mark Zuckerberg's vision is both benevolent and altruistic as well as entirely
self-interested at the same time," said Greg Sterling, contributing editor to
SearchEngineLand.

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Christopher Schodt for USA TODAY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              190 of 227 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             June 28, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

What should happen after 'Brexit' vote?

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 435 words


LETTERS

As if the world economy did not have enough headaches already, the United
Kingdom, in a surprise outcome, has voted to leave the European Union,
precipitating a sharp decrease in the value of the British pound and rocking
stock indices from the United States to Japan. This is sobering news for the
global economy, especially considering a report released by the World Bank
earlier this month estimated a sharp decrease in the global growth forecast,
from 2.9% to 2.4%.

Just as it appears that even the most developed countries seem unable to help
themselves or their less developed counterparts, there is at least one viable
solution: aggressively tackling global poverty. Thus, for the greater good,
wealthier countries should provide more foreign aid to the poorest countries.

Providing aid, as the United States does through the International Affairs
Budget, is not a budgetary waste. By stabilizing the most impoverished lives,
companies everywhere gain access to markets of labor, capital and consumers they
never had access to before.

Given the United Kingdom's self-inflicted ouster from the open European Union
market, it would do well to set an example of how to shore up its economy as it
sails into uncharted political and financial waters.

Neil Decenteceo

Royal Palm Beach, Fla.

The United States should join Australia, Canada and New Zealand in seeking
closer economic, cultural and political ties with the UK as it separates from
the EU. The UK and its offshoot nations are our friends, given a shared history,
legal system and commitment to democracy.

If the U.S. had acted jointly with those countries throughout the 20th century,
rather than only for limited periods, I think both world wars would have been
shorter and the global economy would have been far stronger. Today's threats of
terrorism, rising dictatorship, climate change and economic stagnation are no
less serious, and also best addressed by a united front.

Christopher S. Edwards

New York

TWITTER

We asked our followers what lessons Americans should learn from Britain's vote
to leave the EU.

Centralized government does not work and only helps the elite at the expense of
everyone.

@hyperion5182

The economic crash following "Brexit" is just a small preview of the chaos that
would be unleashed if Americans elect Donald Trump for president.

@jetsjets

I'm afraid one lesson may be that a free vote "needs" to be overturned unless
the result is the "correct" one.

@DavidWJones2016

An oppressive government can be stopped with courage. Something we need to do
now here in the U.S.

@HH41848213

For more, follow @USATOpinion or #tellusatoday.

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              191 of 227 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             June 28, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Cameron rules out 'Brexit' revote;
World markets plunge again; S&P cuts UK rating

BYLINE: Jane Onyanga-Omara,, Kim Hjelmgaard, and John Bacon

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 676 words


British Prime Minister David Cameron laid out the first steps toward the
"Brexit" and ruled out a second referendum Monday as global anxiety heightened
over the implications of the United Kingdom's vote to split from the European
Union.

World markets shuddered in the second day of negative reaction to Thursday's
vote. The British pound has fallen to its lowest value in decades, and the U.K.
was stripped of its perfect AAA credit as S&P Ratings took it down two notches
to AA. The vote was a "seminal event and will lead to a less predictable, stable
and effective policy framework in the U.K.," the S&P report says.

Cameron said the U.K. would seek to retain the "strongest possible" economic
ties with the EU.

"Britain is leaving the European Union, but we must not turn our back on Europe
or the rest of the world," Cameron said in a speech to Parliament.

Cameron reiterated his position that details of the Brexit terms should be
worked out by his successor. He had planned to stay on as prime minister until
October, but his Conservative Party unveiled an expedited plan to replace him,
calling for nominations to open Wednesday, a timetable that would put a new
leader in place by Sept. 2.

Cameron said he was forming a special commission of civil servants to prepare
for the transition. He said he did not expect the status of workers from other
countries to change, and he condemned a flare-up in hate crimes targeting
Muslims, Poles and other immigrants.

Cameron said that, although Thursday's vote had stunned the world, banks and
other institutions had prepared "robust contingency plans."

"We are well-placed for the challenges ahead," he said. "I believe we should
hold fast to a vision of Britain that wants to be respected abroad, tolerant at
home, engaged in the world and working with international partners to advance
the prosperity and security of our nation for generations."

Secretary of State John Kerry, in visits with EU leaders in Brussels and British
Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond in London, called for calm.

"I think it is absolutely essential that we stay focused on how, in this
transitional period, nobody loses their head, nobody goes off half-cocked,
people don't start ginning up scatterbrained or revengeful premises," Kerry said
in Brussels.

Earlier Monday, British Finance Minister George Osborne attempted to allay
market fears while "leave" campaign leader and potential prime minister
candidate Boris Johnson urged Britons to "build bridges" after the controversial
vote.

"It will not be plain sailing in the days ahead," Osborne said in his first
public appearance since the iconic vote. "You should not underestimate our
resolve. Our economy is about as strong as it could be to confront the challenge
our country now faces."

Johnson has been under pressure to further justify his backing for the Brexit
amid deepening concerns about its impact.

"It is clear that some have feelings of dismay, and of loss, and confusion,"
Johnson wrote in an opinion piece for The Telegraph newspaper Monday. He blamed
a "climate of apprehension," adding, "At home and abroad, the negative
consequences are being wildly overdone, and the upside is being ignored."

In Berlin, German Chancellor Angela Merkel met with French President Francois
Hollande and Italian Prime Minister Matteo Renzi. Only the U.K. can invoke
Article 50 of the EU treaty, which triggers the exit process. The leaders agreed
that no talks could be held until that happens but called for a quick
resolution.

"There is nothing worse than uncertainty," Hollande said.

The crisis engulfing Britain's opposition Labour Party worsened Monday as more
of its senior members resigned in a growing revolt against party leader Jeremy
Corbyn's handling of the EU referendum. More than half of the party's "shadow
cabinet" -- opposition leaders who form an alternative cabinet to "shadow"
government Cabinet members -- have resigned.

Corbyn faces a no-confidence vote, accused of failing to vigorously back the
"remain" side. Corbyn says he won't resign.

Bacon reported from McLean, Va.

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo AFP/Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              196 of 227 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              July 25, 2016 Monday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Leaked DNC emails ignite new tensions around convention;
Sanders vows to rally around Clinton despite controversy

BYLINE: Nicole Gaudiano, @ngaudiano, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 686 words


Democrats hope to project an image of unity Monday as Bernie Sanders delivers
opening remarks at the party's national convention. But an email scandal and the
subsequent resignation of the national party's top official threaten to
undermine that theme.

The Vermont senator said Sunday he wasn't shocked but was "disappointed" by
Democratic National Committee emails that suggest DNC officials were hostile
toward his presidential campaign and favored former secretary of State Hillary
Clinton. In one email among the thousands released by Wikileaks, a DNC official
suggests the party could use questions about Sanders' faith to hurt him in the
South. In another email, the DNC's chairwoman, Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz,
D-Fla., refers to Sanders' campaign manager as a "damn liar."

On Sunday, Wasserman Schultz said she will step down as DNC chairwoman at the
conclusion of this week's convention in Philadelphia. But she also said she
plans to open and close the convention and to "address our delegates about the
stakes involved in this election not only for Democrats, but for all Americans."

In appearances on talk shows earlier Sunday, Sanders had again called for
Wasserman Schultz's resignation but said Democrats should focus on defeating GOP
nominee Donald Trump, whom he called "perhaps the worst Republican candidate
that I've seen in my lifetime."

Sanders' will hammer that point home in his speech Monday and will "rip into
Trump" for denying climate change is real, according to his campaign. He also
will note the "most progressive platform in Democratic Party history" includes
agreements he reached with Clinton to expand access to health care and make
public college tuition-free for students from families with annual incomes up to
$125,000 a year.

Sanders also will tell the 13million voters who supported him during the primary
season that the political revolution they helped him launch continues, according
to the campaign.

The DNC emails released by Wikileaks are bound to fuel their sense that national
Democratic officials betrayed Sanders. The emails also will make it more
difficult for Sanders to rally his supporters behind Clinton on Monday because
they likely will believe she was in "collusion" with the DNC, said Patrick
Murray, director of the Monmouth University Polling Institute.

"The wound hasn't healed yet," he said. "It's ripping off the scab and reopening
it. In the end, they're going to vote for her. The impact is on the level of
enthusiasm. What (Democrats) were hoping for is a clean convention with Sanders
sending a very clear signal with his speech that 'We're all united behind
Clinton.' These email leaks just make it harder for some of his supporters to do
that in a very enthusiastic way."

Tensions already were high between Sanders and the DNC. Earlier in the campaign,
they feuded over the Democratic debate schedule, access to a DNC voter database,
a joint fundraising agreement between the DNC and Clinton, and representation on
convention committees.

"It confirms what was evident for months -- the heavy-handed role of the DNC to
predetermine the outcome of the primaries and their one-sided collaboration with
the Clinton campaign (and, apparently, a few people in the media)," emailed
Charles Idelson, spokesman for National Nurses United, which supported Sanders'
campaign.

Clinton campaign manager Robby Mook, speaking Sunday on This Week, noted that
the DNC official who questioned Sanders' faith has apologized, which he called
"an appropriate step." He said the DNC needs to look into the matter, take
appropriate action and determine the accuracy of the leaks. Mook said the DNC
account apparently was hacked by Russians to benefit Trump.

Recent polls show most Sanders supporters are ready to back Clinton over Trump.
A Pew Research Center survey, conducted June 15-26, found that 85% of Democrats
and Democratic-leaning voters who backed Sanders in the primary said they plan
to vote for Clinton in the general election. Nine percent said they'll vote for
Trump and 6% said they'll vote for another candidate or don't know.

Contributing: Heidi M. Przybyla

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Craig Rubadoux, USA TODAY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              200 of 227 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            August 3, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Why Elon Musk is a bad role model for small biz

BYLINE: Rhonda Abrams, @RhondaAbrams , Special for USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 675 words


Elon Musk, slow down. You're a great entrepreneur, but as any successful
entrepreneur or small-business owner will advise you: Build one business at a
time.

This past week, Elon Musk, CEO of electric-car maker Tesla, unveiled his vision
of the future, called "Master Plan, Part Deux."

Not content to just concentrate on building a sexy, safe and desirous electric
car, Musk already has a lot on his plate: building a massive electric battery
plant in Nevada, buying the solar-panel company SolarCity and, oh by the way,
running SpaceX. Now, in his master plan, Musk has set his sights on developing
electric-powered trucks, autonomous buses and a ride-sharing program.

Musk, a true entrepreneurial visionary, is a prime example of the type of
entrepreneur I call a "challenge junkie." When looking at what motivates
entrepreneurs, I've identified the Four Cs: challenge, cash, creativity,
control. Typically, challenge beats out all the others. (Yes, even cash.)

Why? Entrepreneurs often get their business ideas by seeing a problem: a need
that isn't being met, an existing product or service done poorly. That's the
challenge they want to solve (and make money, too).

But here's the rub, and where many entrepreneurs and small-business owners go
wrong. Once the challenge has been met, they lose motivation. They're not really
interested in the day-to-day details of execution. Shipping? Personnel? Managing
a website? Boring.

In fact, in running your own business, you may be a challenge junkie like Elon
Musk. You may be looking for the next challenge rather than at executing the
vision you've already started.

"Build one business at a time." That was one of "Kleiner's Laws" from legendary
venture capitalist Eugene Kleiner, founder of Kleiner Perkins  Caufield  Byers,
who helped create some of America's greatest companies.  He warned entrepreneurs
about distractions.

Here's why:

You only have so much time. Everyone -- even Elon Musk -- only has 24 hours in a
day. No matter how smart you are or how little you sleep, that's an immutable
fact. Even if you're an amazing delegator with the ability to attract great
people, thare are many decisions and deals only you can make. And you still have
to answer your key people's emails.

You only have so much attention. To build a truly great company, you need to
give it more than 25% or 50% or 75% of your attention -- it takes 110%. That's
why founders and key employees in start-ups often have trouble maintaining
family and personal relationships. Even while running a small business, you have
to keep your focus, and trying to build too many products, too many services,
too many distribution channels can keep you from success.

You only have so much money. Tesla may have hundreds of millions of dollars, but
even its investors get restless. Small businesses and start-ups have far more
limited funds. If you spread your financial resources too thinly, you run out of
the funds you need to make your vision a reality.

Others have only so much patience. People want to see results. Whether it's
investors, customers, employees or your family, they want to know that their
belief in you is not misplaced. After awhile, even your staunchest supporters
want to know that you can deliver what you promise, can make your vision a
reality.

To be sure, Musk's challenge may be much more important and pressing than an
entrepreneur trying to create the next social media app. He's driven to create
an ecosystem of sustainable energy to combat climate change.

But right now, Tesla has 400,000 reservations for their $35,000 Model 3 electric
car, due out next year. Delivering on those, building a hugely successful Tesla
may be the most important thing Musk can accomplish to help achieve his vision
of a future built on

As a challenge junkie, Musk needs to reframe his challenge. His challenge is to
build a great electric car COMPANY, not just a great car.

Rhonda Abrams is the author of 19 books, including "Successful Business Plan:
Secrets & Strategies."  Connect with her at
facebook.com/RhondaAbramsSmallBusiness

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Robert Hanashiro, USA TODAY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              208 of 227 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           September 19, 2016 Monday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Trump's 'birther' reversal replaces one lie with another

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 485 words


In 36 seconds Friday, Donald Trump tried to vanquish a lie he has perpetrated
for several years, namely that Barack Obama might not have been born in the
United States and, by extension, was never legitimately president.

Trump touted this crackpot theory in 2011 when he flirted with running for
president, and he never backed away from it. Never, that is, until Friday, when
he finally conceded at a campaign event that "President Obama was born in the
United States. Period."

Trump deserves about as much credit for this ridiculously belated admission as
he should get for declaring that the Earth is round or that the pope is
Catholic. A true apology is in order, as is a fuller explanation of when and how
Trump got in touch with reality.

But that is not what he or his supporters produced over the weekend. New Jersey
Gov. Chris Christie, for instance, argued on CNN Sunday that by not repeating
the lie during his campaign -- but never correcting it -- Trump had essentially
made the issue moot.

Campaign director Kellyanne Conway, on Fox News Sunday, repeated Trump's latest
absurdity -- that Hillary Clinton's 2008 campaign, and not he himself, had been
responsible for the birther argument.

To be clear, there is no evidence that Clinton or anyone on her campaign ever
publicly questioned Obama's citizenship. Conway speciously cited a memo written
during Clinton's primary contest with Obama in 2007 in which an aide suggested
that Clinton contrast her Illinois childhood with Obama's more exotic upbringing
in Hawaii and Indonesia.

In pursuing this line, Trump is not correcting a lie. He is merely replacing it
with another.

Trump's bizarre  "birther" claims, which played out on cable television during
much of 2011, not only sought to undermine the legitimacy of the first
African-American president, they  breathed life into a radical, bigoted fringe
in America  that could never abide such an election result. Many elements of
that same fringe are some of Trump's most ardent supporters.

But the Republican presidential nominee clearly faced a conundrum before
stepping to the podium on Friday. With Obama's approval rating above 50%, and
with Trump trying to broaden his appeal, he was eager to put this messy birther
business behind him as the presidential race narrows.

He has not done that. If anything, he has merely brought new attention to his
extreme difficulty in uttering things that are true.

Even so, for a candidate who takes pride in never admitting error, perhaps
Trump's concession Friday opens the door for him to come clean on some of his
other whoppers in the 50 days until the election.

He could finally abandon his claim that human-caused climate change is a "hoax."
He could own up to the fact that he was for the Iraq War before he was against
it. He could admit that he never saw video of thousands of Muslims in New Jersey
celebrating the 9/11 attacks.

So many lies, so little time.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Jim Watson, AFP/Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              209 of 227 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          September 21, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

ExxonMobil shares drop on SEC probe

BYLINE: Kevin McCoy, @kmccoynyc, USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 285 words


Shares of ExxonMobil fell Tuesday amid confirmation that a federal regulator is
investigating some of the U.S. energy giant's accounting practices. The
Securities and Exchange Commission has sought information about the company's
financial reporting, Exxon Mobil spokesman Alan Jeffers said in a statement.

The confirmation came after The Wall Street Journal reported the SEC is probing
how the company valued its assets during the continuing plunge in global oil
prices, as well as how it estimates future asset values as governments and
regulators consider new climate change regulations.

Irving, Texas-based ExxonMobil already has been responding to similar accounting
questions raised in an investigation by New York's top legal official.

Other U.S. energy companies collectively have written down the value of their
drilling assets by $177 billion last year, and an additional $15 billion in the
first quarter of 2016, according to estimates by IHS Energy. But Exxon Mobil has
not followed suit.

While the Wall Street regulator declined to comment, Jeffers said "we are fully
complying with the SEC request for information and are confident our financial
reporting meets all legal and accounting requirements."

He characterized the agency as "the appropriate entity to examine issues related
to impairment, reserves and other communications important to investors."

ExxonMobil's 2016 annual report filed with the SEC also said "the Corporation
performs impairment assessments whenever events or circumstances indicate that
the carrying amounts of its long-lived assets (or group of assets) may not be
recoverable through future operations or disposition."

The company's shares closed down $1.29, or 1.5%, to $82.54.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              217 of 227 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           October 13, 2016 Thursday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Ian McEwan in a 'Nutshell': A clever riff on 'Hamlet'

BYLINE: Kevin Nance, Special for USA TODAY

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 3D

LENGTH: 493 words


From its first sentence -- "So here I am, upside down in a woman" -- Nutshell,
the brief, brazenly audacious new novel by Ian McEwan (Nan A. Talese/Doubleday,
197 pp., *** out of four), wastes no time in announcing its own cleverness.

With its high-concept premise (the tale is narrated by an 8-month-old fetus
still floating in his mother's womb) and aristocratic pedigree as a riff on
Shakespeare's Hamlet, the novel makes no claim to be as accessible as McEwan's
best and best-known work, Atonement. Instead, the British author seems eager to
show off his intellect, his learning and his skill at writing sentences, all of
which are impressive; then again, we knew that already.

The premise will be polarizing. We know  fetuses can hear, feel pain and have
many of the same experiences as newborns, but what fetus ever had the advanced
literary and geopolitical consciousness -- not to mention the silken prose style
-- of Ian McEwan? On the other hand, as Kafka, Vonnegut, Margaret Atwood and
other literary giants have demonstrated over the past century, great fiction
writers aren't bound by the rules. They make their own rules, and compel us --
by means of their extraordinary skills with language and storytelling -- to
follow them.

With some hesitations here and there (such as when the unnamed fetus falls to
musing about the threat of climate change and appears to anticipate the Brexit
vote), I found myself following McEwan on this fictional journey, however
implausible. Relaxing enough to accept a conceit like that of Nutshell -- which
was inspired by Hamlet's imaginative flight: "I could be bounded in a nutshell
and count myself a king of infinite space, were it not that I have bad dreams"
-- is not quite the same thing as suspending disbelief. It's more like a tacit
agreement to spend some time together playing make-believe. Take me someplace
worth going and I'm right behind you.

And that, in a nutshell, is where this novel feels less than fully germinated.
It promises at the outset to be at least a nominal retelling of Hamlet; the
narrator overhears his mother, Trudy (get it?), and his uncle, Claude (got it),
plotting to kill his father. It's worrisome, sure, but what's a fetus to do? It
isn't easy to be a hero, or an avenger, while swimming in amniotic fluid.
Shakespeare's waffling prince is famously ineffective, but McEwan's
Hamlet-in-embryo takes futility to an entirely new level.

The unborn narrator is a clever gimmick, to be sure, but it's also something of
a non-starter in terms of delivering a satisfying narrative. With that striking
first sentence, McEwan has already written himself into a corner; a protagonist
who can't act must instead stall and comment, pontificate and filibuster. The
speaker -- and through him, the author himself -- is more than up to that task.
But there's a bigger, more important task in a genre that the great majority of
readers still insist should contain something resembling a plot.

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Urszula Soltys

DOCUMENT-TYPE: BOOK REVIEW

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              218 of 227 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            October 25, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Big battle is brewing over monster merger

BYLINE: Rem Rieder, @remrieder, USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 772 words


It's a big deal that arrives squarely in the midst of a presidential campaign
that gave us the word "bigly." Start with the price tag: AT&T would pay a cool
$85.4 billion to acquire Time Warner.

That's real money.

Then think about the scope: It would put together a big-time content distributor
with a content producer whose wide array of holdings include HBO, CNN, Warner
Bros., TNT, TBS, the Cartoon Network, Bleacher Report and DC Comics.

That's a lot of prime content.

And the sheer size of the undertaking guarantees in the current climate  intense
scrutiny by the federal government.

AT&T and Time Warner argue there aren't really any serious regulatory issues to
worry about because the companies don't compete. They are in different
businesses. Time Warner makes stuff, AT&T transmits stuff. It's what the suits
call vertical integration. And all of that is true.

But consumer advocates worry the deal would  give too much control over too much
content to a single entity. There's concern, for example, that the merged
company could take advantage of its clout by charging distribution rivals higher
prices for its desirable wares. The outcry against the merger was immediate and
loud.

"Allowing a communications behemoth like AT&T to swallow the Time Warner media
empire should be unthinkable," said former FCC commissioner Michael Copps, now a
special adviser to Common Cause. "The sorry history of megamergers shows they
run roughshod over the public interest. Further entrenching monopoly harms
innovation and drives up prices for consumers."

The deal comes at a time when big business is not exactly a popular player on
the hustings. Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump has railed against a
system he depicts as rigged in favor of corporate elites at the expense of the
working class. Socialist Bernie Sanders' vigorous challenge in the Democratic
presidential primary has pushed Hillary Clinton, she of the fabulously
compensated Goldman Sachs speeches, well to the left on business issues.

Trump moved quickly to emphasize that his administration, should there be one,
would not greenlight the deal because, he said Saturday on the campaign trail,
it would result in "too much concentration of power in the hands of too few."
Clinton running mate Tim Kaine suggested a Clinton administration would give the
transaction a very close look. "I share the concerns and questions," he said
Sunday on NBC's Meet the Press. "We have to get to the bottom of them."

Big mergers are the purview of the Justice Department, which no doubt would take
a very close look no matter who prevails on Nov. 8. The FCC would not
necessarily investigate the transaction.

On Capitol Hill, the leadership of the Senate Judiciary Committee telegraphed
that the panel also would be dissecting the deal and its ramifications.

When it comes to mergers this is hardly the first rodeo for either of the
players. Time Warner, in fact, was a participant in one of the all-time merger
horror shows, its doomed 2000 marriage to AOL. That deal, too, linked a content
maker and a distribution partner. But as Kara Swisher, who wrote a book about
that merger, points out on Recode, that deal was done in by the utter
incompatibility of the cultures of the companies. In particular, Swisher writes,
the Time Warner side had little respect for its new partners.

AOL was spun off in 2009.

Certainly a cautionary tale should the AT&T/Time Warner mashup become a reality.
If the companies don't really merge, all the lofty rhetoric in the world won't
count for much, no matter how sound the idea behind it.

As for AT&T, it made a big splash last year when it acquired satellite-based TV
service DirecTV, which made the phone company the nation's largest pay-TV
distributor.

But in 2011, the company dropped its bid to acquire T-Mobile in the face of
vigorous opposition from the Obama administration. That transaction would have
made AT&T the country's biggest cellphone service provider. This, of course, was
a case of horizontal integration, in which AT&T would have been swallowing up a
competitor.

Should the deal go through, AT&T would find itself owning a major news outlet in
CNN.

Despite its excesses, CNN remains a vital journalistic institution. What would
phone company ownership mean for the 24-hour news operation?

"I think of a brand like CNN, and the key variable of your brand is your
independence, and when people watch CNN, are they getting an independent
assessment and reporting of the news," Randall Stephenson, AT&T chairman and
CEO, said Monday on CNN's New Day. "The last thing we want to do, as AT&T, is in
any way taint that in the slightest bit."

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Mark Lennihan, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              219 of 227 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           October 26, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Election, jobs cited as consumer confidence falls in October

BYLINE: Paul Davidson, @Pdavidsonusat, USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 352 words


Consumer confidence fell sharply in October, a retreat that some economists
attributed to uncertainty over the presidential election and slowing job growth.

A closely-watched index of Americans' outlook declined to 98.6 from a downwardly
revised 103.5 in September, the highest since early 2015. Consumers' perceptions
of both current conditions and the six-month outlook dimmed. Economists expected
a more modest drop to 101.5, according to a Bloomberg survey.

Monthly job growth slowed to an average 161,000 in August and September after
booming gains the previous two months and is averaging 178,000, down from
229,000 in 2015. But with unemployment at 5%, employers are struggling to find
workers, handing job candidates more leverage and nudging up wage increases.

And although pump prices have increased in recent months, regular unleaded is
still a bargain at $2.22, roughly flat over the past month and the past year.

Some economists have said uncertainty tied to a divisive presidential election
may be dinging consumer optimism.

"The drop in consumer confidence was broad-based and was driven by heightened
levels of political uncertainty, rising gasoline prices and a lackluster jobs
report," economist Chris Christopher of IHS Global insight wrote in a note to
clients.

And earlier this month, the University of Michigan chalked up a sharp drop in
its sentiment index to the negative impact of uncertainty related to the
presidential race, especially among lower-income consumers.

In October, 26.2% of those surveyed said business conditions are "good," down
from 27.7% the previous month. The share saying conditions are "bad" jumped to
17.7% from 15.8%. And the portion saying jobs are "plentiful" fell to 24.3% from
27.6%.

Americans were also less optimistic, with 13.1% expecting more jobs in the
months ahead, down from 15.7%. The share expecting fewer jobs dropped to 17%
from 18.1%. Yet 17.5% expect their incomes to increase, unchanged from a month
ago.

Americans' perceptions of the economy and labor market can be an indicator of
their future spending, which comprises about 70% of economic activity.

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Drew Angerer, Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              222 of 227 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            November 18, 2016 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Obama urges Trump against careless deals with Russia;
President praises relations with Merkel, who vows to continue cooperation,
global vision

BYLINE: Gregory Korte, @gregorykorte, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 352 words


President Obama urged his successor to continue a tough-but-open policy on
Russia, saying Thursday that President-elect Donald Trump should not fall into
the trap of seeking short-term deals with the rival power for the sake of
expediency.

Obama said he hopes Trump would not "just cut some deals" or "do whatever is
convenient at the time," saying that policy would lead to longer-term problems
in Syria and Eastern Europe. Instead, Obama said, Trump should take a
constructive approach, "finding areas where we can cooperate with Russia where
our values and interests align." He said Trump should be "willing to stand up to
Russia where they are deviating from our values and international norms."

Even as Obama warned against what he called a "realpolitik approach," Trump met
in New York with perhaps its most well known modern practitioner: former
secretary of State Henry Kissinger. "I have tremendous respect for Dr. Kissinger
and appreciate him sharing his thoughts with me," Trump said in a statement.

The president's comments on Russia were his most extensive since Trump's
election in a campaign often influenced by reports of Russian involvement in the
hacking of his opponent's campaign emails and by Trump's own public entreaties
to Russian President Vladimir Putin.

Obama spoke with his most important European ally, German Chancellor Angela
Merkel, in what will probably be their last meeting of his presidency. Merkel
said she was impressed with how smoothly the presidential transition was going.
"This is to us a sign of encouragement to continue the cooperation we have
built," she said. "I approach this with an open mind."

Their meeting in Berlin covered hot-button issues such as Ukraine, the Islamic
State and Syria and broader issues of climate change, migration and trade. They
shared an optimistic vision for a new kind of globalization, tacitly rejecting
the more isolationist philosophy that drove Trump's campaign.

"It is my conviction that globalization ... needs to be shaped politically, it
has to be given a human face, but we cannot fall back to pre-globalization
times," Merkel said.

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Michael Sohn, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved
