
                               8 of 218 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            February 18, 2008 Monday
                              Correction Appended
                                 FINAL EDITION

Communities move beyond debate and prepare for climate change

BYLINE: Judy Keen

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 386 words


A growing number of communities and states concerned about climate change are
planning ways to cope with rising tides, severe weather, less snow and even "
climate refugees" from coastal areas.

"We can't ask, 'Is there global warming?' We have to ask, 'How can we adapt?'
even though it's scarier than heck," says County Executive Ron Sims, who has
incorporated climate-change preparedness into all planning in King County,
Wash., which includes Seattle.

At least five coastal states -- Alaska, California, Maryland, Oregon and
Washington -- are working on preparedness plans, the Pew Center on Global
Climate Change says.

Many communities focus on cutting emissions and conserving energy, but some
planners say that's not enough. "If we don't take steps to adapt, we're missing
half the picture," says Scott Shugart, who is writing a guidebook on "adaptation
planning" for the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration's Climatic
Data Center.

King County assumes its climate will be markedly altered by 2050. It's embarking
on a project to strengthen levees that could cost $335 million.

Some watchdog groups object to such plans. Federal, state and local governments
shouldn't take on, "at a substantial cost to taxpayers, a problem that is
global," says Jon Coupal of California's Howard Jarvis Taxpayers Association.

Josh Foster at NOAA's Climate Program Office says there's "way more momentum"
now than a year ago:

*Keene, N.H., released a plan in November that recommends installing larger
culverts for rain runoff, burying power lines and anticipating needs for people
fleeing rising seas. "You have to be prepared for all the contingencies," City
Manager John MacLean says.

*A Miami-Dade County task force is developing new standards for buildings,
roads, ports, airports and bridges. Planning assumes "sea level rise, saltwater
intrusion and severe weather," according to a 2007 task force report.

*New York City plans to create an inventory of tunnels, airports, subways, power
plants and other at-risk infrastructure.

*Homer, Alaska, issued a plan in December that recommends boosting firefighting
capability, diversifying its fishing economy and planning for climate refugees.

Harvey Ruvin, chairman of Miami-Dade County's task force, says communities must
prepare: "The most expensive thing we can do is nothing."

LOAD-DATE: February 29, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: February 20, 2008



CORRECTION: Scott Shuford's name was misspelled in a story on climate change
Monday. Shuford is writing a guidebook for the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration's Climatic Data Center.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              11 of 218 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          December 17, 2008 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Everyone, it seems, wants something from Obama;
President-elect faces a crush of demands

BYLINE: Ken Dilanian

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1988 words


WASHINGTON -- Al Gore wants quick action on climate change. Sen. Edward Kennedy
says health care reform can't wait. Labor unions want a bill making it easier to
organize.

The American Civil Liberties Union is calling for the immediate closure of the
military's prison for foreign terror suspects at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. The
liberal advocacy group MoveOn .org urges a steady troop withdrawal from Iraq.
The National Governors Association is pleading for billions in aid to states,
pronto.

And, by the way, Mr. President-elect, the American Lung Association would like
you to make all federal work sites smoke-free.

New administrations always face a cacophony of competing demands, but few
presidents have been confronted with the sort of urgent and varied pleas being
made to Barack Obama, amid two wars and the worst economic crisis in
generations, says Anthony Badger, a University of Cambridge historian of
American politics.

After eight years of a Republican president whose central domestic policy was
tax cuts, Americans who want a more activist government are aching to see their
causes addressed. During the campaign, Obama told many of them just what they
wanted to hear. The question now is which pledges Obama tackles first, which
ones have to wait and which ones will survive contact with Congress and special
interest groups in Washington.

"He's under extraordinary pressure to be all things to all people, and he's
going to find that very difficult to manage during his first 100 days," says New
York University political science professor Paul Light, who specializes in the
workings of the federal government. "There are a lot of people coming to him
with checklists of issues they care about, but Congress is not capable of
handling a mass rush of legislation."

Others, such as MoveOn.org executive director Eli Pariser, say that view
underestimates the sense of urgency created by the economic crisis, the broken
health care system and the consensus for protecting the climate.

The rallying cry among left-leaning interest groups, including the Sierra Club
and the AFL-CIO, is that fixing the economy means tackling health care -- the
costs of which are hurting everyone from unemployed workers to General Motors --
and addressing climate change by subsidizing clean energy to create "green"
jobs.

"You have a very popular president elected with a mandate for change, and an
unprecedented organized movement of people back home working to make that change
happen," Pariser says. "I don't think we've ever seen that before."

The government can do more than one big thing at a time, says Richard Kirsch,
national campaign manager for Health Care for America Now, a coalition of unions
and progressive groups. "There's no reason that Congress can only do health
care, only do climate change."

Obama has not discussed the timing of his agenda, and his aides aren't ready to,
spokeswoman Stephanie Cutter says.

The one thing Obama and congressional Democrats have been clear about is that
they intend to pass a package of spending and tax cuts as early as January.

That package, which House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said Monday could be $600
billion, is designed to jump-start the economy, begin fulfilling Obama's pledge
of a middle-class tax cut and set the groundwork for transforming the energy and
health-care sectors.

The details are still being worked out, but Obama, Pelosi and other Democrats
have said the package will include tax cuts -- as much as $200 billion, Pelosi
said -- plus spending on such things as an energy efficient electricity grid and
computerizing health records.

Early press is on

Almost from the moment Obama was elected, interest groups and influential
advocates were turning up the heat, and stressing the urgency of their causes.

The Sunday after the Nov. 4 election, The New York Times carried an opinion
piece by former vice president Gore, calling for a massive program to address
climate change.

On the same day in The Washington Post, an opinion article by Kennedy was
entitled, "Health Care Can't Wait."

Comparisons with Franklin Roosevelt's first months are unavoidable, but they
only go so far, says Badger, whose latest book is FDR: The First Hundred Days.

No president since Franklin Roosevelt has faced such a severe economic crisis,
he says, but the situation today lacks the "sheer, gut-level desperation" afoot
in 1933, when Roosevelt won passage of a flurry of legislation to combat the
Depression. Also, Badger says, the United States is more politically polarized
today, which means Obama won't have the kind of free hand Roosevelt had.

Another constraint: dwindling government resources. With a budget deficit
approaching a trillion dollars, Obama may be hamstrung on major expenditures on
issues such as health care and energy -- particularly after undertaking what is
expected to be a multibillion-dollar stimulus package.

President Clinton had to trim his domestic agenda when he took office in 1993,
after advisers persuaded him to reduce the federal deficit and shelve the
stimulus package and middle-class tax cut he had campaigned on.

"I hope you're all aware we're all Eisenhower Republicans here," Clinton told
aides in 1993 with angry sarcasm, according to Bob Woodward's book, The Agenda.
"We stand for lower deficits and free trade and the bond market. Isn't that
great?"

And President Reagan, after cutting income taxes in 1981, was unable to "reverse
the growth of government," as he had promised in his first inaugural address. He
later agreed to tax increases to control rising deficits.

Obama chief of staff Rahm Emanuel, a veteran of the Clinton White House, has
said his boss doesn't plan to postpone fulfilling his major campaign promises,
such as curbing carbon emissions and expanding health coverage.

"The crisis we have today," Emanuel said Nov. 9, "is an opportunity to finally
do what Washington for years has postponed and kicked down the road."

After meeting with Gore in Chicago on Dec. 9, Obama said "the time for delay is
over" on addressing greenhouse gas emissions but made no specific policy
announcements. A few days later, when he announced that former South Dakota
senator Tom Daschle would be his Health and Human Services secretary, Obama
again promised to dramatically expand health coverage, though he didn't say
when.

Obama's allies among interest groups don't seem prepared to wait. In late
November, Health Care for America Now ran national television spots featuring
Obama during an October campaign speech in Virginia, saying he can't fix the
economy without fixing health care. "We agree," flashed the message on the
screen. "We're ready."

Divided We Fail, another health care coalition, is urging members to sign a
petition asking Obama "to follow through on your campaign promise and commit to
making health care and financial security reform a priority in the first 100
days of your administration."

Other demands have poured in. More than 100 retired generals and admirals are
calling for repeal of the military's "don't ask, don't tell" policy so gay men
and lesbians can serve openly -- an issue that paralyzed the early months of
Clinton's presidency. The American Lung Association is circulating a petition
urging Obama to ban smoking in federal workplaces. The World Food Program is
asking Obama to "give hunger its rightful place on the foreign policy agenda."

Amnesty International urged Obama "to show true leadership by making human
rights central to his new administration," and American Rivers, which advocates
for river restoration, is asking Obama to make "water infrastructure a top
economic stimulus priority."

The Secular Coalition for America called on Obama to overhaul military policies
to reduce what it sees as religious discrimination against non-believers in the
armed forces.

"You are barraged by people who have the best idea -- not a better idea, but
always the best idea -- about what you should do first and with what kind of
intensity," says Nicholas Calio, a top lobbyist at Citigroup who headed the
legislative affairs operation for President Bush and former president George
H.W. Bush.

Last month, MoveOn.org held 1,200 meetings nationwide to organize a campaign to
keep the heat on members of Congress to deliver on Obama's agenda, executive
director Pariser says.

MoveOn.org may present an early harbinger of how the left reacts to a disconnect
between campaign rhetoric and governing reality.

Pariser said he believes Obama will fulfill a promise to withdraw all combat
troops from Iraq within 16 months.

But military analysts, including Andrew Krepinevich, president of the Center for
Strategic and Budgetary Assessments, call that an uncertain proposition.

Krepinevich believes Obama's goal is to draw down troops at a pace dictated by
the situation on the ground, and get to a point where about 30,000 U.S. troops
are advising Iraqis and available as a deterrent to violence.

"That would be a goal that all but the very hard left could sign up to," he
says.

Asked about Iraq at a Dec. 1 news conference, Obama said he still believed "that
16 months is the right time frame. But as I have said consistently, I will
listen to the recommendations of my commanders."

He also said he would leave an undetermined number of troops for training and
logistics.

The looming obstacles

Another factor is what sort of opposition Obama will face. In the first 100
days, Roosevelt was granted extraordinary deference because the public and most
lawmakers felt that "this was a time when you have to stand by the president --
it was almost a wartime footing," Badger said.

But conservatives and some interest groups are skeptical about Obama's plans.

Pro-business groups, including Americans for Job Security and the Employee
Freedom Action Committee, have spent millions since the election on national ads
against legislation, supported by Obama and most Democrats, that would make it
easier for employees to join labor unions.

Stuart Butler, vice president of Domestic and Economic Policy Studies at the
Heritage Foundation, a conservative think tank, argued in an interview that
Democratic health care and climate change proposals are likely to drive up
spending on health and energy, which would be an economic drag, not a stimulus.

"Of course there's going to be resistance," said Ron Pollack, who directs
Families USA, which advocates for universal health care. "But in the end, the
cost of inaction is just too high, and everyone gets that."

Signs are emerging about how Obama will proceed.

After meeting in mid-November with transition officials, Carl Pope, executive
director of the Sierra Club, said in an interview, "They seem to be saying, we
need to move on all fronts early."

He said he believes the Obama administration plans an economic stimulus bill in
January that would include health care and environmental components.

Then, Pope said, the administration will "do the political heavy lifting between
February and August" to push health care legislation, cap carbon dioxide
emissions and subsidize alternative energy.

Obama spokeswoman Cutter cautioned, "We've never said we'd get all that done" by
August.

In Congress, Kennedy is working on a health care plan, and Sen. Max Baucus,
D-Mont., who chairs the Finance Committee, recently released one of his own.

Rep. Charles Rangel, D-N.Y., who chairs the Ways and Means Committee, told
reporters last month they would be hard pressed to find any daylight between him
and the president elect on trade or tax policy. At one point he crooned,
"Whatever Obama wants" to the tune of Whatever Lola Wants.

Pope said the Obama transition is far better organized and disciplined than what
he saw with former Democratic presidents Clinton and Jimmy Carter. Former
California congressman Leon Panetta, a former chief of staff under Clinton,
agreed.

"They seem to have a much more clear idea about the steps they need to take
early on," he said of Obama's team.

"They clearly are ahead of the game."

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, Color, Ron Coddington, USA TODAY (Illustration)
PHOTO, B/W, Charles Dharapak, AP

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COVER STORY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              12 of 218 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            October 28, 2008 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Warming affecting Walden, Yellowstone;
Flowers, animals are rapidly disappearing

BYLINE: Doyle Rice

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 9D

LENGTH: 397 words


From Walden Pond in Massachusetts to Yellowstone National Park in Wyoming,
climate change has begun to dramatically affect the flora and fauna of  these
American treasures, according to two studies in Monday's Proceedings of the
National Academy of Sciences.

The studies show that the warming of the Earth's atmosphere over the past few
decades has caused a loss of many of the flowers that  Henry David Thoreau
recorded in his book Walden and also has contributed to a decline in several
species of native animals once common in Yellowstone.

Thoreau first recorded the plants and flowers of the Concord, Mass., area in
1854. Since then, Concord's average annual temperature has risen by 4.3 degrees,
the studies show, and botanists have kept a record of the region's flora.

Hardest hit are species that don't respond well to temperature increases,
including  buttercups, dogwoods, lilies, orchids, roses and violets, says
Harvard University biologist Charles Davis, lead author of the article.

Davis says that even though about 55% of all natural areas in Concord are
undeveloped or remain  well-protected,  27% of the species documented by Thoreau
have been lost, and 36% exist in such low numbers that their local extinction
may be imminent.

The research points to climate change as the sole culprit and says the loss of
species  won't be random.  "Certain lineages  ... are far more susceptible to
decline under rapid climate change than others," Davis notes.

In Yellowstone, researchers report that climate change and the resulting
droughts and lack of snowpack have caused four species of amphibians --
including three species of frogs and one of salamander -- to go into severe
decline.

"Amphibians are a bellwether for environmental degradation, even in natural
ecosystems such as Yellowstone ... where species have been actively protected
longer than anywhere else on Earth," writes lead author Sarah McMenamin of
Stanford University.

The findings are based on climate data going back 60 years and remote-sensing
data from the past 20 years, she reports.

Climate change is again fingered as the sole cause. "There is no other reason
for the regional aquifer  to be drying up, at exactly the same time we're seeing
this change in climate," she says.

McMenamin adds that "amphibian declines, population crashes and extinctions of
entire amphibian species are becoming increasingly common."

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              13 of 218 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            August 21, 2008 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

More money urged for climate research

BYLINE: Doyle Rice

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 14B

LENGTH: 310 words


Scientists on Wednesday recommended a huge increase in the USA's climate and
weather research budget, citing the need for improved tools to better protect
the nation from natural disasters as well as the expected effects of climate
change.

The proposed plan, which was outlined in a document sent to the presidential
campaigns of John McCain and Barack Obama, would cost the nation about $9
billion above the $10 billion  already allotted for fiscal years 2010-2014.

"With more than a quarter of the U.S. gross national product  sensitive to
weather and climate, these events substantially impact our national health,
safety, economy, environment, transportation systems, and military readiness,"
the document states.

The USA sustains billions of dollars in losses each year from disasters related
to weather and climate events. In the past three years alone, calamities such as
Hurricane Katrina, the Southwest and Southeast droughts, the 2007 and 2008
California wildfires, and this year's Midwest tornadoes and floods have caused
hundreds of billions of dollars in losses.

"Both of the candidates talk about the importance of climate change, but this is
what we think is needed to improve our knowledge of it," said Jack Fellows, vice
president of the University Corporation for Atmospheric Research. The group
co-sponsored the recommendations along with seven other climate-focused
organizations.

What's needed

Among scientists' recommendations:

Fully fund the Earth-observing system from satellite and ground-based
instruments, which they say "will be essential in monitoring ... carbon
emissions."

Greatly increase computing power for more accurate local weather and climate
research: Although climate models do a good job at the global level, the
scientists report that most climate change and severe weather  impacts will be
felt at local and regional levels.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: A BETTER LIFE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              15 of 218 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              May 12, 2008 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

McCain to pitch environmental policy in Oregon;
Speech to outline 'cap-and-trade' plan

BYLINE: David Jackson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 618 words


WASHINGTON -- John McCain heads to the Pacific Northwest today to propose a
climate-change plan, addressing an issue integral to his presidential bid in a
region that could be crucial.

The Arizona senator, who often cites climate change as a policy difference with
President Bush, plans to renew support for a "cap-and-trade" system that "sets
clear limits on all greenhouse gases, while also allowing the sale of rights to
excess emissions," according to excerpts of his speech released Sunday.

McCain is scheduled to speak at a wind power facility in Portland, Ore. "The
facts of global warming demand our urgent attention, especially in Washington,"
McCain says in the prepared remarks.

McCain, the presumptive GOP presidential candidate, plans to propose a series of
goals for reduction of carbon emissions, ending at 60% below 1990 levels by the
year 2050.

A cap-and-trade system would "change the dynamic of our energy economy," McCain
says in the prepared remarks. It would encourage industry to adopt or develop
cleaner forms of energy, such as wind, solar, nuclear and "clean coal."

After a day in Oregon, McCain also is scheduled to discuss the environment
Tuesday in Washington state. Those states are among those "being discussed as
target states" for the fall campaign, said Tucker Bounds, a McCain campaign
spokesman.

A native of Oregon, Bounds said voters there like politicians who work with
members of the other party. "They tend to be more independent, much more in the
framework of John McCain," he said.

The Democratic National Committee, meanwhile, is challenging McCain's
credentials as an environmentalist. It developed a list of McCain supporters who
have lobbied for oil companies or run companies that have been cited for
pollution. DNC Chairman Howard Dean said in a statement that McCain would
"appoint right-wing judges bent on gutting environmental regulations."

As a senator, McCain has long backed cap-and-trade legislation. The idea is that
companies that exceed emissions caps could buy credits from those that pollute
less, giving them time to develop cleaner technologies without cutting
production.

Bush has warned that government-imposed restrictions would hurt the U.S.
economy. The administration has sponsored meetings among the world's major
polluters to work out voluntary plans to reduce heat-trapping emissions.

During a recent appearance on The Daily Show, McCain talked about his
differences with the Bush administration, citing climate change along with
increases in federal spending and "the failed strategy that was employed in the
war in Iraq." Democrats have repeatedly tried to link McCain to the unpopular
Republican president.

Bush and McCain do agree on some environmental and energy items. Both support
the increased use of nuclear power. Both also say any global climate-change
agreement should include China and India, major polluters as well as
international economic competitors.

In the prepared remarks, McCain says that if China and India refuse to
participate in an international solution to global warming, he would work with
other governments to impose some sort of "cost equalization mechanism" on those
nations.

Environmental organizations said McCain deserves credit for his cap-and-trade
proposals, but some called them inadequate in face of the threats posed by
global warming. One group, the League of Conservation Voters, said McCain has a
congressional career score of 24% on environmental issues. In a statement, Gene
Karpinski, the group's president, said it appears that McCain "hopes to use
global warming and the environment to distance himself from the Bush
administration," but given McCain's record, "that distance can be measured in
inches."

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Tim Dillon, USA TODAY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              23 of 218 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            November 24, 2008 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

SnoMotes go to ends of the Earth;
Unmanned research robots destined to roam ice sheets

BYLINE: Doyle Rice

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 7D

LENGTH: 609 words


Seeing snowmobiles roar across the frozen Alaska wilderness may not seem
unusual, but the ones zooming across the ice and snow on a glacier near Juneau
last June were far from ordinary.

These toy-sized snowmobiles were unmanned robots called SnoMotes, the first
prototypes of machines that someday will gather weather and climate data from
remote, hard-to-reach parts of the Arctic and Antarctic too dangerous for
scientists to traverse.

Scientists need the data to understand how and why the world's ice sheets are
melting as a result of man-made climate change. Though satellites can provide
much of the data, they simply aren't as accurate as ground-based information.

Ayanna Howard, an associate professor at Georgia Tech in Atlanta, worked with
scientists at Penn State University in State College, Pa., to build the robots.
Howard also was on the team that developed the unmanned Mars rovers for NASA in
2004.

"Our goal was to create rovers that could gather more accurate data to help
scientists create better climate models," Howard says. "We're applying the rover
technology to navigate in extreme environments, where data is very sparse."

The three SnoMote prototypes were built from plastic hobby toys that Howard and
her team adapted with sensors, microprocessors and cameras from the robots
developed for NASA. She believes the SnoMotes could be just as useful for new
discoveries here on Earth as the rovers have been in learning  more about the
Martian surface.

The robots are designed to move across unstable  terrain where ice sheets --
which can crack, shift and fill with water -- are unsafe for humans. The
machines are built to gather measurements of barometric pressure, temperature,
relative humidity and wind speed and direction.

Howard is working with Derrick Lampkin, an assistant professor at Penn State who
studies ice sheets and how climate change contributes to changes in these large
ice masses. She also is working with Georgia Tech's Magnus Egerstedt on the
project.

There are many unsampled regions in Greenland and Antarctica, Lampkin says, that
could be served by the unmanned robots. In fact, he says, "there are many remote
areas in the Antarctic where no humans have ever set foot."

"The changing mass of Greenland and Antarctica represents the largest unknown in
predictions of global sea-level rise over the coming decades. Given the
substantial impact these structures can have on future sea levels, improved
monitoring of the ice-sheet mass balance is of vital concern," Lampkin says.

Says Howard: "This is the third rendition of the robot. In the development
stage, I considered the nature of ice and snow and how people actually walk on
both. The first version of the robot had legs. We then shifted to a hybrid leg
and wheel design that allowed the wheels to maneuver out of snow patches if the
legs became stuck."

The SnoMote's skis are used for steering with a tractor-like tread for forward
mobility. Howard says the goal is to avoid having the vehicle become stuck in a
crevice.

The SnoMotes are not remote-controlled: They operate independently with a camera
system and a GPS unit for navigation.

The SnoMotes are prototypes of what Howard expects will be full-scale machines
about twice the size of the current robots, which are only 2 feet long and 1foot
wide. Though the prototypes don't include the full range of sensors, the
finished robots eventually will be equipped with all the sensors and instruments
needed to take measurements the scientists specify.

The finished robots may not be deployed  for five to 10  years, Howard says.

*For the latest news on weather and climate science, visit climate.usatoday.com.


LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Ron Felt, Georgia Tech

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              27 of 218 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             July 10, 2008 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

This year, 6 types of voters will decide the election;
Obama is dominating the most energized segment of the electorate. McCain's
backers are less excited -- but they're more reliable in showing up at the
polls.

BYLINE: Susan Page

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 2394 words


All voters are not created equal.

Democratic presidential candidate Barack Obama leads Republican John McCain in
the latest USA TODAY/Gallup Poll by only single digits among registered voters,
48%-42%, at the edge of the survey's margin of error.

However, an analysis of how Americans view the election -- whether they think it
matters and how strongly they're committed to a candidate -- shows a more
lopsided contest.

USA TODAY used results from a national survey of 1,625 adults to sort the
electorate into six broad groups based on their level of engagement and
enthusiasm about the election.

Obama dominates the two most energized groups of voters, 44% of the electorate
combined, who are focused on a range of issues and say they won't change their
choice of candidate between now and November. McCain's strongholds are two
groups of voters at the other end of the spectrum, 28% of the electorate in all,
who are skeptical that the election results will make any difference in their
lives and are less enthusiastic about voting than usual.

A cluster of more upbeat GOP-leaning voters remains in the middle and up for
grabs.

In all, 67% of Obama supporters say they're more excited than usual about
voting, compared with 31% of McCain backers. A 54% majority of McCain voters
report being less excited than usual.

Political strategists who have run national campaigns say that enthusiasm gap
underscores an uphill climb ahead for McCain -- and reflects a risk for Obama.
Everything is harder when your backers are downbeat, says Tony Fabrizio, the
pollster for Republican Bob Dole's 1996 presidential campaign, which struggled
to generate voter excitement.

"It is very difficult to raise money if there's not a level of enthusiasm," he
says. "It is very difficult to put people out on the street. It's very difficult
to have a national organization, or to get people to rallies and events." He's
seen a "stark contrast" between the ability of McCain and Obama to draw big
crowds and raise money.

If there is a silver lining for McCain, it's this: At a time President Bush's
approval rating is 28% and fewer Americans identify themselves with the GOP than
at any time in decades, those backing the Arizona senator are likely to stick
with him. What's more, they tend to be older people who reliably vote.

Obama, in contrast, has inspired enormous enthusiasm among younger voters, who
in the past have been less likely to show up at the polls.

Their participation will help reshape the electoral map if they stay engaged,
says Joe Trippi, a strategist for Democrat Howard Dean's youth-driven
presidential bid four years ago. But "all that energy sometimes is fragile if
you make a big mistake," he cautions. "When you have a bunch of people who are
very enthusiastic, it's easier to disappoint them."

Even so, Trippi adds, "I'd rather have the energized people."

The USA TODAY analysis is based on four questions from the poll, taken June
15-19:

*Compared to previous elections, are you more or less enthusiastic than usual
about voting?

*How much difference do you think the election result will make to you and your
family?

*Do you have a favorable or unfavorable opinion of John McCain and of Barack
Obama?

*Are you certain now whom you will vote for, or do you think you may change your
mind?

Here's what the analysis found.

1. True believers

30% of the electorate

The core of Obama support

Nearly one-third of those surveyed could be called the true believers of this
campaign.

They're excited about the election, sure of their choice and unfavorably
inclined toward the other guy. They see the stakes as high: Two-thirds say the
election will make a great deal of difference to them and their families, the
most of any voter group. Eight of 10 feel more enthusiastic than usual about
voting this year.

John McCain has some support among this group of the year's most intense voters,
but Barack Obama has more. By 2-1, such voters back the Democrat.

This group includes the highest percentage of women, African Americans and
liberals -- the sort of voters who fueled record turnout in a string of
Democratic primaries this year. They express the most concern that McCain will
pursue policies similar to those of President Bush, and they give the former
Navy fighter pilot the lowest rating as a potential commander in chief.

"I know who I'm going to vote for," Renee Prigmore-Onwu, an Obama supporter from
Nashville, says firmly. She works as a child care provider. Her biggest issue is
the struggle to make ends meet for her and her three children, ages 16, 11 and
9. "Gas prices plus the cost of food -- everything's going up except wages," she
says.

Prigmore-Onwu, 46, has watched the campaign closely, supporting New York Sen.
Hillary Rodham Clinton during the Democratic primaries but now loyal to Obama.

"A black man running for president -- this has been a long time coming," she
says.

"Then of course Hillary Clinton being a woman as well -- it made history."

2. Fired up & favorable

14% of the electorate

They like both, but lean to Obama

Like the "true believers," voters in the second group are overwhelmingly more
enthusiastic than usual about voting. Unlike the first group, though, nearly all
of them view McCain and Obama favorably.

Members of this group have been the face of Obama's primary campaign: They have
the lowest average age -- a third are younger than 35 -- and the highest average
income. More of them have a college education than any other group.

They're confident in the ability of either candidate to handle the Oval Office
-- the least likely to worry about whether Obama has enough experience to be
president, for instance, and the most likely to rate both Obama and McCain as
capable of serving as commander in chief.

That would seem to make them a swing group, but voters in this category say
their minds are settled. By nearly 2-1, they support Obama.

Daniel Seagull, 33, a middle-school science teacher from South Glastonbury,
Conn., admires McCain for his days as a Republican maverick.

"You knew where he stood and if you didn't like it, too bad," he says. He's
solidly for Obama, though, drawn by a message during the primaries that Seagull
shorthands as "'change, change, change' and 'yes we can.'"

In recent weeks, he's been disappointed in each candidate. "It's become the same
old story that you see in every election, with the candidates attacking each
other and 'blah, blah, blah,'" he says, fretting Obama has become a
"play-it-safe" candidate.

Even so, Seagull has a suggestion if Obama becomes president. "Idealistically,
if we took one day's worth of spending on the Iraq war and put it toward a
Manhattan Project for alternative energy, I would think we could get pretty
far," he says.

3. Firmly decided

12% of the electorate

It's just voting as usual

In a year when many Democrats are keyed up and Republicans discouraged, this
group isn't the norm. Nearly eight in 10 say their level of enthusiasm about
voting is "about the same as usual." A small fraction of any other group reports
seeing this year's campaign as business as usual.

These voters tend to have higher incomes and be older than the average, and they
include the highest percentage of registered voters. More than a third hold
post-graduate degrees.

Although they are closely divided -- 50% for McCain, 48% for Obama -- few swing
voters are in this group. Almost all of them say they have made up their minds
about their vote.

Diana Sparklin's choice is McCain, though she's not convinced he'll succeed
enough to win a second term, assuming he manages to win a first. "I feel safer"
with the Arizona senator, she says. "I feel he's older and more experienced, and
he has some war experience background."

Sparklin, 69, retired to Lady Lake in central Florida 3 1/2 years ago after
working as a specialist on foreign patent applications for a law firm in
Wilmington, Del. For her, global issues such as climate change, turmoil in
Africa and conflict in the Middle East are major concerns.

Obama's relative lack of experience and his association with Jeremiah Wright,
whose sermons blasting the United States for racism caused controversy, give her
pause. "You just don't separate on a verbal basis" from a longtime pastor, she
says of Obama. "I'm afraid he has taken (Wright's views) in his mind."

4. Up for grabs

18% of the electorate

These voters are squarely in the middle. They tend to have favorable views of
both candidates and are the most likely to say either would make a good
president, but they aren't yet settled in their choice. They aren't paying as

much attention to the campaign as the most engaged voters in the first two
groups, but they're also not as disenchanted as those in the last two groups.

One in four of those in this group say they're undecided about whom to support,
and the rest say they might change their mind before Election Day.

This battleground group has a GOP tilt. It includes the highest percentage of
whites of any group and more of those who attend church every week. McCain needs
to make major inroads with them to offset Obama's edge among other voters.

Stephanie Clemens cast her first presidential vote for Bush in 2004. This year,
the 23-year-old student from Chico, Calif., sees a lot to like in both
contenders. McCain "has strong leadership and he seems like an approachable

person," she says. She admires Obama's idea of "a change, something different."
She can't think of anything she doesn't like about either one.

She does have definite views about which issues matter most to her. She's
studying at California State University-Chico and considering a career in human
resources management or event planning. "College tuition, health

care, the economy, gas prices," she says, ticking them off. "These are things
that affect my life."

5. Skeptical & downbeat

12% of the electorate

Expectations are low

The election's most downbeat voters are the least enthusiastic about voting and
skeptical about whether the election will make a difference for them and their
families. They give Bush his lowest approval rating of any group.

They aren't excited about the contenders to succeed the president, either. Four
in 10 haven't decided whom to support, by far the largest of any group, and the
rest are open to changing their minds.

Voters in this group are older than average and the least likely to have a
college education. It includes the highest percentage of those who live in small
towns and rural areas.

They favor McCain over Obama by 11 percentage points, but can he persuade more
of them to support him -- and then turn out to vote?

Joe Heiser, 49, a steelworker from Pittsburgh and an independent, has qualms
about both candidates. McCain "might be a little bit too old" for the job, he
worries. Obama "has more passion as to what he's trying to achieve," but Heiser
wonders whether he'll be able to deliver on his promises. Most politicians
don't, he says.

Heiser's biggest concerns are economic, "health care for the elderly and the way
things are rising in costs." He's concerned about securing U.S. borders and
resolving the Iraq war. His expectations that anything will change are low,
however, one reason he questions whether it really matters who wins.

"I'm not too excited about it," he says. "It turns out to be the same, no matter
who is in there."

6. Decided but dissatisfied

16% of the electorate

Don't tell voters in this group that elections matter: Not one of them says the
campaign outcome will make much difference to them or their families. By 2-1,
they are less enthusiastic than usual about voting. Still, in contrast to the
previous "skeptical and downbeat" group, all of these voters say their minds are
firmly made up.

They include the highest percentage of conservatives and Republicans of any
group, and they give Bush his highest job-approval rating, albeit still just
37%. This group is the least likely to see the Iraq war as a mistake, although
51% say that it was.

That underscores a quandary for McCain. The groups that clearly favor the
Arizona senator are the two final ones. One gives Bush his highest rating, the
other his lowest. One group has the fewest members who say invading Iraq was a
mistake; the other has the most. Bridging that divide and building support from
both groups could be a challenge, especially when it comes to calibrating how
closely to embrace Bush.

National security concerns drive the "decided but dissatisfied" voters. It is
the only group in which a majority favors a candidate whose strength is
protecting the country from terrorism rather than fixing the economy, and the
only group in which a majority doubts Obama can handle the responsibilities of
commander in chief. This group is McCain's base, the only one in which his
support tops 50%.

David McLen, 53, from a town north of Houston called Spring, admires McCain's
military service but worries that he's not really a conservative. Obama, though,
is "to the left of me on just about everything," says McLen, who works in the
oil business, verifying land and mineral claims before drilling begins.

He supports more domestic exploration of oil, is concerned about the economy and
illegal immigration and calls security issues "very important," though he's come
to question the war. "What are we doing there, and when will we leave?" he asks.

In the Republican primaries, McLen preferred nearly every GOP presidential
contender over McCain. He voted for former Massachusetts governor Mitt Romney in
the Texas primary, liked former Arkansas governor Mike Huckabee and was
intrigued by some of what Texas Rep. Ron Paul had to say.

"I don't think either of these candidates are evil," McLen says of McCain and
Obama, "but to use the cliche, I'm choosing the lesser of two evils."

Other findings from USA TODAY/Gallup Poll

*The race remains fluid. Nearly one in four likely voters are undecided or say
they might change their minds, more than at any point during the 2004 campaign.

That reflects a less polarized electorate and more favorable views of both
candidates.

*Obama does well in states Democrat John Kerry won by more than 6 percentage
points in 2004, leading McCain 53%-36%, while McCain edges Obama by 46%-45% in
states Bush won by more than 6 points.

In the dozen swing states -- those carried by less than 6 percentage points in
2004 -- Obama leads McCain, 51%-39%.

The margins of error for the samples range from +/{ndash}3 to 5 points.

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Color, Prigmore-Onwu by Kinnunen-Harris
PHOTO, Color, Seagull by Steve L. Miller
PHOTO, Color, Sparklin by Chris Livingston
PHOTO, Color, Clemens by Nick S. Adams
PHOTO, Color, McLen by Paul S. Howell
PHOTO, Color, Heiser by Jeff Swensen
PHOTO, B/W, Krystal Kinnunen-Harris for USA TODAY
PHOTO, B/W, Steve L. Miller for USA TODAY
PHOTO, B/W, Jeff Swensen for USA TODAY
PHOTO, B/W, Nick S. Adams for USA TODAY

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COVER STORY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              29 of 218 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              July 18, 2008 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Obama shifts environmental stance;
Had embraced coal industry in Senate run

BYLINE: Ken Dilanian

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 915 words


WASHINGTON -- In May 1998, at the urging of the state's coal industry, the
Illinois Legislature passed a bill condemning the Kyoto global warming treaty
and forbidding state efforts to regulate greenhouse gases.

Barack Obama voted "aye."

The presumptive Democratic presidential nominee now calls climate change "one of
the greatest moral challenges of our generation," and proposes cutting carbon
emissions 80% by 2050. But as a state senator, from 1997 to 2004, he usually
supported bills sought by coal interests, according to legislative records and
interviews.

Obama is not the only politician whose public stance has shifted on global
warming, which the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change says has been
caused chiefly by the burning of coal, oil and natural gas. Presumptive
Republican nominee John McCain, who now backs limits on carbon emissions, was
among 95 U.S. senators who voted in 1997 to oppose the Kyoto Protocol, an
emissions reduction scheme that had been negotiated by then-vice president Al
Gore.

Still, Obama, who touts his independence from special interests, made a point of
embracing the coal industry as part of his quest for statewide office. When he
ran for U.S. Senate in 2004, he was flanked by mineworkers to proclaim that
"there's always going to be a role for coal" in Illinois.

"He understands how important coal is to the state of Illinois and to the
Midwest," said Illinois state Rep. Dan Reitz, a Democrat and former coal miner
who sponsored the anti-Kyoto language and campaigned for Obama during the West
Virginia primary.

Employees of coal companies and electric utilities have contributed $539,597 to
Obama's U.S. Senate and presidential campaign, according to the non-partisan
Center for Responsive Politics. McCain, whose energy plan calls for taxpayers to
invest $2 billion in "clean coal" research that includes technology to capture
carbon emissions, has received $402,365 from coal and utility interests during
the same period, since 2004 to the current campaign, according to the center.

Straddling two worlds

The Obama campaign did not respond to questions about his support for the coal
industry, except to address his 1998 Kyoto vote. The campaign said in a
statement that the Kyoto treaty did not have "meaningful and achievable
emissions targets," and that Obama "did not believe that state agencies in
Illinois should unilaterally take steps to implement a global policy on their
own."

The statement said Obama supports investing in technology to reduce carbon
dioxide emissions from coal burning.

Meg Boyle, global warming policy specialist for Greenpeace, called those
technologies risky and expensive. She said they can't "deliver in time to avoid
the most dangerous impacts of climate change."

"He's definitely trying to straddle two politically irreconcilable objectives:
taking decisive action against global warming while keeping a healthy coal
industry," said Frank O'Donnell, president of the non-partisan Clean Air Watch.
"Obama's record certainly suggests that environmentalists aren't going to be
calling the shots in his administration without input from industry."

Obama's other votes on coal in the state Senate included:

*In 1997, he voted to divert sales taxes to a fund for grants to help reopening
closed coal mines and "incentives to attract new businesses that use coal."

*In 2001, Obama voted for legislation that offered $3.5billion in loan
guarantees to build coal-fired power plants with no ability to control carbon
emissions.

*In 2003, he voted to allow $300 million in taxpayer-backed bonds to build or
expand coal-fired power plants.

"You know, I am a strong supporter, I think, of downstate coal interests and our
need to prop up and improve the outputs downstate," Obama said on the Senate
floor before voting on the 2001 bill.

A mixed reaction

Obama's overall environmental record was exemplary, said Gene Karpinski,
president of the Washington, D.C.-based League of Conservation Voters, which
spent $400,000 to help Obama in the 2004 U.S. Senate primary.

In one of his first acts in the U.S. Senate, Obama bucked Illinois' energy
industry and voted to kill a Bush administration air-pollution proposal opposed
by environmentalists. "When forced to chose between the coal industry and the
broader public interest, he chose clean air," said Jack Darin, head of the
Illinois chapter of the Sierra Club.

Environmentalists were less pleased, though, when Obama voted for a 2005 energy
bill opposed by McCain and most Democrats. Obama said he liked the bill's
support for renewable energy. The bill contained $9 billion in coal subsidies,
according to Public Citizen, a consumer watchdog group. The Natural Resources
Defense Council said the bill "significantly weakens environmental protections."

Obama also drew criticism for sponsoring a bill in January 2007 to devote $8
billion in subsidies to a technology to convert coal to liquid fuel. The Sierra
Club says liquid coal "releases almost double the global warming emissions per
gallon as regular gasoline."

As the presidential campaign was well underway in June 2007, the Obama campaign
issued a clarification: He would not support liquid coal processes unless they
emit a fifth less carbon than conventional fuels.

"When you're running for president and you've got environmentalists biting your
head off every day, that's to be expected," said Phil Gonet, head of the
Illinois Coal Association. "We're still optimistic that he may be helpful at
some point in the future."

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, 2004 photo by Ceasar Maragni, The Southern Illinoisan, via
AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              30 of 218 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           September 22, 2008 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Big culprit for allergies?;
Evidence increasingly points to global change

BYLINE: Kim Painter

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 7D

LENGTH: 579 words


If you have respiratory allergies, you have an environmental problem: There's
something in the air that makes you sniffle, sneeze, stuff up or wheeze.

And growing evidence suggests your problem may be linked with the biggest
environmental problem of all: global climate change.

That may be especially true for pollen sufferers. Tree, grasses and weeds
(including the ragweed tormenting many people right now) churn out more pollen
over more weeks when temperatures and carbon dioxide levels rise, says Richard
Weber, a Denver allergist who helped write a paper on the link published this
month in the Journal of Allergy and Clinical Immunology.

"I think we can expect  allergy sufferers are going to be suffering more," says
Weber, a professor at the University of Colorado Health Sciences Center.

Weber and colleagues from the American Academy of Allergy, Asthma & Immunology
suggest people with allergies and asthma have a special stake in slowing climate
change: Drive less and use energy-efficient appliances and lighting, they write,
and you just might help yourself and the planet.

'Environment matters'

Sadly, though, screwing in a few compact fluorescent bulbs will do nothing to
clear up the stuffy nose you have today. For that, many sufferers turn to drugs.

But  there's another way to reduce symptoms. Once again, it's all about changing
the environment --  in your home.

"We've got really good evidence now that environment matters," says Jay Portnoy,
a Kansas City, Mo., allergist and president of the American College of Allergy,
Asthma & Immunology. "Just taking a pill is not going to solve your problem."

Mark Dykewicz, chief of allergy and clinical immunology at St. Louis University
School of Medicine, agrees: "Allergen avoidance is Job One."

Allergens are the things that trigger symptoms: the pollens and molds outside;
the dust mites, molds, pet dander and insect droppings inside. Different people
have different triggers and need different environmental control strategies.

Many are common sense: If pollen bothers you, check daily counts (at
www.aaai.org) and stay inside with your windows closed when they peak. If you go
outside, shower before bedtime.

Avoiding indoor trouble-makers takes more work. But research suggests it's worth
the bother, if sufferers take multiple steps.  "Doing one thing isn't enough,"
Portnoy says.  Measures that may help:

*Control dust mites by keeping indoor humidity below 50%, putting mite-proof
covers on pillows and mattresses, washing bedding in hot water, removing carpets
from bedrooms, using products that kill or deactivate mites and using a cyclonic
vacuum cleaner or one with a high-efficiency particulate air (HEPA) filter. Room
air cleaners with HEPA filters also can help.

*Reduce indoor mold by finding and repairing leaks and making sure bathrooms,
basements and kitchens are well ventilated.

*If you can't part with a pet that causes allergies, at least keep the pet out
of your bedroom.

*Undertake a long-lasting, aggressive pest control campaign if the problem is
cockroach allergy.

*Clean or change your furnace filters at least as often as recommended by
manufacturers.

*Ban smoking in your house: The irritation makes any allergy worse.

Not recommended: regular cleaning of heating ducts or the use of air cleaners
that emit ozone.

The allergy college has more tips at www .acaai.org.

The materials at the site were developed with funding from the Clorox Co., which
makes cleaning products for mold and dust mites.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Adrienne Lewis, USA TODAY
GRAPHIC, B/W, Adrienne Lewis (bar graph)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: A BETTER LIFE: HEALTH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              32 of 218 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            January 3, 2008 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Disasters the 'new normal'

BYLINE: John Holmes

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 677 words


The 2007 global catalogue of calamities -- hurricanes in the Caribbean, droughts
in Africa, wildfires in the USA, massive flooding throughout Asia and Africa --
reads like a Hollywood disaster script. But these catastrophes were very real
for tens of millions of people whose lives were turned upside down.

As we enter a new year, it's tempting to think the worst could be over. But
nothing is further from the truth, given the increasingly visible effects of
global warming. Instead, 2007 represents the 'new normal' of extreme weather
events that calls for a rapid transformation in how we prepare for and respond
to nature's hazards.

Climate change is already transforming our planet. If the world's scientists are
right, the onslaught of droughts, flooding, intensive storms and heat waves last
year is but a curtain raiser on our future. Even if no single event can reliably
be attributed to global warming, the trends as cited by the Intergovernmental
Panel on Climate Change are clear -- and clearly accelerating.

In just a generation, the number of disasters triggered by these natural hazards
has increased threefold, while direct and indirect losses have multiplied
fivefold. Rapid urbanization and rising population density in coastal
mega-cities such as Dhaka, Lagos and Sao Paulo mean the threat of a
mega-disaster is also rising rapidly.

Economic toll rising

In 2006, 426 disasters affected 143 million people and resulted in $35 billion
in economic damage. The number of floods and related disasters was 43% greater
than the 2000-2004 average. Last year, my office at the U.N. issued an
unprecedented 15 funding appeals for sudden natural disasters, five more than
the previous annual record.

All but one of these disasters resulted from extreme weather. Thankfully, 2007
did not spawn a catastrophe on the scale of the 2004 tsunami. But the magnitude
of a disaster is not measured solely by the death toll. The ripple effect from
lost livelihoods has a devastating effect on local prosperity and undermines
development.

Hundreds of millions more people could require humanitarian assistance as
climatic changes generate devastating consequences for global food and water
supplies and adversely affect public health, migration flows and, not least,
political stability, as battles for resources intensify. While all countries
will suffer, not all will suffer equally. Those that are least responsible for
causing global warming are likely to pay the first and heaviest price.

We need to adapt

Irrespective of whatever emission cuts may occur in a post-Kyoto Protocol
future, it is impossible to rewind the clock on the greenhouse gases already in
the atmosphere. Their effects are irreversible, leaving us no choice but to
adapt.

Adaptation means reducing our exposure to known risks and mitigating their
possible effects. The key point is this: A natural disaster need not
automatically result in human catastrophe.

Simple, cost-effective measures  will strengthen our resilience, save lives, and
prevent the pauperization of millions tomorrow. When Cyclone Sidr struck
Bangladesh in November, some 40,000 volunteers with bullhorns and bicycles
helped move more than three million people out of harm's way.

We can also build safer -- and smarter. U.S. property owners who implemented all
the recommended hurricane protection methods suffered only one-eighth as much
damage from Hurricane Katrina as those who did not. In China, the World Bank
estimates that a $5 million investment in non-structural flood prevention along
the Yangtze River averted damages of $15 million during the 1996 floods, with
millions more saved in subsequent years.

The 'new normal' requires massive improvement in how we prepare for and respond
to these natural disasters. Prevention is always better than cure. Adaptation is
an essential investment in our future. There is no time to lose, and much to
gain by acting immediately, before the next disaster strikes.

---

John Holmes is the United Nations Under-Secretary-General for Humanitarian
Affairs and Emergency Relief Coordinator.

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Jewel Samad, AFP/Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              42 of 218 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              May 13, 2008 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Warming to the task

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 381 words


In January, the political climate on climate change will itself change. The next
president, Democrat or Republican, will undoubtedly be more attentive to the
issue than President Bush, who for most of his tenure has reflected skepticism
over whether global warming is real and correctable.

Not so John McCain, Barack Obama or Hillary Clinton. All say they support some
variation of a system known as "cap and trade" to limit greenhouse gas
emissions.  Details vary widely, but the basic idea is this: The government
would limit such emissions, with the totals declining over time, and then create
a market by which pollution credits could be acquired and traded.

Companies that come in under their emission targets could sell their surplus
pollution capacity to companies unable to meet their goals. Such a system has
been used successfully since the 1990s to reduce sulfur dioxide emissions that
cause acid rain.

While important differences remain among the candidates' approaches, the good
news is that the next occupant of the White House sees the need for aggressive
action. That alone is significant progress.

McCain, in an environmental speech on Monday in Oregon, backed a cap-and-trade
system similar to the one to combat acid rain. He supported establishing
emissions targets and the idea of creating a market in which companies could
sell pollution rights. Over time the targets would be cut.

Both Democratic candidates support a "100% auction" approach. This approach
regards the pre-set targets as giveaway of pollution credits. Under this system,
all pollution credits would be sold off by the government, potentially making it
a major revenue raiser.

The competing approaches are likely to come to the fore next month when the
Senate is scheduled to take up a measure sponsored by Joe Lieberman, I-Conn.,
and John Warner, R-Va., that's a hybrid of the traditional cap-and-trade and an
auction approach.

Given the resistance from the Bush administration, the complexity of the issues
and the differences between the candidates, this year's efforts could easily get
bogged down. If that happens, it won't be the first time politics intruded on
policy during an election year.

Even so, if the fate of the planet truly hung in the balance, it would be nice
to make saving it the priority.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              45 of 218 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           November 18, 2008 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

House titans fight over energy panel;
Dems will have secret ballot on leadership

BYLINE: Ken Dilanian

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 760 words


WASHINGTON -- A fight brewing among congressional Democrats could shape the
course of President-elect Barack Obama's plans for energy policy, climate change
and health care reform.

Barring a last-minute deal, House Democrats will decide this week, possibly
Thursday, in a secret ballot who will lead the House Committee on Energy and
Commerce, where major environmental, consumer safety and health laws have been
crafted.

Rep. Henry Waxman, a California liberal best known for his high-profile
oversight hearings, is challenging Michigan Rep. John Dingell, who has been the
committee's top Democrat since 1981 and one of the automobile industry's
staunchest defenders.

Though Dingell and Waxman worked together to help craft seminal 1990 changes to
the Clean Air Act, the two legislative lions have been rivals for decades,
scrapping over environmental and health policies.  Waxman, 69,  favors tough
environmental regulations and an overhaul of the auto industry, while Dingell,
82, touts what he calls "a balanced approach" and makes no secret of his desire
to protect Detroit's automakers.

Dingell, who has faced two serious re-election fights in more than 50 years, has
raised millions of dollars from industries regulated by his committee, according
to the non-partisan Center for Responsive Politics. His top contributors are
employees of electric utilities and the auto industry, along with health
professionals.

Waxman, who chairs the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform and
never has been seriously challenged for re-election, has raised far less money:
$5 million since 1989 to Dingell's $15.5 million, according to the center. His
biggest givers are health professionals, union members and employees of the
entertainment industries.

Waxman has been mum while Dingell has gone public, announcing a team of
supporters and blasting Waxman in a radio interview. Speaking Nov. 6 on Detroit
radio station WJR, Dingell called Waxman "an anti-manufacturing, left-wing
Democrat." If Waxman won, he added, people should "expect that you're going to
have a man there who doesn't understand and doesn't care about industrial
manufacturing in the United States."

Rep. Jim Cooper of Tennessee, a Waxman backer, countered: "I think that's a
cheap shot. Henry is a superbly fair and rational legislator."

Obama is staying out of it. "President-elect Obama has tremendous respect for
both chairmen, but this is an issue for the House Democratic Caucus,"
spokeswoman Stephanie Cutter said by e-mail.  Obama hired Waxman's longtime
chief of staff, Phil Schiliro, to be his administration's legislative liaison.
Schiliro is now filling that role for the transition.

Also on the sidelines, at least publicly, is House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, who in
2001 gave $10,000 to a Dingell primary opponent, and who in 2007 named a special
global-warming committee to circumvent Dingell's go-slow approach to the issue.
A Dingell backer, Democratic Rep. Bart Stupak of Michigan, questions whether
Pelosi is neutral, since one of her close allies, Democratic California Rep.
George Miller, is backing Waxman.

"I don't think George Miller would be pushing this so hard without the speaker's
approval," Stupak said. Pelosi must consider moderates in her caucus, he added,
or "we'll be a one-term majority."

Asked to respond, Miller did not address the issue in a statement to USA TODAY.

Dingell's list of supporters highlights the ideological canyon between liberals
such as Waxman and moderates from swing districts who helped Democrats win the
majority in 2006.  It includes North Carolina's Heath Shuler, the pro-gun,
anti-abortion former football star, and Virginia's Rick Boucher, who shares
Dingell's approach to climate legislation.  Dingell backers, including Stupak,
say his broader base of support will be better able to get bills passed.

Dingell has won high marks from such groups as the League of Conservation
Voters, but he also was nicknamed "Tailpipe Johnny" by former Republican
congressman Edward Madigan of Illinois in the 1980s when he voted with
Republicans seeking to reduce auto pollution restrictions.  For years, he fought
attempts to mandate stricter vehicle mileage requirements, though he helped pass
them in 2007.

Dingell's wife, Debbie, earns an undisclosed salary as a top executive for
General Motors.

Waxman has investigated matters from Iraq contracting to steroids in baseball to
the financial meltdown.  He is known for putting the seven tobacco companies'
CEOs under oath in 1994, so they could testify they didn't believe cigarettes
were addictive.

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Lauren Victoria Burke, AP
PHOTO, B/W, Manuel Balce Ceneta, AP

DOCUMENT-TYPE: WASHINGTON

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              49 of 218 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            January 21, 2008 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

States take on global warming;
More than half target emissions

BYLINE: Paul Davidson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 520 words


As proposals to cap greenhouse gas emissions stall in Congress, more than half
the states are moving aggressively to combat the pollution that causes global
warming.

This year, eight states are scheduled to release plans to slash emissions of
heat-trapping gases;  several are likely to recommend specific reduction
targets, say state officials and the Pew Center on Global Climate Change.

Seventeen states already have such targets. States are deploying an array of
strategies to reduce pollution. Among them: capping carbon dioxide emissions of
power plants or vehicles and promoting energy efficiency and renewable energy.

California and 15 other states sued the Bush administration this month over its
decision to bar them from imposing stricter car emissions limits than those in
the federal energy law.

Two federal court decisions in the past year have said states have the authority
to regulate greenhouse gas emissions from vehicles.

Broader state actions on greenhouse gases could pressure the U.S. government
into acting to avoid a patchwork of state laws.

"If you're a business, it's not ideal to have to comply with different
regulations in different states," Pew Center fellow Patrick Hogan says.

Six Midwestern states agreed in November to cut emissions within their borders
up to 80% by 2050, joining similar coalitions involving 17 states in the
Northeast and West.

Utilities or factories in the states that exceed pollution caps will have to buy
allowances from those that fall below their limits under "cap-and-trade"
systems. Trading within the Northeast group is to start next year.

Among states acting independently:

*Florida Gov. Charlie Crist signed an executive order in July setting a target
of reducing emissions to 1990 levels by 2025.  Hawaii passed a similar law last
year.

*Virginia Gov. Tim Kaine released an energy plan in September that calls for
trimming global-warming gases to 2000 levels by 2025.

*North Carolina lawmakers are strongly considering specific targets as part of a
plan to cut emissions, says George Givens, the General Assembly's counsel.
Despite initial resistance from businesses, "There's a growing sense (global
warming) is real, and we've got to face up to it," he says.

*Alaska, Idaho, Nevada, Arkansas and South Carolina are weighing emissions goals
as part of climate plans coming out in the next year.

Several states have specific concerns about global warming. Idaho officials cite
an ongoing drought. Alaska worries about frozen ground that's thawing and
flooding villages. Colorado fears  forest fires and a shorter ski season.

U.S. cap-and-trade legislation is expected to be passed after this year's
presidential election. It's unclear if it would pre-empt states or present the
thorny task of melding overlapping systems.

In the works

Three coalitions of states seek to cut carbon emissions in their regions:

*Northeast: Connecticut, Delaware, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, New
Hampshire, New Jersey, New York, Rhode Island, Vermont.

*Midwest: Illinois, Iowa, Kansas, Minnesota, Michigan, Wisconsin.

*West: Arizona, California, Montana, New Mexico, Oregon, Washington, Utah.

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              51 of 218 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             May 15, 2008 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

U.S. adds polar bear to 'threatened' list;
But government takes no action to reduce warming that melts their Arctic habitat

BYLINE: Oren Dorell

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 538 words


The Bush administration listed the polar bear as a threatened species Wednesday,
agreeing with conservationists that the bear's Arctic habitat is melting because
of global warming.

That is where the agreement with conservationists ends.

"This listing will not stop global climate change or prevent any sea ice from
melting," Interior Secretary Dirk Kempthorne said while announcing the decision.
The Endangered Species Act should not be "abused to make global warming
policies," he said.

Kassie Siegel, a lawyer with the Center for Biological Diversity, said the group
does not accept Kempthorne's view.

The act requires federal agencies to take steps to reduce or eliminate those
impacts on threatened species, she said. "There is no exemption for greenhouse
gas emissions."

If the government fails to address global warming, "we can and will go to court
to enforce the law," she said.

The decision comes three years after environmental groups petitioned to have the
polar bear listed under the Endangered Species Act.

The listing of "threatened" means a species is at risk of becoming endangered
within the foreseeable future. A species is listed as "endangered" when it is at
risk of becoming extinct, according to the act.

"Although the population of polar bears has grown from 10,000 in the 1960s to
25,000 today, our scientists tell me that polar bears could become an endangered
species in the next 30 years," Kempthorne said.

In an interview, Kempthorne said the next step is for the U.S. Fish and Wildlife
Service, which administers the act, to designate "critical habitat" for the
bear, which will likely happen under the next administration. After that, a
recovery plan will be developed, but he said he couldn't provide specifics.

He said the decision to list the animals as threatened was "forced" by science
and the Endangered Species Act, which he called "inflexible."

Kempthorne pointed to satellite images showing dramatic reductions in sea ice
over the past decade and climate projections by the U.S. Geological Survey that
the sea ice on which polar bears depend is likely to shrink more than 30% by
2050 and could all but disappear by the end of the 21st century.

Kempthorne said there is little that can be done under the Endangered Species
Act that isn't already being done. The polar bear has been protected under the
Marine Mammals Protection Act, which has a higher standard of protection.

The Department of Interior will issue a rule stating that anything allowed under
the Marine Mammals Protection Act, including Arctic oil and gas production and
exploration, will be allowed under the new listing. The only exception: Polar
bear hides collected in sport hunts in Canada can no longer be imported into the
USA.

Reed Hopper, an attorney with the Pacific Legal Foundation, which defends
property rights, says the decision "is exactly what the environmentalists have
been looking for."

"It opened the door to them to create a hook to bring legal challenges to
virtually any carbon-emitting activities," including livestock and energy
production,  and manufacturing, he said.

Kempthorne said the decision precludes such an argument. "It's not going to be
up to the agency," Hopper said. "It's going to be up to the courts."

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Connie Barclay, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              55 of 218 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 1, 2008 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Clinton's biggest test: How she'll work with Obama;
She's a defense hawk with a focus on rights

BYLINE: Susan Page

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 2327 words


WASHINGTON -- She'll bring global star power, a long-standing commitment to
improving the status of women and children around the world and muscular
promises of military action when U.S. interests are crossed.

The question for Hillary Rodham Clinton, slated to be named secretary of State
today by President-elect Barack Obama, is whether she can forge the sort of
close relationship with a former rival that is crucial to giving the nation's
top diplomat the credibility to get things done.

"What matters most are two things," says James Lindsay, director of the Robert
S. Strauss Center for International Security and Law at the University of
Texas-Austin. "One, the secretary of State has to have the president's ear. Two,
the president has to have the secretary of State's back."

Obama is choosing for his most prestigious Cabinet post an independent-minded
policymaker whose world view has been shaped by eight years as a globe-trotting
first lady and eight years as a senator with time on the Armed Services
Committee. She combines a focus on "soft" issues such as maternal health with
rhetoric more hawkish than Obama's on containing Iran's nuclear program and
protecting Israel.

She will be taking the lead on a crushing set of global challenges, including
repercussions from last week's terrorist attacks in Mumbai, India, which
threaten a conflagration on the nuclear-armed subcontinent.

In collaboration with other administration officials, the incoming secretary of
State will deal with the withdrawal of U.S. troops from Iraq, efforts to turn
around the war in Afghanistan, nuclear programs in such rogue nations as North
Korea and Iran, the challenge from a resurgent Russia and growing concerns about
global climate change.

Obama's pick is non-traditional on several fronts. Not since James Garfield
appointed James Blaine to head the State Department in 1881 has a president
chosen a major political rival for the job. What's more, Clinton's grounding in
women's rights contrasts with her predecessors, most of whom had pursued careers
in academia, the military or law steeped in U.S. relations with major world
powers.

The Obama transition office said Sunday that he would unveil his national
security team today.  Two Democratic sources with firsthand knowledge of the
decision confirmed Clinton would be among those named. They spoke on condition
of anonymity because they weren't authorized to speak on the record.

Clinton is "a tough pragmatist who understands it's a dangerous world out there,
who understands it can be necessary at times to use force and at other times to
be able to back your diplomacy with the threat of force," says Martin Indyk, a
former assistant secretary of State and ambassador to Israel who is close to
Clinton.

"On the other hand, she has shown a very deep commitment to the causes of human
rights, women's rights in particular, and the pursuit of peace and resolution of
conflict."

When Clinton decided to run for the Senate in 2000, she launched her campaign
with a "listening tour" to hear from New York voters. When she began her
presidential campaign in 2007, she announced a similar "listening tour" through
states with early primaries and caucuses.

It would be no surprise, then, if she chose to begin her tenure as secretary of
State with a "listening tour" around the globe, especially to hear from allies
in Europe and elsewhere who have complained about what they see as a penchant
for unilateral action by the Bush administration.

She also has other ideas in her pocket.

During a trip last year to Pakistan and Afghanistan, Clinton met separately with
then-Pakistani president Pervez Musharraf and Afghan President Hamid Karzai,
each of whom expressed suspicions of the other. She asked each if it would be
helpful for the United States to appoint a special envoy to work with leaders of
the two countries. They said yes.

On her return to Washington, she called White House national security adviser
Stephen Hadley to pitch the idea but to no avail. National Security Council
spokesman Gordon Johndroe says the White House did look into her suggestion but
decided it wasn't feasible because the administration, while also working on
tensions between Musharraf and Karzai, was focused on a governmental transition
in Pakistan and the need to name a new U.N. representative for Afghanistan.

As secretary of State, Clinton would be in a position to put her ideas into
action.

From bellicose to 'brilliant'

As they competed for the Democratic nomination, Clinton portrayed Obama as naive
in his approach to rogue leaders around the world.

Obama, meanwhile, questioned her judgment in voting to authorize the Iraq war
and cast her as unnecessarily bellicose toward Iran. He and his top aides --
including Susan Rice, set to be named United Nations ambassador -- mocked the
idea that Clinton's work as first lady amounted to substantive experience.

Now, associates of both describe their differences on foreign policy as
overblown in the heat of battle. They say Clinton's public campaigning for Obama
during the general election and their private conversations in the four weeks
since he won have helped mend fences and begin a budding partnership. Obama
strategist David Axelrod now calls Clinton "able, tough, brilliant."

Even so, no appointment Obama has considered has generated as much chatter as
the choice of the New York senator.

Some leaders of anti-war groups are dismayed that Obama, whose national
ambitions were launched by his opposition to the invasion of Iraq, would give
such a key role to someone who supported it.

"One of the ways in which he separated himself from Hillary Clinton during the
primary season was to remind people that early on he was opposed to the war in
Iraq, was opposed to her position, which was always quite supportive of war,"
says Leslie Cagan, national coordinator of United for Peace and Justice, a
coalition of anti-war groups.

She calls the prospective nomination of Clinton "quite disappointing" but says
the "real question" will be the policies Obama himself sets.

Then there are the potential complications of choosing the spouse of a former
president who continues to pursue his own initiatives on AIDS and other issues
around the world. Will foreign leaders assume Bill Clinton speaks for the White
House? And what happens if he disagrees with a step the president and secretary
of State decide to take?

The former president has agreed to take steps to minimize conflicts or the
appearance of them, including submitting future speaking engagements and
business dealings to the State Department or White House for approval. Under the
arrangement, reported by The New York Times on Sunday, Clinton will release the
names of more than 200,000 donors to his foundation.

The former president could prove to be an asset for the new administration. In
an interview in October with Joe Klein of Time magazine, Obama said he had
talked with Bill Clinton about the possibility of serving as a special envoy to
ease tensions between India and Pakistan -- a task that takes on special
importance now.

Bill Clinton has been "foursquare" in favor of his wife's appointment, says
Strobe Talbott, a former deputy secretary of State who has been a friend since
they were Rhodes Scholars together. "I know his initial reaction to the idea
was, 'She'd be great; (Obama's) smart to offer it.' ...

"She obviously had to make some pretty basic decisions" whether to accept the
job, Talbott says. "It's a major career change."

She has made those before.

Clinton was a Little Rock lawyer and activist on children's issues when her
husband was governor of Arkansas. After he was elected president in 1992, she
headed the task force charged with his signature domestic initiative, on health
care.

The proposal she helped draft failed spectacularly, never coming to a vote on
Capitol Hill and contributing to devastating Democratic setbacks in the
congressional elections in 1994. Hillary Clinton, a political lightning rod in
the United States, became increasingly engaged in global travels and programs.

"She was very interested in a combination of things that led her to get more
active on foreign issues," recalls Madeleine Albright, who was U.N. ambassador
in President Clinton's first term and secretary of State in his second. She and
Hillary Clinton regularly met for lunch in Albright's private dining room at the
State Department.

"She could see what her voice meant when she got involved in a particular
issue," Albright says. "There were specific areas she got interested in -- human
rights and women's issues and international health issues -- and then more and
more that gave her the capability of understanding developments in those
countries."

Eight years, 82 countries

During eight years in the White House, Hillary Clinton visited 82 countries. She
met with dozens of foreign leaders including President Hosni Mubarak of Egypt,
president Ion Iliescu of Romania and prime minister Benazir Bhutto of Pakistan.
(In her 2003 memoir, Living History, Clinton says Bhutto commiserated on their
mutual challenges. "Women who take on tough issues and stake out new territory
are often on the receiving end of ignorance," Bhutto told her.)

One of Clinton's most embarrassing missteps during this year's presidential
campaign came when she exaggerated her experiences as first lady, giving
audiences a vivid account of landing in Bosnia in 1996 under sniper fire. CBS
footage of the trip -- posted on YouTube this spring and viewed more than 2
million times since then -- shows her and daughter Chelsea at a placid welcome
ceremony on the airport tarmac, greeted by a young girl with a long braid.

Clinton's schedule abroad included hundreds of photo ops and sightseeing
expeditions, but she also routinely held meetings on such substantive issues as
the political empowerment of women, equal opportunities for girls and the
availability of health care.

After a 1995 trip to India, Pakistan and other countries in South Asia, she
delivered a presentation at the State Department of what she found that Talbott
calls "stunning" in its analysis of the region's importance and its challenges.
He says it laid the groundwork for President Clinton to visit India, Pakistan
and Bangladesh  in 2000.

On that trip and others, Hillary Clinton spotlighted the emergence of
"microcredit" programs that offered small, unsecured loans to give the
impoverished a path to self-sufficiency.

"When Hillary Clinton says something, the whole world listens," Mohammad Yunus,
founder of the Grameen Bank, told reporters after she sat down in the remote
village of Moishahati with a group of Bangladeshi women who had benefited from
the bank's microcredit loans.

After she was elected to the Senate in 2000, Clinton sought a seat on the Armed
Services Committee, a step that would bolster her credentials as a potential
commander-in-chief. Since then, she has regularly traveled abroad, making three
trips each to Iraq and Afghanistan and two to Israel as well as visits to
Pakistan, Kuwait, Canada and Europe.

Clinton remains determined to focus on such issues as maternal health and the
education of girls. She argues there is a direct link between those "soft"
issues and the stability of governments, and with that U.S. security interests.

"Typically, governments (including that of the U.S.) limit their foreign
policies to diplomatic, military and trade issues, the staple of most treaties,
pacts and negotiations," Clinton wrote in her memoir. "Yet it was clear to me
that in the new global economy, individual countries and regions would find it
difficult to make economic or social progress if a disproportionate percentage
of their female population remained poor, uneducated, unhealthy and
disenfranchised. ...

"Issues affecting women and girls should not be dismissed as 'soft' or marginal
but should be integrated fully into domestic and foreign policy decisions."

Still, it is on such traditional "hard" issues as authorizing the U.S. invasion
of Iraq and dealing with the nuclear program in Iran that Clinton has clashed
most with Obama. Those questions and others -- including the perilous situation
between India and Pakistan -- will be among the new secretary of State's most
pressing challenges.

"For the Obama administration, foreign policy is not going to be easy," says
Lindsay, a former National Security Council aide. "Their inbox is filled with
lots of intractable problems."

Hillary Clinton and the world

President-elect Barack Obama's expected choice for secretary of State, Hillary
Rodham Clinton, has been involved in global issues during eight years as first
lady and eight years as a New York senator.  Some examples:

Loans to the poor Women's rights  Iraq war   Iran

Event  Meeting with "micro- Fourth World  Voted with   Democratic primary

credit" pioneer   Conference on   Senate majority  debate, Philadelphia

Mohammad Yunus,  Women, Beijing  to authorize the

Bangladesh     the invasion

When  April 1995  September 1995  October 2002  April 2008

What she did Championed Yunus' Argued against   Supported President Took a
tougher line

Grameen Bank and abusive practices  Bush's plan to use  than rival Barack

and the  microcredit  toward women in force against Iraq.  Obama on responding

movement, which  China and elsewhere, In the 2008 Democratic to Tehran's nuclear

makes small,   resisting Beijing's primaries, Clinton program and

unsecured loans to  pressure to temper rebuffed calls to   negotiating with

help the poor achieve  her remarks.   apologize for her vote.  Iran's leaders.

In her own Later described a  "It is no longer  "It is a vote that says "We will
let the

words  beneficiary saying  acceptable to   clearly to Saddam  Iranians know
that,

"that when she got  discuss women's Hussein, 'This is your yes, an attack on

that new sewing  rights as separate last change.  Disarm  Israel would

machine, she felt  from human rights." or be disarmed.'" trigger massive

like a caged bird        retaliation."

set free."

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Color, Emmanuel Dunand, AFP/Getty Images
PHOTO, B/W, Air Force Tech. Sgt. Christopher DeWitt, via AP

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COVER STORY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              60 of 218 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           January 16, 2008 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

The little car that could

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 397 words


In the USA, $2,500 won't buy some top-end bicycles. In India, soon it will be
enough to buy a car.

Granted that the new Nano, from Mumbai-based Tata Motors,  is only about 10 feet
long, has a tiny 33-horsepower engine and comes fully loaded with, well, um -- a
windshield wiper. But there is something both inspiring and disconcerting about
this bite-sized piece of automotive engineering, which is being compared to the
Model T that Henry Ford introduced a century ago.

The Nano is inspiring because it symbolizes the rise of a middle class in a
country that has been far too impoverished for far too long. Many of the people
who will buy these cars grew up thinking they'd never have more than an ox cart.
Now they will be able to get around on India's bustling streets in more comfort
and safety than they ever imagined. While these cars won't have airbags or fancy
braking systems, merely being surrounded by an auto body and sheltered from the
elements is a dramatic advance that's hard to begrudge.

But the car is also disconcerting because it speaks volumes about the enormous
environmental and social challenges the world faces as millions join the
car-owning classes. India has more people (1.1 billion)  than there are cars in
the world (about 600 million). As more of its citizens drive cars, live in
larger homes and consume more power, this will make it harder to come to grips
with climate change, no matter what Western countries do to curb their
greenhouse gas emissions.

And if $3 gasoline seems like a short-term phenomenon, think again. With a
rising Asian middle class snapping up Nanos and other cars like it, demand for
oil is likely to go higher.

The thrifty price tag also says something about labor costs and economic
competition. There is no way a car -- even one without airbags, air conditioner
and radio -- could be made for anything close to $2,500 in a Western country.
General Motors has been spending about $1,500 per car just on employee health
benefits.

Companies like Tata are one more challenge that Detroit faces in a changing
world. Tata not only can capitalize on cheap labor in its home markets, but it
is also focused on tapping into consumer spending in developing countries by
getting to those consumers with products made and priced for them.

So while the Nano might not be much to look at, it just might be the little car
that changes the world.

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Reuters

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              62 of 218 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             March 28, 2008 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

America's vanishing grasslands;
Potential profits in rising grain prices land untamed plains in farmers' sights

BYLINE: Sue Kirchhoff and Jeff Martin

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 1943 words


DE SMET, S.D. -- To the west of this small town, which helped inspire Laura
Ingalls Wilder's classic book series that included Little House on the Prairie,
the view opens to a vast, unbroken landscape that seems to roll on forever.

But this untamed vista is shrinking.

The USA's open plains and prairies are threatened by soaring grain prices that
have increased their value as cropland. Grain prices have been driven up by a
seemingly insatiable worldwide appetite for food and by federal energy policies
promoting corn-based ethanol that are working at cross purposes with government
programs designed to conserve open spaces.

As a result, landowners in South Dakota and across the USA's Farm Belt are
converting to cropland marginally productive acres that for decades -- in some
cases, centuries -- have remained uncultivated because farming them wouldn't
have been profitable or because of their environmental value.

"We're kind of in an ag revolution," says Bill Wilkinson, a farmer-rancher near
De Smet.

Leaving at least some land idle amid the increasingly industrialized business of
farming is essential for a variety of reasons. It provides a cleansing buffer
for the water that runs off chemically treated fields. Protection of fragile
wetlands cuts soil erosion while providing wildlife habitat that, in South
Dakota, is the basis of a multimillion-dollar hunting and tourism industry.
Native grasslands sustain biological diversity that can't be replicated.
Further, plowing untouched prairie releases carbon dioxide into the air,
contributing to climate change.

Long-term benefits are being overtaken by short-term incentives, however.
Farmers chasing near-record prices are coaxing higher yields from current acres
and putting more land into crops.

Kevin Baloun, a farmer-rancher near Highmore, S.D., is among them. He's plowed
up several pieces of virgin prairie in recent years to plant crops. Land values
in his area have tripled in the past five years, which makes it harder for
farmers to expand production by buying more cropland.

"The bottom line is what makes you go that direction," Baloun says of his
conversion of prairie to cropland. "Wheat was $4 or $5 a bushel a couple of
years ago, and now it's up to $10 or $12 a bushel."

Conservationists warn that the current commodity and ethanol frenzy could undo
years of hard work and undercut the investment  of taxpayer money that has
bankrolled federal land- and water-protection programs.

"A generation of conservation accomplishments could be rolled back" if commodity
prices remain near historic highs, warns Ken Cook, head of the non-profit
Environmental Working Group.

Agricultural boom

The nation is in the midst of the biggest agricultural boom since the 1970s.
U.S. net farm income is expected to hit a record $92.3 billion in 2008, more
than 50% above the 10-year average. Grain prices have soared because of high
demand in emerging economies such as China and India. In addition, Congress last
year voted to double production of corn-based ethanol, a cleaner-burning fuel
that can reduce greenhouse gas emissions.

The energy law is a boon to South Dakota, the nation's No. 4 ethanol refiner,
but it means nearly a third of the U.S. corn crop could be dedicated to making
fuel. Increased crop output places stress on land, air and water. Recent
studies, including one by Timothy Searchinger of Princeton and others, suggest
the negative effects of intensified crop production could offset environmental
benefits of  ethanol.

Craig Cox, executive director of the non-profit Soil and Water Conservation
Society in Ankeny, Iowa, says the farm sector has the technology to manage many
of the potential problems from increased crop production.

Growers can, for example, improve conservation through such practices as leaving
more stubble in fields to reduce erosion. The question is whether doing so  will
be a priority. But even small changes in current farming practices, such as
plowing closer to streambeds or increasing fertilizer use, add up to a lot
stretched over the USA's nearly 90 million acres of corn.

"It's not like these high commodity prices and biofuels are causing the problem.
There was already a significant problem," Cox says. "What this is doing is
ramping up the risk." U.S. farmers this year will be able to plant on more than
2.5 million acres of environmentally sensitive land formerly held in the
35-million acre federal Conservation Reserve Program (CRP), the nation's largest
farmland conservation program. That includes 300,000 acres in South Dakota.

On the principle that conservation benefits everyone, the government, through
the CRP, offers landowners 10- to 15-year contracts to keep sensitive ground in
grass cover or trees, for example, rather than crops. Since 1985, the program,
which costs about $2 billion a year, has protected 170,000 miles of streams and
restored 2 million acres of wetlands and buffer zones. A recent federal study
found that without the CRP acres in the Prairie Potholes region of the Dakotas
and northeastern Montana, there would be about 1.8 million fewer sedge wrens,
grasshopper sparrows, dickcissels, bobolinks and western meadowlarks.

"CRP may not be the only thing, but it is by far the most important thing when
it comes to wildlife in South Dakota," says George Vandel, assistant wildlife
director at the South Dakota Department of Game, Fish & Parks. Pheasant hunting
in 2006 had a $160 million direct economic impact as 98,000 out-of-state hunters
spent money on everything from ammunition to hunting lodges and guides.

Financial sense

In past years, when grain prices were low, enrolling land in the CRP made
environmental and financial sense. But now, the math has changed. A number of
farmers chose not to re-enroll when contracts expired last year, bringing
millions of acres into potential production for the 2008 growing season. More
than 5 million acres now preserved by CRP are set to become available for
planting in the next two years, and the numbers rise after that.

Frank James, who farms near Lily, S.D, chose not to re-enroll 400 acres when his
contract expired last year. James, 63, weighed family considerations: It was an
opportunity for his son Luke, 28, to farm. Luke has been around farming for
years, helping out on the family farm when he could, his father said. He had
been working for a farm service company, applying chemicals to fields. Now, his
father said, he's able to devote more time to actual farming.

In the new economics of farming, converting the conservation land to soybeans
often makes more sense than renting or buying farmland.

"You might have ... from 10% to 25% yield reduction" compared with existing
farmland because of the lower quality of the soil, he said.

Food processors, livestock producers and other businesses want even more CRP
land released to blunt the huge price increases for corn, wheat, soybeans and
other farm commodities. They are pushing the government to waive hefty penalties
on farmers who opt out of CRP contracts early.

The American Bakers Association this month even held a march on Washington.
Industry has "been warning government officials about the pending crisis for the
past year. Any further delay could have extremely serious consequences," said
Robb MacKie, American Bakers president.

The U.S. Department of Agriculture has said no to the early release of acreage
from the CRP, but it has also decided not to allow new land into the CRP except
for the most highly sensitive acres.

U.S. Agriculture Deputy Secretary Chuck Conner says that the situation remains
under review but that his agency will proceed cautiously. "We don't see it (CRP)
as something where you dial it up or dial it down," says Conner.  "It's too
important an environmental and conservation program."

Larry Janssen, a South Dakota State University economics professor, surveyed 750
state growers with CRP contracts. Of those, about a quarter don't plan to renew
when contracts expire.

The Food and Agricultural Policy Research Institute, a joint effort of Iowa
State University and the University of Missouri-Columbia, predicts the CRP will
fall below 30 million acres in the next few years, and stay down.

Not everyone is jumping on the train. Bob Roe, a financial adviser in Brookings,
S.D., invites friends to hunt on his 200 acres of CRP land in Beadle County, the
heart of South Dakota pheasant country. He extended his CRP contract until 2014.
"I bought it (land) for recreational purposes," Roe says. "But if I was an
elderly couple living in town and on a fixed income and I could get another $40
an acre in cash rent, I'd be pretty hard-pressed not to."

At the same time that the CRP is declining, farmers such as Baloun have been
plowing up native grasslands that are prime habitat for pheasants, ducks and
other wildlife, as well as pasture for cattle.

U.S. native grasslands declined by 24 million acres from 1982 to 2002. In many
areas, urban development was the main factor, but agriculture is the big reason
in the Dakotas. Grassland conversion affects a wide array of interests, from
local ranchers to hunters and birdwatchers as far away as Arkansas and Georgia,
where the prairie birds migrate.  "The conversion of grasslands is probably one
of the biggest issues and threats ... we've seen in several decades," says Scott
McLeod, regional biologist for Ducks Unlimited.

Slowing the trend

The USDA and lawmakers, including Sen. John Thune, R-S.D., are trying to slow
the trend by barring federal farm subsidies to growers who plant on virgin soil.

The USDA warns that grassland conversions could accelerate "greatly" as federal
ethanol subsidies boost demand for corn and other crops. So far, the House,
Senate and White House have been unable to agree on a final version of the huge
pending farm bill that would, among many other things, address the issue.

Near De Smet, Wilkinson, the farmer-rancher, has decided to go against the
current. While others convert prairie to crops, he's put about 400 acres into a
special preservation reserve.

The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Department offers payments equal to about 35% of the
land's value to farmers who agree to permanently idle their acreage. The goal is
to set aside about 24,000 acres of untouched land in two South Dakota counties.
Wilkinson must take certain precautions to protect the native grasses but is
still able to use the prairie as grazing land for his cattle. "This is what the
buffalo loved years ago," he says. "And the cattle love it."

Wilkinson, standing in a field of bluestem grass more than 4 feet high, says,
"I'm one of those who intend to leave the ground better than when we got it."

---

Sue Kirchhoff reported from Washington, D.C. Jeff Martin, who writes for the
Argus Leader in Sioux Falls, reported from South Dakota.

About the Conservation Reserve Program

*What it is: A 23-year-old voluntary conservation program administered by the
U.S. Department of Agriculture.

*How it works: The USDA pays landowners to convert farmland to grass, trees,
wildlife cover or other conservation uses. Contracts typically run 10 to 15
years.

*Benefits: The program has increased populations of birds and other wildlife,
and reduced soil erosion and water and air pollution.

*Cost to taxpayers: About $2 billion annually.

*What landowners get: The typical contract covers 50 acres and pays about $49 an
acre annually, for a total yearly payment of about $2,450.

*The threat: As grain and farmland prices surge, farmers have less financial
incentive to hold land in the CRP. Growers chose not to re-enroll about 2.5
million acres when the most recent batch of CRP contracts expired on Sept. 30.

Sources: USDA, USA TODAY research

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Karl Gelles, USA TODAY, Source: Chicago Board of Trade
(LINE GRAPH)
PHOTO, Color, Jesse Brown Nelson, South Dakota Department of Tourism & State
Development
PHOTO, Color, Elisha Page, Argus Leader (Sioux Falls, S.D.), for USA TODAY
PHOTO, B/W, Elisha Page, Argus Leader (Sioux Falls, S.D.), for USA TODAY

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COVER STORY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              65 of 218 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            October 20, 2008 Monday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Renewables aren't the answer;
Requirement or not, these sources can't meet nation's energy needs

BYLINE: Robert J. Michaels

SECTION: EDIT; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 390 words


America needs lots of clean, low-cost, secure electricity. Unfortunately,
renewable sources don't fill the bill, and a national requirement wouldn't
change things.

Renewables (excluding hydroelectric dams) produce less than 3% of U.S.
electricity, much of which is hardly clean. About two-thirds comes from burning
scrap vegetation ("biomass") and garbage, which produce the same pollutants and
carbon as coal. The real job is to produce fewer of them, rather than changing
fuels from fossilized to non-fossilized vegetation.

Geology limits geothermal opportunities, biomass is environmentally
questionable, and solar remains prohibitively expensive. That leaves wind power,
but efficient wind turbines pollute in their own way -- taller than the Statue
of Liberty and maddeningly noisy. A national requirement would engender the same
environmental resistance as conventional generators and transmission. Opposition
to California's requirement is so strong that today, it gets a smaller
percentage of power from renewables than in 2001.

Wind generates only when it is blowing, and it blows least when power is most
valuable. At peak demand hours in 2006, wind plants in both California and Texas
produced below 3% of their potential. To maintain reliability will require
continued investment in full-scale backup generation. Wind generation is itself
expensive -- even at today's fuel prices, it requires a massive federal tax
credit to survive.

A national policy that creates jobs in renewables destroys them elsewhere.
Forcing people and businesses to buy expensive power leaves them less to spend
on other goods and investments in future productivity. If unemployment is a
national problem, attack it with a national policy rather than special-interest
legislation for the renewables industry.

That industry is already big enough worldwide that a U.S. requirement is not
needed to bring forth better renewable technologies. And renewables don't matter
for national security or energy independence; these are about oil, which
produces about 2% of our electricity.

If pollution and climate change are problems, attack them directly. Don't
confuse this special-interest legislation with an efficient solution to them.

Robert J. Michaels is a professor of economics at California State
University-Fullerton and an Adjunct Scholar at the Cato Institute.

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              66 of 218 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            October 31, 2008 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Making their case;
Obama relishes challenge of a 'difficult time'

BYLINE: Kathy Kiely

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1104 words


VIRGINIA BEACH -- Democrat Barack Obama, looking forward to leading the country
at a "difficult, challenging time," says his "diverse background" will help him
be a better president than rival John McCain.

"Being president when things are easy -- not to say being president is ever easy
-- but being president when peace and prosperity already exists is less of a
challenge," Obama said in an interview Thursday with USA TODAY. "I signed up to
make this country better."

Asked to name some of his assets, he emphasized his upbringing -- growing up
black with an absent father and a white mother and grandparents.

"I come from a diverse background and so I think I understand a lot of different
cultures," he said.

That background, Obama said, will allow him to meet "the challenges and threats
of the 21st century ... more effectively than John McCain."

His grueling, 21-month campaign has brought Obama, 47, to the brink of becoming
the nation's first African-American chief executive. In the interview on his
campaign jet as he powered through a four-rally, 1,500-mile day, the tired but
confident Obama said he's been buoyed by the size of the crowds greeting him at
his stops. "Like any politician at this level, I've got a healthy ego," he said.

The campaign has proven that "I'm able to bring a lot of smart people together
and get them to cooperate instead of engaging in a lot of infighting," he said.
"I think I've done that better than John McCain."

Obama doesn't rule out the possibility, if elected, of seeking an invitation to
the international economic summit President Bush plans for November.

"I don't want to make those decisions right now," he said. "I do think it's
important to remember we have one president at a time and lines of authority
should not blur, especially at a time of crisis."

'Complacency' is a concern

Obama's schedule this weekend is a marathon of rallies throughout the Midwest
and Rocky Mountain states, with a timeout tonight to join his daughters, Malia,
10, and Sasha, 7, for Halloween.

Afterward, Obama plans to head to neighboring Indiana for a late-night rally.
His Saturday schedule begins in Henderson, Nev., and ends just before midnight
in Springfield, Mo.

Confident enough about his Democratic base, Obama is spending the closing days
of the campaign in traditionally Republican territory.

Thursday morning, he drew more than 13,000 to a baseball field in Sarasota,
Fla., in a county that hasn't voted for a Democratic presidential nominee in 60
years, according to state Rep. Keith Fitzgerald, a local Democrat.

The crowds and long lines of people waiting to cast ballots at early voting
places tell Obama that the months spent building a political organization "from
the bottom up, from scratch" are paying off.

Obama's biggest worry? "Complacency," he says. "I worry that people start
thinking these national polls (showing him ahead) mean something. They don't."

To underscore his concern, he's reminding supporters about New Hampshire, where
polls on the eve of the state's crucial January primary showed Obama with a
10-percentage-point lead in a race that Sen. Hillary Clinton, D-N.Y., ended up
winning by 2 points. "You never know what's going to happen until people
actually cast their ballots," he said.

'The economy is not working'

Obama has been emphasizing the economy in the fall campaign. It's an issue he
thinks works in his favor at a time when "the majority of Americans feel like
we're on the wrong track, the economy is not working for the middle class."

The Illinois senator insisted his plans to eliminate some of President Bush's
tax cuts would affect only "the wealthiest Americans." He said he would be able
to reduce the tax burden on 95% of earners.

Obama said McCain, 72, is showing a generational difference by describing the
Democrat's economic plans as socialism. "I think he's much more likely to look
backwards and use the 20th century as a reference point," Obama said. "The times
are different."

The son of a black Kenyan exchange student and a white American woman, Obama
grew up in Hawaii and Indonesia. He was not yet a teenager when the USA was torn
by violent disputes over the war in Vietnam and civil rights. Coming of age
without the "ideological baggage that came out of the '60s," Obama said he is
able to go beyond "the same arguments of the left and right" and "see more
clearly the opportunities we have right now."

He cited his positions on education, which include a call for federal funding
combined with a demand for more parental responsibility. ("Government can't turn
off the TV," is one of Obama's bigger applause lines in speeches.)

For all his critiques of McCain, Obama said he finds much to admire in his
rival's record. He said he hopes to work with him after the election on issues
such as climate change, immigration and ensuring that terrorism suspects are not
tortured.

The two men will appear for brief interviews on ESPN during the Monday Night
Football game between the Washington Redskins and Pittsburgh Steelers. Obama,
who was criticized for hedging his bets in the World Series, when he expressed
support for the Philadelphia Phillies and admiration for the Tampa Bay Rays, had
no problems picking a favorite in Monday's game.

"That's easy," he said. Steelers owner "Dan Rooney has been a great supporter."

Obama may have another reason: Since 1948, when the Redskins have won their last
home game before the election -- with one exception -- the party in power has
kept the White House, according to the American Enterprise Institute. The
exception was in 2004, when President Bush won re-election after the Redskins
had lost. So a defeat for the Steelers could also forecast one for Obama.

The candidates speak out

Obama    Issue    McCain

"I'm able to put a vision forward and Why he's the better  Obama is "going to be
tested by an

inspire people around that vision." choice    international crisis because he's
young

and inexperienced. That's not going to

happen when I'm president."

McCain is "arguing about socialism The Economy   "I'm not going to raise your
taxes.

when what we're talking about is      I'm not going to spread the wealth

rolling back the Bush tax cuts on      around."

the wealthiest Americans so that we

can give a tax cut to 95% of other

Americans."

"John McCain has broken with his His rival    "Sen. Obama has motivated and

party in a legitimately admirable way"     inspired many Americans, and I

on climate change, immigration and      know he will have a role to play

treatment of suspected terrorists.      in America's future."

"There's a lot of room to work

together."

Interviews by Kathy Kiely and David Jackson

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Color, Win McNamee, Getty Images
PHOTO, B/W, Jae C. Hong, AP

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COVER STORY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              67 of 218 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              June 6, 2008 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Bush to discuss Afghanistan, Iran with Europe's leaders

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 732 words


President Bush will meet with leaders of four major European nations. On the
agenda are troop commitments in Afghanistan and Iran's nuclear program.

France

Leader: President Nicolas Sarkozy, 53. Elected in 2007.

U.S. relationship: Sarkozy, a conservative, is France's most pro-U.S. president
since World War II. He told Bush last year that he wanted France to "re-conquer
the heart of America" after relations soured over the Iraq invasion in 2003. His
predecessor, Jacques Chirac, opposed the war and saw France as a counterforce to
U.S. influence.

Afghanistan: France has 1,670 troops there and is considering sending 1,000
more. Sarkozy wants France to join NATO's central command. That follows U.S.
endorsement of the European Union's security and defense force separate from
NATO, which Sarkozy supports.

Iran: France, Germany and Britain have sought discussions with Iran over its
nuclear program. Sarkozy has warned of greater sanctions if Iran doesn't comply.

Political situation: Sarkozy wants to make France more competitive economically
by overhauling rigid labor laws and generous pensions. His popularity dropped
during his high-profile romance and marriage to former Italian model Carla Bruni
in February. Public support for his economic changes has fallen amid rising
consumer prices.

Italy

Leader: Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi, 71. Elected in April for a third time
after holding the post in 1994-95 and 2005-06.

U.S. relationship: Berlusconi, a conservative, has had a strong relationship
with Bush. He sent 3,200 Italian troops to Iraq, although he gradually withdrew
them. He said later that he tried to talk Bush out of invading Iraq.

Afghanistan: Italy has 2,350 troops there but in non-combat zones. Italy is
considering deploying them to fight the Taliban.

Iran: Italy is Iran's biggest European trade partner. Berlusconi, however,
refused to meet with Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad on Monday in Rome
because the Iranian leader wouldn't denounce his statement that the Holocaust
didn't happen. Ahmadinejad also wouldn't agree to Israel's right to exist or to
be more forthcoming on Iran's nuclear program.

Political situation: Berlusconi faces big hurdles to expand Italy's zero-growth
economy. He has vowed to clean up Naples' garbage mess and crack down on illegal
immigration. The crackdown has prompted concern throughout the European Union
about abuse of immigrants' rights.

Germany

Leader: Chancellor Angela Merkel, 53. Elected in 2005.

U.S. relationship: Merkel, a conservative, has sought to tighten ties with the
United States after her predecessor, Gerhard Schroeder, refused to provide
support for the Iraq war. Merkel has visited Bush at his Texas ranch.

Afghanistan: Germany has 3,370 troops there, although not in combat zones.
Deploying German troops remains touchy in post-World War II Germany. Merkel has
strengthened Germany's training of Afghan police and reconstruction efforts
there.

Iran: Merkel has repeatedly demanded that Iran meet all international demands on
its nuclear program. She has vowed to reduce German financial investment in
Iran.

Political situation: Merkel, Germany's first female chancellor, is popular in
polls but has difficulty holding together her governing coalition. Conflicts
with another party made her back off on some economic changes.

Britain

Leader: Prime Minister Gordon Brown, 57. Assumed post in 2007, when Tony Blair
stepped down.

U.S. relationship: Brown says the "special relationship" continues between
Britain and the United States. He supported the Iraq invasion and is aligned
with U.S. policy on most issues but not climate change. He said British troops
will continue to be withdrawn from Iraq as soon as feasible to help meet
Britain's commitment in Afghanistan. Bush will also visit the British province
of Northern Ireland to laud the year-long peace and joint local rule between
Catholics and Protestants.

Afghanistan: Britain has 8,530 troops there, second only to the United States.

Iran: Brown opposes Iran possessing nuclear weapons and supports wide-ranging
economic sanctions.

Political situation: Brown's  left-leaning Labor Party suffered its worst defeat
in 40 years this spring in local elections, and the party's favorable ratings
dropped to a historic low 23%. Rising oil and food prices and the global credit
crunch have contributed to public unhappiness with Brown.

Sources: NATO, USA TODAY research

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Adrienne Lewis, USA TODAY, Source: White House (Map)
PHOTOS, B/W, Reuters (2)
PHOTO, B/W, AFP/Getty Images
PHOTO, B/W, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              72 of 218 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             May 14, 2008 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Consumer labels gauge real price of consumption;
Some products in British stores list 'carbon footprint'

BYLINE: Jeffrey Stinson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 437 words


LONDON -- Labels on some British products now list not only their fat and salt
content, but their "carbon footprint" as well in an attempt to appeal to
environmentally conscious shoppers. The initiative could spread to the USA.

Tesco, Britain's biggest retailer, is providing the information on 20 items. The
labels list how much carbon dioxide was emitted from the burning of oil or other
fossil fuels -- known as the carbon footprint -- to get laundry detergent or
low-energy light bulbs onto store shelves.

The experiment in about 1,800 Tesco grocery and department stores is designed to
help consumers increasingly concerned about climate change know which companies
are working to reduce carbon emissions -- and reward them by buying their
products.

"Companies get credit for doing the right thing, and consumers can make informed
decisions," said Euan Murray, who heads the labeling program for Carbon Trust,
an independent environmental company set up by the British government in 2001.

Tesco's program is the largest yet with Carbon Trust, which was established to
promote a low-carbon economy. Some labels are starting to appear on shelves now;
the rest are coming in the next few months, Tesco says.

Only 20 companies are involved so far in developing labeling in Britain,
although 200 have applied, according to Carbon Trust.

"We've created momentum and we think we are going to be able to build more,"
Murray says. "A number of American companies have approached us on pilot
projects. I think it can work there. The U.S. consumer is just as receptive to
this sort of thing."

To participate in the program, firms have to reduce emissions in making their
products over two years or remove the label. Carbon Trust, in turn, provides a
standard measurement of emissions from farm to factory to store shelves. "We
give credibility to the labels," Murray says.

Murray won't say yet which U.S. firms have expressed interest. But Carbon Trust
is working with Coca-Cola in the United Kingdom. Tesco, which opened Fresh &
Easy grocery stores in Southern California in November, says it has no plans to
expand the labeling in the USA yet.

PepsiCo International already is involved. Its Walkers potato chips -- what the
Brits call "crisps" -- is the biggest user of the labels here. Every bag of
Walkers crisps has had the label for the past year, stating each bag used 75
grams of carbon dioxide in production.

Nicki Lyons, spokeswoman for PepsiCo UK, says the labeling program has been
"incredibly successful." She says Walkers already has found ways to reduce
carbon emissions by cutting transportation costs and by recycling water.

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Terry Payne, Tesco

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              87 of 218 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          November 12, 2008 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Report: Tropical cyclone activity at 30-year low

BYLINE: Oren Dorell

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 515 words


The past two years have seen a "remarkable" downturn in hurricane activity,
contradicting predictions of more storms, researchers at Florida State
University say.

The 2007 and 2008 hurricane seasons had the least tropical activity in the
Northern Hemisphere in 30 years, according to Ryan Maue, co-author of a report
on Global Tropical Cyclone Activity.

"Even though North Atlantic hurricane activity was expectedly above normal, the
Western and Eastern Pacific basins have produced considerably fewer than normal
typhoons and hurricanes," he said.

Maue's results dovetail with other research suggesting hurricanes are variable
and unconnected to global warming predictions, said Stan Goldenberg, a hurricane
researcher with the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.

"The simplistic notion that warmer oceans from global warming automatically lead
to more frequent and or stronger hurricanes has not been verified," said
Goldenberg, whose research points to periods of high and low hurricane activity
that last several decades each.

Maue used a measurement called Accumulated Cyclone Energy, which combines a
storm's duration and its wind speed in six-hour intervals. The years 2007 and
2008 had among the lowest ACE measurements since reliable global satellite data
was first available three decades ago.

Northern Hemisphere activity in 2006 was close to average, and the previous two
years, 2004 and 2005, which included Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, saw among the
highest numbers on record.

Active seasons in one ocean tend to be accompanied by quiet ones in the other,
Maue said. When the Pacific is cooler, as it is now, the Atlantic has slower
winds aloft, which creates more favorable conditions for hurricanes.

"It tells you that from year to year you have large swings of activity," said
Maue, who plans to present his work next month at a meeting of the American
Geophysical Union in San Francisco. "If you want to find a global warming signal
in all that data it's generally going to be rather small."

Kevin Trenberth, a lead author of the 2007 Intergovernmental Panel on Climate
Change assessment, was among several climatologists who made such claims. He
said in 2004 that the intense hurricane season that year was "a harbinger of the
future." His prediction prompted the resignation from the panel of Chris
Landsea, science and operations officer at NOAA's National Hurricane Center, who
said there was no basis to make such a prediction.

Trenberth said in response to the latest study that hurricanes can be measured
in different ways and by some measures activity is high. "What we expect on a
theoretical basis is for duration to increase as well as size ... but there
could be fewer storms," Trenberth said.

This year's North Atlantic hurricane season set some records, according to
Weather Underground, a forecasting site. Tropical Storm Bertha never made
landfall but its 13-day run was a record for the month of July. Tropical Storm
Fay in August made landfall in Florida a record four times, and ranked among the
four top rainmakers since record keeping began in 1950.

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: NATION

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              88 of 218 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           November 18, 2008 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Obama, McCain vow to reform government;
Former rivals have friendly, 40-minute talk

BYLINE: David Jackson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 468 words


CHICAGO -- President-elect Barack Obama and Republican rival John McCain said
Monday they will seek "a new era of reform" in the coming years, targeting "bad
habits" such as government waste and excessive partisanship.

"At this defining moment in history, we believe that Americans of all parties
want and need their leaders to come together," Obama and McCain declared in a
joint statement.

The two also pledged to address "critical challenges" such as "solving our
financial crisis, creating a new energy economy and protecting our nation's
security."

On the campaign trail, the rhetoric sometimes got bitter and heated.  Obama
frequently tied McCain to the unpopular President Bush, and the Democrat's
campaign charged the 72-year-old senator with being erratic.   McCain derided
Obama's celebrity, comparing him to Britney Spears and Paris Hilton.

On Monday, however, they chatted amiably before reporters and photographers at
the start of their 40-minute meeting.

Obama and McCain share common philosophies in a number of areas.  While arguing
about what to do in Iraq, both advocated closing the prison for terrorism
suspects at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.

Obama repeated his pledge to close Guantanamo during a 60 Minutes interview
Sunday.  McCain, in a speech in March, called for working with U.S. allies "to
forge a new international understanding on the disposition of dangerous
detainees under our control."  There are about 250 detainees at Guantanamo.

Both candidates also proposed development of new energy sources to reduce U.S.
dependence on foreign oil, though they differed on the details of how to achieve
that goal.

Obama proposed spending $150 billion to develop new energy sources, such as
solar power.  McCain stressed expanded offshore drilling for oil and natural gas
and more nuclear power.

They share similar views on how to reduce the greenhouse gas emissions that
cause climate change.

Obama and McCain also share a criticism of congressional "earmarks," special
projects inserted into spending bills by individual lawmakers.

The meeting took place at a high-rise federal building where Obama has set up
his presidential transition headquarters. The streets around the building are
festooned with signs on lamp posts congratulating Obama, "Chicago's own."

Obama and McCain sat next to each other before a coffee table.  They were
flanked by incoming White House chief of staff Rahm Emanuel and Sen. Lindsey
Graham, R-S.C., who helped organize the meeting.

Obama said he and McCain are looking for ways to "work together to fix up the
country."  The president-elect also praised the Arizona senator "for the
outstanding service he's already rendered."

Asked whether he would help Obama and his administration, McCain said,
"Obviously."

McCain plans to be in the Senate today for the lame-duck session.

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Pablo Martinez Monsivais, AP

DOCUMENT-TYPE: WASHINGTON

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              98 of 218 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             August 18, 2008 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Drive 55 campaign gaining some speed;
Debate starts to heat up over benefits of reinstituting a federal limit

BYLINE: William M. Welch

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 976 words


LOS ANGELES -- Though it lasted longer than disco and leisure suits, the
national 55-miles-per-hour speed limit was another remnant of the 1970s that did
not endure.

Yet with high fuel costs reviving memories of the energy crisis of that decade,
proposals to bring back the "double nickel" or something like it are emerging,
with backers saying federal speed limits could save fuel, money and perhaps
lives.

"The faster you go, the more you waste," says Tim Castleman, a Sacramento man
who is promoting a Drive 55 campaign.

Until gasoline approached $4 a gallon, Castleman didn't find a lot of support
for reinstating the 55-mph limit that Congress abolished in 1995 after more than
20 years.

"It was a terribly unpopular law," acknowledges Castleman, who maintains a
website, www.drive55.org.

Indeed, reinstating the national 55-miles-per-hour limit, or 60 mph as some
suggest, would seem a tough sell after the first experiment proved about as
successful as Prohibition.

Opponents such as Jim Baxter, head of the National Motorists Association, a
Wisconsin group, argue any fuel savings would be tiny and that higher limits
haven't made highways less safe.

"People have to be willing to comply with it," he says. "And they weren't."

New action in Congress

Proposed by President Nixon and enacted in January 1974, the nationwide speed
limit was described as a temporary emergency response to oil shortages and was
to expire in mid-1975. But Congress soon made it permanent, and the 55-mph limit
immediately became part of the national culture.

Auto speedometers highlighted the 55-mph limit, police radar detection devices
became popular, and rocker Sammy Hagar had a 1984 hit record that complained, I
Can't Drive 55.

States that had allowed speeds 75 mph or higher were compelled to go along
because of the threat of losing federal money for highway construction. But in
the face of resistance, Congress in 1987 relaxed the law to permit 65 mph on
rural interstate highways. In 1995, Congress lifted the federal limit entirely.
Baxter says most states have maximum limits of 65 or 70 mph. Some Western states
have higher limits.

Sen. John Warner, R-Va., introduced a bill last month that orders a study to
determine the effects of a national 60-mph speed limit.

Warner says the 55 limit reduced fuel use by 167,000 barrels a day, or 2% of
highway consumption, citing a Congressional Research Service report. With far
more vehicles, fuel savings is likely to be far greater now, he says.

Rep. Jackie Speier, D-Calif.,  has proposed a 60-mph limit in urban areas and
65-mph elsewhere.

"There is no need for OPEC or the oil companies to help us out," Speier says.
"Every driver can affect change simply by easing up on their right foot."

Both point to findings by the Environmental Protection Agency that fuel
efficiency decreases above 60 mph.

Speier says 11 other House Democrats, most of them from California, are
co-sponsoring her bill. And she claims support from environmental groups and the
American Trucking Associations.

Few other politicians have been eager to climb aboard, Baxter says. He notes
that Warner is leaving office at the end of this year and that Speier represents
a San Francisco and San Mateo district where voters may be less tied to their
autos than elsewhere in the country.

"The public isn't real excited about going back to a 55-mph national speed
limit," Baxter says.

Traffic fatalities on decline

Baxter says the savings potential is overstated because most driving is done on
streets and roads where lower limits are in effect. Only 2% of the nation's
roughly 4 million miles of roadways have limits above 55 mph now, he says.

While up to one-third of daily traffic volume is on interstate highways, Baxter
says, congestion often limits speeds anyway.

"All we would do by establishing another national speed limit is we would
generate a lot of tickets, a lot of insurance surcharges, and give a little
boost to the radar-detector industry," Baxter says. "There would be no change in
fuel pricing.''

Warner says safety is a reason to lower speeds too. He points to a National
Academy of Sciences finding that the law "saved up to 4,000 lives per year from
highway accidents." Disputing that, opponents point to the National Highway
Traffic Safety Administration's figures that show the rates of traffic
fatalities and injuries have been declining for more than a decade. The fatality
rate in 2007 was 1.37 per 100million vehicle miles traveled, compared with 1.69
in 1996.

Castleman, 50, a retired heating and air conditioning contractor, acknowledges
his cause is a long shot.

"We've been calling on people to do it for themselves, do it voluntarily, do it
for the country, do it to stop climate change, do it to save money, do it to
make our roads safer," he says.

Posted speeds across the USA

Congress repealed the National Maximum Speed Limit in 1995. As of today, 32
states have raised speed limits to 70 mph or higher on some portion of their
roadway systems. Maximum speed limits for passenger vehicles on rural and urban
interstates (truck speed limits may differ):

Rural interstates  Urban  interstates

Ala.  70   65

Alaska  65   55

Ariz.  75   65

Ark.  70  55

Calif.  70   65

Colo. 75   65

Conn.  65   55

Del.  65   55

D.C.  n/a  55

Fla.  70   65

Ga.  70   65

Hawaii  60   50

Idaho  75  75

Ill.  65  55

Ind. 70  55

Iowa  70  55

Kan.  70  70

Ky.  65{+1}  65

La.  70  70

Maine  65  65

Md.  65  65

Mass. 65  65

Mich. 70  65

Minn. 70  65

Miss. 70  70

Mo. 70  60

Mont. 75  65

Neb. 75  65

Nev. 75  65

N.H. 65  65

N.J. 65  55

N.M. 75  75

N.Y. 65  65

N.C. 70  70

N.D. 75  75

Ohio 65  65

Okla. 75  70

Ore. 65  55

Pa. 65  55

R.I. 65  55

S.C. 70  70

S.D. 75  75

Tenn. 70  70

Texas 75 day;  70 day;

65 night  65 night

Utah 75  65

Vt. 65  55

Va. 65  65

Wash. 70  60

W.Va. 70  55

Wis. 65  65

Wyo. 75  60

1 - 70 mph in some segments

Sources: Insurance Institute for Highway Safety and Highway Loss Data Institute


LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, File photo, Robert Buhl, AP
PHOTO, B/W

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              106 of 218 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           January 31, 2008 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Companies turn up the green;
But challenges remain, including claims that are misleading

BYLINE: Edward Iwata

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 527 words


In the greening of Corporate America, U.S. companies have made  progress but
still face a long trek to improve environmental practices, says a report
Wednesday.

"There's a green business revolution taking place, but it's just getting
started," says Joel Makower, executive editor of GreenBiz.com, a website and
research firm that has studied business and the environment since long before it
became trendy.

Beyond the hype, according to the firm's "State of Green Business 2008" report,
obstacles include:

*Toxic emissions. While total emissions into the air, land and water have
declined since 2001, several U.S. industries -- led by the metal mining,
electric utility and chemical sectors -- still spew out lead, mercury and toxic
materials that could be reduced substantially by current technology.

*No standards. No widespread U.S. or global standards or reliable data exist yet
to define or measure all of the business practices that make a company green. At
times, it's hard to tell whether individual companies are moving forward or
backward on environmental issues, the report found.

*Misleading claims. Various market-research studies indicate that many companies
make unfounded or misleading claims that their products are "green," and some
skeptical consumers don't want to pay higher prices for the goods.

The good news, according to GreenBiz? A rising number of corporations deserve
praise for their environmental efforts in energy efficiency, reduction of toxic
emissions, paper use and recycling, clean-technology investments and patents and
other practices.

Nor is it all public-relations window dressing, Makower says. More businesses
truly believe that green practices will improve their operations, attract
customers and boost revenue.

Target and other retailers are reducing toxic materials from products and
packaging. Computer firms such as Dell are recycling trashed computers.
Citigroup, Bank of America and other financial giants are pouring billions of
dollars into environmentally friendly investments and clean technology.

More companies -- Philips Electronics, Procter & Gamble, REI, Wal-Mart, Whole
Foods and others -- are selling truly green products. Home Depot offers a line
of Eco Options products.

As concern grows over global warming, Nike, Dole Food, Coca-Cola, the Green
Mountain Power utility in Colchester, Vt., and many others have vowed to become
"climate-neutral companies" and reduce emissions from facilities, retail stores
and employees' travel.

Spurred by high gas prices and consumer demand, automakers and car rental
companies -- General Motors, Ford Motor, Chrysler, Enterprise Rent-A-Car -- are
moving quickly to plug-in hybrid or alternative-fuel vehicles. Truckers also are
starting to use more fuel-efficient vehicles.

One big quandary, Makower says: A lot of environmental gains made by U.S.
companies could be wiped out by economic growth. There may be more
fuel-efficient autos  on the road, but a rising economy also means more vehicles
guzzling gas and spewing emissions. In short, no one knows for sure  how much
the efforts by green companies will help the climate.

"That's the $40 trillion question," Makower says.

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Karl Gelles, USA TODAY, Source: U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency (BAR GRAPH)
PHOTO, B/W, Mikki K Harris for USA TODAY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              116 of 218 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            April 16, 2008 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Modern suburbia: It's not just in America anymore;
China, other nations see USA as a model for how to handle growth -- and what to
avoid

BYLINE: Haya El Nasser

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 2016 words


A Chinese delegation from Beijing arrived in Phoenix last month and headed west
to the Sonoran Desert, deep into suburbia. Its destination: a quintessential
American residential development in Buckeye, one of the many suburbs dotting the
sprawling metropolitan area.

Members of the group studied the streetscape, the golf course, the spa, the
cybercafe, the health care amenities and the design of the single-family homes
at Sun City Festival, a 3,000-acre, planned community for people over 55. They
commented on the cleanliness and orderliness of it all.

The 25 Chinese who toured the Del Webb development were not seniors planning
their retirement but government officials and their spouses, a couple of
architects and a banker. Their mission: study American suburbia with an eye
toward replicating it back home.

For good or bad, the USA's suburbs have become a living laboratory for the
world. Developing countries contending with explosive population growth and
economic expansion are looking here for hints about how to manage growing
cities. For many, modern suburbia -- a largely American concept and lifestyle
for more than 50 years -- is a nirvana worth emulating. Others want to avoid it.

"They both admire and fear it," says Robert Lang, director of the Metropolitan
Institute at Virginia Tech. "There are two lessons they take out of the U.S.:
unfettered development or sprawl and an appreciation for well-done,
master-planned communities."

Copied for years on a smaller scale and adapted to deal with more stringent
environmental standards and limited land in Western Europe, American suburbs
have gone truly global:

*Affluent gated communities are sprouting up next to shantytowns outside Buenos
Aires.

*On the outskirts of Lahore, Pakistan, new single-family homes are a testament
to that country's rising middle class.

*Across China, entire suburban cities are being built at a dizzying speed to
keep up with population growth. Outside Beijing and Shanghai, tract-home
developments designed to mimic Spanish or Italian architecture have all-American
names: Yosemite and Napa Valley.

Asia, Latin America and Eastern Europe have unleashed such a development boom
that they have turned to the USA for lessons on how to do it -- and how not to.

The push is on to inspire developing countries to do what more American
communities are doing: steer away from sprawling, cookie-cutter subdivisions
popularized after World War II and create sustainable communities that will not
deplete natural resources.

That includes developments built around mass-transit stations to reduce reliance
on cars and projects that mix homes and businesses so people can walk from home
to stores and other services.

The global discussion has begun:

*Virginia Tech hosted a conference last week on the "Suburban World." It
attracted 135 people -- including more than 40 planners and scholars from 19
countries and every continent except Antarctica. Participants toured
Washington's Northern Virginia suburbs and saw examples of an "edge city" -- a
huge business district outside a traditional urban center (Tysons Corner) -- and
town centers (Reston). They discussed the environmental, social and economic
impacts of suburbia in many countries, from Italy and Germany to Nigeria and
Brazil.

"The conference is an effort to address the question of whether or not
American-style suburbia is spreading," says Lang, who will be a Fulbright
scholar at the Sorbonne University in Paris next month to lecture on European
and American suburbs.

"The fact that we are all coming to the (United) States ... shows that there are
concerns," says Dirk Heinrichs, urban planning research associate at the
Helmholtz Centre for Environmental Research-UFZ in Leipzig, Germany.

After touring Tysons Corner, he said: "I'm overwhelmed by the lack of coherent
design. ... It's 'build where you want.'"

*The University of Michigan's A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and
Urban Planning last month put on a conference titled "Global Suburbs." The
conference's program called suburbanization "no longer solely the province of
developed Western countries."

*The Urban Land Institute (ULI), a research and education group for developers,
is promoting its best industry practices in emerging markets worldwide and is
taking foreign groups on "study tours" of the USA.

"They contact organizations like ULI in an effort to learn from past mistakes
made in the U.S., not to repeat them," says John Fitzgerald, managing director
of ULI Asia, in an e-mail.

*The Lincoln Institute of Land Policy, based in Cambridge, Mass., and Peking
University are opening a Center for Urban Development and Land Policy at the
Chinese university this month.

"The lesson that can be learned from the U.S. is to mimic some good ideas and
avoid some wrong principles," says Saeed Ahmed Saeed, CEO of Limitless, a
Dubai-based development company that is building cities and waterfront projects
from Saudi Arabia to India, Russia and Vietnam.

"Most of the developers (worldwide) are not doing it the right way. ... We have
a professional responsibility. Future generations will not forgive us if we
don't do it right."

Spreading outward

The first true suburb was born in the 1830s outside Manchester, England, Lang
says. It was Victoria Park, a gated community of luxury homes that now is part
of Manchester. About 20 years later came the first U.S. suburb -- gated
Llewellyn Park in West Orange, N.J., about 12 miles from Manhattan. Streetcar
suburbs followed, first along the route of horse-drawn streetcars and later
along rail corridors such as Philadelphia's Main Line.

After World War I, pedestrian-oriented suburbs flourished, including the Country
Club Plaza district in Kansas City and Beverly Hills. Suburban expansion came to
a standstill during the Great Depression and "the great burst comes after World
War II," Lang says.

Tract-style subdivisions dependent on the automobile flourished. The most famous
is Levittown, on New York's Long Island. Then came larger, 1960s-era
split-levels and colonials on cul-de-sacs.

Within 20 years, suburbs exploded in the booming Sun Belt around Dallas,
Atlanta, Phoenix and other fast-growing cities.

Then the craze for large luxury homes -- dubbed McMansions -- pushed development
to the farthest fringes of metropolitan areas, where land was still cheap and
plentiful. That helped spark an anti-sprawl fervor still alive today that has
the backing of many environmentalists, preservationists, health professionals,
farmers and big-city mayors.

Suburban sensibilities began to change.

Town centers designed to mimic small cities sprouted in suburbia. Light-rail
lines were built, and transit-oriented developments along the tracks followed.
More people embraced "new urbanism," a movement that strives to capture the
essence of turn-of-the-century communities. Central cities enjoyed a renaissance
as young professionals and empty-nesters embraced the urban lifestyle.

The dialogue about suburbs among urban thinkers around the world is intensifying
largely because of concern over global warming. There is worry about traffic
congestion and air pollution. That's why designing suburbs that require
residents to drive to get anywhere is losing relevance.

"The energy crisis, climate change. Nobody can overlook that today," says Kiril
Stanilov, associate professor of planning at the University of Cincinnati.

Exporting the American dream

As more Third World countries' economies develop, their middle class grows. So
does the draw of traditional, U.S.-style suburbia.

"The suburbs represent, almost like a cliche, the American dream," says New York
architect Kevin Kennon, who has worked in China and Pakistan and is the
executive director of the Institute for Architecture and Urban Study. "I can own
a piece of land, I can have my house on that land. ... It allows people to point
to something that they own and distinguish it from other houses, even if they
look the same."

The Chinese delegation that visited Phoenix suburbs last month "had a keen
interest in finding out what is this Petri dish of Del Webb communities they've
been hearing about for many years," says Jacque Petroulakis, a Del Webb
spokeswoman. She says hundreds of foreign architects, planners, developers and
private investors from Japan, China, Germany and South America have visited the
company's developments in recent years.

The rise of the middle class in developing nations is happening as more of the
world's population shifts from rural to urban areas. More than half of the
world's population and about 80% of the U.S. population live in urban areas.

"Every year, we add 60 million urban residents on Earth," Stanilov says. "The
countries most susceptible to embracing the American model are particularly
those with a booming economy and an emerging class of affluent residents and
consumers really eager to embrace the American lifestyles. They don't want just
the house but the whole package, the three-car garage, the mall, all of that."

For many developing nations, however, the suburban ideal is stuck in circa 1980:
a sea of lookalike single-family homes and shopping malls on the edge of the
city. It's a model that many Americans increasingly are rejecting.

"Most intellectuals say it's horrible. Most environmentalists say the same
thing," says Nora Libertun de Duren, urban planning professor at Columbia
University and an expert on suburbs in developing countries. "But developers say
it's good business, and architects say it's good business."

Developers adapt their projects to fit the local culture. In respect for strict
Muslim tenets about privacy, for example, Kennon has built high walls around
every home in a subdivision he's working on in Lahore. Some of his homes in
China have two kitchens -- a regular kitchen and one with natural ventilation to
allow fresh air to circulate while cooking fried foods.

In Argentina, developers are building gated communities in poor neighborhoods.
Shantytowns pepper the outskirts of Buenos Aires, areas that had no roads and
other infrastructure until a major upgrade in the 1990s, Libertun de Duren says.
Once highways were built, gated developments went up and lured commuters who
worked in the city. The developments provided employment to the residents of
shantytowns, she says.

Personal safety, a concern that has driven Americans out of cities and into
suburbia, plays an even greater role in Latin America.

"You have the gated community phenomenon across the classes," Heinrichs says.
"In principle, Latin American cities follow the U.S. model. The idea of living
somewhere green outside the hustle and bustle of cities and all the
contamination is pretty much the same."

A hit in Eastern Europe

Stanilov sees it firsthand every summer when he returns to Bulgaria. Driven by a
flood of foreign investment, big-box retailers, industrial parks, malls and
subdivisions are going up throughout Eastern Europe, he says. There are few
building restrictions in former communist countries, where the population is
sensitive to the specter of government control.

"Of course government doesn't have that much money to service all these new
developments," he says. "So you have little roads with lots of automobile
traffic. ... Wisdom doesn't transfer from country to country easily."

China, where major cities are choking on stifling pollution, is striving to
build the world's first sustainable city -- Dongtan, which broke ground last
summer. Designed by a London-based global consulting company and built on an
island outside Shanghai, Dongtan, ultimately to house 50,000, will ban cars that
pollute (even hybrids), grow its own food, recycle almost everything --
including wastewater -- and create its own energy from wind, the sun and human
and animal waste.

"The Chinese are very interested in doing the latest and most interesting
things," says Paul Lukez, an architect from Somerville, Mass., and author of
Suburban Transformations. "There's a recognition by the government that
something needs to be done. ... If something is cutting edge, whether it comes
from the United States or Europe, they want it."

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Keith Simmons, USA TODAY, Source: Population Reference
Bureau (Bar graph)
PHOTO, Color, Natalie Behring for USA TODAY
PHOTOS, B/W, Natalie Behring for USA TODAY (2)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COVER STORY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              117 of 218 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              May 6, 2008 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Sea-Tac Airport tries to go green;
Jets will cut engines while parked at gates

BYLINE: Thomas Frank

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 687 words


Six years ago, officials at Seattle-Tacoma International Airport rejected a
proposal to have pilots turn off jets' engines while parked at gates and use the
airport ventilation system to pump air into cabins.

Now the airport is moving to approve the idea once blocked as too costly because
it will save money and help the environment. Sea-Tac's airlines will pay for the
$31 million project -- and will recoup that money in 2 1/2 years in jet fuel
savings.

"The airlines are going to save so much money in the long term, they're saying,
'Can't you have it done yesterday?'" airport environmental director Elizabeth
Leavitt said.

The project will cut about 40,000 tons of carbon dioxide emissions a year by
enabling jets to turn off their auxiliary engines at gates, said airport
environmental program manager Russ Simonson. That's equivalent to taking about
5,000 cars off the road.

Airports across the country are moving to cut emissions of both greenhouse gases
such as carbon dioxide and other pollutants that harm local air quality.

Buying shuttle buses that run on natural gas, building energy-efficient
terminals and tapping renewable power sources such as wind and solar, airports
are anticipating that climate-warming aviation emissions will be federally
regulated.

"There really aren't greenhouse-gas emission regulations now (in aviation).
That's obviously something that's coming," said Jessica Steinhilber, head of
environmental affairs for the Airports Council International.

Industry officials say aviation emissions will grow as air travel soars in
coming years. New regulations on greenhouse gases could stymie travel's growth.

"There's a concern that if we aren't able to reduce greenhouse-gas emissions and
become more carbon-neutral or even carbon-negative, then we won't be able to
grow," said Debby McElroy, the airports council's policy chief. "We have to
reduce our emissions so that we can continue to add flights."

Deron Lovaas of the Natural Resources Defense Council questions the benefit of
airport efforts. Emissions from airports are "a real small piece of the puzzle"
compared to airplane emissions, Lovaas said. And if airports use the money they
save from curbing emissions to add runways, "you could generate more air traffic
and offset some of the gains."

A report by the Seattle airport last year confirms Lovaas' point. Nearly 90% of
greenhouse-gas emissions linked to the airport came from planes idling, taking
off, cruising and landing. The next biggest source was cars driving to and from
the airport, accounting for 7% of greenhouse gases.

Airports are trying to curb auto emissions through increased public transit.

More than half of 73 U.S. and Canadian airports answering a survey this year by
the Airports Council International had installed ventilation systems similar to
the one planned at Seattle. Nearly two-thirds had installed similar systems that
provide electricity to airplanes parked at gates, enabling them to burn less
fuel.

Airlines have grown increasingly willing to pay for these systems as fuel costs
have hit record levels, said Stewart Dalzell, deputy director of environmental
planning at Boston's Logan International Airport. "It's in their self-interest,"
Dalzell said. "Luckily it does have that other benefit of reducing the
emissions."

Airport efforts are aimed both at global warming and at improving air quality in
local areas.

Logan's efforts -- including hybrid taxis and natural-gas shuttle buses -- are
driven partly because the airport is near a densely populated area.

Communities are pressuring airports to minimize emissions with the same
intensity that they have protested airport noise, said airport consultant Darcy
Zarubiak of Jacobs Consultancy.

Airports also have been encouraged, Zarubiak said, by a Federal Aviation
Administration program to fund and promote airport projects that cut pollutants
such as nitrogen oxides, which often come from airport motor vehicles.

"Controlling airport emissions and meeting national air-quality standards is
essential to the continued growth and improvement of public aviation," the FAA
wrote in a September report.

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Photos by Stephen Brashear for USA TODAY
PHOTO, B/W
PHOTO, B/W

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              124 of 218 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             October 3, 2008 Friday
                                 CHASE EDITION

Palin, Biden sidestep predicted missteps;
Confident, high-speed, fiery faceoff takes aim at tops of tickets

BYLINE: Susan Page

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 759 words


ST. LOUIS -- It was a debate that started with high stakes and low expectations.

The pre-game chatter held that the only televised encounter between Sarah Palin,
who has stumbled in recent interviews, and the loquacious Joe Biden, prone to
gaffes, could well turn out to be a train wreck.

Instead, the two vice presidential candidates delivered a fierce, fast-talking
back-and-forth with tougher criticism than the presidential contenders traded in
their first debate last week. Palin chided Biden but reserved her harshest words
for Barack Obama, calling him "downright dangerous" for being open to meeting
with rogue leaders and "reckless, reckless" in criticizing U.S. incidents in
Afghanistan.

Biden rarely focused on Palin -- he did make a passing reference to Alaska's
notorious "Bridge to Nowhere" -- and instead targeted McCain as "out of touch"
with the economic concerns of middle-class Americans and offering no significant
change from Bush administration policies that have led to a stalemate in the
Middle East and five years of war in Iraq.

"We will end this war," Biden vowed. "For John McCain, there is no end in
sight."

Palin said Obama was offering "the white flag of surrender in Iraq," where
"victory ... is in sight." She said: "John McCain knows how to win a war."

The charges and countercharges over Iraq and taxes, diplomacy and climate change
were familiar, and both candidates exuded confidence and determination -- a
victory of sorts for Palin, the first-term governor facing the six-term senator.
Both spoke so quickly and relentlessly that it was surely a record word-count in
the annals of national debates.

Palin smiled at the camera, winked at the audience and offered a "shout-out" to
her brother's third-grade class at Gladys Wood Elementary School. At one point,
she wagged her pen at Biden as she spoke. She called herself a "Washington
outsider" who professed to be perplexed by the ways of the capital.

Biden was more serious and senatorial, focusing on policy and watching her
gravely as she spoke. Toward the end, he showed emotion as he referred to his
time as a single parent after his wife and daughter were killed in a car
accident. "The notion somehow that because I'm a man I don't know what it's like
to raise two kids on my own" is wrong, he said.

More often, he turned nearly every question to criticize McCain and tie him to
the policies of President Bush, whose job-approval rating dropped to a record
low 27% in the most recent USA TODAY/Gallup Poll.

"There you go again, Joe," Palin said at one point, accusing the Democratic
ticket of looking backward and "finger-pointing." Acknowledging "blunders" by
the Bush administration, she said, "We'll learn from the mistakes of this
administration."

Palin and Biden had never met in person before the debate, though Biden phoned
her when McCain picked her as his running mate. "Can I call you Joe?" she asked
as they shook hands after meeting at the midpoint of the stage.

Vice presidential debates -- indeed, the vice presidential nominees themselves
-- have never determined an election outcome and often don't seem to have an
impact on them. In 1988, Lloyd Bentsen skewered Dan Quayle in their debate when
he thundered, "You're no Jack Kennedy," but it was Quayle who took the oath of
office the next January.

Still, Jimmy Carter's pick of Walter Mondale in 1976 and Mondale's strong
performance in his debate against Bob Dole may have been critical in Carter's
win, says Joel Goldstein of the St. Louis University School of Law, who has
studied the vice presidency.

The debate could prove to be even more important, Goldstein said beforehand. At
issue was "whether Gov. Palin can convince people she's presidential so they
have a comfort level with her in the Oval Office, which really puts Sen.
McCain's judgment (in picking her) front and center."

Several nationwide surveys show that doubts about Palin's qualifications have
grown since her acceptance speech electrified the Republican National Convention
just four weeks ago.

In that time, she has drawn large crowds and prompted a fundraising surge -- the
RNC reports a record $66million in September -- but has yet to hold a news
conference and at times has stumbled in interviews.

Both candidates offered dramatically different job descriptions when asked what
they would do as vice president.

Palin mentioned three specific policy areas: government reform, energy
independence and families with special-needs children. Biden said he would "be
in the room when every major decision is made."

*Debate talking points, 1A

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Carlos Barria, Reuters

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              126 of 218 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           November 11, 2008 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Most hotels likely to see occupancy rates fall next year;
Forecast: Less than 60% of rooms will be rented by guests

BYLINE: Barbara De Lollis

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 929 words


Business travelers may notice quieter hotels next year.

Hotel forecasters have been busy revising their expectations in light of all the
economic turmoil and an anticipated drop in business travel. One forecast
suggests that U.S. hotels will fill the smallest percentage of rooms since the
figure has been tracked.

In its 2009 forecast -- completed in September, but revised after the stock
market collapsed in October -- PKF Consulting of Atlanta expects hotels to fill
an average of just 58.3% of rooms, or a 4.4% drop in the occupancy expected this
year. If true, that would be the worst occupancy rate at U.S. hotels since 1988,
when  Smith Travel Research started tracking the data.

The current lowest occupancy rate, according to Smith Travel, was 59% in 2002 --
the first full year after 9/11, the start of the Iraq war and the SARS epidemic.
Separately, Smith Travel's revised forecast is for occupancy to drop 3.5% in
2009, to 59.1%.

"Toward the end of September, it was as if somebody, somewhere, hit the pause
button," says Mark Woodworth, president of PKF Consulting. "People said, 'I'm
going to stop what I'm doing and adjust my strategies going forward.'"

October has been even more discouraging. Marriott International CEO Bill
Marriott wrote in his Nov. 3 blog that "in just the last few weeks, our business
outlook has further weakened."

Part of the problem is that declining demand for hotel rooms will coincide with
a boost in new rooms -- a double whammy for hotel owners and operators.

Lenders started to fuel hotel development starting in late 2005, and many new
properties have been opening this fall -- just as the market started to slow,
Woodworth says. What does the climate mean for business travelers besides a
calmer lobby?

*Better hotel rates. Once hotel managers see occupancy levels dip into the 50%
range, they can be expected to cut rates to maintain occupancy levels and better
cover fixed costs, Woodworth says. But even if prices stay flat, travelers would
get a break. Average rates had risen steadily each year since 2004 by as much as
7.5% nationally, vs. the 3.5% long-term average, he says.

"There was so much demand for hotel rooms in so many markets that managers were
able to achieve extraordinary rate increases year after year," he says. "Now,
the pendulum has swung from being in the seller's favor to being in the buyer's
favor."

Hotels across the USA are trying to appeal to customers with promotions,
discounts or other perks. The Hotel Indigo in the Chicago suburb of Vernon
Hills, for instance, is offering guests a $25 gift card when booking a room
under its "economic stimulus" package through Jan. 31.

The average hotel rate for New York City ($309) already dropped by nearly 6% for
the first four weeks of October, vs. the same period a year ago, says Jan
Freitag of Smith Travel.

*Fewer extravagant junkets. Some companies stopped planning over-the-top
meetings after Congress blasted AIG for spending $440,000 on a week-long
executive retreat at the St. Regis in Monarch Beach, Calif., following its
government bailout. "That certainly didn't play well with anybody," Smith's
Freitag says.

The backlash -- the "AIG effect" -- was surprisingly swift, he says. The average
occupancy rate for luxury hotels dropped by nearly 12%, and rates dropped by
more than 5% for the first four weeks of October, vs. an 8% occupancy drop and
less than 1% rate drop overall, he says. The financial, insurance and real
estate industries "specifically are going to be very, very careful (about) how
they spend their money and what the public perception is," he says.

*Smaller hotel staffs. As they accommodate fewer guests, hotels are cutting
payrolls. According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics' October jobs report
released last week, the hospitality sector shed enough jobs to cause
unemployment for the sector to soar to 8.9% -- the highest rate for an October
this decade.

Business travel is forecast to decline by nearly 4% this year, and another 3%
next year, the Travel Industry Association said in its annual forecast last
week. It isn't expected to recover until 2010.

"We all know businesses are having to make decisions to scale back in this
current environment. Business travel is no exception," says the TIA's Suzanne
Cook.

Internal meetings, such as visits to headquarters, are especially vulnerable,
because they're easy to replace with Web meetings or teleconferences, she says.

In its business travel forecast to be released today, the National Business
Travel Association says that 81% of its corporate travel managers expect
technology to replace trips. Three out of every four respondents reported an
uptick in teleconferencing alone.

Charles Emnett, a self-employed health care consultant based in Spring Hill,
Fla., typically stays at Hilton Homewood Suites, Hampton Inns and other hotels
for stretches of as long as three weeks at a time at client sites. But next
year, he expects to do more work using conferencing technology to curb travel
costs. He welcomes the change.

"Do I really like to spend 200 nights a year in a hotel room? Not particularly,"
Emnett says.

Emptier hotels in 2009

U.S. occupancy rates are expected to drop next year as business travel declines
and more hotel rooms open. Popular business destinations expected to see the
impact:

Cities  2009 occupancy{+1} Occupancy change from 2008  2009 supply increase

Dallas 56.0% -4.8% 3.1% Houston 60.9% -5.9% 5.3%

Los Angeles 69.7% -4.4% 1.5%

San Diego 68.9% -4.0% 3.6%

San Francisco 74.1% -3.3% 0.5%

Seattle 67.7% -2.7% 3.2%

1 -- forecast

Source: PKF Hospitality Research

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Alejandro Gonzalez, USA TODAY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              130 of 218 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           January 9, 2008 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Economist fears 'nasty' recession headed our way this year;
His panel calls it when it happens

BYLINE: Barbara Hagenbaugh

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 751 words


WASHINGTON -- The USA will likely sink into recession in 2008, and it could be
"nasty" if policymakers don't act swiftly, according to a prominent economist.

"Unfortunately, I think that there is a better-than-even chance that we are
headed into a recession in 2008," Martin Feldstein, an economics professor at
Harvard University and president of the National Bureau of Economic Research
(NBER), told USA TODAY Tuesday.

Feldstein isn't the only economist betting on a recession -- and there are
plenty of others who say a downturn will be avoided.

But few other economists have the official say as to whether a recession is
underway. That official verdict will come from a little-known panel of academic
economists, including Feldstein, making his comments particularly important. But
anyone waiting for a recession verdict will likely have to wait a good long
while.

The responsibility for defining U.S. recessions falls on the shoulders of seven
economists who form the Business Cycle Dating Committee at the Cambridge,
Mass.-based NBER. The organization has been dating business cycles since 1929
and first formed the all-volunteer committee 30 years ago.

While recessions are often described as two consecutive quarters of decline in
economic output, that's not the official definition.

Instead, the panel looks at a series of economic data, including gross domestic
product, income, employment, industrial production and retail sales. There is no
formal model. The economists make their judgments based on subjective discussion
of the data.

The committee hasn't discussed the "R word" in the current context, says Robert
Hall, a Stanford University economics professor who has chaired the recession
dating panel since its inception.

That's not a surprise, even if a recession is in progress. In a memo posted on
its website Tuesday, the NBER said it typically declares the start of a
recession six to 18 months after it happens.

It wasn't until November 2001 that the committee said the last recession had
begun eight months earlier. The panel waited until July 2003 to announce that
the recession had ended in November 2001.

Panel members say they don't want to jump to conclusions, in part because data
are often revised.

"The big danger we have is something would look like a recession and then turn
out later not to be one because it turned out to be a minor dip," Hall says.

Too slow and too complicated?

Hall and others on the committee say their work is important for academic
research. And knowing precisely when a recession starts and ends can help guide
business people and economists during future downturns, Feldstein says. For
example, they can use previous recessions as a rough month-by-month guide of
what to expect when it comes to investment, employment and other key variables.

The procedure isn't without critics. Global Insight chief economist Nariman
Behravesh argues that it takes too long and is too complicated. That can make
business decisions, such as investment and hiring, tougher, says Behravesh, who
says a recession is likely in the beginning stages. Most other countries follow
the two-quarters-of-negative-GDP rule, he says.

But members of the NBER committee argue there are plenty of other people to
speculate on recessions in real time.

"Everyone else is trying to be first and react quickly to new information," says
Jeffrey Frankel, a professor at Harvard University who has been on the NBER
committee since 1992. "That's not our job. Our job is to be definitive."

Just looking at GDP in real time can be misleading because the data are often
significantly revised months, and even years, after their initial release, the
NBER says.

And GDP doesn't capture the whole story of the economy, such as changes in
employment. During the last recession in 2001, there were two negative quarters
of GDP, but they weren't back-to-back.

Today, NBER President Feldstein says there are three main factors that are
likely dragging the economy into a recession: the slump in housing construction,
turmoil in financial markets and a drop in home values, which makes people more
nervous and less apt to spend.

He argues that the Federal Reserve needs to aggressively cut interest rates, and
Congress should enact some form of fiscal stimulus, such as one-time tax rebates
for consumers to ease the pain.

"If we don't have some offsetting policy, and we move into a recession, then I'm
afraid the fact that we've got all these things hitting at the same time could
make it pretty nasty," Feldstein says.

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Alejandro Gonzalez, USA TODAY, Source: Bureau of Labor
Statistics (LINE GRAPH)
GRAPHIC, B/W, Alejandro Gonzalez, USA TODAY, Source: Federal Reserve (BAR GRAPH)

GRAPHIC, B/W, Alejandro Gonzalez, USA TODAY, Source: Conference Board (BAR
GRAPH, LINE GRAPH)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              143 of 218 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            April 30, 2008 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Cold weather and cozy fires, both gone in a snap

BYLINE: Craig Wilson

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 435 words


We had the last fire of the season the other night. It was one of those cool
spring evenings when the temperature dips into the 30s for the last time.

It's always a bittersweet time for me. The wood stacked next to the fireplace is
reduced to a log or two. The kindling that fills a copper pail all winter
dwindles to a few sad twigs. We're left with nothing but a pile of dying embers
and warm memories.

It's spring. The warmth from the fireplace will soon be replaced by the
oppressive heat of summer. Shoot me now.

I'm a cold-weather person. I sleep better, breathe better, function better when
it's cold. Or at least cool. And my dog, Maggie, agrees with me. I can tell by
her prance on cool spring mornings.

So there. Leave us alone.

There have even been studies that prove people who live in cold climates are
healthier, more alert, live longer, age slower and have more hair than those
closer to the equator. I made up the last part, but it could easily be true.
Just not in my case.

I could never live where the seasons never change. I have a hard enough time
remembering what month of the year it is now, and I live where leaves fall off
trees in autumn. I can't imagine living where it remained the same all year
around. Summer in first gear. Or worse, stuck in neutral.

Maybe that's why such strange things always seem to happen in Florida. Maybe
that's why they can't vote straight. Maybe they're confused.

I'd be confused, too, if it were always July. Confused and depressed.

At least I know fall will return, along with Junior Bowers, our firewood man
whose praises I sing every year. Just thinking about his return gives me hope
for the future.

Junior will knock on our door come fall, his pickup laden with firewood idling
in the street behind him.

And we will welcome him like the old friend he is, pay him an outrageous amount
of money for not a lot of wood and be thrilled while writing the check.

He stacks it by the back door. The season begins.

Lots of people have flowering plants inside in the winter, a harbinger of the
spring to come.

We do the same. Only in reverse. Every spring we always leave one log in the
basket next to the fireplace -- a symbol that another fall also will eventually
return. Another winter. Another season of Sunday afternoons reading by the fire.

Until then we'll wear our flip-flops and Bermuda shorts. We'll go to the beach
in Maine, work on our summer tan, eat a lobster roll and drink a gin and tonic
or two.

We'll enjoy ourselves on occasion, secure in the knowledge that firewood can't
be far behind. That Junior Bowers is on his way. Hurry!

E-mail cwilson@usatoday.com

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Color, Alejandro Gonzalez, USA TODAY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              144 of 218 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            April 30, 2008 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Consumer confidence continues to decline;
Gas, food prices push level to 5-year low

BYLINE: Sue Kirchhoff

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 460 words


WASHINGTON -- Consumer confidence fell to the lowest level in five years in
April as Americans were buffeted by rising gasoline and food prices and a
slowing job market, according to a closely watched survey released Tuesday.

The Conference Board's consumer confidence index, which is based on a survey of
5,000 households through April 22, dipped to 62.3, its lowest since the
beginning of the Iraq invasion in 2003. It stood at 65.9 in March.

The April decline was the eighth  in the last nine months.

In a spot of particularly bad news for the Federal Reserve, which today wraps up
a two-day meeting and will announce whether it will cut interest rates again to
stimulate the economy,  the  survey found shoppers betting on higher inflation
ahead.

The index's gauge of inflation expectations jumped to  its highest reading since
September 2005, when Hurricane Katrina disrupted energy supplies. Fed officials
have cut a key short-term interest rate to 2.25% from 5.25% last September in an
effort to calm financial markets and stabilize the broader economy.

As oil, food and other prices rise, there is increasing concern within the
central bank that further rate cuts could stoke unwelcome levels of inflation.
The Fed considers inflation expectations an important measure of price
pressures.

"The dramatic declines in the various confidence measures are capturing what may
be the most pessimistic public dialogue on the economy since the early 1980s,"
says Mike Englund of Action Economics. "Soaring food and gasoline prices are
both clobbering confidence and boosting inflation fears by the public at large."

The percentage of consumers calling business conditions "bad" rose to 26.7% from
25.5%. Nearly 28% said jobs are hard to get, up from 24.5% in March.

Consumers were more pessimistic about the job market, and the share of them
planning to take a vacation in the next six months plummeted to a 30-year low.

The weakness in the numbers "suggests that not only has the feeble level of
growth in the first quarter spilled over into the second quarter, but that
economic conditions may have slowed even further," says Lynn Franco, director of
The Conference Board Consumer Research Center.

The economy is increasingly becoming a political issue. President Bush on
Tuesday held a news conference urging Congress to address rising prices.

Democrats and Republicans traded charges on Capitol Hill about which party was
more responsive to consumer issues.

Later this week, Senate Joint Economic Committee Chair Charles Schumer, D-N.Y.,
will hold a hearing on rising food prices.

"We need, right now, to come together as Republicans and Democrats to do
something about these high gas prices, because they are severely affecting the
economy," says Sen. John Ensign, R-Nev.

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Seth Perlman, AP
GRAPHIC, B/W, Karl Gelles, USA TODAY (line graph)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              145 of 218 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                               May 5, 2008 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

QVC shops for ideas for future sales;
Tight retail market, more TV choices raise challenges

BYLINE: Laura Petrecca

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 1774 words


Fashion designer Chloe Dao easily plays to the QVC studio cameras, making it
seem as if hawking clothes on live TV at 1 a.m. is as natural to her as
stitching a hem.

In a yellow blouse with polka dots, she chats with QVC host Jacque Gonzales
about her Simply. Chloe Dao line to get the phones to light up with buyers.

"I love your clothing," Gonzales coos, calling pieces "too cute" and "adorable."
Dao, a winning designer on reality TV show Project Runway, caresses a tunic top:
"It is 100% silk. Luscious silk. Dreamy silk."

The banter may be casual, but behind the scenes in the shopping network's
studios, the pace is anything but. Models in an off-set changing room hastily
switch in and out of Dao's fashions. Nearby, a QVC crew lays out necklaces and
earrings for the "designer jewelry gallery" show coming up at 2 a.m.

One level above the stage, a line producer scans screens that constantly update
call volume and sales figures. He directs camera angles for product-enhancing
shots, while feeding dialog tips into Dao's and Gonzales' earpieces.

But all moving parts mesh into a well-oiled selling machine. Less than one
minute  after a mention of Dao's yellow shirt, it sells out. A blue version of
the $49.75 top also sells out, with more than 990 orders in all. By the
segment's end, thousands of items -- priced from $39.50 to $59 -- are sold.

After 22 years in business, QVC has made an art of hawking everything from
computers to crab cakes. Many of its TV segments -- live, 24 hours a day, every
day except Christmas -- are as successful with direct sales as Dao's.

But looking ahead, QVC must figure out how to keep the business healthy as the
media and retail landscapes undergo seismic shifts. It needs to remain
"relevant" (in marketing speak) to consumers while enticing a new generation of
shoppers and battling a perception that direct-response TV retailers sell just
hokey, flimsy or kitschy goods.

Among efforts so far, QVC has added more brand names to its product mix,
upgraded its website to reflect its increasing importance to overall sales and
launched its first national multimedia ad campaign.

The initiatives come as QVC copes with a slower economy. Revenue rose 5% in 2007
to $7.4 billion, vs. 2006. The average yearly growth from 2001 through 2006 was
12.3%.

Consumers are "being more cautious with their dollar," says CEO Michael George.
"We are by no means immune."

Increasing challenges faced by West Chester, Pa.-based  QVC:

*More competition for cautious shoppers.  Rivals on every front -- stores, other
direct sellers and e-tailers -- are scrapping for every dollar. "It's more
competitive than ever," says Dan Butler,  merchandising vice president at the
National Retail Federation.

Rival shopping network HSN,  for instance, also just upgraded its companion
website and is ramping up its advertising.

*More choices for TV viewers.  QVC keeps its prime channel location -- with
about 80%  of its programming on channels 35 or lower -- by paying cable
operators a percentage of net sales, as well as extra fees. But new services,
such as video on demand and TV shows streamed via the Web, could dilute the
value of that real estate.

In the past, the location meant channel browsers could "bump into" a product
they liked on air, says Fred Siegel, who was QVC senior vice president of
marketing from 1993-98 and now works for a home-security company. With
video-on-demand, "They don't just surf around," he says. "They'll say, 'What's
on HBO on-demand that I haven't seen?'"

*Home-shopping image. QVC reaches 93 million  U.S. households, but only about
10%  have bought from the network. One snag: Many people still view TV-based
home shopping as lowbrow -- even though QVC sells brand-name goods,
sophisticated electronics and fashions from couture designers.

As QVC put it in its September 2007 employee newsletter: "The home shopping
stigma is alive and well."

Leading QVC into its future are relatively new managers: George became CEO of
the Liberty Media-owned network in 2006. Chief marketing officer  Jeff Charney
also joined that year. Claire Watts,  former executive vice president of
merchandising at Wal-Mart Stores, became the U.S. commerce president on May 1.

Despite challenges, QVC has in its favor fiercely loyal customers. They
typically have a deep affinity for the brand, says Jeffrey Rayport,  author of
Best Face Forward,  a book on customer service.

QVC devotees readily call into the live segments to offer product testimonials,
are up on the personal lives of their favorite program hosts and generally view
the channel as entertaining. "As weird as it may sound, for people who love the
network, it's good company," Rayport says.

Pretty picky in host selection

QVC works hard to build that loyalty.

It is extremely selective when choosing those chatty hosts. Last year, it
screened more than 3,000  applicants and chose three. New hosts are trained for
at least six months before getting their own on-air slot.

Meanwhile, vendors, such as designer Dao, must go to "Guest Excellence" class to
learn how to best pitch their wares. They are schooled in QVC's "backyard-fence"
style, which means conversing with viewers the way they'd chat with a friendly
neighbor.

Every product gets a rigorous review before being shown on TV. In selecting the
goods, QVC staff "look for a product that is complex enough -- or interesting
enough -- that the host can talk about it on air," Rayport says.

QVC also counsels vendors on how to make products audience-appropriate. For
instance, Dao says that she was coached not to show too much skin when creating
her line. Designs also have to fit -- and flatter -- sizes from extra small to
3X. "It's a learning process," says Dao. "But I'm open (to it.) I just want to
create great clothes for everyone."

The representatives at QVC's four U.S. call centers, which handled more than 181
million  calls last year, also get extensive training on how to keep customers
happy.

Yet, QVC has barely tapped its potential: 95% of revenue comes from repeat
customers. Of 93 million U.S. homes reached, a core 1.8 million  account for 10
or more sales a year. Another 7.3 million  buy at least one item a year.

While George wants to bring in new customers, he says his main goal initially is
more sales from the customer base.

Rayport says QVC needs to make new buyers a priority, particular new ones under
age 30 to replace aging customers. QVC won't give details on the average age of
its mainly female audience, but independent research firm BIGresearch pegs it at
54.

"As your core customer base ages, you need to refresh the franchise," Rayport
says. Though, he adds, "how to do that without losing the audience that is
sustaining you now -- and for the foreseeable future -- is a very tough
problem."

With that problem in mind, QVC is avoiding wholesale changes to chase new buyers
in favor of gradual, well-researched shifts in merchandising and marketing.

"We can't take a walk on the wild side with our customers," says marketing chief
Charney.

Among QVC's endeavors:

*Expand and upgrade the product mix. QVC has bulked up on brand names.

Its jewelry selection now has more prestigious brands such as Tacori -- which
has created rings for stars such as Grey's Anatomy's Ellen Pompeo -- and less
generic gold and silver.

In clothing, lines from couture designers such as Marc Bouwer (who has created
fashions for Angelina Jolie  and Halle Berry) are sold alongside more folksy
choices, such as holiday sweaters with sequined Santa Clauses.

Bouwer, who also sells a glamorous gown line at high-end department store Neiman
Marcus,  says he's not worried that a budget-conscious clothing line will
blemish his brand.

"The whole climate in fashion has changed," he says, citing renowned designer
Karl Lagerfeld's collections for mass merchant H&M. "It's become exiting and
cool for designers to do high and low end."

*Make over QVC.com.  QVC.com is in the midst of a face-lift. It now has host
blogs, customer product reviews and streaming video that shows the item
currently on the air.

Coming are more video and interactive services, says George. He wants to woo
more online shoppers, because those who order via the Web and phone buy about
twice as much as those who buy by phone alone.

*Be more entertaining. QVC is getting out of the studio more often to broadcast
from remote locations. It has sold hair care products from an upscale Manhattan
hair salon, Yankee memorabilia from the team's famed stadium and National
Football League merchandise from pro football stadiums.

It's also airing live musical acts. On April 28,  American Idol alumnus Clay
Aiken  performed songs from his new album On My Way Here. That day, QVC received
more than 15,000 orders for the $19.38  CD -- which also came with a five-track
bonus CD/DVD.

LeAnn Rimes, the Goo Goo Dolls  and Elton John also have performed.

*Amp up the marketing. Last fall, QVC launched a TV, print and outdoor ad
campaign with the theme "iQdoU?"

The company says it's insider lingo for "I shop QVC, do you?" Ads showed such
products as computers, cosmetics and cake. They also featured celebrity vendors
such as Whoopi Goldberg  (who has a bedding line) and Heidi Klum  (who has a
jewelry line).

The goal is to make QVC and QVC.com destinations for shoppers, says Doug Rose,
vice president for merchandising brand development.

What does my friend say?

Even as QVC courts musical stars and spends millions on ads, one of its biggest
sales drivers remains word-of-mouth recommendations, says Rose.

That's how Kathy Sklar became a customer. The Bethesda, Md.-resident  didn't
think she'd be "remotely interested" in QVC's wares until a friend turned her on
to the channel.

She's now purchased a camera, kitchen goods, jewelry -- even outdoor lights.

Sometimes, she says, she watches QVC and thinks, "I had no idea that I needed
this (item) -- or that it even existed."

But if something catches her eye, she doesn't hesitate.

"I've come to believe in QVC," she says, "I'll say, 'What the heck, I'll try
it.'"

***

About QVC

*Founded: 1986 by Joseph Segel, who also founded the Franklin Mint, a direct
seller of collectibles, in 1964.

*What QVC stands for:  Quality, value and convenience.

*Broadcast schedule: 24 hours a day. Live every day except for pre-recorded
programming on Christmas.

*2007 sales: $7.4 billion.

*Orders typically received per hour:  15,000.

*Units delivered to customers worldwide in 2007: More than 166 million.

*Products offered on air annually: About 60,000.

*People who auditioned to be a QVC host last year: More than 3,000.

*New hosts selected: Three.

*Unique visitors to QVC.com in March:  4.2 million.

Sources: QVC, Nielsen/NetRatings

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Color, Eileen Blass, USA TODAY
GRAPHIC, Color
PHOTO, B/W, Eileen Blass, USA TODAY

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COVER STORY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              146 of 218 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                               May 9, 2008 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Senators to test McCain's independent clout;
Republicans hope to appeal to voters outside party as presidential candidate
does

BYLINE: David Jackson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 784 words


WASHINGTON -- As a presidential candidate, Republican John McCain made his
political name with independent voters in states such as New Hampshire.

Four Republican senators facing tough re-election battles because of the
unpopular Iraq war, President Bush's sagging approval ratings and the shaky
economy will put McCain's appeal to independents to the test in November.

"I can't think of a Republican candidate who could have more of a positive
impact for Republicans nationwide," said Sen. John Sununu, a freshman who faces
a rematch with former New Hampshire governor Jeanne Shaheen.

Republicans have 23 Senate seats to defend in the fall, and four incumbents --
Sununu, Susan Collins of Maine, Gordon Smith of Oregon and Norm Coleman of
Minnesota -- are among the most vulnerable. In New Hampshire, Maine and Oregon,
voters who are not registered as Democrats or Republicans make up at least 25%
of the electorate. (Minnesota voters, who do not register by party, elected
independent and former pro wrestler Jesse Ventura as their governor in 1998.)

McCain has attracted independents by going against the GOP on campaign finance,
immigration and global warming. Jennifer Duffy, who analyzes Senate races for
the non-partisan Cook Political Report, said the deciding factor for GOP
incumbents in November could be whether Democrats can succeed in efforts to
"morph McCain into George Bush."

"The interesting thing about McCain is that he may not help anybody, but he's
not a drag on anybody," she said.

Matthew Miller, a spokesman for the Senate Democrats' campaign committee, said
these four GOP incumbents are each in political trouble for different reasons,
and "John McCain is not the solution for any of them."

Some Democrats said independent voters are already shifting to them.

Kate Bedingfield, Shaheen's communication director, noted that in the New
Hampshire primary of Jan. 8, McCain received about 88,500 votes -- far less than
the popular vote totals of either Hillary Rodham Clinton or Barack Obama, the
Democratic candidates. New Hampshire allows independents to vote in either
political primary.

A Granite State poll released May3 shows McCain winning a majority of
independents against either Clinton or Obama. The same poll shows Sununu
trailing Shaheen by 12 percentage points.

Sununu said independents and some Democrats are attracted to McCain because he
speaks his mind, opposes tax hikes and has provided "strong and consistent"
leadership on the challenges of Iraq. McCain "transcends party brands," he said.

A view of the other Senate races:

*Maine. Collins, one of McCain's earliest supporters, is seeking re-election
against Democratic Rep. Tom Allen in a state strongly opposed to the Iraq war.
Maine twice elected independent Angus King as governor, in 1994 and 1998.
Forty-one percent of voters are not registered as Democrats or Republicans.

Anthony Corrado, professor of government at Colby College in Waterville, said
Allen and the Democratic Party are chipping away at the independent credentials
of Collins and McCain by linking them to Bush.

"Tom Allen voted against the war and the (Bush) tax cuts from the start,"
Corrado said.

*Oregon.  Smith was one of the first Republican senators to speak out against
the Iraq war. He has stressed his ability to work across the aisle and holds
town meetings with his home-state colleague, Democrat Ron Wyden. A Rasmussen
Reports poll shows Smith leading either of two possible Democratic challengers,
Oregon House Speaker Jeff Merkley and lawyer Steve Novick.

William Lunch, a political scientist at Oregon State University, said McCain
should be able to help Smith. Lunch said the state has long supported
Republicans who break with their party, such as former senator and governor Mark
Hatfield, who often opposed the GOP on foreign policy. "Oregon has long liked
independent-thinking candidates," he said.

Monday, McCain will campaign in Oregon and discuss climate change. Smith will be
back in Washington tending to Senate business.

*Minnesota. Coleman was elected in 2002 when Bush's public support was near its
zenith, after 9/11 and before the Iraq war began. Comedian Al Franken is among
the Democrats trying to unseat him. Recent state polls show Coleman with a lead
over Franken in a hypothetical matchup.

Democrats have carried Minnesota in eight straight presidential contests, but
Bush lost the state by only 3 percentage points or less in his two races.

Sarah Janecek, publisher of Politics in Minnesota, an online political
newsletter, has seen a rise in support for Democrats during Bush's troubled
second term. "If you've got a Republican on the presidential side who can appeal
to independents, that mitigates that," she said.

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Lauren Victoria Burke, AP
PHOTOS, B/W, AP (2)
PHOTO, B/W, Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              151 of 218 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              May 23, 2008 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Want charm to spare? Try 2009 Forester;
Subaru is fun, playful and cheaper than older version

BYLINE: James R. Healy

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 1288 words


What a nice change.

Subaru, a pioneer in crossover SUVs, has enlarged its small Forester SUV, given
it a better suspension, furnished even the base model with all you probably need
and cut the starting price $1,200.

Think that has appeal? The 2009 Forester was launched April1, and April sales
were up a stunning 49% from a year ago, according to tracker Autodata.

Comparing the new Forester with its main rivals, Honda CR-V and Toyota RAV4, is
a "yes, but" exercise.

Yes, Forester has a bit less cargo space with the back seats folded. But you'd
hardly describe its space as small. And its rear opening is especially wide for
big items.

Yes, Forester's optional turbocharged four-cylinder engine is a ball, but you
can get more power from RAV4's V-6 on cheaper fuel than the premium that
Forester's turbo favors. The V-6 RAV and turbo Forester are close on price.

Yes, with no but: Forester has a sophisticated all-wheel-drive (AWD) system
standard, as on all Subarus. Rivals offer less-sophisticated setups as options.

Most automakers favor AWD that is front-drive except when the rears are needed,
supposedly avoiding a fuel-economy penalty from driving all wheels all the time.
Forester has true AWD -- power always to all four wheels -- with no mileage
penalty.

Fuel economy for the non-turbo Forester is the same as or better than CR-V or
RAV4 with AWD. Forester's turbo surrenders 2 miles per gallon to the V-6 RAV4 on
the highway but otherwise matches it.

Salients from driving a high-end XT (turbo) with most options and a high-end X
(non-turbo):

*Styling. A wonderful improvement. Crisp, clean, forthright. Even the grille,
not always a Subie strong point, looks OK.

The hood scoop on the XT can be forgiven because it's functional, but the X
silhouette is more graceful. The scoop channels air to the intercooler, a
radiator that helps the turbo pump cooler, denser air into the engine, boosting
performance.

*Interior. The rear seat's now adult-friendly for two. The middle spot is
compromised by the high drive-shaft tunnel and jut of the front console.

Seats generally are comfy, and lumbar adjustment has enough range to eliminate a
bump-in-the-back feel. Rear-seat back angle adjusts for comfort.

Controls and gauges are simple at a time when car companies like to absurdly
complicate them. Key stereo controls are -- ready for this? -- on the stereo.
Climate control's three big knobs take any mystery out of managing the
temperature and defroster.

*Integrity. Effort went into things that matter, even those not obvious or sexy.

Rear suspension is now double-wishbone instead of struts. That's a two-fer. That
layout is flatter than upright struts, allowing wider cargo space. It also
handles bumps and corners with more aplomb than most struts for a smoother ride,
more precise steering  and sportier driving feel. Driving time showed those are
real, not theoretical, advantages. Forester snaps around corners with agility
remarkable not only for an SUV, but also for a small sedan. In fact, it's more
like a sedan than rivals, so it might be for you if your preferences skew more
to car than truck.

Foam bins under the rear floor easily stow miscellany, including rear head
restraints if need be.

Forester bumpers are built for a 5-mph jolt without damage. Many others' are
built to a 2.5-mph standard. The cost and weight saved makes them popular with
everyone except you and your insurer.

The hood is held open with gas struts instead of a cheap, unwieldy rod that's
often hot and dirty.

Four outlets, not two or zero, shoot air to the rear.

*Drivetrain. The turbocharged engine is a hoot, punchy and playful. Yet it
delivers power smoothly from low engine speeds, not explosively only after the
engine revs up. Subie expects about 10% of buyers to go for the turbo. What a
kick 90% will miss.

The non-turbo engine, at 170 hp, is sufficient unless you always run loaded (the
vehicle, not the driver) or tow or live in the mountains.

The automatic transmission has just four speeds in a universe of fives. Saves
money, Subaru says, helping keep the base sticker less than $20,000.

It shifted well on the turbo, but not on the non-turbo. Too much delay before
downshifts under hard throttle. And when passing or merging, you need those
downshifts quicker in the non-turbo to leverage the lower available power.

Manual-shift mode was easy to use. Pull the lever toward you and snick forward
to upshift, backward to downshift. Why automakers use any other system is beyond
ken. A "sport" mode seemed to do little more than keep the engine revved up,
providing marginal performance enhancement while creating more commotion and
using more fuel.

All-wheel-drive (AWD) on the test cars couldn't be bullied into misbehaving on
wet streets, even with XT's turbocharged thrust. Wide-open throttle from a dead
stop while turning 90 degrees caused nothing worse than almost imperceptible
wheel spin and (in the turbo) lots of yank-'em, spank-'em acceleration. Turn off
stability control, expecting more drama, and, nope, only a nit more wheel spin.

Subaru does AWD as well as Volvo does seats.

In the end, you can make rational arguments for RAV4 and CR-V, but neither has
the mix of appealing personality, sophisticated AWD, straightforward
presentation and carlike manners that give the new Forester exceptional allure.

2009 Subaru Forrester

What? Bigger, nicer redo of pioneer small crossover SUV. Four-door, all-wheel
drive.

When? On sale since April 1.

Where? Built at Gunma, Japan.

Why? Newer-design rivals -- Honda CR-V, Toyota RAV4, etc. -- were eating its
lunch.

How? Bigger chassis, new rear suspension, more refinement, cleaner styling.

Who? Subaru expects buyers to have annual income of $75,000 to $100,000, 85%
master's or higher degrees, 55% or more women.

How much? Starts at $20,660, including $665 shipping. Loaded, about $31,000.

How potent? X models have 2.5-liter, four-cylinder engine rated 170 horsepower
at 6,000 rpm, 170 pounds-feet of torque at 4,400 rpm. XTs have same basic engine
modified with dual overhead camshafts, more sophisticated valve-timing
technology and, most important, turbocharging. Result: 224 hp at 5,200 rpm, 226
lbs.-ft. at 2,800 rpm.

Five-speed manual transmission standard; four-speed (how outre) automatic
optional.

How lavish? Sufficiently. Among standard features: all-wheel drive (as all
Subarus); stability/traction control; anti-lock brakes with force distribution;
side-impact air bags in front, head-curtain bags front and rear; AM/FM/CD stereo
with input jack; air conditioning; cruise control; trip computer; power
steering, brakes, locks, windows, mirrors; tilt-adjustable steering column;
remote locks.

How big?  About 2 inches longer, narrower than Honda CR-V  and about 100 pounds
lighter. It's 179.5 inches long, 70.1 inches wide, 66.9 inches tall (with roof
rack) on 103-inch wheelbase. Weight: 3,250 to 3,460 lbs.

Passenger space is listed as 107.6 cubic feet(102.1 cu. ft. with moonroof).
Cargo space in cubic feet: 33.5 behind second row, 68.3 with second row folded.

Rated to carry 900 lbs. of people, cargo; tow 2,400 lbs. Turning circle: 34.4
feet.

How thirsty? X (non-turbo) models rated 20 miles per gallon in town, 26 mpg
highway, 22 combined; XT (turbo) 19/24/21.

Trip computer in XT test car showed 18.3 mpg in mixed suburban-freeway driving,
20.7 in X. Regular (87 octane) gasoline specified for X, premium (91 octane) for
XT. Subaru says lower octane OK in XT for light duty but could cause overheating
in high-demand situations such as altitude, loads, frequent hard acceleration.
Tank holds 16.9 gallons.

What stands out

Overall: Fun, capable, comfortable, different.

Bigger: Adults now fit in back.

Smoother: Suspension, chassis upgrades are welcome.

Cheaper: Base price is $1,200 less.

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Subaru
PHOTO, B/W

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              152 of 218 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             May 28, 2008 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Inflation fears push consumer confidence to lowest since '92;
Rising food, gas prices make outlook 'awful'

BYLINE: Sue Kirchhoff

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 482 words


WASHINGTON -- U.S. consumer confidence this month plunged to a nearly 16-year
low, while their inflation expectations hit a record high. It's more bad news
for an economy struggling with soaring food and energy prices and a historically
broad housing downturn.

The New York-based Conference Board said Tuesday that its consumer confidence
index declined for a fifth-consecutive month, to 57.2 from 62.8 in April. That's
the lowest reading since October1992.

"Weakening business and job conditions, coupled with growing pessimism about the
short-term future, have further depleted consumers' confidence," said Lynn
Franco, director of the Conference Board's Consumer Research Center.

"Consumers' inflation expectations, fueled by increasing prices at the pump, are
now at an all-time high and are likely to rise further," Franco said. The
Conference Board's inflation-forecasting numbers go back to 1987. The index is
based on a survey of 5,000 households. This month's data were collected through
May 20.

The share of consumers calling business conditions "bad" jumped to 30.6% from
26.5% in April.

The slice of consumers expecting business conditions to deteriorate during the
next six months rose sharply to 33.6% from 27.4%. The share who expect their
incomes to increase dipped to 13.4% from 15.5%.

The number of consumers planning to buy homes or autos fell, with the number of
prospective home buyers at the lowest since 1982.

"The combination of falling home prices, soaring food and energy prices, the
credit crunch and the worsening labor market is killing consumers," said Ian
Shepherdson of High Frequency Economics. He called the measure of consumers'
expectations of conditions in the next several months -- down 8.6% to 45.7 --
"stupefyingly awful."

Food inflation is surging at the fastest rate in decades, and gasoline prices
have reached $4 a gallon in many areas. The job market has slowed, and incomes
are flat. Economists say high prices may blunt some of the hoped-for stimulative
effect of federal income tax rebates that are being mailed to millions of
households.

Rising inflation expectations are particularly worrisome for the Federal
Reserve, and make it more certain that the central bank will remain on hold,
after an aggressive chain of interest rate cuts designed to help economic
growth. The Fed next meets on interest rates in late June.

Fed officials pay close attention not just to prices, but to consumers'
inflation expectations.

If Americans begin to expect inflation to escalate, it can turn a one-time bump
in prices into a wider wage-and-price spiral that is difficult to combat. So
far, the slowing economy has held wages down.

Moody's Economy.com told clients that consumers have not been as concerned about
the economic outlook since 1978.

"They are particularly worried about the outlook for their incomes, which does
not bode well for spending," Economy.com said.

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Alejandro Gonzalez (line graph)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              157 of 218 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             June 12, 2008 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Hardly anything's coming up roses, according to report

BYLINE: Sue Kirchhoff and John Waggoner

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 1583 words


U.S. economic activity was "generally weak" from late April through May, while
consumers were pinched by high energy and food prices, the Federal Reserve said
Wednesday in a report that underscores its dual worries of slow growth and
rising inflation. In its "beige book," an anecdotal look at conditions, the Fed
called economic activity softer, weaker or lower  in three of its 12 regional
districts. Another four Fed regions reported sluggish or modest growth. Fed
officials will look at the report when they meet June 24-25.  Futures markets
expect the Fed to stand pat on rates, but predict increases down the road to
combat inflation.

1st District

Maine, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, Rhode Island, Vermont, most of Connecticut

Activity is "generally softening." Many manufacturers have raised prices, or
plan to. Tech firms are experiencing slower revenue growth. Home sales and
prices are declining, despite some recent, positive signs. Retailers see clear
evidence that consumers are scaling back, and complain the media's
"doom-and-gloom" economic portrayal contributes to shoppers' cutbacks. Two
makers of health-related equipment say orders have slowed, while a machinery
maker says business tanked. Exports remain relatively strong, but Western
European demand is flagging. Manufacturers worry about sharply rising costs for
goods and transportation.

2nd District

New York, northern New Jersey, Fairfield County, Conn.

The economy is generally weaker. Manufacturing was sluggish in May, while cost
pressures rose. Non-manufacturing firms noted deteriorating business conditions
and anticipate little improvement ahead. New York City tourism shows softening
signs. Housing markets have weakened, and New York City's office market has
softened. Manhattan co-ops and condo sales are down sharply from a year ago.
Bankers are continuing to tighten credit standards, especially for commercial
real estate mortgages. Loan delinquencies are up, especially for consumer loans.
Small financial firms are hiring "sporadically," but major Wall Street firms are
hiring very little, if at all.

3rd District

Delaware, southern New Jersey, eastern Pennsylvania

Conditions showed signs of stabilizing. Manufacturers reported nearly steady new
orders and shipments in May. Retailers had lackluster results. Auto sales fell.
Housing activity is well below last year's levels, though there has been a
slight seasonal increase in sales. Commercial real estate activity has dimmed.
Employers said wage increases were moderate. Some retailers noted higher sales
of big-ticket items such as appliances and furniture, after advertisements
encouraged shoppers to spend income tax rebates. One executive reported high gas
and food prices are sucking money out of retail. Bankers said commercial and
industrial lending were rising, but added they were limiting real estate
development loans.

4th District

Ohio, eastern Kentucky, western Pennsylvania, northern West Virginia

Activity has been stable since early April. Steel production was steady to
increasing, and auto assembly rose slightly, though the manufacturing outlook is
guarded. Housing remained weak. Commercial contractors reported steady activity,
but weakening backlogs. Retailers' sales were flat to improving. Bankers
toughened lending standards. Employment was largely unchanged, though some
business contacts noted modest wage pressure. A significant rise in
commodity-based prices was reported across the board. Despite a slight pickup in
traffic, almost all home builders expect no improvement for the rest of 2008.
Transport firms noted a significant jump in fuel prices, which were largely
passed on via surcharges.

5th District

Maryland, Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, southern West Virginia,
District of Columbia

Economic activity edged lower. Retailers reported declining activity, partly
because higher food and energy prices sapped consumer income. Home sales were
sluggish, and commercial real estate leasing was soft. Factory activity slipped,
and manufacturers said rising energy and transportation costs were being passed
through to final goods. The manager of a department store in an upscale area
near Washington, D.C., said customers were waiting for sales. Spring planting
was well behind schedule in Maryland. Mountain resorts had a better Memorial Day
weekend than in 2007.

6th District

Alabama, Florida, Georgia, eastern Tennessee, southern Louisiana, southern
Mississippi

Activity remained weak. Home sales and prices were below year-ago levels.
However, most Florida home builders contacted said new home sales were flat to
slightly up on a year-over-year basis. Commercial development was soft. Bankers
reported slightly lower demand for all types of loans. The job market weakened.
Energy, metals, and agricultural goods had further price increases, though
firms' ability to pass on costs varied. International visitors boosted activity
in Florida, and the New Orleans convention and tourism sector improved. Trucking
and rail contacts reported lackluster activity.

7th District

Iowa, northern Indiana, northern Illinois, southern Michigan, southern Wisconsin

The economy grew, but not as quickly as it had  in February and March. Consumer
spending was pinched by higher prices and slower job growth in some areas.
Gasoline sales, tourism and business travel fell. Employment was weak, with
layoffs in manufacturing, automotive and financial services industries.
Residential real estate continued to decline, and many buyers reported
difficulties in getting a mortgage. But non-residential construction increased,
mainly because of infrastructure projects. Manufacturing weakened from earlier,
but was still strong. The steel industry remained a bright spot, and demand for
heavy equipment remained high. Export industries were flourishing.

8th District

Arkansas, southern Illinois, southern Indiana, western Kentucky, northern
Mississippi, eastern Missouri, western Tennessee

The economy remained flat. Retail sales were down from year-ago levels. About
64% of the car dealers said sales were down, and a third saw an increase in
rejections for auto financing. None reported an increase in acceptances.
Manufacturing activity increased, and chemical and steel companies said they
planned to open new plants and hire more workers. Home sales continued to
decline, and commercial real estate conditions were mixed. Lending activity
slowed in the first three months of 2008, and lenders tightened standards for
mortgage lending.  Wet and cool weather conditions since early April have
delayed planting and crop growth throughout the district. Planting of the major
crops -- corn, soybeans, sorghum, cotton and rice -- is behind its five-year
average pace.

9th District

Minnesota, Montana, North Dakota, South Dakota, upper Michigan, northern
Wisconsin

The economy grew at a sluggish pace. Consumer spending was soft: Restaurant
sales were down, and retail sales were flat. Shoppers from Canada continued to
go to retailers near the border at a strong pace, drawn by cheaper U.S. prices;
sales of used cars to Canadians have increased substantially. Spring tourism was
slow in a number of areas because of cool, wet weather, but officials were
cautiously optimistic for the summer season. Residential construction slowed,
and home prices fell by 4% in Wisconsin. Activity in the energy and mining
sectors increased since the last report, but agricultural conditions weakened.

10th District

Colorado, Kansas, Nebraska, Oklahoma, Wyoming, western Missouri, northern New
Mexico

The district saw modest economic growth. Manufacturing activity improved
somewhat since March and early April, and export orders strengthened because of
foreign demand. Realtors reported a pickup in sales that reduced home
inventories. Home prices in rural and energy-intensive areas remained well above
year-ago levels. Air travel remained strong, especially in the Denver market.
Hotel occupancy and average room rental prices moved higher, and restaurants
reported an uptick in sales despite a slight increase in menu prices.

11th District

Texas, northern Louisiana,

southern New Mexico

The economy continued to soften, but the energy industry remained strong. Rising
energy costs pushed up prices on chemicals and plastics, and prices continued to
soar for raw materials, including copper, coal, steel, titanium and aluminum.
Food prices continued to rise. Consumer spending has been weak because high fuel
costs are pinching shoppers. Housing activity continued to decline. New and
existing home sales fell further, and some builders are abandoning planned
developments. Office demand slowed, except in areas dominated by the energy
industry, such as Houston and Fort Worth. Optimism about high oil and natural
gas prices has pushed drilling to the highest level in 20 years.

12th District

Alaska, Arizona, California, Hawaii, Idaho, Nevada, Oregon, Utah, Washington

Economic activity was little changed from February and March. Retailers said
sales were slower because of higher food and energy prices. Car sales were weak,
and demand for large gas-guzzlers was "dismal." Manufacturing activity held
steady or grew, thanks to demand from foreign buyers. Petroleum refiners
increased activity. Food manufacturers reported higher sales, but rising
commodity and fuel prices have crimped profit margins. The housing market was
"exceptionally weak," with unusually high levels of unsold inventories. Lenders
kept tight lending standards, especially for residential mortgages.

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W (map)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              161 of 218 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            June 25, 2008 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Series gives drivers environmental challenge;
American Le Mans seeks green teams

BYLINE: Nate Ryan

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 10C

LENGTH: 540 words


The American Le Mans Series designed its new Green Challenge -- a test of fuel
efficiency to help the environment -- in part to put the automobile back in auto
racing.

Your automobile.

"There was a time the technology trickled into street cars, but that came to an
end," Corvette driver Johnny O'Connell says of an era when rearview mirrors and
lightweight parts made their way from racetrack to the road.

"In the ALMS, we're getting back to that. Lord knows we're all looking forward
to when we can run our car on a banana peel and a milkshake. But until they come
out with the Mr. Fusion flux capacitor from Back to the Future, we're doing the
best we can."

Today, the ALMS will unveil the Green Challenge, an environmental competition
that will make its debut at the Petit Le Mans on Oct.4 at Road Atlanta and
become a full-season feature in 2009. In addition to rewarding teams on the
basis of finishing positions, cars also will be evaluated on performance, fuel
efficiency and environmental impact under a formula that encompasses more than
30 categories.

The event's trophy, being commissioned by the Department of Energy and the
Environmental Protection Agency, will go to the fastest car that goes farthest
while minimizing energy use, petroleum and greenhouse gas emissions.

Because the series' manufacturers are "as much if not more interested in
environmentally motivated innovations as performance," ALMS President Scott
Atherton says the challenge should produce plenty of street-car spinoffs: "We
have manufacturers already looking at leading-edge technology that will appear
on the racetrack with the full intent of being developed rapidly for the road
car. If you build a more fuel-efficient car that produces less emissions, people
paying $4 a gallon (for) gas will beat a path to your door."

Audi, Porsche, Acura, Mazda, Ferrari and General Motors compete in the ALMS, and
Atherton says another major manufacturer is considering the series because of
renewable fuel technologies that can be applied to production cars.

"By virtue of the number of manufacturers committed to participate, I would
suggest we're on to something here, because it's being embraced," Atherton says.

Bob Larsen, a senior technical staffer at the Department of Energy's Argonne
(Ill.) National Laboratory, says teams will focus on "regenerative braking" -- a
way of recovering energy that is a staple of hybrid vehicles -- and capturing
greenhouse gases. Larsen, who helped devise the Green Challenge formula, says
the adverse conditions of ALMS' endurance races (which last up to 12 hours)
offer the best "real-world" testing.

The ALMS began switching to alternative fuels in 2006 and now races on
sulfur-free diesel, E10 (gasoline blended with 10% ethanol) and cellulosic E85.
Corvette Racing went to cellulosic E85, made from waste wood, this year. The
team won its first race on E85 at St. Petersburg, Fla., in April.

"Performance was a big concern because we want to win," O'Connell says. "But
we're as fast as ever."

Atherton says the green initiative won't detract from its most important colors:
the black and white of a checkered flag. "We have fantastic racing and won't do
anything to take away from it. This is icing on the cake for manufacturers."

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Steve Nesius, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              163 of 218 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              July 7, 2008 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

In a twist, USA's Asians head to the Mountain West;
Migration is fueling diversity in areas that have been mostly white

BYLINE: Haya El Nasser

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1932 words


LAS VEGAS -- Dozens of workers line up for a buffet catered by Satay Malaysian
Grille, a popular Chinatown eatery here. They carry plates piled high with Asian
delicacies to nine rows of long tables facing a dais.

By the time the employees savor mango-sticky-rice treats, their luncheon
speakers are introduced: a local TV reporter, a former school administrator, a
bank founder, a magazine publisher, a chamber of commerce executive, a local
politician.

Only one is Anglo. The rest: Chinese, Japanese, Thai -- all Asian Americans.

This event isn't in Las Vegas' Chinatown district but in a meeting room at one
of the pillars of the local business establishment: Nevada Power. The lunch,
held so the utility's employees could hear voices from the Asian-American
community, is a reflection of the explosive growth and rising clout of Asian
Americans in Nevada and other inland Western states. They've become a powerful
voting bloc that's being wooed by presidential candidates -- and an economic
force that businesses are catering to.

This decade, the Asian population has grown at a faster rate than that of the
Hispanic population in 14 states -- including Nevada, Arizona and Texas -- as
well as Washington, D.C.

In a surprising twist to historical settlement patterns, growing numbers of
Asian Americans are beginning to bail from the places that have long been their
main gateways to the West: California and Washington. Wearied by the same
crushing home prices, poor schools, jammed freeways and persistent crime that
have sent millions of other Californians packing, Asian Americans are moving to
spots in the West they hope will produce better lifestyles -- namely Las Vegas
and Phoenix.

The Asian migration is fueling ethnic diversity in places that have been
overwhelmingly white. Since 1990, Nevada has had the most rapid growth of any
state in the number of Asians and Pacific Islanders.

The number jumped 174% in the 1990s and 67% so far this decade to about 211,000,
according to 2007 Census Bureau estimates. Asians now make up about 8.2% of
Nevada's 2.6 million people -- a higher percentage than the national share of
5.4%. Most live here in Clark County, where Asians are the fastest-growing
minority.

Arizona also is registering significant growth among Asians, a trend fueled
largely by an exodus from California and Washington. They're leaving for lower
cost of living, warm climates and better job markets, a reflection of the
migration patterns that have made Nevada and Arizona the nation's
fastest-growing states throughout much of the past two decades.

Asians are doing what middle-class whites have been doing for decades: moving to
more affordable parts of the West, says William Frey, demographer at the
Brookings Institution.

"California is losing Asians, and the main destinations are other states in the
Mountain West," he says.

His analysis of Census data shows that since 2001, 86,000 more Asians left
California for the inland mountain states than vice versa. "It started with
whites, followed by Hispanics, and Asians are now continuing that trend," Frey
says. "It means a place like Las Vegas is becoming a microcosm of growing
America."

Pauline Ng Lee, a Chinese-American bankruptcy lawyer, moved 10 years ago from
Los Angeles' Hollywood Hills section to Summerlin, an upscale community on Las
Vegas' west side. "We moved into a neighborhood where more than 60% of the
residents were from California, either southern or northern," she says. "We came
out for two reasons: My husband had a great opportunity ... as a physician, and
the cost of living was so much lower."

In the first quarter of this year, for example, the median sales price of
existing single-family homes in the Las Vegas area was $247,600, compared with
$459,400 in the Los Angeles area, according to the National Association of
Realtors.

Visible signs of growth

Ten years ago, Las Vegas' Chinatown was less than three blocks long. Today, it
stretches almost 4 miles along Spring Mountain Boulevard. It's beginning to
spread out on either side. Business after business, restaurant after restaurant
crowd strip malls and office buildings. Signs in Korean and Chinese adorn the
facades. Newspaper racks offer publications in more than a half-dozen Asian
languages.

"The traditional Chinatown area is really becoming an integral part of our
broader community," says Maureen Peckman, executive director of The Council for
a Better Nevada, a group of business and civic leaders concerned with
quality-of-life issues. "That's the hallmark of a maturing community."

This neighborhood is one of the most visible signs of growth in the Asian
American community here. There are others:

*Construction is scheduled to begin this year on the 180,000-square-foot Asia
Town Center. The developers bill it as the Southwest's largest Asian shopping
center.

"The fastest-growing demographic is Asian but this town doesn't have a major
Asian center," says Chris Hardin, vice president of operations at DFG
Development Corp., one of the developers.

The center will feature up to 10 of the West's most prominent Asian retailers.
The anchor grocer, Hmart, will occupy 50,000 square feet and sell produce,
meats, household wares and prepared foods at low prices.

It will be "like an Asian version of Whole Foods, except with Costco prices,"
DFG says.

*Las Vegas' first Asian bank opened last summer. Founded by local investors,
First Asian Bank targets the financial, cultural and linguistic needs of the
entire Asian community. Dee Mallas, owner of a real estate firm and co-owner of
a mortgage funding company, is one of the bank's founders. She saw the void in
banking services for the Asian community when dealing with Asian buyers.

"I saw the growth and I saw the need, but if you target only Chinese or only
Korean, it's not big enough," says Mallas, who is Thai American.

That's why First Asian Bank's two branches cater to all Asian groups. The number
"8," a symbol of prosperity, is the first number of the bank's branch numbers
and all its customers' account numbers (the Beijing Olympics start 8/8/08 for
the same reason). Two Texas companies have since opened banks in Las Vegas to
target the Asian market.

*The Asian Real Estate Association of America opened a Las Vegas chapter last
year. John Fukuda, its founding president, is a third-generation Japanese
American and another California transplant. A successful Internet entrepreneur,
he now owns a mortgage company.

He knew there was a need for such an organization when giant homebuilder D.R.
Horton Inc. asked for help targeting the Asian market. Relocation directors in
pursuit of teachers and doctors also needed their help. "Membership went from
eight to 800," he says. "Half of the membership is not Asian."

Real estate agents have organized "fly-and-buys" for Californians, offering them
three days and two nights in Vegas to play and check out properties.

*The first national glossy magazine to target all Asian ethnicities is scheduled
to be launched from Vegas in September. The monthly AsianAm will sell for $4.50,
aim for an initial circulation of 700,000 and try to capture the attention of
Asians ages 18 to 34, says Bessy Lee-Oh, CEO and publisher.

"Other magazines are small and niche-targeted or ethnic specific," says Lee-Oh,
a Chinese American. "We are neither. We go from business to politics -- the
entire game. ... It was my dream."

*Chinese New Year, on the first day of the first lunar month in the Chinese
calendar (Feb. 7 this year), is now the second-largest draw for casinos here --
second only to the conventional New Year's holiday. At least four casinos,
including the Gold Coast and Palace Station, have beefed up efforts to target
the Asian market year-round.

Most hotels and casinos are careful not to offend Asians. Fifteen years ago,
when the MGM Grand HotelsCasino opened, guests had to enter through what
appeared to be the mouth of a lion, the company's corporate logo. Many Asian
patrons were not amused. They considered walking into the mouth of a beast bad
luck and avoided the casino. MGM spent millions redesigning the entrance.

*The Asian Bar Association, formed in 2002 by three lawyers, including Lee, now
has about 50 active members. "Ten years ago, I was one of the few if not the
only Asian practicing regularly in bankruptcy court," says Lee, a Chinese
American married to a Korean American.

'Asiatown,' not Chinatown

The influx of Asians has been widely accepted because Las Vegas is accustomed to
new arrivals from everywhere, Peckman says. "We have over 7,000 people moving to
southern Nevada every month, we add 100 cars to our roads on a daily basis. So,
to say the Asian growth is visible, yes, it's visible but so is the growth in so
many of our other demographic populations."

Laurie Kruse, 47, moved here from California 20 years ago. She began to see
dramatic changes about three years ago in the pews of St. Elizabeth Ann Seton,
the Catholic Church she attends. More Filipinos were joining the congregation.
Then there was the boom in Chinatown. "It's brought in a great aspect as far as
I'm concerned," says Kruse, an administrator. "The way they worship is
tremendous. ... It's brought a different culture into Las Vegas."

Filipinos are the largest Asian group here, at about 45%. Chinese are the next
at 15%, Japanese and Koreans make up 9% each, Asian Indians and Vietnamese
represent about 5% each, and other Asians make up 12%.

Because the Asian community is still relatively small in numbers, ethnic
divisions are not as distinct as in places such as Los Angeles, San Francisco or
New York.

Although it's officially called Chinatown, "it's really Asiatown," Fukuda says.

"A lot of it has to do with maximizing their political clout," Frey says. "They
want to identify themselves as a pan-Asian group rather than segment themselves.
... It makes sense for Asians to band together."

California generates more Asian migrants than other states, but they're coming
from elsewhere, too.

The owners of Satay Malaysian Grille moved from Seattle. Stan Saito, president
of the Las Vegas Asian Chamber of Commerce, is a Japanese American who moved
from Texas. Magazine publisher Lee-Oh moved from New York.

Los Angeles banker William Chu was still skeptical, however, when he was
approached about heading First Asian Bank a couple of years ago. "Yes, there are
a lot of Asians coming in but they're visitors to the Strip, I thought," he
says. "Then they drove me around and I said, 'Wow.'"

Chinese-American Chu made the move and now is the bank's president and CEO.

Las Vegas is luring Asians young and old, professional and service workers,
native-born Americans and immigrants.

"It's somewhat of a bipolar community," says Jeremy Aguero, principal analyst at
Applied Analysis, a Nevada business research and consulting firm. "There are
professionals and those with limited skills."

There could be plenty of jobs for both groups. The first phase of MGM Mirage's
CityCenter, a $9.2-billion, 68-acre project, is under construction on the Strip
between the Bellagio and Monte Carlo hotels and casinos. It will need 12,500
employees, Aguero says. The Echelon, a $4.8 billion hotel project on 87 acres,
is scheduled to open in 2010. It will need 12,000 workers.

"We're just yearning for talented human capital," Peckman says.

Despite Las Vegas' dubious distinction as the metropolitan area that has the
most foreclosures, Aguero says job growth will continue and home ownership will
climb again. The Asian population will grow because "people want to be close to
family and friends, and there are more family and friends to be close to."

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Adrienne Lewis, USA TODAY, Source: Analysis of Census
Bureau data by demographer William Frey of the Brookings Institution (Bar graph)

PHOTO, Color, Steve Marcus for USA TODAY
PHOTO, B/W, Steve Marcus for USA TODAY

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COVER STORY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              169 of 218 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             July 24, 2008 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Many regions report slow growth, sluggish job market

BYLINE: Sue Kirchhoff and John Waggoner

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 8B

LENGTH: 1158 words


Economic growth slowed in most parts of the country from May through mid-July,
while energy prices increased nationwide, the Federal Reserve said Wednesday.
Labor demand was soft, except for highly skilled workers and for those who
worked in the energy sector.

The Fed's "beige book," an anecdotal look at economic conditions,  found slowing
or flat growth in nine of the 12 Fed districts. Only the Cleveland, Minneapolis
and Dallas districts saw increases. A detailed look:

1st District: Maine, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, Rhode Island, Vermont, most
of Connecticut. Consumers are scaling back spending,  hurting retailers.
Manufacturers are particularly worried about higher energy, transportation and
materials costs. Most have had to raise their prices, and about half the
manufacturers in the survey are contemplating layoffs. Sentiment among
commercial real estate contacts was "decidedly morose," the Fed said. Financial
and legal firms are hesitant to lease new commercial office space. Residential
real estate markets in New England continue to show slower sales in 2008 than in
2007.

2nd District: New York, northern New Jersey, Fairfield County, Conn. The economy
is softening, although the Fed reports brisk retail business in New York City,
where tourism has remained stable.

Regional housing markets are slowing: The number of transactions tumbled more
than 20%, and the listing inventory  rose more than 30%. Prices of New York
co-ops and condos  fell during the quarter, but remained up 11% from a year
earlier. In New Jersey, however, home prices are down 15%.

Hiring activity is slowing, especially among Wall Street firms, and New York
state manufacturers say business weakened in June and July.

3rd District: Delaware, southern New Jersey, eastern Pennsylvania. Business
conditions weakened a bit in June and July. Manufacturers reported declining
orders, and retailers -- except discount stores -- saw weaker sales.

Tax rebates  helped support retail sales, but those still were lower than last
year. Auto dealers said  their sales were well below year-ago levels.
Inventories of SUVs and trucks have been rising, but dealers say there haven't
been enough small, fuel-efficient cars to meet demand.

Residential real estate activity is slower, but commercial loan volume has
increased.

4th District: Ohio, eastern Kentucky, western Pennsylvania, northern West
Virginia. Economic activity rose in June and July, as commercial real estate
deals and retail sales remained strong. Factories in the  region were operating
at or slightly below normal levels. Survey respondents said  they expected steel
production would remain about the same as, or a bit lower than, current levels.

Oil, gas and coal production has been  steady  during the past six weeks. Loan
demand in the energy sector has risen. Almost all oil and gas producers were
hiring additional employees. Competition for skilled workers is pushing up
wages.

5th District: Maryland, Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, southern West
Virginia, District of Columbia. The economy weakened. Retailers reported slowing
sales, increasing layoffs and flat wages. Manufacturers said orders slowed, and
were worried about higher prices for raw materials and transportation. Exports
grew.

Residential real estate was slow, and commercial real estate weakened. No major
construction has been announced recently, and builders were having difficulty
financing new projects.

6th District: Alabama, Florida, Georgia, eastern Tennessee, southern Louisiana,
southern Mississippi. Retail and auto sales slowed, and residential real estate
declined. Commercial construction and job markets were weak; credit was tight.

Companies struggled with higher raw material costs, and not all were able to
pass on higher costs to consumers. Drought in north Georgia and central Florida
hurt agriculture, and higher fertilizer, feed and diesel prices cut farmers'
profit margins.

7th District: Iowa, northern Indiana, northern Illinois, southern Michigan,
southern Wisconsin. Activity was sluggish, with a worsening job market, mixed
consumer spending and declining lending. Housing worsened, and commercial
construction showed signs of slowing. Manufacturing weakened a bit. Businesses
were pressured by rising materials and energy prices. Wage pressures were low.
Federal tax rebates and discounting helped retailers, but auto sales slowed. One
retailer said the higher minimum wage, effective today, would chill hiring.

8th District: Arkansas, southern Illinois, southern Indiana, western Kentucky,
northern Mississippi, eastern Missouri, western Tennessee. Activity was stable.
The services sector expanded, and manufacturing rose slightly, except for autos.
Home sales continued to decline. Brewing industry consolidation raised concern
about job losses. Retailers said consumers were making fewer trips and seem more
willing to postpone big purchases.

9th District: Minnesota, Montana, North Dakota, South Dakota, upper Michigan,
northern Wisconsin. The economy grew slightly, with modest increases in tourism,
mining and commercial real estate. Manufacturing, agriculture and energy were
mixed. Activity declined in services, residential construction and real estate.
Consumer spending was sluggish. Wages rose moderately, and businesses  reported
"significant" price increases for fuel and energy. Retailers said federal
economic stimulus checks were used for fuel and groceries, not discretionary
purchases.

10th District: Colorado, Kansas, Nebraska, Oklahoma, Wyoming, western Missouri,
northern New Mexico. Growth moderated slightly. Most retailers saw flat but
weaker-than-expected sales. Manufacturing dipped, though the outlook was
relatively positive. Housing was depressed but stabilizing. Raw materials prices
rose significantly, and some costs were passed through. Access to credit was a
concern for many auto dealers. Bankers saw tighter credit standards and weaker
demand. High feed costs  sapped livestock profits.

11th District: Texas, northern Louisiana, southern New Mexico.  Growth was
steady and moderate, with the main exception  being home builders, who saw a
steeper decline. Businesses were increasingly worried about price pressures and
the uncertain national outlook. Profit margins were squeezed by rising costs,
and productivity gains weren't sufficient to forestall product price increases.
Overall wage pressures were mild, but firms noted a growing number of workers
seeking cost-of-living increases.

12th District: Alaska, Arizona, California, Hawaii, Idaho, Nevada, Oregon, Utah,
Washington. Businesses  experienced "little or no growth." Wage pressures eased.
Price pressures were severe for food and energy-intensive items but moderate
otherwise. Retail sales were sluggish. Housing "showed no signs of recovery" and
commercial real estate weakened. Prices of many retail products were stable or
lower, partly due to discounting. High costs  are expected to force increases.

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              171 of 218 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             July 29, 2008 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Large cities are rethinking growth patterns, too

BYLINE: Haya El Nasser

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 411 words


Outlying suburbs aren't the only places rethinking growth and development
patterns amid mushrooming costs of gasoline and other energy sources.

Building on a movement in the 1990s that invigorated many downtowns, urban
centers and adjoining communities are forging ahead with redevelopment projects
to attract residents. Two examples from metropolitan Phoenix:

*Phoenix native Michael Hallmark, architect of the Staples Center arena in Los
Angeles, Safeco Field in Seattle and other large venues, was part of an
ambitious effort to bring sports and entertainment back to downtown Phoenix.
He's helping plan the city's Jackson Street Entertainment District, which will
make a neighborhood denser.

He is narrowing streets and bringing in entertainment spots, stores, restaurants
and condos. The district will tie in to Phoenix's new light-rail system, Arizona
State University's downtown campus and the convention center. It follows "green"
standards by developing under-utilized land, maximizing shade and reducing water
runoff.

"We could build another Phoenix inside the one we already have, double the
population of the city, and ... still have a population density that is less
than it was in 1950," Hallmark says.

*DMB Associates, a Scottsdale, Ariz.-based real estate company that tries to
preserve the history and character of the land it develops, is taking on a big
project in Mesa, a close-in suburb of Phoenix.

General Motors sold its 3,200-acre vehicle testing grounds to DMB in 2006, the
last significant piece of privately owned land in the southeast part of the
Phoenix Valley. The site is near a small airport and another Arizona State
University campus. The plan: to build a city center, combining residences,
offices, entertainment centers and retail.

Drew Brown, CEO of DMB, says that using urban land in a more environmentally
sound way is winning widespread support. Between high gas prices, states
adopting tough greenhouse gas limits and a proposed tax on emissions of carbon
dioxide and other greenhouse gases, "there may be enough moving parts finally,"
he says.

DMB's strategies are predicated on gas prices never coming down. The company
passed up sites farther from Phoenix because gas costs would wipe out the
benefits.

"The development patterns you have in the Valley for 50 years had all been
premised on cheap mobility," Brown says. "Yeah, we're at a tipping point ...
starting to see the ramifications of bedroom communities on the way to nowhere."


LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              179 of 218 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           September 30, 2008 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Music artists play up eco-friendly packaging;
It's a familiar tune for 'carbon-neutral' artist David Gilmour

BYLINE: Mike Snider

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 4D

LENGTH: 978 words


David Gilmour has carved out a stellar solo career since helping compose and
perform some of Pink Floyd's most memorable songs, including Time, Wish You Were
Here and Comfortably Numb.

But he is  uncomfortable talking about the environment, even though he has made
a point of releasing "carbon-neutral" CDs over the past few years. The latest is
his  Live in Gdansk CD/DVD, out last week. "I guess you shouldn't talk about it
unless you know enough about it, and I'm not sure I know enough about it,"
Gilmour said in a telephone interview.

The first of the famed guitarist/singer's discs to be carbon-neutral was his
2006 On an Island, which was also the first Columbia Records album to be
released under environmentally responsible guidelines, which include
biodegradable cardboard packaging, environmentally friendly inks and a
water-based lacquer.

Typical carbon neutrality involves changing some manufacturing processes to
reduce the amount of heat-trapping "greenhouse" gases, mainly carbon dioxide,
released into the atmosphere. It also involves offsetting the amount of
still-resulting carbon dioxide by decreasing its creation elsewhere, such as by
paying for alternative energy sources and planting trees.

"Obviously, in the rather uncertain future of the planet we are leaving to our
children, one has got to do whatever one can do," Gilmour says. "I absolutely
feel we have got to do everything within one's power to try and make the whole
world as carbon-neutral as possible, if not carbon-negative."

For Gilmour's current release, which comes in several configurations (from a
two-CD set, $20, to a three-CD/two-DVD set, $50), record label Columbia made
donations to a hydroelectric power plant project in China's Sichuan province to
offset greenhouse gases created by the making and distribution of the album.

The 'Truth' of the matter

One of the first environmentally friendly disc packages to capture the public's
attention came with the DVD release of An Inconvenient Truth. The cardboard
package was made of 100% recycled material and included a note inside asking
that the disc be shared and donated to others.

A growing wave of music CDs are getting eco-friendly makeovers, too:

*Last spring, more than 20 Universal Music Group CDs, including Sheryl Crow's
Detours and Counting Crows' Saturday Nights, Sunday Mornings, were released in
Wal-Mart stores in recycled paperboard packages. Each has an insert for three
free digital downloads. After using, the seed-paper insert can be planted to
grow wildflowers.

*Almost two years ago, Universal began releasing its Millennium Series
greatest-hits packages, starting with The Best of Rob Zombie, in recycled cases,
with biodegradable PaperFoam trays to hold the discs. Customers can download
liner notes. Since then, CDs with PaperFoam trays have been released by EMI
Canada and Sony BMG in the U.K.

*Last year, Warner Music Group announced it would begin environmentally friendly
packaging measures, including using recycled fibers and not buying paper that is
made from endangered forests or that uses hazardous compounds.

*The new Pretenders album, Break Up the Concrete, out Oct. 7, will have a
limited run of 50,000 copies that includes handmade seed paper that can be
planted to grow flowers. The rest of the CD packaging was certified as
eco-friendly by the Forest Stewardship Council.

The Pretenders' album, says label president Jeff Ayeroff, "is an homage to the
general nature of stewardship and how do we take care of the Earth and how do we
have a nicer environment. ... This is reflective of a lot of the things in her
(Pretenders' Chrissie Hynde) world."

Reducing waste, raising awareness

Musicians are pushing labels to be more environmentally conscious, says Meaghan
O'Neill, editor for online green sites TreeHugger.com and PlanetGreen.com. For
instance, Jack Johnson has a solar-powered recording studio, his Brushfire
record label releases CDs using recycled paper packaging, and his EnviroRider
tour's contracts require the use of biodiesel and carbon offsets.

"Part of the importance of what they are doing isn't just the impact or the
reductions (in carbon or waste), but also in raising awareness," O'Neill says.
"Most are doing it because they really care." Environmental issues are
"obviously something that are important to (Gilmour), so he's experimenting with
ways he can make a difference."

This past summer, Radiohead and other bands began asking fans to carpool to
concerts to decrease the carbon footprint of concert tours. Some criticized that
move as hypocritical because bands create their own footprint by touring.

"I don't think the occasional rock 'n' roll tour is of deep relevance to this,"
Gilmour says. More important is a "blanket thing on every form of
transportation," says Gilmour, who is 62 and a 1996 Rock and Roll Hall of Fame
inductee as a member of Pink Floyd. "We need to make every household ... and
every automobile far more efficient. If all the factories pumping out stuff
every day were made fairly carbon-neutral, or made as efficient as they could
possibly be, and all the power stations throughout the world were made as
efficient as possible ... all those sorts of things seem to be much more
important."

---

Easy on the ears -- and on the planet

Musicians and music companies have added concern for the environment to their
playlists.

Some new and reissued CDs are being created with more eco-friendly, recyclable
materials.

David Gilmour, Live in Gdansk

Donations for a hydroelectric power plant project in China's Sichuan province

offset the carbon dioxide created by the making and distribution of the Pink
Floyd

guitarist's new "carbon-neutral" two-CD/two-DVD set.

Marvin Gaye, The Best of Marvin Gaye, Vol. 2

Just one of many releases in Universal's Millennium Series greatest-hits
packages that uses biodegradable PaperFoam CD trays and recycled board packages.


LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Katye Martens, USA TODAY
PHOTO, B/W, Joel Ryan, AP

DOCUMENT-TYPE: A BETTER LIFE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              180 of 218 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             October 3, 2008 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Video game exec takes over USOC after Ueberroth

BYLINE: Janice Lloyd

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 12C

LENGTH: 420 words


Larry Probst, chairman of the largest video games publisher, is taking on the
Olympic Games.

He was named board chairman of the U.S. Olympic Committee on Thursday, replacing
Peter Ueberroth, whose four-year term expires this month.

Probst, 58, joined Electronic Arts in 1984 and served as the vice president of
sales until 1986, followed by four years as senior vice president of the
company's publishing division. EA has designed the popular Tiger Woods and
Madden  NFL series and has partnerships with most of the professional leagues.

"I love sports and am hugely inspired by what athletes do on and off the field,"
Probst said. "I'm ready to go to work with the rest of the team."

During his tenure as CEO, EA made strategic new investments in mobile and online
platforms and  increased its annual revenue from $175million in 1992 to roughly
$3 billion in 2006 and expanded international operations to more than 75
countries. His marketing and digital media skills are sought-after assets by
USOC as its demands for new sources of revenue expands.

"He brings us a number of skills that will help us the way the economy is
going," said Ueberroth, who remains  honorary president through October 2009.
"We're the only Olympic committee in the world that has no funding from the
government."

Probst is a 1972 graduate of the University of Delaware, where he played
intramural football and basketball. He has a 14 handicap in golf that he sees
unfortunately "going in the wrong direction" and is also a skier. He begins his
new duties at the Olympic Assembly on Oct. 8-12 in Orlando.

Olympic hopefuls: Thursday marked an important day for Chicago -- and it did not
involve the Cubs or White Sox. Chicago 2016 chairman and CEO Patrick Ryan
visited schools to deliver one-year-out clocks that will count down the days to
Oct. 2, 2009, when the International Olympic Committee elects the host city for
the 2016 Summer Games.  The meetings take place in Copenhagen, Denmark. Chicago
is running against Madrid, Tokyo and Rio de Janeiro.

"They're very excited about this in the schools," Ryan said. "We're getting a
lot of support."

Ryan added he is optimistic financial winds will change, allowing the Windy City
to raise the funds it needs for infrastructure. "The financial turmoil is global
and it will impact each of the four cities," Ryan said. "For all of us, the
timing is eight years away, and we won't be building in this climate."

The cities are forming their final plans and writing candidature books, due to
the IOC by Feb. 2.

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              185 of 218 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            November 4, 2008 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Economy: Depressing, but not a Great Depression;
1990s recession; 1990-1991

BYLINE: George Petras

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 190 words


Causes: Though the 1991 recession was part of a regular business cycle, rising
consumer debt and declining home values (largely due to the savings and loan
crisis of the 1980s) helped start it.

Steps taken: Because the recession lasted seven months and was not very intense,
the government initiated no action. Businesses, however, were faced with smaller
revenue and rising wages that price increases could not cover.

Result: The recession ended with a "jobless recovery" in which businesses began
downsizing, a trend that continued midway into the decade.

653 failed banks and S&Ls

Dow Jones avg.   Change

(peak to trough)

July 17, '90 2,999.75 v 21%

Nov. 11, '90 2,365.10

GDP (trillions)

1990  $5.8  ^ 3%

1991  $6.0

Inflation

1990  5.4%   ^ 7%

1991  3.0%

Manufacturing {+1} (billions)

1990  $906.3  v 0.5%

1991  $901.7

National debt (trillions)

1990  $3.2  ^ 13%

1991  $3.7

Sources: Analysis by Ken Goldstein, Conference Board economist;

Reporting by George Petras, USA TODAY;

Statistics from Bureau of Economic Analysis, Bureau of Labor Statistics,
Commerce Dept., Labor Dept., Treasury Dept.;

USA TODAY research by Thomas Ankner, John Waggoner and George Petras.

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, AP

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COVER STORY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              188 of 218 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            November 10, 2008 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Census of all sea life tallies up surprises;
'The more we look, the more we find'

BYLINE: Dan Vergano

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 5D

LENGTH: 381 words


A shark playground, a mountain of sea stars, and octopi revealing an unsuspected
Antarctic ancestry are among the mysteries unveiled in the latest worldwide
efforts, released Monday, to draft a census of all sea life.

At the World Conference on Marine Biodiversity in Valencia, Spain, which begins
Tuesday, researchers will discuss the "Census of Marine Life" update report. It
details efforts by more than 2,000 scientists from more than 80 nations to
account for all the species in the world's oceans by 2010.

"We're in the home stretch," says project senior scientist Ronald O'Dor. "Not to
say someone won't pull up a giant squid from somewhere unexpected, but we think
we are going to have a very good census."

Since 2000, the initiative -- executed by boat, tags, nets and submarine -- has
uncovered more than 5,300 new species, as diverse as blind lobsters and
sulfur-eating bacteria. Among the highlights:

*The deepest hydrothermal vents, 21/2 miles beneath the Atlantic Ocean, are
thronging with species of shrimp and mussels.

*Great white and other sharks head to a previously unknown offseason Pacific
region, perhaps to mate.

*Tens of millions of brittle sea stars were discovered tip-to-tip on an undersea
mountain in the Antarctic Ocean.

*Combined genetic evidence from deep-sea octopi shows that many newer species
evolved from a predecessor living in shallow Antarctic waters about 30million
years ago.

The researchers say changes in the ocean driven by a warming climate,
overfishing and environmental damage add urgency to their effort. Moreover, the
oceans remain by some estimates 95% unexplored, which makes them rich with
discoveries.

"The more we look, the more we find," says molecular biologist Mitchell Sogin of
the Marine Biological Laboratory in Woods Hole, Mass., who heads census efforts
to profile marine microbes. Microbes total perhaps 90% of ocean life, he says,
and they help keep the Earth habitable by cycling oxygen and carbon into the
atmosphere.

"I would say we are in a second Golden Age of marine biology," says project
scientist Patricia Miloslavich of Venezuela's Universidad Simon Bolivar,
comparing today's efforts with those of earlier naturalists such as Charles
Darwin and Carl Linnaeus, who first set out to catalog species. "I hope it
doesn't end."

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, David Shale, Census of Marine Life

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              199 of 218 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           February 28, 2008 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

The shape of lights to come? Not everyone's buying it;
Sales booming, but few American homes have a fluorescent bulb

BYLINE: Elizabeth Weise

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1817 words


Their spiral design is a symbol of "going green," the movement to make homes and
living more energy-efficient. And sales of compact fluorescent lights, or CFLs,
are booming: They made up 20% of the U.S. light bulb market in 2007, the
Environmental Protection Agency says, up from 11% a year earlier.

Sales probably will continue rising as traditional incandescent bulbs begin
disappearing from stores because of Congress' mandate that light bulbs be at
least 25% more efficient by 2012. Wal-Mart, Home Depot, IKEA and other major
retailers now sell a range of CFLs, which typically use nearly 75% less energy
than regular bulbs.

But now that more people are using CFLs, the bulbs' shortcomings are giving some
consumers pause. Consumers are raising concerns about the quality of light from
such bulbs and say they often don't work well with dimmer switches, in certain
light fixtures or in hot or cold conditions.

And although fluorescent bulbs are less expensive to use in the long run, some
consumers are turned off by the cost: $3 to $10, compared with about 50 cents
for regular bulbs. Meanwhile, retailers such as IKEA are setting up recycling
programs in response to concerns about how to dispose of CFLs, which contain
mercury and could pose a health hazard if they break and are not cleaned up
properly.

Such drawbacks help explain why, even though one in five bulbs sold in the USA
is now a compact fluorescent, a lower percentage of American homes -- estimates
run as low as 11% -- have at least one of the bulbs.

Connie Samla, a lighting specialist at the Municipal Utility District in
Sacramento, cites the 11% figure as a symbol of many consumers' reluctance to
accept fluorescent bulbs. She says such sentiments are rooted in the problems of
the early versions of such bulbs during the 1990s, when they produced a sickly
green or blue light.

"They're used to fluorescent lamps flickering and having a horrible color, and
they don't want to have them in their home," says Samla. Her agency now holds
classes to teach residents what to expect from CFL bulbs. Some common complaints
about compact fluorescents:

*They don't start out at full brightness. The bulbs can take up to a minute to
reach full glow. That took a while for Kay Drey of St. Louis to get used to. "It
was a little alarming at first," she says, "but then they brightened up."

*They're temperature-sensitive. If it gets much below 30 degrees, "they won't
start up very quickly," Samla says. Because the phosphor in CFL bulbs that emits
light takes awhile to warm up, the bulbs "like to be a little warmer. But if you
get them too hot, they don't like that. They love 77 degrees: office
temperature."

CFL bulbs also burn out quicker if they're in a hot environment such as inside a
light fixture, says Noah Horowitz, a scientist with the Natural Resources
Defense Council: "If you put it in an enclosed fixture, maybe it will last 3,000
or 5,000 hours, not 10,000." He notes, however, that even a reduced life for a
fluorescent bulb tops the life of a typical incandescent bulb, usually 750 to
1,000 hours.

*One size does not fit all. The more light a CFL puts out, the bigger it must
be. The CFL equivalent of a 60-watt bulb is tiny. The 120-watt equivalent is
bigger and won't fit in many lamps and fixtures.

That's a problem for Drey, 74, whose house is about as old as she is. "I have
old lamps, so (CFL bulbs) don't fit everywhere. But where they do fit, we have
them in."

*Many CFL bulbs don't work well with dimmer switches and three-way light
fixtures. A few will work, but they're hard to find. "If you put a regular CFL
on a dimmer, in some cases it will hum and snap; it won't live as long, and it
won't dim," Horowitz says.

When used with a dimmer switch, CFL bulbs typically will dim to about 20% of
their full intensity and then cut out. They also must be turned on at a high
setting and then dimmed, says Philip Scarbro, consumer division director at
Energy Federation Incorporated, a group that promotes conservation.

When used in a three-way light fixture, many CFL bulbs will pop, hiss and buzz.
There are a few three-way CFL bulbs, but they're tough to find and so big they
do not fit in many lamps. Such bulbs often come with adaptors to lengthen the
lamp's harp so the bulb will fit.

*They're still not widely available. Most supermarkets carry a limited supply of
CFL bulbs. For more variety, buyers must go to a hardware store or a larger
retailer such as Home Depot or Wal-Mart. Some have begun ordering fluorescent
bulbs online, from websites such as bulborama.com and eft.org.

'I don't like the quality'

For many consumers, the reluctance to use CFLs comes down to the dingy light
they can emit and questions about their safety.

CFLs give off a different color of light than incandescent bulbs. A measure of
that is the color rendering index (CRI), which indicates how "true" colors will
look. A CRI of 100 is sunlight or an incandescent bulb. Most CFLs are rated in
the 80s, Scarbro says.

That's close enough to an incandescent light that many people won't notice, says
Bill Burke, an architect who teaches builders how to use fluorescent lighting at
Pacific Gas and Electric's Pacific Energy Center in San Francisco.

But it's not close enough for amateur photographer Eric Chan of Belmont, Mass.

"I don't like the quality" of CFL bulbs, Chan says. "As a photographer who
produces my own color prints, I am unusually picky about how these prints ought
to look. They look fine under daylight, incandescent and halogen bulbs but
appear mediocre in comparison when lit by CFL bulbs."

CFLs are significantly brighter than the fluorescent lights used in schools and
offices during the 1960s and 1970s. Those lights typically have a CRI rating of
about 25.

Today, companies such as GE and Philips are starting to market what they call
"natural" or "full spectrum" CFLs. They're closer to incandescent but not quite
as bright.

CFL bulbs are best in table or floor lamps with a shade, Samla says. "They have
such good colors now that you can't tell."

Unlike incandescent bulbs, however, compact fluorescents can pose a health
hazard. CFL bulbs usually contain 3 to 5 milligrams of mercury, although new
types have as little as 1 to 2 milligrams. Mercury is a toxin that can be
particularly dangerous to children and fetuses.

There's no danger in using CFL bulbs, but if they break, users should don
plastic gloves and take steps to avoid contamination.

If a CFL breaks, stay calm, Scarbro says. It's not quite a hazardous-material
situation: The amount of mercury in a CFL bulb is tiny compared with older
thermometers used to measure temperatures, which had about 400 milligrams.

After a CFL bulb breaks, simply "open the windows and doors, sweep up the glass
and throw it away," Scarbro says. "You shouldn't vacuum because that will take
whatever level of mercury airborne. But it's not enough to close off the room
and call EPA."

He says old CFL bulbs should be  recycled or disposed of like other hazardous
waste such as  paint. Some governments have begun CFL bulb recycling programs,
as have IKEA and a few other retailers. One company, Veoliaes Environmental
Services, accepts old bulbs by mail for recycling.

But there is no national recycling system, and frustration over the availability
of recycling programs is raising questions about how long it will take such
programs to catch on. Drey says she called a hotline run by the maker of her
bulbs to learn how to recycle them. "It was not an easy thing to do," she says.

Scarbro and other CFL advocates say that even if such bulbs are thrown into the
trash, each CFL bulb represents a net reduction of mercury in the environment
compared with each incandescent bulb. That's because the amount of mercury
generated by a power plant to light a CFL bulb is dramatically less than that
generated to light an incandescent bulb, Scarbro says.

Federal officials agree that the energy saved by CFL bulbs makes them
worthwhile.

Lighting typically makes up about 20% of a household's electric bill. Because
CFLs are close to 75% more efficient than regular light bulbs, the EPA estimates
that if every home in America replaced just one light bulb with a CFL bulb rated
highly by the agency, the USA would save enough energy to light more than 3
million homes for a year and more than $600 million in annual energy costs. It
also would prevent greenhouse gases equivalent to the emissions of more than
800,000 cars, the EPA says.

Trying to save energy

That was Veson Terry's motivation. He just moved from an apartment in San
Francisco where the utilities were paid to a condo in Daly City, Calif., where
he pays the bills. "I decided I want to see whether this stuff really works." So
he has swapped out every incandescent bulb in his unit for a CFL.

He even has them in his dining room's chandelier, though it means he can't use
the dimmer. Even so, he's pleased with the results. The top swirl of the bulbs
sticks out of the lamps, "but I don't care, just as long as I can save energy."

CFL bulbs were invented in 1976 by Ed Hammer, a General Electric engineer. They
were a response to the energy crisis of 1973-1974. But his spiral tube design
was too expensive to make and too fragile to ship, so GE shelved it.

A more incandescent-like warm white CFL was developed by Phillips in 1982. It
wasn't until 1995 that a cost-effective, durable spiral design was introduced.
But there were many problems with the original CFLs, making some early adopters
swear off them forever.

Besides their unflattering light, they didn't last as long as they do now --
1,000 hours then, up to 15,000 hours today. They also were more expensive: $10
to $20, compared with as little as $3 today.

Horowitz acknowledges the shortcomings of CFLs but says the congressional
mandate to boost efficiency will push manufacturers to keep coming up with
better bulbs.

"This is an easy way to address global warming," Drey says. "We all have to
participate. That's all there is to it."

Tips for using CFLs

*Use compact fluorescent bulbs (CFLs) in places where the lights are on the
longest.

*Use 100-watt equivalent CFLs (25 watts-plus) for reading and 15- to 20-watt
CFLs for ambient and overhead lights.

*In fixtures in which the bulbs can be seen, use CFLs that are covered with a
globe, making them look more like the incandescent bulbs the lamps were built
for.

*Remember that the cost of a light bulb isn't the cost to buy it; it's the cost
to use it. Look for the Energy Star logo from the EPA when buying CFLs. "If
that's there, you have some assurance that it's a good product," says Philip
Scarbro, consumer division director at Energy Federation Incorporated.

*If you can't find the CFL bulb you need at a local store, many experts
recommend trying Energy Federation Incorporated's online bulb shop at
energyfederation.org. The website's "Bulb Finder" helps customers find CFLs for
dimmers, enclosed spaces and outdoors.

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Adrienne Lewis, USA TODAY, Source: U.S. Dept. of Energy
USA TODAY research (Diagrams, bar graph)
PHOTO, Color, Robert Hanashiro, USA TODAY
PHOTO, B/W, Jeff Cooper, AP

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COVER STORY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              202 of 218 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              July 18, 2008 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Dow's big bounce poses question: Will it last?;
Stocks pull off biggest 2-day surge since 2002

BYLINE: Adam Shell

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 437 words


NEW YORK -- The two-day blue-chip bounce was big, it was unexpected and it  may
be a sign of better things to come for the battered stock market.

The Dow Jones industrial average, which has been mired in its first bear market
in almost six years and seemed on the verge of a downward spiral Tuesday, has
bounced back with consecutive gains of more than 200 points each. The two-day
gain of 4.4% was the Dow's biggest since a 5.2% surge ended Oct. 15, 2002; that
rally started just four days into the last bull market, which began Oct. 10,
2002.

Driving stocks higher was another sizable drop in oil, which fell more than $5
to $129.29 a barrel, extending its three-day decline to more than $15 a barrel.
Investors were also emboldened by better-than-expected profits from investment
bank JPMorgan Chase, soft-drink maker Coca-Cola and United Technologies.

The break in oil prices, which could provide a boost to cash-strapped consumers,
coupled with the upbeat earnings alleviated fears that the economy was
collapsing because of the decline in housing prices and the ongoing credit
problems in the banking sector, said Timothy Vick, a portfolio manager at
Sanibel Captiva Trust.

Financial services stocks, including banks and mortgage companies, which have
been the hardest hit in the current swoon, enjoyed huge rallies for a
second-consecutive session to lead the upward charge. Since lows hit in the past
week, some financial stocks have posted gains ranging from 40% to more than
100%.

Brian Hicks, portfolio manager at U.S. Global Investors, says investors were
cashing in profits from the big run-up in oil and redeploying them in
beaten-down financial stocks.

It is common for stocks that have been beaten down a lot to post sizable gains
in a short time span during bear markets. That's why Wall Street is hotly
debating whether the rally signals a market bottom or is just a temporary rally
in a long downtrend. "It's hard to say if this is the bottom," Vick says. "But
it offers a glimpse of how stocks will react when the banking sector finally
bottoms and we see light at the end of the tunnel."

That time may not have arrived. Merrill Lynch on Thursday posted a
bigger-than-expected loss on write-downs of $9.4 billion. Citigroup, which
reports  results today, is also to announce a sizable write-down.

*Earnings, 6B

Short-term gains

Financial stocks have rallied sharply off very depressed levels.

Performance since

1-week low  52-wk. high

Freddie Mac    up 114%  down 88%

Wachovia    up 72%  down 75%

Fannie Mae    up 64%  down 85%

Lehman Bros.    up 57%  down 74%

Bank of America   up 44%  down 50%

Source: USA TODAY research

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              205 of 218 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           January 17, 2008 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Albums get another go-round;
Reissues mean more content, more sales

BYLINE: Edna Gundersen

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 4D

LENGTH: 1118 words


In the music business, the search for new revenue streams hasn't shut the tap on
the same old songs. Reissues represent a robust and self-replenishing enterprise
in an industry beset by piracy and unpredictable consumer tastes.

Most noteworthy in this year's crop is the 25th anniversary reissue of Michael
Jackson's Thriller, out Feb. 12 with such extras as the previously unreleased
For All Time and bonus remixes of Wanna Be Startin' Somethin' (with Akon) and
Billie Jean (with Kanye West). Arriving Jan. 29 is the reissue of Beck's 1996
Odelay, expanded to two CDs with previously unreleased tracks.

Not to be confused with the controversial deluxe edition (those pricier
embellished CDs rushed into stores mere months after the bare-bones original),
reissues arrive years or even decades after the initial release and tend to be a
cause for celebration, particularly if superior sound, significant catalog
discoveries or a format upgrade brightens the package.

The wealth of newly recycled music requires careful shopping since  the success
of reissues has led to overkill and duplication. A search at Amazon.com produces
a dozen variations of the 1966 Beach Boys classic Pet Sounds, including a
DVD-audio in 2003 and limited-edition 40th anniversary package and box set in
2006.

Other records inexplicably lie dormant far longer than expected. Nearly a decade
out of print, the landmark Traveling Wilburys albums finally resurfaced last
June as a three-disc set. It's among many deserving reissues that have hit
shelves in recent months.

A look at a dozen worthy reruns:

U2

The Joshua Tree

The meat: U2's 1987 creative and commercial burst won the Grammy for album of
the year and sold more than 20 million copies worldwide, establishing the Irish
foursome as the band to beat and spawning classics I Still Haven't Found What
I'm Looking For, Where the Streets Have No Name and With or Without You.

The gravy: In addition to a standard single-disc reissue, the 20th anniversary
is marked by a high-quality vinyl version, a deluxe edition with a second CD of
B-sides and demos, and a two-CD/one-DVD box set with a concert film.

The Traveling Wilburys

The Traveling Wilburys

The meat: The low-key supergroup of Bob Dylan, George Harrison, Tom Petty, Roy
Orbison and Jeff Lynne  released two albums of wry, harmony-filled melodic pop
and folk rock in 1988 and 1990,  yielding the memorable Handle With Care and End
of the Line.

The gravy: The Wilburys discs were out of print for nearly a decade when Rhino
revived them in a combo pack, available in two versions, each with two CDs and
one DVD. Both have bonus tracks, video clips and behind-the-scenes footage; the
deluxe package adds a 40-page book.

Sly & the Family Stone

Greatest Hits

The meat: Stand!, I Want to Take You Higher, Hot Fun in the Summertime, Dance to
the Music  and eight other soul blasts give this 1970 party platter the highest
concentration of funk among a slew of Sly reissues.

The gravy: Glorious, vibrant sound.

N.W.A.

Straight Outta Compton

The meat: With F--- tha Police and other urban grenades, the 1988 landmark
defined gangsta rap through the incendiary rhymes of the power posse that
boasted Dr. Dre, Eazy-E and Ice Cube.

The gravy: The 20th anniversary edition has been expanded with a live version of
Compton's N the House, Snoop Dogg and C-Murder's Gangsta Gangsta and other
covers by Bone Thugs-N-Harmony, Mack 10 and WC.  CD, digital and vinyl versions
are available.

The Bee Gees

Bee Gees Greatest

The meat: The Aussie trio's global reign was encapsulated in this 1979 double
album of disco-era dance hits, out of print for five years.

The gravy: Celebrating the 30th anniversary of Saturday Night Fever, the two-CD
edition includes four feverish Fever remixes and a pair of previously unreleased
tracks, Warm Ride and the extended promo version of Stayin' Alive.

Foo Fighters

The Colour and the Shape

The meat: In May 1997, former Nirvana drummer Dave Grohl and his high-energy
band crashed into the mainstream with this breakthrough that includes hits My
Hero, Everlong and Monkey Wrench.

The gravy: The 10th anniversary reissue comes with 10 bonus tracks, including
Drive Me Wild and two other

B-sides, plus covers of Killing Joke's Requiem, Gerry Rafferty's Baker Street
and Gary Numan's Down in the Park.

The Crystal Method

Vegas

The meat: Inspired by the L.A. rave scene, this 1997 10-track debut of soulful
electronica by Ken Jordan and Scott Kirkland boosted the duo to techno stardom,
alongside such Brit heroes as The Prodigy.

The gravy: Paul Oakenfold, Hyper and other peers remix original cuts on the
bonus CD. Other extras include obscure and live tracks, the original 1993
version of Comin' Back and two videos.

Joy Division

Closer

The meat: The influential 1980 post-punk milestone, released just months before
Ian Curtis' suicide, captures the singer/songwriter's despair and towering
talent in 10 emotional and atmospheric tracks, including the harrowing Twenty
Four Hours and Isolation.

The gravy: The reissue, coinciding with the release of Anton Corbijn's Curtis
biopic, Control, adds a bonus disc with a previously unreleased 12-song show at
the University of London in 1980.

Counting Crows

August and Everything After

The meat: Critics crowed about the band, which lived up to the hype with the hit
Mr. Jones and everything else on this 1993 debut that evoked Bob Dylan, U2 and
Van Morrison in such standouts as Rain King, Round Here and Murder of One.

The gravy: Among previously unreleased extras on the two-disc reissue are a demo
of Woody Guthrie's This Land Is Your Land and the 80-minute August and
Everything After Tour finale in Paris. Includes a fold-out poster and liner
notes by singer/songwriter Adam Duritz.

Depeche Mode

Ultra

The meat: The U.K. band's synth-driven electronic pop gets a heavy infusion of
guitars on this 1997 blend of dance grooves and ambient pop that cemented its
status as cult heroes while advancing its commercial standing.

The gravy: The twin-disc reissue serves up a CD in remastered stereo and a DVD
with hi-res sonics and five bonus tracks, plus the short documentary Depeche
Mode 1995-98 (Oh Well, That's the End of the Band). A similar redo of 2001's
Exciter is also out.

Elvis Costello

My Aim Is True

The meat: The oft-reissued 1977 debut album with backing band Clover (the
Attractions came later) elevated the literate and acerbic Brit singer/songwriter
above punk-rock regulars with such classics as No Dancing, Watching the
Detectives and Alison.

The gravy: The 30th anniversary edition is a fat twin-disc set with 48 tracks,
26 of them previously unreleased. Also included is the 17-song 1977 show from
the Nashville Rooms in London, with five tunes from the soundcheck, all on CD
for the first time.

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS, Color, Leslie Smith Jr., USA TODAY (2)
PHOTOS, Color (11)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: MUSIC

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              208 of 218 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              March 3, 2008 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Manufacturing losses weigh heavily on Ohio;
Trade dominates political rhetoric as state struggles to replace jobs

BYLINE: David J. Lynch

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 1837 words


NILES, Ohio -- It's late morning on a workday, a time when these men would
normally be found on the factory floor. But that was before the factory packed
up and moved to Mexico.

Now they sit around a table in a one-story steelworkers union office and wonder
what they'll do with the rest of their working lives.

After more than 60 years in business, their employer, Amweld Building Products,
announced in October that it was closing two local plants and shipping the work
to Monterrey, Mexico. Some workers got the news when armed security guards
swarmed the assembly line and ordered them away from their machines. Many who
had worked at the plant for decades mourn the loss of good-paying jobs, which
around here are about as common as icebergs in the Sahara. "Some of the
best-paying jobs in the United States aren't in the United States anymore,"
says Bob Ulrich, 58, idled after working at the plant since 1969.

The cost of current trade policies is a key issue in Tuesday's Ohio Democratic
presidential primary. But the issue is far more complex than political rhetoric
suggests.

Ohio's Mahoning Valley once was emblematic of industrial America, thickly
populated with auto and steel plants, employing men  whose strong backs and high
school diplomas were their chief credentials.

Ohio lately has been bleeding such jobs; more than 257,000 factory positions
have evaporated since the beginning of 2000. Less than a mile from the Amweld
plant, 54 General Electric workers lost their jobs last month when the company
halted light bulb production. Indalex Aluminum Solutions is closing in
neighboring Girard at the end of March, putting 150 people out of work. An
additional 450 workers will lose their jobs in April when Johnson Rubber in
Middlefield, about 30 miles away, shuts down.

On Main Street in Niles, there's a memorial to local hero William McKinley, the
nation's 25th president, a modest Army-Navy post (advertising a fish fry on
Fridays) and a block-long string of empty stores bearing "For Rent" signs. Many
people here blame the silent, steady erosion on a series of trade deals that
began with the 1994 North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA).

Sensing a link between trade-related anger and votes in the Ohio primary
Tuesday,  Democratic presidential candidates Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton
have assailed the trade strategy pursued by both Republican and Democratic
administrations for nearly two decades.

The rivals last week promised to renegotiate NAFTA's terms with Mexico and
Canada, add tough labor and environmental requirements to any new accords and
re-orient trade policy from the needs of Wall Street's moneyed elite to the
protection of hard-hit workers.

These are not the first comforting election-year promises these men have heard.
Experience has taught them to be skeptics. Craig Plant, 34, jobless after eight
years making steel doors at Amweld, is dismissive of Clinton's and Obama's vows
to fix the controversial trade pact. "It's just a smokescreen for, 'We're pretty
much not going to do anything,'" he says.

The road to closure

Economists disagree about how much of Ohio's manufacturing plight is due to
trade. The state's manufacturing employment of 989,400 actually increased
slightly after NAFTA took effect in January 1994 and didn't begin declining for
more than seven years.

One study, by Martin Baily, chairman of the Clinton administration's Council of
Economic Advisers, and Harvard University's Robert Lawrence concluded that trade
causes no more than 3% of all mass layoffs.

More important in the loss of manufacturing jobs, they say, is that computerized
tooling has made factories far more efficient. In 1995, for example, it took 2.4
man-hours of work to produce 1 ton of steel at Cleveland's main steel plant,
then owned by LTV. This year, the current owner, India's Mittal Steel, estimates
it will produce a ton of steel using precisely half as much labor.

Trade policy critics, such as Robert Scott of the Economic Policy Institute,
insist that NAFTA and expanded trade with low-wage countries such as China are
to blame for more than half the manufacturing jobs lost since 2000. Demand for
foreign-made goods is crowding out sales of products made in the USA. "The NAFTA
model is broken," he says.

In Niles, Amweld's road to closure included frequent changes of managers,
especially after a private equity firm called Patriarch Partners took control in
2004. The company had outsize ambitions befitting the age of globalization,
saying it aimed to become "the Pepsi-Cola of steel doors," the workers say.

When a competitor began importing doors from China, Amweld distributed
promotional material that read: "Proudly American ... Amweld ... An American
Manufacturer" against an American flag backdrop.

Barbara Paynter, a company spokeswoman, said Amweld executives were not
available to comment.

In October, Amweld announced it was closing its Ohio facilities in Niles and
Garrettsville. The company said it had been unable to extend existing factory
leases and blamed rising costs for energy, health care and workers' compensation
for the elimination of jobs paying an average of $18 per hour. "We want you to
know that this was a very difficult decision, and we understand this is going to
be very difficult for you and your families," said the company's statement.

Mark Plant, 56, Craig's father and a 38-year Amweld veteran, says the company
then brought in Mexican laborers to crate up the factory tooling. "They told us
what they'd make down there, something like $50 a week. How are you going to
compete with that?" he says.

After the 2001 recession, Ohio continued to hemorrhage jobs longer than the rest
of the country. For a century, the Buckeye State has been synonymous with large
corporations, from John D. Rockefeller's Standard Oil at the dawn of the 20th
century to Goodyear or  Procter & Gamble today. What once had been its
industrial pride was now dead weight. The state's non-farm employment didn't
bottom out until November 2003.

Since then, job creation has been puny, less than 1%. If the state had produced
new jobs at the same rate as the nation as a whole, more than 288,000 unemployed
Ohioans would be working today. But in an age in which Silicon Valley's nimble
garage-based entrepreneurs are the embodiment of job growth, Ohio has lagged on
new business ventures. Six out of every seven jobs in Ohio are outside the
factory gates, and it is in the non-manufacturing sector that the state has
failed to develop new jobs.

"We haven't created the service economy jobs at the rate the rest of the economy
has," says economist Timothy Dunne of the Cleveland Federal Reserve Bank.

With Ohio still in the early stages of a wrenching transformation, the first
glimmers of an alternative future can be seen in ventures such as Cleveland's
JumpStart program. Housed in a brick building in the shadows of Progressive
Field (formerly Jacobs Field), home to the Cleveland Indians baseball team,
JumpStart is a self-described non-profit venture capital firm that aims to
assist fledgling entrepreneurs.

JumpStart was formed several years ago after Entrepreneur magazine ranked
northeast Ohio dead last among 61 U.S. regions for 10 of 12 years ended in 2002.
CEO Ray Leach, 42, wants to spawn "knowledge-based" companies with products for
global customers. So far, he's invested more than $9 million in 26 early-stage
companies.

The aim is to help area entrepreneurs, including many who are midcareer veterans
of large corporations, get far enough to attract private capital. One early
success has been PreEmptive Solutions, a software company in Mayfield Village,
just east of Cleveland, which has grown  a blue-chip customer list that includes
Microsoft, FedEx and the U.S. Army.

With PreEmptive Solutions employing around 25 people, it will take thousands of
such successes, however, to fill the yawning void left by manufacturing's
implosion. And asked whether it will be possible to retrain manufacturing
workers for tomorrow's jobs, Leach answers: "That's what Ohio is going to find
out, and find out on a very large scale."

Adverse conditions

The men at Amweld are coming to grips with exactly that challenge. In December,
the U.S. Labor Department certified the steelworkers' lost jobs as
trade-related, making the men eligible for aid under the federal Trade
Adjustment Assistance (TAA) program. "A significant number of workers at the
firm are age 50 or over and possess skills that are not easily transferable.
Competitive conditions within the industry are adverse," read the government's
antiseptic conclusion. The workers get two years of help with health care
coverage, relocation allowances and retraining.

But as safety nets go, this is a thin one, and individual circumstances of age
and health shape their decisions. At 32 years old, Brian Ulrich -- Bob's son --
feels he's young enough to start over, so the former high school football player
has gone back to school, studying nursing at Kent State. When he graduates in
two years, he figures he'll be able to earn almost $50,000 annually, about what
he made at Amweld.

His dad, Bob, who started at Amweld after a tour of duty in Vietnam, has made a
different choice. For him, times were good as recently as two years ago when he
made a career-best $54,000. Learning a new career at age 58 doesn't seem like
such a good idea. "If I go to school for two years, I'd be a 60-year-old man
looking for work. It'd be ludicrous," he says, shaking his head in frustration.

He spends his time cycling among the remaining area manufacturers, filing
resumes he knows are discarded as soon as he leaves. So far, he's had two job
interviews.

Health insurance is a major worry for burly Charles Johnstone. At age 54, he's
just endured a bout with colon cancer. Although the TAA provides a 65% tax
credit on what he would spend for private insurance, that's a giant step down
from the all-but-free coverage he had on the job.

He chafes at accepting government help and wonders why politicians courting Ohio
voters don't make departing employers such as Amweld rather than taxpayers pay
for the human wreckage they leave behind. "Make them pay for my needs, my health
care, my training. Make them find a job for me," he says, growing animated.

There's a thick carpet of snow lying across what used to be Amweld's employee
parking lot. It's 16 degrees out, cold even for late February, when the men
return to their former workplace. The massive brick structure, which began life
as a boiler factory in the 1890s, is silent. As they wait for a news
photographer to memorialize their troubles with a photo, they peer through the
windows, listen to the trucks rumbling along Plant Street and thrust their hands
into their pockets to keep warm.

They talk of the weddings and funerals, the bowling and the drinking, that they
shared along with work. They trade good-natured insults and swap tales of former
co-workers. And they arrive at a verdict on their situation that's difficult to
dispute. "It's just sad," Bob Ulrich says.

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Julie Snider, USA TODAY, Source: Bureau of Labor
Statistics (LINE GRAPH)
PHOTOS, Color, Greg Ruffing for USA TODAY (2)
PHOTO, B/W, David Lynch, USA TODAY

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COVER STORY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              212 of 218 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             June 12, 2008 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Coldplay's Martin: A low-key, ego-free rock star;
But he is proud of his 'Viva' contributions

BYLINE: Edna Gundersen

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 2D

LENGTH: 684 words


Critics may be awarding Chris Martin gold stars for Coldplay's new album, but he
flunks the rock-star test when it comes to swagger. In a field notorious for
outsized egos and overweening braggarts, the singer delights in denigrating
himself and brandishing his imperfections the way his peers flash tattoos.

Describing the surfeit of material crafted for Viva La Vida or Death and All His
Friends, out Tuesday, Martin cracks: "We write a lot of songs, and most are even
worse than the ones we release."

And where does the band's fourth album rate among its predecessors? "It's
definitely in the top four."

Pressed to confess one positive aspect about his contribution to Viva, he
finally summons a boast. Sort of. "I tried really hard," says Martin, 31. "I
give myself an A for effort and man-hours. But I'm not going to claim to be as
talented as Usher or Beyonce."

Martin's waggish diffidence has obvious charm, but his insecurities seem
unwarranted. Despite years of slumping album sales, Coldplay has thrived and now
ranks alongside U2 and Radiohead as rock's biggest global sensations, a
reputation that seems safe with the arrival of Viva. The bold 10-track set
captures the band's live energy and experiments with dissonance, grooves,
adventurous arrangements and Eastern rhythms without abandoning such core
strengths as big hooks, emotional saturation and sumptuous melodies.

In the U.K., the Telegraph dubbed Viva "bright, warm, rich and strikingly
memorable," while The Independent sneered, "It's the new Gold Standard of
Average Music." Martin stopped reading reviews after The New York Times skewered
X&Y in 2005.

"I'll only get depressed," he says. "What I took from that is we have to try as
hard as we humanly can so people don't part with their money unnecessarily."

Martin credits producers Brian Eno and Markus Dravs, who worked with Coldplay
heroes U2 and Arcade Fire, respectively, for pushing Coldplay to stretch. Eno
enlisted a hypnotist to coax subconscious input.

The sessions resulted in riffs and sounds for 42, Strawberry Swing and an
unfinished track that may pop up later, along with a vocal version of
instrumental Life In Technicolor and a duet with Kylie Minogue.

The latter was cut from Viva, not for being "too sexy," as Martin joked in a
widely reported radio interview, but "because it's not finished," he says,
predicting a release in late 2009. "Her singing is amazing, and mine isn't so
good yet."

Martin, bassist Guy Berryman, guitarist Jonny Buckland and drummer Will Champion
shaped Viva in their new London studio, a renovated bakery "that put the focus
on the band," he says. "We didn't have our friends, kids, girlfriends or wives
there. It was sort of Harry Potterish and magic."

The studio is minutes from the home he shares with actress Gwyneth Paltrow, whom
he married in 2003, and their daughter, Apple, and son, Moses. He's mum on his
private life, acknowledging only that "there are elements that are not so
brilliant, but the pros always outweigh the cons. I don't have to worry about
gas bills, unless nobody buys a CD again."

That prospect isn't entirely groundless, given the industry's dire state.

"Nobody thinks about paying for anything, and music is becoming like tap water,"
Martin says. "The one thing that bothers me is how new people will find a way."

Of course, he has a few self-doubts about his own future. He's committed to
sticking with Coldplay. ("Without the band, I would be playing Elton John
standards on a cruise ship.") And when he turned 30, Martin felt qualms about
waning creative powers.

"I went to Wikipedia to see how old Michael Stipe was when R.E.M. did Automatic
for the People," Martin says. "He was two years older (than I was). Jay-Z made
The Blueprint at 31. So it was all OK. I think you are sent good songs between
28 and 33."

So Martin isn't procrastinating. While he lavishes some free time on his
obsessions for World War II books and Woody Allen films, he's usually composing
pop songs.

"And if I'm fed up with being Mr. Coldplay, I try to pretend I'm Rihanna for a
day," he says. "It's a far sexier way to spend 24 hours."

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Mark J. Terrill, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved
