
                               2 of 252 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            August 31, 2017 Thursday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Did climate change intensify Harvey?

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 426 words


Even as floodwaters raged this week in Texas and Louisiana, so did the debate
over the possible link between Hurricane Harvey and man-made climate change.

Climate activists pointed to the historic rainfall and epic flooding as exactly
the type of extreme event forecast to occur as the globe warms. Skeptics cited a
long list of tropical storms that slammed Texas even before the buildup of
greenhouse gases in the atmosphere.

So who's right?

In some ways, the question is premature, even unseemly, while search and rescue
efforts continue. And a definitive answer won't come until scientists conduct
post-storm "attribution" studies. In all likelihood, though, the conclusion will
be that climate change didn't cause Harvey, but it almost surely made the storm
worse.

Harvey produced 40- to 50-inch rainfall totals that left parts of Houston
looking like Venice and rivaled snowfall accumulations from blizzards in the
Northeast. It was, in fact, the most extreme rainfall event on the continental
United States in recorded history.

Such events are consistent with the basic science of climate change: Warmer than
normal water temperatures, in places such as the Gulf of Mexico, provide heat
energy that fuels the formation and rapid strengthening of tropical storms.
Warmer air holds more water vapor, which in turn produces more rainfall. And
rising sea levels exacerbate storm surge and inland flooding.

According to the National Climate Assessment, "Heavy downpours are increasing
nationally (in recent decades), with the largest increases in the Midwest and
Northeast. Increases in extreme precipitation are projected for all U.S.
regions."

This isn't just happening in North America.

Even as Harvey riveted the nation's attention this week, the death toll topped
1,000 from unusually severe monsoonal rains half a world away in Bangladesh,
India and Nepal.

In the coming days and weeks, expect to hear politicians describe Harvey as an
"act of God" that had little or nothing to do with human-induced climate change.
Even if climate change is real, they'll add, a serious effort to curb greenhouse
gas emissions, through a carbon tax or other means, would be too expensive.

On Wednesday, the private company AccuWeather estimated that Harvey could end up
costing $190 billion, making it the priciest natural disaster in U.S. history,
equal to the combined cost of Hurricanes Katrina and Sandy.

With that kind of price tag atop a torrent of human misery, the question isn't
whether the nation can afford to get serious about global warming. We can't
afford not to.

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2017 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               3 of 252 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           August 30, 2017 Wednesday
                                FA CHASE EDITION

Experts postpone arguing climate change;
Meteorologists want to have discussion -- once people are safe

BYLINE: Doyle Rice, @usatodayweather, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 480 words


While unknown numbers of people are dead, missing or displaced, writing about a
potential link between a national tragedy such as Hurricane Harvey and man-made
climate change is an understandably touchy subject.

"If you think appropriate time to do so is while floodwaters are continuing to
rise, then that opportunism reflects your personal values," tweeted WeatherBell
meteorologist Ryan Maue. "What we need right now is an informed, reasoned,
intellectual debate on climate change and extreme events."

Another meteorologist, Marshall Shepherd of the University of Georgia, said he
had concerns. "I am uncomfortable discussing as a human tragedy unfolds, but
when the dust settles, the conversation needs to happen -- and a recent National
Academies report on attribution is a good place to start. Attribution studies on
Harvey will happen."

Climate change remains a polarizing issue in our divided country.

Whenever a huge weather event such as Harvey occurs, a debate rages in the
meteorological community about whether it is appropriate to discuss potential
links between climate change and that event.

The report that Shepherd referred to, which was released in 2016, said there is
no evidence that the number of tropical cyclones (tropical storms, hurricanes
and typhoons) has increased in recent decades as the planet has warmed.

There has been "marginally significant increases in the frequency of Category 4
and 5 storms."

Harvey was a Category 4 hurricane at landfall Friday night, the strongest storm
to hit the USA in 12 years.

The report warned that "tropical cyclones are projected to become more intense
as the climate warms."

Precipitation in tropical cyclones is likely to increase because of the
increased water vapor content of the atmosphere, similarly to other extreme
precipitation events, the report said.

The theory goes that a warmer atmosphere would make hurricanes more intense than
they would otherwise be. "Climate change is making even heavier rainfall
possible," noted John W. Nielsen-Gammon, a Texas A&M University meteorologist
and the Texas State Climatologist.

Another expert, Adam Sobel of Columbia University, said that "based on many
previous studies of extreme precipitation events, as well as our overall
scientific understanding, it is plausible to expect that they (tropical
cyclones) will show some amplification due to increased water vapor in a warmer
atmosphere."

Sobel said Harvey would have been a huge disaster in Houston with or without
global warming. This is because of the specific meteorological situation of
Harvey (the positions of the high-pressure systems and the jet stream), and the
location of a major city.

"There are ideas about how the meteorological situation could have been
influenced by warming, but those are much less robust and well-understood, and
at this point, I view it as a natural occurrence by default," Sobel said.

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2017 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               9 of 252 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           September 15, 2017 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Calls to address climate change after disasters

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 289 words


LETTERS

In the column "Global warming alarmists shouldn't exploit hurricanes," Myron
Ebell claims that talking about the role of climate change amid the death and
destruction of Hurricanes Harvey and Irma is insensitive and inappropriate.

However, nothing could be more callously insensitive to future hurricane victims
than knowing that America did not take this moment to take lifesaving action to
prevent future climate-change driven disasters.

Allan Margolin

New York

FACEBOOK

After years of not having storms hit the U.S., we have a couple of hurricanes.
Hurricane Harvey was a tragedy, but its torrential rainfall was due to blocking
high pressure systems, not climate change. Whether you believe in climate change
or not, a couple of storms hitting the U.S. doesn't mean anything.

Heidi Borden

I think it's clear that warmer water causes stronger hurricanes. It's also clear
that the climate is always changing. Lastly, it's clear that pollution is bad
for the environment. What is not clear is that climate change is man-made.

Scott Simpson

The global climate change discussion always neglects to offer realistic global
climate solutions, assurances of success and their costs.

Mike Smith

I just want to point out that 97% of scientists agree that there is climate
change and man is affecting it, and you need to look long and hard at who is
funding the other 3%.

Bob Crawford

Instead of politicizing the issue, come up with a solution: Either beef up the
infrastructure in areas prone to such disasters if you're going to live there,
or stop building cities in those areas. Same goes for California: Don't build
neighborhoods on mountain passes where wildfires regularly occur, and you won't
have as much death and destruction.

Mike Stevens

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2017 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              13 of 252 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           February 14, 2017 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Pay now to fight global warming, or pay more later

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 514 words


LETTERS

I commend USA TODAY for the editorial "A serious Republican idea on climate
change," on the new conservative proposal to cut greenhouse gas emissions by
putting a price on fossil carbon. Thankfully, your analysis focused on the
merits of the plan rather than the dismissive cynicism found in much of the
political press.

There is a growing movement among Republicans to shed the blinders and get
serious about climate change. This is evident in last year's formation of a
bipartisan Climate Solutions Caucus in Congress.

Of course, once an effort to tackle climate change across party lines begins to
gain traction, special interests, who profit from the status quo, will sharpen
their knives. Cleverly framed information, such as that offered by Thomas Pyle's
"Carbon tax bad for Americans," will abound.

Ignore the critics. Climate change is a monumental risk to the global economy on
which our prosperity depends. The "refundable carbon tax" described in your
editorial is a powerful entry in the search for economically sound solutions.

Rick Knight

Citizens' Climate Lobby

Brookfield, Ill.

If skeptics are not convinced of the reality of climate change by the rising
temperatures, rising seas and an alarmed scientific community, then these
well-respected Republicans might just do the job.

Whether we pay more in taxes now is not the real question. Betting against the
statistics and scientists on climate change is gambling on high stakes. If the
peril of global warming is a myth, then the scientific community will eat crow
and life will go on. However, if the experts are right, and global warming is
really a problem of the scale and severity that they tell us, think of the
eventual cost to the U.S. alone: rising seas displacing huge numbers of people,
massive infrastructure repairs on short notice and an agricultural model that
must be overhauled to compensate for a warmer climate.

We can pay now and step away from fossil fuels in a measured and controlled way,
or pay later as we struggle to handle multiple emergencies at once. For
goodness' sake, let's pay now!

Anna Gooding-Call

Salem, Mass.

FACEBOOK

The carbon tax plan sounds like a very dangerous idea. Climate change would be
turned into another investment vehicle that would allow Wall Street to further
fleece Main Street.

Jennifer Lapsner

All that solar and wind energy is just ridiculous! Don't tax the thing that
works. Fossil fuels power the world. Until there is a cheaper option, don't bug
me with this make-believe idea called "alternative energy."

David Southall

Anyone who thinks our natural resources are nothing but exploitable, endless and
expendable has a hole in their head. We need to realize that our future
generations might not have clean air, pure water, wildlife or even the ability
to sustain ourselves.

Michael Anthony Shea

A ridiculous waste of time even before the details are worked out. A bookkeeping
nightmare and a bureaucrat's wet dream. And who pays? Us. Always us. People who
think that taxing basic support, like energy , will be covered by tax rebates
are fooling themselves.

Dana Holgate

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2017 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              20 of 252 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             April 28, 2017 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

So why don't they believe it?;
Political disunity, social media, lack of accepted experts accent our
differences

BYLINE: Alia E. Dastagir USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 1257 words


Thousands of scientists and their allies filled the streets of the nation's
capital on Earth Day for the March for Science, advocating for the importance of
scientific truth in an era we've ominously been told doesn't value the truth any
longer. Just a week later, the People's Climate March in Washington, D.C., will
demand policymakers not only respect science, but that they also act on it.

Advocates say science is under attack. President Trump's Environmental
Protection Agency chief Scott Pruitt doesn't accept evidence that shows humans
are causing climate change. Education Secretary Betsy DeVos' 2001 comments on
wanting to "advance God's kingdom" through education have educators worried she
could undermine the teaching of evolution in public schools. Trump's budget
blueprint slashes funding for the National Institutes of Health and the
Department of Energy's Office of Science.

Esteemed astrophysicist Neil deGrasse Tyson, in an impassioned video on his
Facebook page, said he fears people have lost the ability to judge what's true
and what's not.

"That is a recipe for the complete dismantling of our informed democracy," he
says.

The scientific community is alarmed by the Trump administration, and by what
they see as the diminishing role of objective science in American life. But the
General Social Survey, one of the oldest and most comprehensive recurring
surveys of American attitudes, shows that although trust in public institutions
has declined over the last half century, science is the one institution that has
not suffered any erosion of public confidence. Americans who say they have a
great deal of confidence in science has hovered around 40% since 1973.

Many scientists say there is no war on their profession at all.

According to the 2016 GSS data released this month, people trust scientists more
than Congress (6%) and the executive branch (12%). They trust them more than the
press (8%). They have more trust in scientists than in the people who run major
companies (18%), more than in banks and financial institutions (14%), the
Supreme Court (26%) or organized religion (20%).

So why all the headlines about the "war on science"?

Though science still holds an esteemed place in America, there is a gap between
what scientists and some citizens think -- a rift that is not entirely new -- on
issues such as climate change, nuclear power, genetically modified foods, human
evolution and childhood vaccines.

Americans don't reject science as a whole. People love the weather forecast.
They love their smartphones. When people reject science, it's because they're
asked to believe something that conflicts with a deeply held view, whether
political (my party does not endorse that), religious (my god did not say that)
or personal (that's not how I was raised).

Many conservatives reject the science of man-made climate change, just as many
liberals reject the science that shows nuclear energy can safely combat it. The
views we express signal which political group we belong to. The gap between what
science shows and what people believe, sociologists say, is about our identity.

"The issue of climate change isn't about what you know," said Dan Kahan, a
professor of psychology and law at Yale and a member of the university's
Cultural Cognition Project. "It's about who you are."

Many factors in play

Polarization has exacerbated our differences, and we know some of what's to
blame: The rise of social media. A more partisan press. A dearth of universally
accepted experts. And greater access to information, which Christopher Graves,
president and founder of the Ogilvy Center for Behavioral Science, said does not
tug us toward the center, but rather makes us more polarized.

"A human being cannot grasp something as a fact if it in any way undermines
their identity," Graves said. "And that is an immutable human foible. These
things have always been there, but not at scale."

The GSS data show confidence in institutions overall has been in decline since
the 1970s, though political scientists  caution that this is an imperfect
benchmark.

Brendan Nyhan, a political scientist at Dartmouth College, said trust in the
mid-20th century was unnaturally high and polarization was unnaturally low,
bolstered by unusual growth in middle class income and a reduction of
inequality, which is when the "20th century version of the American dream and
the trust in government to produce it was fully mythologized."

"There was an usually high level of trust that came out of World War II, before
the turn towards a more cynical view of the institutions of society --
especially politics and media -- after Vietnam and Watergate," Nyhan said.

So how much more polarization can we expect?

Social scientists aren't sure, but they agree Trump complicates things.

"He really is an us-versus-them figure," Kahan said. "People aren't thinking
about the arguments. They're thinking about what side they're on."

Think about the way you search for information. If you're a new mom who believes
vaccines cause autism (and a number of women in your mommy group do, too) are
you searching for research that shows whether they actually do, or are you
Googling "vaccines cause autism" to find stories to affirm your belief? (Studies
show there is no link between vaccines and autism.)

The mother above is probably motivated by fear. Such "motivated reasoning," says
political scientist Charles Taber of Stony Brook University, shows that we are
all fundamentally biased.

"You have a basic psychological tendency to perpetuate your own beliefs," he
said "to really ... discount anything that runs against your own prior views."

It gets even more complicated. Once we've convinced ourselves of something,
research suggests facts don't appeal to us. A study co-led by Nyhan found that
trying to correct a person's misperception can have a "backfire effect." When
you encounter facts that don't support your idea, your belief in that idea
actually grows stronger.

So what if we did a better job teaching people how science works? Doesn't help,
Kahan said. Research shows people with the most science intelligence are also
the most partisan.

Curiosity can be crucial

It's not knowledge but curiosity, Kahan says, that makes us more likely to
accept scientific truths. A recent study that Kahan led found people with more
scientific curiosity were more likely to be open-minded about information that
challenged their existing political views.

And arguing helps, too. Scientists Hugo Mercier and Dan Sperber contend in their
new book, The Enigma of Reason, that reason isn't something that evolved so
humans could solve problems on their own. It developed so we could work
together.

Instead of forcing someone to agree that climate change is caused by humans,
Graves said, you can stop once you agree that, for example, flooding in Florida
is a problem, and that you have to fix it (the bipartisan Southeast Florida
Regional Climate Change Compact can teach us about that).

Marcia McNutt, an American geophysicist and president of the National Academy of
Sciences, said she isn't worried about a crisis of science, though she hopes
more people would understand "science is about the unbiased search for truth" --
and that benefits everyone.

"Being a scientist only means that when I have an intuition about something, I
test that intuition, and see if I'm right," she said. "A very, very smart mentor
told me once, 'I don't trust anyone who hasn't at least changed their mind once
in their career.'"

Science, it appears, may have more lessons for us than we think.

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo John Minchillo, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2017 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              22 of 252 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           November 9, 2017 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Climate report won't stop EPA rollback;
Government targets Clean Power Plan

BYLINE: Ledyard King, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 414 words


WASHINGTON - EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt said a newly released government
report that lays most of the blame for the rise of global temperatures on human
activity won't deter him from rolling back the Obama-era Clean Power Plan, a
rule aimed at combating climate change.

"We're taking the very necessary step to evaluate our authority under the Clean
Air Act, and we'll take steps that are required to issue a subsequent rule.
That's our focus," Pruitt told USA TODAY on Tuesday. "Does this report have any
bearing on that? No, it doesn't. It doesn't impact the withdrawal, and it
doesn't impact the replacement."

Last month, the Trump administration began the formal process of dismantling the
Clean Power Plan intended to curb carbon emissions that contribute to global
warming. Pruitt, who sued to block it as Oklahoma's attorney general, said
Congress never gave the Obama administration the authority to implement such a
sweeping regulation.

In his first public comments since the Trump administration released the
National Climate Assessment on Friday, Pruitt said a decision by the U.S.
Supreme Court last year to suspend the regulation until legal challenges are
resolved "created great uncertainty" about the regulatory framework.

The EPA is  drafting a replacement rule that will have to be  legally defensible
as  environmental groups threaten legal action.

"Our job is to administer statutes," Pruitt said, explaining the limits of what
the EPA can do. "We have to act (based) on the authority given to us by
Congress."

President Trump has dismissed climate change as a "hoax" perpetrated by the
Chinese to gain a competitive edge over the United States. A champion of the
coal industry, Trump followed through on his vow to undo the climate change
agenda implemented under President Obama by pulling out of the Paris Accord and
withdrawing the Clean Power Plan. The EPA, under Pruitt's direction, has been at
the forefront of that effort.

David Doniger, a climate change expert with the Natural Resources Defense
Council, criticized the EPA administrator for abandoning the power rule, saying
the Supreme Court has  recognized the EPA's authority to curb carbon pollution
under the Clean Air Act.

"The National Climate Assessment has sounded a five-alarm fire bell, and Scott
Pruitt pretends he can't hear it," he said. "The assessment shows unequivocally
that carbon pollution is causing dangerous climate change and that our future
depends on whether we cut that pollution."

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2017 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              23 of 252 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             June 8, 2017 Thursday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Hawaii passes law binding it to Paris climate agreement;
State is nation's first to adopt measures defying U.S. withdrawal

BYLINE: John Bacon, @jmbacon, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 500 words


Hawaii Gov. David Ige has signed the nation's first state legislation boosting
the drive toward the commitments of the Paris climate agreement despite the
Trump administration decision to withdraw the U.S. from the global accord.

The Hawaii measures are designed to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, monitor the
rise in sea level and encourage agricultural practices that improve soil health
-- crucial actions for the environmentally fragile island state, Ige said. He
applauded the legislature for its efforts to "deliver the island Earth that we
want to leave our children" and said his state is committed to "environmental
stewardship."

"Climate change is real, regardless of what others may say," Ige said at
Tuesday's bill signing in Honolulu. "Hawaii is seeing the impact first hand.
Tides are getting higher, biodiversity is shrinking, coral is bleaching,
coastlines are eroding, weather is becoming more extreme. We must acknowledge
these realities."

Andrew Light, a professor of public policy and atmospheric sciences at George
Mason University, was one of the Obama administration's climate negotiators in
Paris. He said he was encouraged by the efforts of Hawaii and other states to
essentially go it alone, without federal support.

"I am excited about what Hawaii has done," Light said. "Efforts by state, local
and business leaders to mitigate the impact of the Trump administration decision
are absolutely critical right now."

Other states also have taken steps to align with the agreement. California's
ambitious plan calls for reducing carbon emissions by 40% from 1990 levels by
2030. Both states are among more than a dozen in the newly formed U.S. Climate
Alliance that share a commitment to upholding the Paris Accord and taking
aggressive action on climate change.

The alliance was formed last week by three Democratic governors, New York Gov.
Andrew Cuomo, California Gov. Edmund Brown and Washington Gov. Jay Inslee. And
they say  climate change can be addressed without taking an economic hit.

"New York and states across the country are picking up the mantle of climate
leadership and showing the world it's possible to address climate change while
also creating good-paying careers," Cuomo said.

Cities also are getting involved. Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel announced in April
that all of the city's public buildings will be powered by renewable energy by
2025.

At the bill signing in Honolulu, Mayor Kirk Caldwell and representatives for
Hawaii Island Mayor Harry Kim, Maui Mayor Alan Arakawa and Kauai Mayor Bernard
Carvalho signed a statement declaring their commitment to continue supporting
the Paris agreement.

The earliest a nation can formally withdraw from the agreement is November 2020.
But the greenhouse gas reduction targets are largely voluntary, and President
Trump said last week his administration would "cease all implementation of the
non-binding" deal, which more than 190 nations have signed.

Trump said it's possible the U.S. will be back on board in the future.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Tor Johnson, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2017 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              27 of 252 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             July 25, 2017 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Al Gore's 'Inconvenient Sequel' brings climate change to the trump era;
New film is an updated, more intimate view

BYLINE: Patrick Ryan, USA TODAY

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 485 words


On June 1, President Trump announced his decision to withdraw the United States
from the Paris climate accord, an international agreement aimed at helping
countries reduce the effects of climate change.

It was a devastating blow for former vice president Al Gore, a tireless
environmental activist who drew heat for his Oscar-winning global-warming
documentary An Inconvenient Truth in 2006. He's back with its follow-up, An
Inconvenient Sequel: Truth to Power (in theaters Friday in New York and Los
Angeles, expands nationwide Aug. 4), which premiered at Sundance Film Festival
in January to respectable reviews.

Despite having several conversations with the president, Gore has been unable to
sway Trump, who has  called global warming an "expensive hoax."

"I tried as hard as I could, and even though hope springs eternal, I don't think
there's any realistic prospect of Donald Trump coming to his senses on climate,"
Gore says. "I would love to be proven wrong, but I'm not going to hold my
breath. We'll just have to work around him."

Like Truth, Sequel is loosely framed around a presentation Gore gives to
environmental activists-in-training, listing findings about climate-related
weather events and touting alternatives to burning fossil fuels. But the
documentary also moves into the real world, as filmmaking duo Bonni Cohen and
Jon Shenk follow Gore across the globe as he meets with political leaders and
typhoon survivors, and attends the United Nations' climate-change summit in
Paris in 2015.

"For so long, it was very difficult for people in the environmental movement to
personalize the issue and make it immediate for people's everyday lives," Shenk
says. "As storytellers, we had an 'aha' moment of 'If we tell the stories of
people who are actually suffering and dealing with the front-line issues of
climate change, then it could be film drama.'"

It was jarring at first for the politician to be shadowed so closely.

"It does take a little adjusting to have them following your every move
practically for two years," Gore says.

With the sequel, Gore wanted to show what's changed, both good and bad, in the
decade since Truth. At the original film's release, he was criticized for using
a  simulation depicting the flooding of lower Manhattan to illustrate how
cities could feel the effects of  rising sea levels. That  came to pass in 2012,
when the World Trade Center memorial was underwater during Hurricane Sandy.

But Gore has reason to be optimistic. As shown in the film, Georgetown, Texas,
is one of the first cities in America to be 100% powered by renewable energy,
with others such as Atlanta and Pittsburgh pledging to follow suit.

"The will to survive is itself a renewable resource," Gore says. "With Mother
Nature playing an increasingly prominent role in the discussions about the
climate, more and more people are realizing if the president won't lead, the
American people must."

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo photos by Jensen Walker

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2017 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              48 of 252 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             April 25, 2017 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Brrd count: Penguin population in frozen Antarctica is 12 million

BYLINE: Doyle Rice, @usatodayweather, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 491 words


If you've ever wondered how many penguins there are in Antarctica, now you know:
There are 12 million of the famed flightless waddling birds down there.

In the most comprehensive survey of Antarctic penguins, researchers for the
first time calculated the number of each of the five species of penguins in the
frozen continent at the bottom of the world.

The five species are emperor, Adélie, chinstrap, gentoo and macaroni.

The first "State of Antarctic Penguins" report was compiled by Ron Naveen, who
has had one job for most of the past two decades: "I count penguins," he said.

Once a government lawyer and now a 21st-century Dr. Dolittle, Naveen has been
going to Antarctica for more than 30 years -- what amounts to more than six
years in real time -- and counting penguins for the past 20 years.

Why bother?

Counting penguins in Antarctica, he said, is one of the best ways to track the
impact of climate change and ocean health in the world's most pristine
scientific laboratory.

"We need to have these baselines in place, so the whole science community out
there has data to assess how the climate is warming," said Naveen, head of the
environmental organization Oceanites, which he founded in 1987.

The populations of the two most common penguin species -- Adélies and chinstraps
-- are in decline on the Antarctic Peninsula, according to the report, and one
of the main factors is climate change.

"This is affirmation that this place down here is changing in a real radical
way," Naveen said while on location in Antarctica.

The Antarctic Peninsula, the part of the continent that sticks out toward South
America where many penguin species live, has warmed a whopping 5 degrees in the
past 60 years, one of the most dramatic increases anywhere on Earth.

"The penguins that we study on the peninsula give us an unbelievably good case
study in how climate change can impact organisms," said Heather Lynch, a
statistical ecologist from Stony Brook University, who works with Naveen.

The news wasn't all bad.

The population of the gentoo penguin on the peninsula has increased, as have
penguin populations in such locations as the Ross Sea and eastern Antarctica,
where dramatic warming has not occurred.

The report aggregated data from 660 sites across Antarctica.

The survey drew on the latest scientific data, including more than 3,000 records
from 100 sources of on-the-ground colony counts and satellite photo analyses.

The emperor and Adélie are the only two penguin species that breed around the
entire continent, while the other three are restricted to the northern sections
of the Antarctic Peninsula.

The report was released in time for World Penguin Day, which is Tuesday.

It also marks the theatrical release in New York City of the Penguin Counters
documentary about Naveen and his team.

Naveen said he hopes the movie will "inspire a whole new generation of penguin
counters."

In the meantime, he wants "to keep doing this," he said. "It's my life."

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: graphic

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2017 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              52 of 252 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             March 9, 2017 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

16 states see their warmest February ever;
145 million Americans revel in record temps

BYLINE: Doyle Rice, @usatodayweather, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 411 words


The USA might not have recorded its warmest winter since data-keeping began more
than 120 years ago, but it didn't feel that way for nearly half of Americans
whose states basked in their warmest February on record.

Overall, the country recorded its second-warmest February since climate tracking
started in 1895 and its sixth-warmest winter, federal scientists announced
Wednesday. Sixteen states experienced their warmest February ever recorded.

The average U.S. temperature last month soared to 7.3 degrees above average,
scientists from the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration's National
Centers for Environmental Information said. Only February 1954 was warmer.

Cities and towns across the nation tallied an incredible 11,743 record highs
compared with 418 record lows in February,  meteorologist Guy Walton says.

Some scientists  blame human-caused climate change for playing a role in the
unusual warmth.  "We found clear and strong links between last month's record
warmth in the United States and climate change," says Geert Jan van Oldenborgh,
senior researcher at the Netherlands Meteorological Institute.

Using observational data and computer models, scientists found that greenhouse
gas emissions have increased the probability of extreme heat in February roughly
threefold, said Claudia Tebaldi, a climate statistician with Climate Central and
the National Center for Atmospheric Research.

Other notable weather anomalies last month included Massachusetts' first
February tornado on record and Chicago's third snow-free February ever, NOAA
said.

Texas and Louisiana  experienced their warmest winter ever, while Arkansas,
Florida, Georgia, Kentucky, New Mexico, South Carolina, Tennessee and West
Virginia each tallied their second-warmest winter on record.

No state recorded record cold, though below- to near-average temperatures were
recorded in the Northwest.

The average national winter precipitation total was 8.22 inches, 1.43 inches
above average, ranking this winter as the 8th-wettest on record. Rain and snow
reached extraordinary levels in the West, especially in Nevada and Wyoming,
which both experienced their wettest winter ever recorded.

The onslaught of storms that battered California throughout the winter gave the
state its second-wettest winter on record, delivering a near-knockout blow to
the state's ongoing drought.

NOAA will release February and winter temperature and precipitation information
for the entire Earth on March 17.

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Brendan Smialowski, AFP/Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2017 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              58 of 252 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              July 10, 2017 Monday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Trump's change of U.S. direction at G-20;
President pursued his own agenda with individual nations

BYLINE: Gregory Korte, @gregorykorte, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1128 words


President Trump attended the G-20 summit in Hamburg, but he wasn't really a part
of it.

Instead, Trump used the conference space generously provided by his host, German
Chancellor Angela Merkel, to conduct a series of his own mini-summits --
separate on-on-one "meetings on the sidelines" with other world leaders where
Trump pursued his own agenda.

He met with Russian President Vladimir Putin about his interference in western
elections. He met with leaders in Asia about North Korea. And he met with
trading partners throughout the world in a two-day binge of talks.

This focus on one-on-one meetings, which ended with Trump declaring newly
created great friendships with world leaders, meant that he often stepped away
from the bigger meetings. On Saturday, he left his daughter Ivanka to represent
the United States on the floor of the G-20 while he met with the president of
Indonesia.

And when the rest of the summit agreed that the Paris climate agreement was
"irreversible," Trump withheld U.S. support for that part of the final
communique.

The dynamic was apparent from the very beginning, while posing for the "family
photo" with other world leaders. It was Merkel taking center stage, her bright
red jacket standing out all the more from a sea of black business suits.

Trump was on the outskirts, unable to shove his way through the crowd to get to
the center as he did with the Montenegrin prime minister at the NATO summit in
May. Instead, he was in the corner, engaged in small talk with French President
Emmanuel Macron.

It was a visual representation of Trump's brand of diplomacy. While he loves to
command a room, he prefers to work one-on-one as opposed to groups.

If President George W. Bush was accused of being a unilateral president, too
often going it alone on the world stage; and President Barack Obama was a
multilateral president, seeking broad consensus on issues like climate change,
trade and security --then Trump is a bilateral president, seeking to make deals
one at a time.

That preference for bilateral relationships is based on personality, experience
in business and a philosophy that puts narrow national interests ahead of
broader global concerns like wealth inequality, refugee resettlement and climate
change.

It's a worldview Trump articulated in his speech in Warsaw on Thursday, where he
extolled the virtues of national sovereignty, self-determination, strong borders
and nations paying for their own defense.

While he pledged to defend NATO allies from attack -- something he pointedly did
not do at the NATO summit -- he also expressed a deep skepticism of
international bureaucracies.

Bureaucracies like the G-20. the group of 19 of the largest national economies
(plus the European Union) founded in 1999 to address the world's most pressing
economic issues.

Trump now has three major foreign summits under his belt, plus two other smaller
group meetings in Saudi Arabia and Poland. While he often seemed on the
sidelines, aides say Trump "will not "lead from behind."

Trump is driven by a "clear-eyed outlook that the world is not a 'global
community' but an arena where nations, nongovernmental actors and businesses
engage and compete for advantage," national security adviser H.R. McMaster and
economic adviser Gary Cohn wrote in the Wall Street Journal after his first
foreign trip.

A shared worldview

That's a view of the world largely shared by Putin. He, too, favors the
one-on-one relationships to broader action.

"If we want to have a positive development through bilaterals and be able to
resolve most acute international problems, then definitely we need personal
meetings," he said in his meeting with Trump Friday.

As cameras clicked and reporters shouted questions, Putin motioned to the
journalists and asked Trump, "These are the ones hurting you?"

"These are the ones. You're right about that," Trump said.

Putin's reference to Trump's war with the media was no accident, said Stephen
Sestanovich, a former ambassador-at-large to the former Soviet Union during the
Clinton administration. "I'm sure Putin finds that very simpatico."

"Trump clearly thinks bilateral relationships serve the U.S. best in general,
but there's a separate reason for dealing with Russia one-on-one," said
Sestanovich, now a professor at Columbia University. "Putin is a semi-pariah
internationally, especially now that the G-7 kicked him out three years ago. He
too deals with many countries bilaterally, because Russia isn't in all that many
global clubs."

Trump's critics say his fostering of a Putin relationship in particular is a
dangerous gambit. While Trump pressed Putin about his involvement in a campaign
to interfere in the 2016 presidential campaign, Putin says Trump ended up
agreeing with him that there was no such interference.

White House Chief of Staff Reince Priebus said Sunday that Trump does believe
Putin meddled in the election, and simply chose to move on to other topics.

He said the summit showed Trump "standing up for the American people."

"I think the American people should look at that as a massive positive about
this president, that you have a president that doesn't just show up at the G-20
and sink into his chair and just suddenly agree with all of these European
leaders across the table when it comes to issues that he disagrees on," Priebus
told Fox News Sunday. "The president has made it very clear that he doesn't
believe the Paris agreement is fair."

But even as Trump rankles Europe, he seems to be focusing more attention to the
Pacific Rim -- where Trump is hoping to sign a series of trade deals to replace
the Trans-Pacific Partnership he tore up his first week in office.

Trump's formula

Those meetings illustrate Trump's tried and true formula for opening a bilateral
meeting: emphasizing the closeness of the relationship, and then launching right
into a discussion about trade:

With Indonesian President Joko Widodo: "We've become friends, and we're going to
be doing a lot of deals together -- trade deals."

With Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong of Singapore: "The prime minister of
Singapore -- we're very close, the relationship is very close, and we expect to
do some excellent things together in many ways."

With Mexican President Enrique Peña-Nieto: "It's great to be with my friend, the
president of Mexico. And we're negotiating NAFTA and some other things with
Mexico, and we'll see how it all turns out."

With South Korean President Moon Jae-in: "We had fantastic dinner at the White
House -- accomplished a lot," he said. "We are renegotiating a trade deal right
now as we speak with South Korea, and hopefully it will be an equitable deal."

Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said the talks behind closed doors were "very,
very substantive."

"These were not just relationship builders," he said.

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2017 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              59 of 252 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             August 28, 2017 Monday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Hurricane Harvey will test Trump's leadership

BYLINE: James Lee Witt

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 505 words


Presidents using their voices to help America through natural disasters is now
standard. It's expected. As natural disasters increase in frequency and size due
to climate change and are coupled with wall-to-wall news coverage, presidents
must use the bully pulpit to prepare a new generation for this new normal.

President Trump, facing his first historic national disaster, has already
started speaking up and saying some of the right things. After the storm, it is
also important for the president to go to the scene as soon as practical.  The
White House has said he will visit on Tuesday.

Trump's trip will help reassure Texans that the resources of the federal
government will be there -- and stay there -- for as long as they are needed in
the recovery and rebuilding stages. His visit will also be critical to the
morale of relief workers, who need to know that Washington has their backs as
the long process unfolds. A presidential visit often brings together officials
from different jurisdictions who would not normally be communicating.

Trump appointed Brock Long to lead the Federal Emergency Management Agency. Long
is an excellent and experienced choice who knows what buttons to push, and when,
to get things done. It is Long's day-to-day responsibility to support local and
state efforts to house and feed those who cannot go home and get the lights
turned back on, the toilets working, the roads cleared and the schools open.

This is a long process. We are still recovering from Hurricane Katrina 12 years
later.

Part of the new normal is also helping prepare our nation for the effects of
climate change.  The president needs to talk about redesigning infrastructure in
storm-vulnerable areas in ways that allow them to withstand storms, not merely
endure them. We need to hear about mitigation: how we can move our building and
planning efforts away from the endless damage-then-repair cycle to a reflexive
practice of building new and improving existing infrastructure.

We must also educate adults and children alike on how to prepare for and then
cope with this new normal. These events traumatize both equally, and parents
focusing on getting a home back in order often do not recognize the stresses
that impact  kids. Over the past year, I've been working with The Hero in You
Foundation to develop a free, interactive system designed  for children, one
that offers safety tips and coping devices when it comes to natural disasters.

As Americans have coped with domestic natural disasters, the role of the
president has long been one-dimensional.

Today, with larger storms and natural events becoming the new normal, the
president has an opportunity to lead in different and more substantive ways.

Today, Trump can and must be the voice of calm leading recovery efforts. But to
fully embrace his role, tomorrow Trump must also lead our nation in preparing
for the new challenges brought by climate change.

James Lee Witt is a former White House Cabinet member and director of FEMA. He
is the CEO of Witt Global Partners.

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2017 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              62 of 252 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              June 2, 2017 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Out of pact, u.s. has rough road ahead;
Paris exit jeopardizes ability to negotiate, experts warn

BYLINE: Marco della Cava, Jon Swartz, Paul Davidson and Nathan Bomey, USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 723 words


President Trump's decision Thursday to exit the Paris climate agreement is
likely to give a small and immediate lift to the oil and coal industry, which
makes good on a persistent campaign promise.

But, economists and energy experts warn, over time the controversial decision to
drop out of the international pact to help stem climate change may hamper the
nation's ability to financially capitalize on the globe's shift to renewable
resources.

Leaving the Paris agreement jeopardizes the United States' ability to be a
global leader in new clean technology developments and sell those insights to a
world hungry for cheap energy, experts say.

"The biggest danger in leaving the accord is you lose your seat at the
negotiating table for all climate talks to come," says Shayle Kann of GTM
Research, which does market analysis on next-generation energy solutions. "If
you're not able to negotiate bilateral agreements, that can impact U.S. exports
of our own leading-edge technology."

Trump's decision runs counter to the advice of some of his closest advisers,
including daughter Ivanka. It also flies in the face of pleas from everyone from
Exxon CEO Darren Woods, who wrote Trump asking him to keep the U.S. seat at the
bargaining table, to Tesla CEO Elon Musk, who has made good on his vow to quit
the president's economic council if Trump opted out of Paris.

"Climate change is real," Musk tweeted. "Leaving Paris is not good for America
or the world."

Other business leaders reacting swiftly and negatively to the news, included
Salesforce founder Marc Benioff and Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella.

Benioff tweeted that he was "deeply disappointed" by the decision, noting that
his company would continue to strive to run only renewable energy.

Nadella tweeted that "climate change is an urgent issue that demands global
action" and linked to Microsoft President Brad Smith's blog post that noted a
weeks-long effort to lobby, along with other business leaders, the White House
to stay in the agreement.

In making the announcement, Trump seemed to leave the door open for joining a
modified global pact under terms he believes are more favorable to the U.S.

"We are getting out," Trump said at a White House ceremony. "But we will start
to negotiate, and we will see if we can make a deal that's fair. And if we can,
that's great."

Kann  is among those who don't see a big immediate economic effect on the
clean-energy movement in the U.S. as a result of the decision. He says that
Americans ultimately vote with their pocketbooks, which means any clean-energy
solutions  that can reduce their monthly bills will continue to get support.

In the short run, withdrawing from the accord will negate the impact of possible
carbon emissions fees on gas and electricity costs, economist Gregory Daco of
Oxford Economics says. And Mark Zandi, chief economist of Moody's Analytics,
notes the decision will likely slow job losses in fossil fuel industries, such
as coal, as well as job gains in renewable energy, such as solar and winds.

But, Zandi adds, employment in coal already has been shrinking in part because
natural gas has become a cheaper and cleaner power source. And renewable energy
already has seen job growth, partly as a result of state mandates and lower
prices that have encouraged many home owners to install solar panels on their
rooftops, for example. As a result, the short-term effect on U.S. employment
likely would amount to just several thousand additional jobs, Zandi says.

"Why would you try to help the coal industry while reducing investment in future
energy such as solar, wind and storage? This is crazy," says Mike Phillips, CEO
of Sense, maker of a high-tech power-measurement device for smart homes.

Job creation in renewable energy dwarfs coal, which was an obsession with Trump
on the campaign trail, Phillips says, citing a Department of Energy report in
January that noted the coal industry employs about 160,000 in the U.S. and is
shrinking, while jobs are growing in the areas of energy-efficiency (2.2
million), natural gas (400,000), solar (374,000) and wind (102,000).

Zandi says Trump's decision makes it less likely the U.S. will be at the
forefront of clean energy innovation, possibly costing the country as many as
hundreds of thousands of jobs over the next decade or two. "We're not going to
lead the way," he says.

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Jim Lo Scalzo, epa

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2017 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              76 of 252 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            January 3, 2017 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

OPEC and Trump power big changes in energy;
Many U.S. producers see reasons for optimism as they begin the new year

BYLINE: Bill Loveless, Special for USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 442 words


U.S. energy producers of all kinds see reasons for optimism as they start 2017,
though the incoming Trump administration may spell trouble for some of a greener
hue.

Among oil drillers, a recent uptick in prices suggests an end to a slump that
has persisted since mid-2014, while natural gas, solar and wind energy companies
aim to build on their gains in U.S. electric power markets in 2016.

Even the struggling nuclear sector can point to victories in New York and
Illinois, where unprofitable reactors were saved by state actions last year.

That said, here's a list of some of the most notable energy developments for the
U.S. in 2016 -- ones that may set the stage for how Americans produce and use
energy in 2017.

The re-emergence of OPEC

For the first time since 2008, OPEC agreed to cut its oil output in a bid to
boost prices and recover some market control. Saudi Arabia and other cartel
members were joined by Russia and other non-OPEC nations in agreeing to curtail
production by nearly 1.8million barrels a day in 2017. It's still too early to
say whether the deal will stick, though Brent crude, the global oil benchmark,
was up by 12% on Friday from  Nov.30, when OPEC met.

Trump promises  shakeup

The president-elect has promised to promote oil, natural gas and coal
aggressively, and pull back on Obama administration commitments to fighting
climate change.

Temperatures up

The year 2016 is likely to be the hottest on record, surpassing record highs set
in 2015 and 2014. This comes as the 2015 Paris climate agreement, signed by the
U.S. and nearly 200 other nations to avoid a catastrophic increase in
temperatures, took effect. Still, carbon emissions from burning fossil fuels are
likely to rise only slightly globally in 2016 and fall a bit in the U.S.

Solar leads  additions

Electric-power companies expect to add more than 26 gigawatts of new
utility-scale generating capacity to the grid in 2016, according to the U.S.
Energy Information Administration (EIA).  If  estimates bear out, 2016 will be
the first year in which more solar energy is added to the grid than any other
source.

Offshore wind debuts

Wind turbines are common off some European coasts, but none spun in U.S. waters
until December. That's when a five-turbine wind farm began operating  off the
shore of Rhode Island.

Bright spots for nuclear

New York and Illinois passed laws to save unprofitable reactors. With Trump
administration backing likely, the industry hopes other states will follow suit.

Natural gas run-up ends

U.S. natural gas production is expected to average 77.5 billion cubic feet per
day in 2016, down 1.3 billion cubic feet per day from 2015, EIA reports.

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Deepwater Wind

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2017 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              81 of 252 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             August 25, 2017 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Stalled on health care, Trump hits high gear on his energy agenda;
U.S. policy has taken 'a 180-degree turn' under his direction

BYLINE: Michael Collins, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 466 words


President Trump had barely settled into the Oval Office  in January when he
signed executive orders opening the door for construction of the controversial
Dakota Access and Keystone XL pipelines.

He was just getting started.

In the following weeks, the Trump administration lifted a moratorium on coal
leasing on federal land; blocked regulations on power-plant carbon emissions;
overturned a ban on oil and gas drilling in the Arctic Ocean; delayed rules
intended to prevent methane leaks from oil and gas wells; and announced plans
for the U.S. to pull out of the Paris climate agreement.

Trump's promise to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act suffered a
stunning defeat in Congress, and the prospects for his tax-reform pledge are far
from certain. But when it comes to energy policy, the administration has managed
to forge ahead on  initiatives aimed at not only making the U.S. energy
independent but turning it into a dominant energy force.

"These are consequential changes in the sense that they move energy policy in a
new direction -- essentially a 180-degree turn from where we had been less than
a year ago," said David Konisky, an energy expert at Indiana University's School
of Public and Environmental Affairs.

Much of Trump's early focus has been on dismantling rules and regulations put in
place by President Obama to protect the environment, fight climate change and
make the country less dependent on fossil fuels.

Trump has succeeded in moving his energy agenda forward because he has been able
to use administrative actions rather than waiting to build consensus in
Congress, Konisky said.

Environmental groups and others, however, are challenging many of Trump's
attempts.

This month, a federal appeals court in Washington ordered the Environmental
Protection Agency to enforce an Obama-era rule limiting the amount of methane, a
powerful greenhouse gas, that can be emitted from new or modified oil and gas
wells.

The administration can expect other legal challenges,  said Michael Brune,
executive director of the Sierra Club. "This administration is the biggest
threat to the health of our planet," he said.  "Resisting this administration is
a top priority for the Sierra Club for now and the foreseeable future."

What's more, watchdog groups say, Trump is filling his administration with
people with ties to the energy sector. Michael Catanzaro, Trump's special
assistant  for domestic energy and environmental policy,  has worked as a
lobbyist for several oil and gas companies.  This month, Trump nominated Michael
Menezes and Paul Dabbar, both of whom have personal investments in energy
companies, as undersecretaries in the Energy Department. Several other
appointees in the Energy and Interior departments also have worked for or
lobbied on behalf of energy interests.

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Evan Vucci, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2017 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              82 of 252 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           November 21, 2017 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Germany is on track to meet our targets

BYLINE: Peter Wittig

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 341 words


One year ago, the European Union ratified the Paris Agreement and pledged to
reduce its 2030 greenhouse gas emissions by 40% relative to 1990. Emissions have
already dropped by 23% in 2016 -- on track to meet the 2030 target. Germany, the
EU's largest economy, has reduced emissions by 28% and is contributing
significantly and above par to the EU's common goal.

In 2016, the share of renewables in all electricity produced in Germany reached
a new all-time high of almost 32% (vs. 15% in the United States). Solar, wind
and biomass have allowed us to reduce our carbon footprint by 160million tons of
carbon dioxide, or roughly the annual emissions of the U.S. state of Georgia.

Even so, recent estimates also show that German emissions have gone up slightly,
by 0.4% last year. What happened and what does this mean?

Apart from the wind and sun, Germany's primary domestic source of energy has
been coal. In the integrated European electricity market, our coal-fired power
plants do not just fill the gap on cloudy days but also export record amounts of
excess electricity to our neighbors. But Germany's major political forces agree
on a phaseout in the medium term: By law, the first five plants will go offline
by 2019.

Just as coal was essential for Germany's industrialization in the 19th century,
renewables are powering our businesses and jobs in the 21st. For Germany's
manufacturers, the digital and the energy transformation are two sides of the
same coin: Eventually, coal will go the way of the typewriter.

Chancellor Angela Merkel called climate change the "key challenge for humanity"
when speaking to delegates at the United Nations Climate Change Conference in
Bonn last week. An overwhelming majority of Germans agree and support an
ambitious energy transition to keep our manufacturing base competitive. The
message to the world is clear: Together with our partners, we are not shying
away from challenges but working to solve them in the framework of the Paris
Agreement.

Peter Wittig is Germany's ambassador to the United States.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2017 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              83 of 252 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             April 24, 2017 Monday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Science is fine; politicizing it is what we don't like

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 432 words


FACEBOOK

Hundreds of thousands of scientists and their advocates turned out around the
country on Saturday to protest the "attack" on science from the Trump
administration.

Nobody is disputing scientific evidence. What is being disputed is the
interpretation of said evidence. We need to get back to the middle, after being
way too far left for so long. America understands this, but liberals not so
much.

Bubba Jo Bubba

And who is better-suited to interpret scientific evidence than scientists?
Politicians? Corporate heads? Religious leaders? I'll trust any scientist before
I trust anyone from those groups.

Rich Barnes

Sorry, this is not a march for science but a march for a political agenda.
Science should stay as far away from politics as possible. Scientists making
bold claims of the East Coast disappearing into the Atlantic and the ice caps
disappearing within a decade have done more to discredit climate science than
any "climate denier" could dream to do.

If scientists would stick to facts, and avoid these gloom and doom predictions
that reek of politics, we would not even be having these discussions to begin
with.

Christopher Linn

Science and politics have been joined at the hip for at least the past two
decades. Bringing this fact out into the open is probably a healthy development.
The "anti-science trend" is not so much anti-science as a rejection of the
corruption of science by an ideology that seeks to employ it as a stalking horse
for its politically motivated wish list -- especially by the progressive left.

Chris Nelson

We have a situation where people who have a degree in a field of science seem to
think that their hypothesis is a fact and that everyone must agree with them,
and if they don't they are labeled heretics. Just because someone with a degree
says something doesn't mean it's true. Theories are based on data points and
observations, often with a bias toward a popular trend in thinking.

Tim Morrison

TWITTER

Our followers shared their thoughts on science marches and why some people
question science.

In the 1970s, we had global cooling. Then we had global warming. Now they're
calling it climate change. I call it nonsense.

@tortalinni

I believe understanding sciense takes time, which in today's era of instant
gratification there's no time for.

@DWigt165

Because some of us are old enough to remember when scientists were screaming
about another ice age.

@JohnRKelleyII

The whole world is what it is because of science, yet people still question it.

@mpgdev

Science is not about belief; it's about facts.

@bluedgal

For more, follow @USATOpinion or #tellusatoday.

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2017 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              96 of 252 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             January 6, 2017 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Acura MDX still looking solid after minor changes;
Little stuff adds up for this sales star of three-row SUVs

BYLINE: Chris Woodyard, @ChrisWoodyard, USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 589 words


For Acura, the changes made to its MDX crossover for the 2017 were a little bit
like polishing the crown.

MDX has long been the sales star of Acura's lineup, so tweaks rather than
drastic changes for the midcycle refresh were apparently all that were deemed as
being required. The message seemed to be "don't mess up a good thing" -- even
though sales were down a bit last year -- when it comes to what Acura bills as
the best-selling three-row luxury SUV of all time.

The result is that the MDX remains a solid, smart luxury SUV -- certainly
upscale enough to make an impression when you're dropping your kids off at
school without being ostentatious.

The 2017 model changes aren't exactly going to bowl over your typical owner: The
grille becomes a little bolder. MDX gets an electric parking brake, which we
didn't find that helpful, and automatic high-beam headlights, which were really
helpful on a curvy road with intermittent traffic whizzing toward you through
the darkness.

The "Advance" package includes 20-inch wheels, which significantly add to the
sense of a higher seating position and a commanding view of the road. Just like
before, the interior of the MDX feels decidedly upscale, with leather seats that
add to the boardroom feel. So, too, do the second-row "captain's chairs" that
come in this particular package. Overall, MDX feels high-tech, with power
outlets and plug-ins galore.

The MDX comes without a choice of engines. It is powered by a 3.5-liter V-6
engine producing 290 horsepower. It offers plenty of pep, and the gas mileage
rating is a respectable 20 miles a gallon in the city, 27 mpg on the highway and
23 combined in the front-wheel-drive version. Subtract a mile or two per gallon
for the all-wheel-drive version. To save gas, MDX has a stop-start system to
shut off the engine at stop lights. It worked quite well and we barely noticed
it, but if some find it annoying, there's a button on the center console to keep
the engine continuously running.

It wasn't the powerplant we noticed as much as the transmission: a nine-speed
automatic. In a bid to save more gas, the automatic is constantly shifting
through the gears even at speeds below 40 mph. It's not distracting. Rather, it
just feels a little different than those who have become accustomed to six-speed
automatics.

Also, as it relates to the transmission, MDX has the same push-button shifter as
other Acuras. As simple as that sounds, we never quite became accustomed to it
-- especially remembering to pull the reverse button backward. Even though it
seems like a case of Acura trying to enhance the cool factor, it doesn't come
naturally.

The other bugaboo in the car is the infotainment system. Acura is still
touchscreen-oriented, with a single volume knob. Whether it's going between
setting climate controls or picking a radio station, press a finger to the
7-inch display and one expects to feel a little vibration. The system never
seemed intuitive and, in the end, we found it easier to use the audio controls
on the steering wheel.

WHAT STANDS OUT

How it feels: Upscale without being too plush

Styling: Some changes like a new grille

Infotainment: Too much touchscreen

2017 ACURA MDX DETAILS

What? A luxury midsize SUV

When? On sale now

Where? Made in Lincoln, Ala.

What makes it go? A 3.5-liter V-6 with a nine-speed transmission good for 290
horsepower.

How thirsty? 20 miles per gallon in the city, 27 mpg on the highway and 23
overall.

How much? Starts at $43,950 plus $940 in shipping. Price as tested: $57,340.

Overall? Remains a solid choice

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo MullenLowe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2017 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              102 of 252 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            March 29, 2017 Wednesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

How Trump's energy order affects You;
Biggest factors shaping U.S. industry are market forces -- and that's not
changing anytime soon

BYLINE: Nathan Bomey @NathanBomey | USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 866 words


Will coal jobs suddenly come roaring back? Don't bet on it. Will the price of
electricity go into reverse? Not likely. Will increased federal land rights for
oil and natural gas clear the way for more U.S. energy production? Yes,
eventually. And fewer regulations for oil and natural gas could contribute to
lower energy prices in the long run. Plus, lower fuel economy standards, which
the Trump administration is contemplating as part of a separate review, could
bolster gasoline demand.

Still, the biggest factors shaping the U.S. energy industry are market forces --
and that's not changing anytime soon.

Here's how Trump's executive order could affect ...

Coal jobs

Trump has promised to restore the coal industry, but that's a dubious promise
for a  simple reason: Natural gas is cheaper, cleaner and more readily
available.

Coal accounted for about half of American electricity a decade ago, but that
fell to 29% in 2016, according to the Energy Information Administration. The
number of U.S. coal mine jobs was 65,971 in 2015, down from 91,611 in 2011.

Former president Barack Obama's Clean Power Plan in 2015 curbed emissions at
power plants, aiming to combat climate change. Trump wants to roll back the
plan, which had slashed allowable carbon pollution.

"It may have the impact of avoiding further job losses than it does bringing
back plants that are closed," Stewart Glickman, energy analyst at market
research firm CFRA Research, said in an interview.

But the substantial increase of available natural gas amid the U.S. shale boom
has undermined coal's viability as a fuel source for utilities. Advances in
energy extraction through new hydraulic fracturing techniques have increased
supplies of oil and natural gas, and those gains aren't receding.

"Natural gas as a competitive threat to coal isn't going away simply because
we're gonna lift regulations on coal," Glickman said. "And, ironically, to the
degree that the Trump administration is able to put in place other changes that
lift restrictions on drilling for crude oil and natural gas, all you're doing is
making gas that much cheaper for utilities to purchase."

"The decrease in coal by the electricity sector is because of economic reasons,
as it has been outcompeted by low-cost natural gas," Greg Gershuny, of the Aspen
Institute's Energy and Environment Program, said in a report.

Oil and gas jobs

The prospect of additional drilling on federal land could be a boon to oil and
gas jobs, which have suffered over the last two years as the price of oil fell
below $26 per barrel in early 2016. The U.S. mining, quarrying, oil and gas
extraction sector had an estimated 628,800 jobs in February, up from a 10-year
low of 608,600 in October but down from a high of 851,800 in September 2014.

But additional drilling remains a small factor in the short term. That's because
oil producers want to avoid committing to new leases while crude prices remain
low. Few analysts expect a major surge in prices in the next few years. Oil is
trading around $50 per barrel.

One big factor is the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, which
reached an agreement in late 2016 to slash oil production in a bid to bolster
prices. It worked for a few months, but skepticism about the durability of the
accord has bubbled up in recent weeks.

OPEC countries are unlikely to cede market share to the U.S. for long, said Mark
Watkins, an investment manager who monitors oil for U.S. Bank's Private Client
Group.

Meanwhile, sluggish economic growth around the world remains perhaps the
greatest impediment to the U.S. energy industry.

"Opening up more leases isn't an immediate benefit because we've got to get more
demand," Watkins said.

Pump prices

There won't be any immediate impact on gas or heating oil prices, which are
determined primarily by market forces.

U.S. oil and natural gas producers have increased production in recent years,
which has contributed to gasoline's slide. Gas prices have fallen from nearly
$3.90 per gallon nationwide in September 2012 to about $2.29 on Tuesday,
according to GasBuddy.

Gasoline is unlikely to make a sudden surge because U.S. oil production is
picking up. U.S. producers have added 336 oil rigs since the industry's low
point May 27, according to Goldman Sachs.

Wind and Solar

Renewable energy sources such as wind and solar, which have long been more
expensive than fossil fuels, have gained considerable ground in recent years,
according to a recent report by investment firm Lazard.

That makes solar panels, for example, a viable option for certain consumers. The
average system costs $15,000 to $21,000 but often pays off in energy savings
after five to 10 years, Consumer Reports says.

Gershuny said the rise of renewables will hasten coal's demise: "This policy
won't work. It is a mistake for the Trump administration to think it can reverse
the demise of coal. Even the coal industry knows this."

A report released Tuesday by the Solar Foundation concluded that jobs connected
to  solar energy increased 25% to 260,077 in 2016.

"While (Tuesday's) order is not a step in the right direction, it will not halt
the solar industry's progress," Solar Foundation President Andrea Luecke said in
an email.

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo File photo by Scott Olson, Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2017 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              108 of 252 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            September 1, 2017 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Your Say: TWITTER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 129 words


We asked our followers if it was premature to make a connection between
Hurricane Harvey and man-made climate change.

Climate change makes hurricanes, tornadoes, monsoons, etc. more likely to happen
-- bigger, deadlier and more destructive. It affects all weather occurrences.

@scottc_scottc

It is presumptuous to think man can affect the weather. We all breathe carbon
dioxide. Since it is heavier than air, most of it dissolves in the oceans.

@ExtremeCynic

Man contributed. Saying we are the cause is alarmist and unsupported.

@papajack452

Hurricanes have literally occurred since the dawn of Earth.

@NathanADull

India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, etc. -- rains and floods happen there, too. Are
cars and cattle to blame? Doubt it.

@kenwalsh77

For more, follow @USATOpinion or #tellusatoday.

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: OPINION

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2017 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              117 of 252 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            February 20, 2017 Monday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Union leader: Minimal rule changes

BYLINE: Bob Nightengale, @BNightengale, USA TODAY Sports

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 3C

LENGTH: 489 words


Tony Clark, executive director of the Major League Baseball Players Association,
listens to the idea that baseball needs to step up with the times and just
doesn't buy the need for dramatic change.

Clark assured reporters Sunday afternoon in a 90-minute news conference that the
only potential rule change this year would be the possible altering of the
intentional walk.

That's it.

He scoffed at the idea of imposing an extra-inning rule at the big-league level
that would start the 10th inning with a runner at second base, as MLB will
experiment with deep in the minor leagues. There won't be a pitch clock. And the
elimination of the low strike, which naturally invoked a difference of opinion
between hitters and pitchers, won't change, at least in the near future.

"So how do you have a conversation about more offense in less period of time,"
Clark said, "with a guy on the mound dictating terms?"

The game of baseball, Clark insists, even with games lasting three hours, is
doing just fine.

"There has been so much dialogue the last few years," Clark said, "that changing
or making adjustment is becoming more challenging when taking into account the
industry as a whole and how it's doing.

"Guys understand innovation. I don't know if there's a more vested group than
the players when it comes to the always-dangerous proposition of our game
turning into something that, love it and respect it, (they) don't recognize it
as much anymore."

Sure, games lasted three hours last season, but Clark doesn't see the dead time
in games, saying instead baseball should use the time to educate the public on
its nuances.

Clark, 44, a 15-year major league veteran, addressed myriad topics:

He was perturbed by New York Yankees President Randy Levine's comments
ridiculing the $5million arbitration request by reliever Dellin Betances and his
agent, even after the Yankees prevailed at $3 million.

"The most troubling thing is that conversation and the particulars related to
that case was made public," Clark said, "which is unprecedented and
unprofessional and should never have happened in the fashion it did."

Clark will closely monitor effects from executive orders on immigration signed
by President Trump. St. Louis Cardinals center fielder Dexter Fowler told ESPN
that he was upset that the ban of immigrants and refugees from seven
Muslim-majority countries might prevent him and his wife, Darya, who was born in
Iran, from visiting the country in the near future.

"There are a lot of concerns," Clark said. "There have always been a lot of
concerns. We have challenges every offseason, but, admittedly, the climate is
even more different than it has been in the past. ... We don't know how it will
affect our guys."

The union is concerned that Major League Baseball is open to the idea of
revisiting its stance on legalized gambling on baseball.

"Yes, particularly considering our history," Clark said, "and everyone in here
knows it very well."

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Carlos Osorio, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2017 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              120 of 252 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           August 30, 2017 Wednesday
                                CA CHASE EDITION

Colleges wary of athlete protests;
Backlash could be great if it happens

BYLINE: Dan Wolken, dwolken@usatoday.com, USA TODAY Sports

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 1326 words


It's a stroke of good luck for the college athletics industrial complex that
there's no need to worry about a national anthem controversy blossoming out of
its showcase college football weekend beginning Thursday.

Even as the NFL sees more and more players following the lead of Colin
Kaepernick to protest racial inequality and police violence, even as NBA stars
become bolder and louder advocates for social justice, there's no point in
asking what would happen if players from Alabama and Florida State wanted to
kneel during The Star-Spangled Banner on Saturday at a stadium erected a couple
miles from where Martin Luther King Jr. was born.

Unlike the NFL, college football teams stay in their locker rooms during the
anthem, saving the likes of Nick Saban and Dabo Swinney from a backlash in deep
red states where college football means the most and any form of player protest
likely won't be well received.

But in the last year since Kaepernick's protest was first noticed, momentum for
high-profile black athletes to become activists has  grown. And it's just a
matter of time before it filters down to college sports, potentially bringing
light to issues from racial inequality to campus policing to college athlete
compensation.

"As soon as Kaepernick did what he did, I could see that was the beginning of
something and guys were going to join him," said Bill Curry, the former Alabama
coach who was president of the NFL Players Association during the 1974 strike
and helped lay the groundwork for players to ultimately achieve free agency.
"The protest thing in the NFL is only going to grow, and the college guys,
they're figuring it out and they'll start saying, 'This isn't right, this isn't
the American way,' so I think they'll follow along and there will be more and
more organization."

Make no mistake, the recent events in Charlottesville, Va., the current climate
of political polarization and the current imperative for college athletes to
"stay woke" have spurred discussions inside college athletics departments across
the country about how to deal with potential protests.  The climate has changed
fairly significantly since even a few years ago when the Missouri football team
boycotted in conjunction with a Black Lives Matter protest or when some
Northwestern players attempted to unionize.

"I was born in 1970, but it seems to feel a lot like the '60s," said Virginia
Tech athletics director Whit Babcock, who acknowledged ongoing discussions
within his department and the administration about how to approach possible
athlete protests. "Even though it is vastly different, the Northwestern
(situation) gave a lot of us some time to talk about how we would handle such
things. It is a new frontier."

Several other athletics directors contacted by USA TODAY Sports acknowledged
raising the issue with their football teams. While the industry consensus is few
would actively try to stop a protest, much of the conversation has been steered
toward collaboration with coaches, administrators and teammates to bring issues
to light and helping them understand the potential for backlash rather than
individuals striking out on their own.

"More in terms of opening the door for them to have dialogue with coaches and
administrators about concerns they have," Tulane athletics director Troy Dannen
said. "But I think we will see more and more ahead."

That kind of language, though, strikes former college and pro football player
Wade Davis as an implicit deterrent for bold action. Now a public speaker and
advocate focusing on racial, gender and LGBT issues, Davis pointed toward the
culture of a college football team where the coach has the biggest hammer and
athletes often don't want to do anything that would jeopardize their scholarship
and chance to make the NFL.

"It speaks to the desire to control what the protest looks like and what the
outcome is," Davis said. "They don't want to lose money. They don't want fans
not going to games. I think it's even more complicated in college than it is in
the pro game because these kids have less power and it's just a different
dynamic in the NFL. These guys aren't even paid, per se, in the same way pro
athletes are, so there's a different level of ownership the college level feels
over their athletes. Imagine kids who play for Alabama kneeling. I mean, there
would be a riot."

Dave Zirin, who has authored several books on how protests, social changes and
sports have intersected at key moments in history, noted that college athletes
have been engaged in important movements recently, including former Wisconsin
basketball star Bronson Koenig going to the Standing Rock Sioux reservation to
protest the Dakota Access Pipeline and Georgetown rowers covering up Nike
swooshes to protest sweatshop labor practices.

But nothing would have the impact of star players on a major-college football
team bringing light to an issue during a prime-time game. Which is why it
ultimately will make its way to "the big kahuna," as Zirin called it, even if
the barriers are higher than in some other sports.

"The ferment is there," Zirin said. "But I think when NCAA football players
protest about racism, which is really what we're talking about, the stakes are
so much higher for everybody involved than in the NFL, which means it
encompasses a lot more risk and it also means that platform is going to be
policed so much harder because these guys don't have a union that can support
them.

"You look at the NFL, and yeah, you've got some fans who are like, 'I'm never
going to come to a game again,' but it's like, 'Gimme a break, nobody believes
you.' The NFL is locked into TV money for years to the tune of billions of
dollars. They'll be fine for a little bit of bad publicity. But at the NCAA
level, look what happened at Missouri. That hangs over this whole thing."

Indeed, the potential power of a college football team getting behind a cause
was revealed in November 2015 when it threatened to boycott a game against BYU.
Fewer than 48 hours later, the president of the University of Missouri system
resigned and the shock waves are still being felt as the school's subsequent
drop in enrollment has been directly tied to that week's events.

"In this day and age, the university system is at the heart of the economic,
political and psychological life of an entire city, especially in these small
cities in the Southeastern Conference and the Big 12," Zirin said. "The success
of the football team is make or break for the economy, so if a bunch of 18- and
19-year-olds mess with that, the ripple effect is crazy."

Though it might still be polarizing, it's no longer surprising to see Cleveland
Cavaliers star LeBron James fire off a Twitter missive at President Trump for
his response to Charlottesville or for Seattle Seahawks defensive end Michael
Bennett to pick up where Kaepernick left off.

But  what would happen if a star college football player, particularly at a
high-profile school in the Deep South, wore a Black Lives Matter shirt during
warm-ups or used a postgame media session to talk about police brutality and
racial profiling rather than the game?

What would the consequences be for the school? What kind of pressure would
conservative white fans put on the coach to denounce it publicly? And what would
the recruiting consequences be for the coach if he tried to stifle a player
bringing light to an issue?

"It's an entirely different dynamic because the coach in college holds absolute
sway," Curry said. "I would pray that nobody would say, 'I'm taking your
scholarship away,' and I don't think I know anybody that would do a thing like
that, but that's what is possible at the college level."

Given the current climate, it's a matter of time before someone tests that
theory. And given how scared athletics departments are about this very scenario,
even without an anthem to kneel for, college football players might find out
they have more power and a louder voice than they knew.

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Kelley L. Cox, USA TODAY Sports

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2017 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              126 of 252 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            February 6, 2017 Monday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Petroleum Institute takes message to Super Bowl

BYLINE: , ,

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 536 words


"This is not your father's Oldsmobile."

With that commercial pitch in 1988, one of General Motors' iconic brands
targeted younger motorists in a bid to breathe new life into the Cutlass and
other Oldsmobile models. Instead, sales declined and GM shut down Olds in 2002.

On Sunday, the American Petroleum Institute will air its first-ever Super Bowl
ad with a similar opening line: "This ain't your Daddy's oil."

Is there a parallel to be drawn?

Jack Gerard, the president of the leading trade association for the U.S. oil and
gas industry, acknowledged that he hadn't given much thought to the similar
approaches to the ads. But after mulling over it for a moment, he said that for
his industry, just the opposite is true.

"A short decade ago, no one would have believed that the U.S. would be in the
position it's in today in terms of oil and natural gas production, leading the
world," he said,  referring to breakthroughs in drilling technology that have
made shale reserves accessible.

"And people used to believe that there was direct causation between more energy
production and environmental degradation. We've demonstrated that's not true,"
he added, citing a 25-year-low in carbon emissions in the U.S. in 2016, thanks
largely to increased use of natural gas to generate electricity. "Nobody was
talking about that five years ago."

While the industry's critics may complain that the 30-second spot during Super
Bowl LI overlooks the long-term risks to the environment of carbon emissions
from fossil fuels, API sees it as delivering a critical message to consumers.

Moreover, the location of the championship game in Houston, commonly known as
the "energy capital of the world," made the ad opportunity that much more
appealing to API.

That said, API is no stranger to elaborate ad campaigns, having spent
considerably in recent years advocating public policies in support of oil and
natural gas at a time of  public concern over climate change and growing
interest in cleaner forms of energy.

Still, the new ad is splashier than past API commercials, with vivid
illustrations of petroleum as a building block for not only motor fuels but also
many other things that add luster and utility to life, such as paint, cosmetics,
artificial heart valves and lightweight automotive materials. Accompanying the
images are messages that oil "gushes art," "strikes a pose," "pumps life" and
"runs cleaner."

"Typically, when people think of energy, they'll reflect on how they go to the
gasoline pump, or heat their home or cook their food," Gerard said. "But the
reality of our products is that they are in everything that we use every day.
... So yes, this is a transition of thought, if you will."

The ubiquity of petroleum even extends to competing forms of energy, such as
wind power, Gerard noted.

The ad closes with the slogan "power past impossible," a line that API has
trademarked for what will become an ongoing campaign to portray the oil and gas
industry as the provider of solutions to today's energy and environmental
challenges, rather than a culprit, as its critics maintain.

"Whatever scientists and data bring us in the future, we'll power through what
we thought was impossible just a few years ago," Gerard said.

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2017 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              127 of 252 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              June 5, 2017 Monday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Learn from, don't bash, Germany's industrial policy

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 437 words


France, it would seem, is no longer the chief villain among America's so-called
European allies. That honor now goes to Germany.

At least that is the message President Trump sent last week by blasting Germany
for its perennial trade surpluses and its reluctance to spend more on defense,
prompting German Chancellor Angela Merkel to declare that Europe can no longer
rely on others and "really must take our fate into our own hands."

Picking a needless fight with a key European partner has serious downsides.
German intelligence is important in fighting terror. German support is vital in
containing Russia, a key objective of the now-weakened NATO alliance. And
European-wide backing for the United States could play a key role in the Middle
East and the Korean peninsula.

While Trump does have a point that Germany underspends on defense and
consistently maintains a trade surplus with the United States ($65 billion last
year), his griping -- followed by his wrong-headed decision to pull out of the
Paris climate change accord -- accomplishes little.

This is particularly true in the economic arena, where Germany is one of the few
advanced nations that has maintained much of its manufacturing base. In fact, a
strong case can be made that the United States should learn from Germany, not
complain about it. Germany's success has two key components:

A tax code that encourages savings and investment, in contrast to a United
States code that encourages borrowing and consumption. Germany's corporate
income tax, for instance is just 15%, compared to the 35% in the United States.
To make up for the lost revenue of a low corporate tax, Germany has a national
consumption tax that runs as high as 19% on some consumer items. Trump has
endorsed slashing the U.S. corporate tax rate but hasn't come up with a credible
way to pay for it.

A national commitment to manufacturing. This includes massive public support for
job training and retraining, and penalties on companies for laying off workers.
The German unemployment system is less generous to those who don't have a job
while giving more incentive for those willing and able to work. For example,
unemployed workers who take a job that doesn't pay very well can continue to
receive part of their jobless benefits.

As the result of its access to capital and the many incentives it has to keep
jobs at home, manufacturing makes up a quarter of the German economy. It is just
12% in the United States.

If Trump wants to keep his promises to Rust Belt voters who helped put him in
office, he'd be better off studying Germany's economic policies rather than
lashing out at them.

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2017 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              135 of 252 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           January 12, 2017 Thursday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Tillerson: Russia is a 'danger,' but crushing ISIL comes first;
Moscow and U.S. differ on 'values'

BYLINE: Oren Dorell, @orendorell, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 657 words


Former ExxonMobil CEO Rex Tillerson -- Donald Trump's pick for secretary of
State -- testified Wednesday that the United States should be "clear-eyed" about
Russia and should focus on defeating the Islamic State.

"American leadership must not only be renewed, it must be asserted," Tillerson
told the Senate Foreign Relations Committee in his confirmation hearing.
"Competing priorities must be addressed, but they must not distract us from our
first priority, which is defeating (the Islamic State)."

The primary action against the Islamic State would be "to remove its caliphate"
in Syria and Iraq, which will hurt the militant group's credibility but not
remove it as threat, Tillerson said.

He said the U.S. "must be clear-eyed about our relationship with Russia. ...
Russia today poses a danger. It invaded Ukraine, including Crimea, and violated
the laws of war. But it's an absence of American leadership that left this door
open."

Tillerson had many business dealings with Russia. In 2013, the oil executive
received Russia's Order of Friendship award, which is given to foreign nationals
who the Russian government believes have worked to better relations. He has
criticized U.S. economic sanctions against Russia.

He acknowledged that Russia and the United States are unlikely to be friends.
"We do not have the same values. But there is scope to define a different
relationship to bring down the temperature of the conflict we have today," he
said. "Dialogue is critical so these things do not spin out of control."

Tillerson, 64, who left the private sector this month, was cautious when it came
to labeling war crimes and human rights violators, saying he wanted to see
intelligence reports before commenting.

Committee Chairman Bob Corker, R-Tenn, told reporters after the hearing that
Tillerson "handled himself well," despite the fact that some of his answers were
vague or cautious.

Several senators asked in the hearing whether Tillerson agreed that Russia
committed war crimes with its actions in Aleppo, Syria, in 2016; its invasion of
Ukraine's Crimea in 2014; and the murder of journalists and other critics around
the world. Tillerson said he would need more information to make such a
conclusion.

Sen. Marco Rubio, R-Fla., had asked Tillerson if he considers Russian President
Vladimir Putin a war criminal, mentioning Russia's actions in Syria and Russia's
war against an uprising in Chechnya province. "Those are very very serious
charges to make, and I would want more information before making that
conclusion," Tillerson said.

Corker asked if Tillerson would agree such actions were criminal if U.S.
intelligence agencies provided information confirming they did happen. "Yes
sir," Tillerson said.

On another matter, Tillerson appeared to reject Trump's campaign pledge to ban
Muslims from certain countries from entering the United States.

"I don't support a blanket type of travel ban on people coming to this country,"
he said. He also acknowledge the "huge challenge" of needing to vet people
arriving here.

Senators also asked about climate change, especially considering Tillerson's
role at the helm of ExxonMobil, one of the world's largest petroleum producers.
Sen. Tim Kaine, D-Va., asked Tillerson to confirm media reports that ExxonMobil
concluded as early as the 1970s that petroleum-based emissions damage the
climate, yet funded and promoted contrary views.

Tillerson replied, "Since I'm no longer at ExxonMobil I can no longer speak on
its behalf."

Kaine then asked, "Do you lack knowledge or refuse to share your knowledge?"

"A little of both," Tillerson said.

At another point, Tillerson was asked whether Trump's frequent tweets commenting
about foreign policy could undermine his diplomatic work as secretary of State.

If confirmed, "I'm not going to tell the boss how to communicate with the
American people," Tillerson answered. "I have his (Trump's) cellphone number ...
and he's promised me he'll answer."

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Jack Gruber, USA TODAY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2017 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              140 of 252 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             July 6, 2017 Thursday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Poll shows German leader inspires confidence

BYLINE: John Bacon

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 270 words


Residents of the G-20 nations whose leaders will meet in Germany this week have
more confidence in German Chancellor Angela Merkel than in President Trump to
conduct world affairs, according to a study by the Pew Research Center.

India and Russia were the only G-20 countries surveyed to have substantially
more confidence in Trump. The survey, conducted in February and March, did not
include two G-20 countries, China and Saudi Arabia.

Russia and Israel are the only countries in the survey where opinions of Trump
are higher than they were for Barack Obama at the end of his presidency.

Even in the USA, more people have confidence in Merkel than Trump, 56% to 46%.
"When it comes to two of the key issues that will be discussed at the G-20
summit -- trade and climate change -- most people in G-20 member countries take
a dim view of Trump's policy proposals," the center said.

The survey was taken before Trump's formal decision to remove the United States
from the Paris climate accord. But the decision was expected, and 93% of Germans
say they disapprove. There is strong disapproval across Western Europe, East
Asia and Latin America. Two-thirds of Americans say they disapprove leaving the
agreement, although the position sharply divides Democrats (88% disapprove) and
Republicans (34%).

Pew surveys typically include 700 to 1,500 interviews per country. The most
common sample size is 1,000 interviews.

The Group of 20 is made up of 19 countries, and the European Union has its own
representative. The annual meeting draws world leaders  to address  economic
issues. The two-day event will open Friday in Hamburg.

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2017 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              143 of 252 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           September 15, 2017 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Storms make case for extra bye;
Schools would have more flexibility in rescheduling games

BYLINE: Dan Wolken, dwolken@usatoday.com, USA TODAY Sports

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 7C

LENGTH: 1309 words


At the NCAA's annual convention in January, the top legislative committee for
Division I floated the idea of a 14-week college football calendar, which would
have the practical effect of putting two bye weeks into the schedule for every
team in the country.

Like every potential significant change, it has gone through the policy wringer
over the ensuing months with various subcommittees discussing positives and
potential unintended consequences, including whether that might push preseason
practice back into July (something many coaches and probably some conference
officials would be against).

While the initial push for a 14-week calendar was rooted in building in extra
recovery time for players during the grind of a long season, the extreme weather
events that have wreaked havoc with games over the last two weeks have brought a
second possible benefit into focus: more flexibility to reschedule games that
get canceled.

"The proposal was really directed for health and safety," said Northwestern
athletics director Jim Phillips, who chaired the D-I council until rotating off
earlier this year. "But after witnessing how Mother Nature can really cause
issues -- lightning strikes, hurricanes, travel issues -- an additional week
might take some pressure off and give flexibility for these types of
(occurrences)."

Though this isn't the first time hurricanes and other forms of extreme weather
have impacted college football schedules -- LSU has had a game canceled, moved
or rescheduled for three consecutive years -- the disruptions caused by
Hurricanes Harvey and Irma have been massive.

Eight games have been canceled to date, including several key matchups in the
American Athletic Conference. Meanwhile, Florida State-Miami was moved to Oct.
7, which was only possible because they shared an open date.

Though hurricane recovery is a higher priority than playing a full 12-game
football season, there is typically a desire for administrators to try to
reschedule games because of the lost revenue both for their athletics department
and local businesses that plan around college football games bringing in
thousands of visitors.

And in the case of the AAC, canceling a game such as Memphis-UCF without the
ability to make it up could significantly impact conference title races and
postseason opportunities.

Memphis, in fact, got on a plane the night of Sept. 7  with the intention of
playing at UCF last Friday, landed in Orlando, then turned around and headed
home after Florida Gov. Rick Scott closed all public colleges in preparation for
Irma.

"I've been working with the conference since last Friday to figure out how to
reschedule everything and because football season doesn't have a lot of
flexibility," Memphis athletics director Tom Bowen said. "A second bye week
would allow the entire FBS conferences, in my opinion, to deal with the
unintended consequences of weather, act of God or act of government. Right now,
the way it works is you have one bye week, and it's hard -- almost impossible
now in our case -- without canceling another opponent or removing a
non-conference opponent, which isn't fair to another contractual agreement made
years ago with another institution."

Memphis and UCF managed to reschedule for Sept. 30, the schools announced
Thursday evening. But that move will require other scheduling gymnastics.
Memphis had been supposed to play at Georgia State on Sept. 30, and UCF was to
host Maine. To make it happen, the AAC will pay the buyout for those
non-conference games.

And that would be one of the easier moves, relatively speaking, if the goal was
to reschedule as many games as possible. Thursday morning, the AAC announced
South Florida-Connecticut, which was supposed to be last weekend, will move to
Nov. 4. But to make that happen, Houston had to move its homecoming game against
East Carolina a week later to Nov. 4 and instead go to USF the week before.

Though putting in a second bye week wouldn't necessarily solve the issue, it
would at least open up the chessboard to possibly move more pieces -- which
seems like a good idea if you're inclined to believe that climate changes will
fuel more extreme weather events.

"It creates a whole snowball effect when you only have one bye to get it lined
up," Bowen said. "My colleagues in our conference are going to talk about it in
our meetings in November. The majority of games are played in outdoor stadiums,
and when dangerous inclement weather happens it really affects football. You'll
see us asking that as a conference, because we have five universities affected
by Harvey and Irma and last year we had two schools affected. So it's two
seasons we've had this dynamic. We're going to have discussions with
Commissioner (Mike) Aresco. What are the possibilities here to give some
flexibility to reschedule? That's a good conversation to have."

COACHING CAROUSEL CLIPS

The situation at New Mexico, where Bob Davie is under investigation for
mistreating players, is worth watching because it's one of several messes that
will have to be cleaned up by incoming athletics director Eddie Nunez, who was
hired Aug. 31.

Former athletics director Paul Krebs, whose exit officially was announced in
June as a retirement, oversaw an athletics department that was awash in
mismanagement and scandal over allegations that he misused more than $65,000 in
public money to pay for athletics department officials and boosters to play golf
in Scotland (in violation of state law) and then didn't fully disclose it to the
university.

Meanwhile, the school announced in July -- after local reporters began digging
around -- that it had discovered $432,000 in uncollected payments on suites at
its basketball arena.

"(Krebs) just stopped working," said one person familiar with the situation, who
spoke on the condition of anonymity because of the sensitivity of the matter.
That person also told USA TODAY Sports that Krebs, on his way out the door, gave
multiyear contracts to two of his top deputies -- a significant breach of
protocol preceding an administrative change.

NMfishbowl.com, an independent website that does investigative reporting on the
Lobos athletics department, reported Wednesday that the probe into Davie began
after the latest round of athlete exit interviews conducted over the spring.

The person with knowledge of the situation told USA TODAY Sports that Nunez,
previously the deputy athletics director at LSU, was not informed of the ongoing
investigation into Davie when he took the job. But now it could very well be his
job to oversee the housecleaning of a department badly in need of
professionalism.

Though Davie has taken New Mexico to bowl games each of the last two years,
including a nine-win season in 2016, don't be surprised if this investigation
lingers and significantly impacts the direction of the program.

FAUX PAS OF THE WEEK

In a world full of insincere apologies and unnecessary backtracking, Oklahoma
quarterback Baker Mayfield probably generated more backlash over his apology for
planting the Sooner flag at Ohio Stadium than the act itself.

"It was an emotional game, so after the game I did not mean for it to be
disrespectful towards any Ohio State people at all, especially not the team or
the players, because they're a great team and a great program," Mayfield told
reporters in a video tweeted out by Oklahoma's official account. "I didn't mean
it to be disrespectful at all. We do the flag thing at OU-Texas, and so that's
just something I got caught up in an emotional win, and yeah, it should have
been something I did in the locker room, so I apologize for doing it in the
middle of the field."

No, Baker, you did what was authentic -- and most people loved it. There was no
need to apologize. Was there even outrage over this among Ohio State fans? You
won, so you get to celebrate how you want. Next time, don't apologize.

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2017 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              146 of 252 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 28, 2017 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Trump makes mark on world stage;
Global community sometimes reacted in shock, dismay

BYLINE: Oren Dorell, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 705 words


President Trump vowed he would put "America First" in world affairs, even if it
disrupted the way the world operated. And boy, did he. Here are ways he snubbed
world conventions and provoked international outcries:

Took call from Taiwan's leader

As president-elect, Trump broke with diplomatic tradition and angered China when
he took a congratulatory phone call from Taiwan's democratically elected
president, Tsai Ing-wen. China considers Taiwan a breakaway province, and the
United States does not have formal diplomatic ties with Taiwan. Trump soothed
mainland China's fury by reaffirming that the communist regime in Beijing is the
only legitimate government of the country.

Pulled out of the Trans-Pacific Partnership

On Jan. 23, his first  workday in office, Trump pulled the United States out of
a major trade pact negotiated by President  Obama with 11 countries that border
the Pacific Ocean. Trump called the withdrawal "a great thing for the American
worker." The other nations vowed to push ahead on the agreement.

Vowed to scrap NAFTA

The same day, the White House said Trump would renegotiate the 1994 North
American Free Trade Agreement with Mexico and Canada to stop U.S. companies from
moving plants  and eliminating American jobs. If a new accord could not be
reached that was fairer to U.S. workers and reduced the trade deficit, Trump
said, he would withdraw. Both U.S. neighbors have resisted major changes, and
talks continue.

Imposed travel ban

In his first week in office, Trump issued a travel ban on people from eight
countries, including six that have Muslim-majority populations. Federal courts
blocked the ban, the list of countries changed, and the Supreme Court approved
the latest version, which affects Iran, Libya, Syria, Yemen, Somalia and Chad.
Legal challenges continue.

Battled NATO over money

In his first meeting with NATO allies in May, Trump scolded their "chronic
underfunding" of the alliance and refused to explicitly endorse the mutual
defense clause of the treaty. In June, Trump affirmed the U.S. commitment to aid
any of the 28 NATO nations if they were attacked. He did so after other NATO
leaders said they would maintain a collective self-defense without U.S. support.

Pulled out of Paris climate accord

Trump ordered the government in June to stop implementing the Obama-era Paris
climate agreement, which called for the United States and other nations to
reduce carbon emissions that contribute to global warming. Trump, who has
disputed a scientific consensus that human activity causes higher temperatures,
said he would be willing to renegotiate a deal "that's more fair" to the United
States. Trump's actions, making the United States the lone holdout from the
global accord, drew condemnations from other leaders.

Threatened war with North Korea

Trump used incendiary threats about war with North Korea in August that departed
from the more restrained language other presidents have used and sparked
international fears of a  conflict. After North Korea said it would fire
missiles in the direction of Guam, a U.S. territory, Trump responded that "North
Korea ... will be met with fire and fury like the world has never seen." North
Korea did not  follow through on its threat. Trump traded  insults with North
Korean leader Kim Jong Un, calling him "little Rocket Man" and "a sick puppy."
Kim called Trump "a dotard."

Repudiated the Iran nuclear deal

Trump refused in October to certify that Iran is complying with the agreement in
2015 between Iran and six world powers that lifted sanctions in return for
limits on Iran's nuclear program. Trump left it up to Congress whether to
reimpose sanctions on Iran.  China, France, Germany, Russia and the United
Kingdom  said they would continue to honor the accord.

Recognized Jerusalem as Israel's capital

Trump's formal recognition of Jerusalem as Israel's capital angered Muslim
nations and drew a rebuke from 128 countries at the United Nations last week.
Only seven  nations joined the United States and Israel in voting against the
U.N. resolution. The resolution reaffirmed  that Jerusalem's future should be
decided in negotiations between Israel and Palestinians, who see East Jerusalem
as the capital of a future Palestinian nation.

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Pool photo by RONEN ZVULUN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2017 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              149 of 252 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             April 10, 2017 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

What made Kendall's fizz go flat?;
Jenners may carry some of the blame for Pepsi ad fiasco

BYLINE: Maria Puente, @usatmpuente, USA TODAY

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 3D

LENGTH: 629 words


Is Kendall Jenner to blame, even a little bit, for participating in a widely
mocked and subsequently dumped Pepsi ad? PepsiCo apologized to her for "putting
her in this position," but ... well, why? Did Pepsi make her do it?

Did the 21-year-old hot-model-of-the-moment not know that Pepsi's marketing and
advertising honchos conceived an ad that would rip off imagery from Black Lives
Matter protests and position guileless Kendall as soothing race relations with a
can of soda?

Didn't she or her powerfully eagle-eyed mother and manager, Kris Jenner, see the
storyboards before she agreed to the gig?

The Jenners have gone to ground, so they were not available to comment on the
fiasco and the extent to which either Kendall or Kris was involved in the
creation of the ad or its production.

But experts in reputation and branding management are skeptical that the
super-famous, super-savvy Jenner-Kardashian clan would not have known the
details of what they were getting their second-youngest member into.

"Generally speaking, the bigger the celebrity, the more they have the ability to
say no to things," says Gil Eyal, CEO and founder of  marketing firm HYPR, who
has worked with hundreds of celebrities and brands, including Pepsi (but not the
Kardashians).

Some hot celebrities, with huge Millennial social media audiences (Kendall has
78 million on Instagram) coveted by brands, have wide creative control, while
smaller celebs have almost no say, Eyal says. "(Major stars) have publicists and
attorneys who will vet things, and if there's anything they don't like, they can
veto it."

Ordinary models might show up for the shoot and just do what they're told. Not
the Kardashians, who are "extremely sophisticated" when it comes to managing
their brand and media, says Eric Schiffer, CEO of Reputation Management
Consultants, who describes himself as a strategic adviser to A-list stars in
Hollywood and has known Kris Jenner and her ex-husband, Bruce Jenner, since
their kids were young.

"There are photo boards of all these commercials, so they know exactly what's
going to happen," Schiffer says. "They did not enter into this in naïve fashion;
it was a giant miscalculation that reared its ugly soda head.  ... This is a
case when content slapped them in the face."

But, Schiffer says, "this is going to be OK. She's going to make it through
this, because the global entertainment consumer has a terrible memory whenever a
'scandalopera' happens."

Erik Bernstein, vice president of Bernstein Crisis Management, says he believes
Kendall Jenner had no involvement in the  conception and production of the ad.
"But there's also no way that her own PR team did not know the whole content
before she went to the shoot" in Thailand.

But he agrees Jenner probably won't be damaged.

"The rules are just so different for celebrities, and her audience is a bunch of
kids, anyone from age 12 to early 30s," Bernstein says. "Her most rabid fans do
not care about her behavior."

Eric Dezenhall, a veteran crisis manager in Washington, says young celebs
especially are so used to being praised for whatever they do, they don't always
think through things.

"In all likelihood Jenner thought this would be a warm and fuzzy spot with a
politically correct message, so no one on her team could necessarily envision
the blowback," he says. "Her job was to show up and look good, and she did
that."

One lesson  for celebrities, Bernstein says, is: Live by social media, die by
social media.

"Social media lets it all happen so much faster," Bernstein says. "People who
are outraged can figure out quickly that other people are outraged, too."

His advice to celebs: "Consider how anything can be misinterpreted. Other people
are not the same as you; consider putting yourself in other people's shoes."

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Pascal Le Segretain, French Select/Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2017 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              150 of 252 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                               May 1, 2017 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Report will show whether job growth bounced back in April

BYLINE: Paul Davidson, @Pdavidsonusat, USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 375 words


Did the labor market rebound after adding just 98,000 jobs in March? That's the
question this week's economic news will answer. Most analysts believe job growth
resumed its solid pace, but another disappointing showing would raise concerns
about the economy's health after the anemic first-quarter growth reported on
Friday.

Meanwhile, the Federal Reserve isn't expected to raise interest rates at a
meeting that concludes Wednesday but could give clues about a June hike. The
week also features data on consumer spending, manufacturing and service-sector
activity.

Consumer spending was sluggish in January and February, largely because
unusually warm weather crimped demand for utilities. But March was snowier and
colder in the Midwest and Northeast, and Nomura economist Lewis Alexander
expects a sharp recovery in heating usage. At the same time, a core measure of
retail sales picked up smartly as consumers received delayed tax refunds but
auto sales continued to drop. Overall, economists expect the Commerce Department
to report Monday that consumer spending rose a modest 0.2% in March.

Manufacturing activity has staged a nice comeback, expanding seven consecutive
months on the back of the oil sector's resurgence and an improving global
economy. Economists expect the Institute for Supply Management (ISM) to announce
that its index slipped again in April, indicating healthy growth at a slower
pace.

Unlike manufacturing, the service sector has expanded steadily for more than
seven years. But like U.S. factories, growth in sectors such as retail and
health care moderated in March after posting the fastest gains in a year the
prior month. Economists figure ISM on Wednesday will report a slight pickup in
April.

Fed officials estimate they'll raise the rate twice more this year amid steady
job creation and an improving economy, and its statement after a two-day meeting
could signal whether a June hike is likely. But with March's weak job gains and
last quarter's feeble economic growth, the Fed may  await a pickup to act.

Economists chalk up March's meager job gains to bad weather and expect the Labor
Department on Friday to report a healthy 193,000 payroll additions in April,
noting initial jobless claims  are near four-decade lows.

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Keith Srakocic, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2017 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              157 of 252 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           January 12, 2017 Thursday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Difficult to grade a poliarizing president

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 354 words


LETTERS

President Obama will go down in history as a significant and transformative
president, whom we will look back upon favorably decades into the future. From
increasing access to health care, to increasing rights of the disaffected, to
combating climate change, President Obama was on the right side of the issues.
He will be seen as a once-in-a-generation leader who will be sorely missed.

Thanks, Obama!

Steven Clayton

Ocean, N.J.

FACEBOOK

Donald Trump emerged when President Obama disenfranchised a large swath of
American citizens over eight years and when Hillary Clinton was crowned as the
Democratic nominee. Granted, Trump is a deeply flawed individual, but he was the
lesser of two evils.

Anthony Cieszkiewicz

In some ways, Obama being president was a good thing. His disastrous failure has
finally woken up much of America, and they've had enough of elite politicians.
President Trump is going to do great things for America.

Dwayne Landry

The legacy of the worst president ever is a broken Democratic Party, a bloated
federal government, a decimated militia, a racially divided nation, the largest
federal debt our nation has ever held and almost half of the workforce without
meaningful jobs.

Tr Hardenbergh

It's amazing how Obama thinks we are better off after eight years of nothing. No
hope, no change for the better. The world no longer respects the greatest
country, and that is because of him.

Mario Luna

Somehow this president had his party lose the Senate, the House and several
governorships, despite having a majority when he was elected.

Ernie Ziroll

TWITTER

We asked our followers their thoughts on President Obama's farewell speech on
Tuesday.

It just reinforced the fact that we are going from the best to an absolute
nightmare.

@thechairqueen

Loved it! Never agreed with all of his policies, but I love his commitment. I
agree with the message of getting involved.

@Limbaugh2016

I will miss the Obamas so much!

@untameheart2

I loved it. It was inspiring, powerful and a reminder that we're losing a great
man as president. Donald Trump could learn from Obama.

@BLACKGRLPOLI

For more, follow @USATOpinion or #tellusatoday.

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2017 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              164 of 252 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             April 17, 2017 Monday
                                FA CHASE EDITION

Arkansas stay reflects drop in executions nationwide;
2016 saw fewest put to death in 25 years

BYLINE: Steve Reilly, @BySteveReilly, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 574 words


An unprecedented series of  court rulings that halted the execution of eight
Arkansas prisoners reflects a decades-long national trend that has sharply
curtailed capital punishment.

Death penalty experts say the court decisions are in keeping with a number of
factors prompting executions in the United States to decline, including
challenges based on DNA evidence, litigation over the drugs used and increased
use of life without parole as a sentencing option.

Prisoner executions nationwide decreased nearly every year since 1999, when 98
prisoners were executed.  Twenty were executed nationwide in 2016, the fewest
since 1991.

The growth of life without parole as a sentencing option in many states, as well
as the high cost of prosecuting a capital case, have led prosecutors to push for
the death penalty in fewer cases, said Michael Benza, senior law instructor at
Case Western Reserve University School of Law.

"If you think of the death penalty as sort of a freeway, it's actually becoming
more of a country lane," he said.

Deborah Denno, a professor at Fordham University School of Law, said DNA
evidence has led to closer scrutiny of death penalty cases by both the legal
system and the general public.

"We've seen a precipitous decline since 1999," she said. "Attorneys were
starting to introduce DNA into court, and you had these cases showing that
people were innocent."

Although lethal injection became the nation's primary method of execution in the
1990s, Denno said, it is only in recent years that  challenges by death row
inmates and death penalty opponents have gained traction in the court system.

On Saturday, a federal judge ordered Arkansas  to halt the planned executions of
eight prisoners in less than two weeks, which Gov. Asa Hutchinson said was
necessary because the state's supply of one of three drugs used in executions
was set to expire.

In Saturday's ruling, U.S. District Judge Kristine Baker issued an injunction
blocking the state's plans on the grounds that the condemned inmates have a
right to challenge the drug protocol that would be used to execute them.

"A condemned prisoner can successfully challenge the method of his or her
execution by showing that the state's method 'creates a demonstrated risk of
severe pain' and 'the risk is substantial when compared to the known and
available alternatives,'" Baker wrote. The federal ruling followed federal and
state court decisions that also dealt setbacks to the execution plan.

Robert Dunham, executive director of the Death Penalty Information Center, which
advocates against capital punishment, said the nation is "in the middle of a
major climate change of the death penalty."

"When the executions have been delayed, new evidence has been discovered in a
number of cases that has later become the basis for overturning them," Dunham
said.

Joshua Marquis, the district attorney for Clatsop County, Ore., and a proponent
of the death penalty, attributed the decline in executions to a decrease in the
number of murder cases in which the death penalty might be appropriate.

Most Americans continue to support the concept of a justice system that includes
the death penalty, he said, noting that since 1964, no state has abolished the
death penalty by popular vote.

"I think what you'll see with the death penalty is fewer (executions)," Marquis
said. "But I think states will maintain it -- unless, of course, there's some
sort of sea change in American opinion."

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: graphic

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2017 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              165 of 252 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             April 28, 2017 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

President's tax overhaul would bring him a windfall;
Advisers contend the proposal will spur economic growth

BYLINE: Fredreka Schouten, @fschouten, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 595 words


President Trump's one-page plan to dramatically overhaul the U.S. tax code could
reap big benefits for one taxpayer in particular: Donald Trump.

His push to lower the corporate tax rate could slash taxes on the hundreds of
limited liability companies that make up his real-estate and licensing empire.
The billionaire and his family also stand to benefit from his plans to lower the
income tax rate for the wealthiest Americans and to abolish the federal estate
tax and the so-called alternative minimum tax.

One of the biggest potential tax windfalls: Trump's push to lower the tax rate
for so-called pass-through businesses.

Pass-throughs do not pay corporate taxes. Instead, the business' income is
reported on the owner's tax returns and is taxed at the owner's individual tax
rate. Trump's proposal would drop the current top tax rate of 39.6% to 15%.

Trump Organization LLC, the corporate umbrella for his far-flung business
empire, is a pass-through business. And Trump's financial disclosure forms show
income from more than 500 business entities, many of them limited liability
companies and partnerships that also qualify as pass-throughs.

"It's a very large tax cut for high-income people who get their income through
ownership of businesses," Eric Toder, co-director of the Tax Policy Center,
said.

Toder said Trump "fits the category of someone who would benefit" but said it's
hard to tell exactly how the change would affect the president because he has
not released his tax returns.

Asked Thursday about the plan's potential benefits to the president and his
family, White House spokesman Sean Spicer said taxpayers are more concerned
about what the plan would mean for their own tax bills.

"I would guess that most Americans would applaud what the president is doing to
spur economic growth and job creation in this country," Spicer said.

Nearly 92% of U.S. businesses operate as pass-throughs, ranging from limited
liability corporations to partnerships, such as hedge funds, medical practices
and law firms, according to Scott Greenberg of the non-partisan Tax Foundation
think tank.

The president's advisers say reducing the tax rate for these business will help
spur economic growth.

Toder said that's hard to know.

"Will they do more? Will they work harder if their tax rate is lower? Will they
invest more?" Toder said. "Maybe a little bit. On the other hand, you are
substantially increasing the budget deficit and making the tax law much more
complicated."

Daniel Shaviro, a tax professor at the New York University's School of Law, said
lowering the corporate tax rate, as Trump proposes, could help create a more
competitive climate for business in the United States.

But he said Trump's plan "gives enormous windfall gains to very rich people who
get an overwhelming majority of the tax reductions."

Tax experts say Trump also could benefit personally from other aspects of his
tax plan, including his push to abolish the  alternative minimum tax.

The supplemental tax aims to ensure that wealthy taxpayers do not take so many
deductions or claim so many losses that they end up avoiding tax payments. A
leaked 2005 tax return shows the alternative minimum tax increased Trump's taxes
by $31 million that year.

Trump also wants to repeal the federal estate tax, which currently has a top
rate of 40% and kicks in for individuals with estates worth $5.5 million or for
a couple with an estate worth $11 million. Trump has claimed he's worth $10
billion. Abolishing the federal estate tax would eliminate the taxes his heirs
would have to pay on any inheritance.

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Evan Vucci, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2017 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              170 of 252 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              May 30, 2017 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Saddled with post-election stress, more turning to yoga;
Coaches seeing higher enrollment, fewer dropouts

BYLINE: Paul Singer, @singernews, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 902 words


President Trump's election and the political cacophony that followed are driving
waves of people to yoga and meditation, seeking a respite from the
roller-coaster ride but also trying to recharge and build energy for a political
pushback.

Yoga and mediation coaches say they are seeing increased enrollment and fewer
dropouts from the annual "New Year's resolution" wave of sign-ups. Part of this
is stress relief -- the American Psychological Association reports that stress
nationwide is on the rise for the first time in 10 years.

But part of it is also meditation as resistance: Liberals see yoga as a place to
reflect and recharge batteries for the political fights outside.

"This last election especially felt so tumultuous and so dividing -- like there
was so much angst and anger on both sides," said Kristin McGee, celebrity yoga
instructor and author of a beginner's guide called Chair Yoga. "The whole idea
of yoga is to unite or to come together and to create a community. ... People
are trying to find a way to come together, to try to find what is it that makes
them feel connected and centered."

Since the election, McGee said, "more and more people are coming to classes,
more people are emailing me and asking me about how they can get started or
asking me for private sessions."

It is hard to find meaningful numbers on the post-election growth of yoga and
meditation, in part because both fields have seen a dramatic increase in U.S.
participation over the past decade. A joint study between the Yoga Journal and
the Yoga Alliance found the number of U.S. yoga practitioners increased from
20million in 2012 to 36 million in 2016, with about 72% of the participants
being women.

But practitioners say the rise of Trump has clearly set a new tone for many yoga
practitioners.

David Romanelli, a Los Angeles-based author and meditation teacher, said he
began a program of daily meditations for a group of about 50 clients right
around the time of Trump's inauguration. "Usually you see a lot of attrition --
that has not been the case this year. People have stuck to it."

Julie Campistron, CEO of the meditation app Stop, Breathe & Think, saw the same
phenomenon.

Campistron's app asks users to begin their meditation by choosing words to
describe their feelings, and the two days after the election "were the lowest
emotional state we've had in the history of the app, over 30% lower than the
year's average." Users chose words like "disappointed," "powerless" and
"pessimistic" nearly three times more often than they had a week before the
election.

She says the emotions being reported now have returned mostly to their average
level, but the users have shown an unusual persistence. "In our industry in
general we see a big increase at the beginning of the year because it is kind of
the 'new year, new you,'" she said. "Usually we see a decrease in March and
April, but this year has kept pretty steady. People are sticking with it."

Romanelli says the political climate has a lot to do with this: "If you are not
for Trump, it seems like it is the worst time in history. You need mindfulness
more than ever if you think the world is not in your favor."

Clearly, Americans are feeling more stress and politics is part of it. The
American Psychological Association reported in May that 26% of U.S. workers felt
stressed out by political discussions at work, up from 17% in the same survey
last September.

APA concluded in a January survey that overall U.S. stress levels, which have
been in general decline since 2007, saw their first statistically significant
increase in 10 years.

Kelly Colln, a certified yoga therapist and owner of KC Yoga Center in Kansas
City, Mo., said her clients span the political spectrum but many have been
"shocked at the hate and vitriol in the world." Colln said she does not address
politics at all in her studio, but there is still a social impact. "How do we
heal our nation? One yogi at a time," she said. "We work towards finding the
commonalities in each other." She also said that yoga helps relieve the stress
and pain that make people treat each other badly.

For liberals, yoga has been part retreat, part organizing strategy. After the
election, "yoga studios in Washington, D.C., turned into emotional trauma
wards," said Hari-kirtana das, a yoga instructor and author of a new book on the
spiritual basis of yoga called In Search of the Highest Truth. Das says the
shock to the mostly liberal yoga clientele is driving a change in the training
studios offer. "There has been a big uptick in the demand for mediation and
meditative yoga as opposed to very active energizing yoga," which was more
popular two years ago, he said.

People "need to find a tranquil space within themselves in order to feel
protected from a very antagonistic atmosphere that has been created by this
administration."

Yoga is at its core an inward-looking practice of self-control, aiming to block
out distraction and focus on your breathing. But many practitioners are now
looking to yoga as part of their political activism.

At a yoga festival in D.C. last weekend, Dema Al-Kakhan said yoga is both a way
to detach from the "chaos around you" and a path to activism. "When you work on
yourself and you are empowering yourself, you are able to fill your cup so you
are able to go out into the external world and make change. You can't serve your
community from an empty cup and low battery."

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo John Locher, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2017 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              173 of 252 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          September 13, 2017 Wednesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

The top 9 Senate races we're watching

BYLINE: Deirdre Shesgreen, Erin Kelly, Eliza Collins, Bart Sullivan, Maureen
Groppe, Ledyard King, Craig Gilbert and Heidi M. Przybyla USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 2042 words


Buckle up for a dramatic, vicious, multibillion-dollar fight for control of the
Senate next year, which may end with almost no changes to the chamber's narrow
partisan divide. About a dozen of those contests will be competitive. Two
competing crosscurrents of this election -- an unpopular Republican in the White
House vs. an electoral map that puts Democrats at a major disadvantage -- could
cancel each other out. Republicans defend far fewer seats, and only two GOP
senators are truly vulnerable: Sens. Jeff Flake of Arizona and Dean Heller of
Nevada. Ten Senate Democrats are up for-election in states that Trump won in
2016, and they all have targets plastered on their backs.

Blowing in the other direction? History. The party that controls the White House
almost always loses seats in Congress in midterm elections. President Trump's
public approval ratings are below 40%.

Democrats would need to pick up three seats to retake control of the Senate,
which is unlikely. Republicans would need a net gain of eight seats to hit the
coveted 60-vote threshold to break a filibuster, which is equally far-fetched.

The political climate could change dramatically by November 2018, resulting in
major shifts in the Senate's  52-48 partisan balance. There's no question that
both parties -- and their special-interest allies -- will mount a pricey,
pitched battle to sway the outcome.

Here's a race-by-race look at key contests with ratings from Inside Elections,
which provides non-partisan analysis. "Tossup" indicates the race is dead even;
"tilt" ratings indicate a slight edge for the specified party; and "lean"
ratings indicate a definite edge but an uncertain outcome.

Arizona

Incumbent: Republican Jeff Flake

Inside Elections rating: Tilt Republican

2016 presidential election results:

Trump: 49%, Clinton: 45%

Flake's re-election bid gained national attention because Trump is trying to
defeat him.

Flake has been an unwavering critic of the president. The senator's new book,
Conscience of a Conservative: A Rejection of Destructive Politics and a Return
to Principle, decries Trump's noise over substance, his embrace of alternative
facts and his "volatile unpredictability."

Trump has bitten back, denouncing Flake in a tweet as "toxic" and applauding
Flake's opponent in the GOP primary, former Arizona state senator Kelli Ward.
She lost a primary challenge against Sen. John McCain last year. Trump said
Flake is "weak on borders."

Flake, who grew up on a cattle ranch working alongside Mexican immigrants,
helped craft a bipartisan immigration bill that would have beefed up border
security while providing a pathway to citizenship for many undocumented
immigrants living in the USA. The Senate passed the bill in 2013, but it died in
the House.

Several Democrats are considering whether to run for the seat, including Rep.
Kyrsten Sinema, the first openly bisexual person to be elected to Congress.

Florida

Incumbent: Democrat Bill Nelson

Inside Elections rating: Tilt Democratic

2016 presidential election results:

Trump: 49%, Clinton: 48%

Nelson's re-election bid could be his toughest campaign yet.

His home state went for Trump last year. He's likely to face term-limited GOP
Gov. Rick Scott, whose deep pockets and rising popularity make him the most
formidable opponent Nelson has faced. Polls indicate lukewarm support at best
among Sunshine State voters for the Affordable Care Act, a law Nelson has
generally championed and Scott has vehemently opposed.

Nelson, who will turn 75 this month, remains a slight favorite to retain his
seat for a few reasons:

1) Trump's approval ratings remain underwater;

2) Though Scott's poll numbers have risen recently, Nelson's net favorability
ratings continue to outpace the governor's; 3) Despite deep concerns about
Obamacare's rising premiums and shrinking insurance options, voters in Florida
overwhelmingly panned GOP efforts in Congress to repeal and replace the law.

Hurricane Irma could play an important role in the campaign, as it's given Scott
an opportunity to demonstrate leadership during the crisis, which could boost
his approval ratings.

Indiana

Incumbent: Democrat Joe Donnelly

Inside Elections rating: Tossup

2016 presidential election results:

Trump: 57%, Clinton: 38%

A crowded field of Republicans vies for the opportunity to take him on.  Early
attacks between the top GOP candidates -- Reps. Todd Rokita and Luke Messer --
have been unusually personal.

Republicans are united in their argument that, despite Donnelly's moderate
record, he votes with fellow Democrats when it matters most. They have an
opening to define Donnelly on their terms because there are many Hoosiers still
getting to know the freshman senator, despite his frequent travels around the
state.

Cultivating an image of a low-key, keep-your-head-down-and-work-hard lawmaker
has meant avoiding the spotlight, particularly on controversial or highly
partisan issues.  Donnelly has focused on agriculture, national defense and
veterans' issues.

The spotlight on veterans, as well as Donnelly's emphasis on workers and jobs,
may help him with the blue-collar voters who flocked to Trump last year.

While appealing to Trump voters -- whom Donnelly says were "originally Joe
Donnelly supporters" -- he will have to keep liberal Democrats excited about
turning out to vote for him.

Missouri

Incumbent: Democrat Claire McCaskill

Inside Elections rating: Tossup

2016 presidential election results:

Trump: 57%, Clinton: 38%

Trump  took aim at McCaskill last month, urging a conservative crowd in
Springfield to vote McCaskill out if she didn't support the GOP's tax cut plan.
McCaskill didn't jab back, a sign that she's treading carefully when it comes to
Trump.  McCaskill portrays herself as a no-nonsense moderate willing to buck her
party on tough issues, such as environmental regulations.

McCaskill spent nearly all of August holding town halls in rural, GOP-leaning
parts of the state, defending her support for the Affordable Care Act and
touting her willingness to fix its flaws. Her travel schedule reflects the
reality that Missouri has become an increasingly conservative state, where
Republicans swept every statewide office in 2016.

Republicans bank on Missouri's attorney general, Josh Hawley, to unseat
McCaskill.

A rising GOP star, Hawley has tiptoed into the race amid pressure from GOP
heavyweights, including Vice President Pence. A handful of other Republicans are
weighing a bid, setting up a potentially crowded primary.

Montana

Incumbent: Democrat Jon Tester

Inside Elections rating: Tilt Democratic

2016 presidential election results:

Trump: 56%, Clinton: 36%

Tester could have faced the state's sole Republican congressman, Ryan Zinke,
next year had Trump not named Zinke secretary of the Interior, removing a
formidable competitor from the field.

The two-term Democrat with the distinctive flat-top haircut isn't out of the
woods. Montana voted overwhelmingly for Trump in 2016 and elected Republican
Greg Gianforte to replace Zinke in Congress, even after Gianforte physically
assaulted a reporter.

The state is not toxic for Democrats. Months before the special congressional
election this year, Montanans re-elected Democratic Gov. Steve Bullock. Tester
narrowly beat incumbent Conrad Burns in 2006 and edged out his 2012 opponent,
then-congressman Denny Rehberg, by 4 percentage points.

State Auditor Matt Rosendale is the best known of three Republicans vying for
the party's nomination next year, and he sports the same buzzcut hairdo as
Tester and many of the same "Make America Great Again" themes as Trump.

Nevada

Incumbent: Republican Dean Heller

Inside Elections rating: Tossup

2016 presidential election results:

Trump: 46%, Clinton: 48%

Nevada's senior senator won his last election by just 1 percentage point, and
his state is becoming less red. It was one of the only battleground states
Hillary Clinton won in the 2016 presidential race.

Heller has at least one Democratic challenger, Rep. Jacky Rosen, who was able to
flip Nevada's 3rd District to blue in 2016.

Before Heller faces off against Rosen or another Democrat, he must beat back a
GOP primary challenge from Danny Tarkanian -- a conservative who is closely
aligned with Trump and has won multiple GOP primaries, though no general
elections.

Heller has struggled to find a clear message in his campaign as he tries to
convince Nevada's conservative base to vote for him in the primary and the more
moderate electorate to pick him in the general.

He slammed the GOP-crafted bill to repeal Obamacare before supporting a slightly
narrower version. He voted to stop Medicaid reimbursements from going to Planned
Parenthood, even though he promised to protect the women's health care provider
when asked about that issue during a town hall meeting.

North Dakota

Incumbent: Democrat Heidi Heitkamp

Inside Elections rating: Tossup

2016 presidential election results:

Trump: 63%, Clinton: 27%

Shortly after Trump handily won her state, Heitkamp met with him at his Trump
Tower offices amid speculation she was considered for a Cabinet post. She ended
up without a nomination and voted against five of Trump's Cabinet picks, but she
broke with her party to support the president's Supreme Court nominee, Neil
Gorsuch.

To win re-election, Heitkamp will need to continue to distinguish herself from
the Democrats' national brand, as she did supporting the Keystone XL pipeline,
and hope that Trump's national approval rating stays low.

Republican state Sen. Tom Campbell announced he will challenge Heitkamp, perhaps
heading off a bid by GOP Rep. Kevin Cramer, who  was considering a run.

By creating an image as a centrist who can work with Trump, Heitkamp may offend
liberals, but they'll vote for her anyway.

Heitkamp appears to be in no hurry to engage in the debate. She has not
announced that she is running, but she is paying for campaign staff and
advertising, and she ended June with more than $3 million in her campaign
coffers.

West Virginia

Incumbent: Democrat Joe Manchin

Inside Elections rating: Tossup

2016 presidential election results:

Trump: 68%; Clinton: 26%

In a sign of Trump's popularity in the state, West Virginia's Democratic Gov.
Jim Justice announced he was switching to the Republican Party, so he could be
more helpful to the president.

Manchin and Trump have had a good personal relationship and were speaking
regularly, but they grew distant after Trump asked the moderate Democrat to
support Republican-led efforts to repeal and replace Obamacare, and Manchin said
he could not.

According to the politics website FiveThirtyEight, Manchin has voted for
legislation Trump supports about 54% of the time.

Rep. Evan Jenkins -- a Democrat-turned-Republican who took West Virginia's 3rd
District from Democratic hands in 2014 -- announced he's challenging Manchin.
State Attorney General Patrick Morrisey is also in the running.

Manchin, a former governor who won his last race by 24 percentage points,
benefits from his name recognition in the state. A recent poll by West
Virginia's MetroNews has Manchin ahead of Jenkins by 10 points and Morrisey by
14 points.

Wisconsin

Incumbent: Democratic Sen. Tammy Baldwin

Inside Elections rating: Tilt Democratic

2016 presidential election results:

Trump: 47%, Clinton: 46%

Baldwin is half of the Senate's leading political odd couple, one of the
chamber's most liberal members paired with one of its most conservative
(Republican Ron Johnson). That shows how Wisconsin has swung in recent years.
Johnson got elected opposing Obamacare, while Baldwin is a vocal defender.

Baldwin is roughly aligned with Trump on one set of issues -- economic populism,
including "fixing" trade deals and enacting "buy American" laws -- that resonate
with some voters in a state that's more reliant on manufacturing than almost any
other. One key to her campaign will be whether she can hold on to blue-collar
counties she won in 2012 but swung from Obama to Trump in 2016.

Baldwin is the last big GOP target in a state where Republicans dominate the
Legislature, hold five of eight U.S. House seats, have won the past three
elections for governor and the most recent contests for U.S. Senate and
president.

Announced or potential GOP challengers include state Sen. Leah Vukmir, wealthy
businessman Eric Hovde and U.S. Marine veteran Kevin Nicholson.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2017 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              176 of 252 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           November 16, 2017 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Eminem tests the waters in a new social climate

BYLINE: Patrick Ryan USA TODAY

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 3D

LENGTH: 810 words


The music world is a very different place than Eminem left it.  The rap icon
released his last solo album, The Marshall Mathers LP 2, in November 2013 -- a
month before Beyoncé led a feminist charge on her self-titled surprise effort; a
year before Kesha filed a lawsuit against producer Dr. Luke alleging sexual
assault; and more than two years before Kanye West reignited a pop-culture flame
war with Taylor Swift over his derogatory lyrics about her on Famous.

Fast-forward to this fall, when each new day brings another wave of sexual
harassment allegations against people in power from all corners of the
entertainment industry: megaproducer Harvey Weinstein. Actor Kevin Spacey.
Comedian Louis C.K. Meanwhile, artists continue to navigate an increasingly
fraught political climate.

It's certainly a questionable time for the return of Eminem, who released
Beyoncé-assisted single Walk on Water last week and whose ninth studio album,
reportedly titled Revival, is expected Friday. (The rapper's representatives did
not return USA TODAY's request for confirmation.)

Eminem's catalog has long been characterized by rampant homophobia and misogyny,
prejudices that are slowly becoming less prominent  in mainstream hip-hop. Under
the alter ego Slim Shady, he has rapped about slitting a cheating lover's throat
(Guilty Conscience), raping his mom (Kill You) and stabbing gay and trans people
(Criminal).  Other lyrics have attacked female celebrities, describing graphic
sexual violence toward Lana Del Rey, Iggy Azalea and Pamela Anderson, among
others.

Whether tongue in cheek or literal, his  speech doesn't appear to be a thing of
the past. Earlier this year, the 45-year-old MC caught flak for his verse on Big
Sean's No Favors, in which he describes torturing political commentator Ann
Coulter. And on Pink's new song Revenge, he repeatedly uses slurs such as
"whore" and "slut."

The pop star, who was previously featured on Eminem's Won't Back Down, defends
his verse as an irreverent kiss-off to an ex.

"I know that some people think he's homophobic, misogynistic and all kinds of
things, but there's a very serious side of me that's an activist and there's a
very silly side to me. (Revenge) is the silly side," Pink told USATODAY last
month. "I've worked with Eminem a thousand times -- he is not those things. He
is an artist, he is a genius, and he presses people's buttons on purpose.

"I get it. There's a time to be serious; there's a lot of things to fight (right
now)," she said. "I don't think Eminem is one of those people to fight. He's one
of those people to enjoy for what it is."

Starting with his 1999 major-label debut The Slim Shady LP, "he's insisted that
he's going to be as vile as he wants to be, because that's his persona," says
Spencer Kornhaber, a staff writer at The Atlantic who has written about Eminem.
"People right now want to think of musicians and artists as politicians, and he
has always been more in the camp of he's going to turn his brain inside out, and
whatever disgusting things come out, come out. I would be surprised if that
changed now."

But how many more of Eminem's shock-value lyrics are people willing to accept?
Longtime fans may feel the Grammy winner's demeaning portrayals of women are out
of step with today's landscape.

"For some people, this post-Harvey Weinstein moment has been a chance to wake up
to (the fact) that misogyny is a real thing, and elevating artists like Eminem
has real-world consequences," Kornhaber says. "Perhaps some people who just had
an awakening will no longer be able to listen to Eminem if they were able to
before, but I think for the most part, he's going to sell a lot of albums
regardless."

His most recent output also suggests  he could be modulating his material. In
October, Eminem unleashed a profane freestyle denouncing  President Trump at the
BET Hip-Hop Awards, calling out his Twitter tirades about the NFL national
anthem protests,  gun control and hurricane recovery. Walk on Water, too, trades
his sexist content for an introspective look at his legacy and career.

Both songs "suggest that he's responding in some way to this shift in national
discourse, particularly around sexual violence," says Erik Nielson, an associate
professor at the University of Richmond, where he teaches classes on hip-hop
culture and African-American literature. "It's a little early to tell, but he
seems that he's aware of this change in tone (culturally) and seems willing to
adapt.

"I'm not sure what he will do (on Revival), but I'm convinced that he's capable
of doing a lot more than he has.  That Trump freestyle got a lot of people's
attention, and I would love to see him use the momentum from that to start
tackling these issues of sexual misconduct, sexual violence and misogyny. I'm
not sure he will, but I believe he is in a better position than most people to
do it."

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Dave J Hogan/Getty Images for MTV

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2017 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              198 of 252 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             March 13, 2017 Monday
                                FA CHASE EDITION

Northeast steels itself for 'ferocious' snowstorm;
Blizzard conditions could tie up travel

BYLINE: John Bacon, @jmbacon, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 698 words


Tens of millions of people in the Northeast enjoying one of the warmest winters
on record faced the ominous prospect of a massive and dangerous storm Monday
that could blast the region with up to 18 inches of snow and  winds capable of
disrupting power, closing schools and creating travel chaos.

A powerful nor'easter was forecast to track along the East Coast late Monday
through Tuesday, the National Weather Service said. Strong winds with gusts of
up to 50 mph may cause blizzard conditions along some coastal areas.

The Weather Service warned that any change in track could dramatically alter the
amount of snow and where it falls. But there is little doubt that a big storm
will explode on the region, says Tom Kines, senior meteorologist for
AccuWeather.

"A lot would really have to go wrong, so to speak, for this system to not
deliver a ferocious punch," Kines told USA TODAY. "The reality is we are just
hemming and hawing over snow amounts -- who gets 6, 12 or even 18."

Blockbuster snowstorms in March, while not common, aren't unprecedented. Two of
the three largest and heaviest snowstorms in the Northeast since 1956 took place
in March, according to The Weather Channel, in 1960 and 1993. The 1993 system,
known as the Storm of the Century, dropped crippling snow totals from Florida to
Maine, left about 300 people dead and shut down travel for days.

A wet, heavy snow combined with high winds could mean damaged trees and power
lines and blocked roads this week. Washington, Baltimore, Philadelphia, New York
and Boston  could face a direct hit, meaning airport disruptions could lead to
flight delays and cancellations across much of the nation.

Philadelphia International Airport tweeted that some airlines would be issuing
travel waivers and urged travelers to contact their carriers. With snow already
rolling across parts of the Midwest, airlines canceled more than 100 flights
Sunday and more than 500 on Monday, according to FlightAware.

"Anybody looking to travel on Tuesday, whether by land or air, will find it
difficult or impossible in many places," Kines warns.

Kines said two "pieces of energy" were involved. A storm system was dumping
heavy snow across the Northern Plains on Sunday and was heading east. Another
storm system  is expected to form Monday off South Carolina, he says.

"That storm is going to take control," he says. "The big cities will probably
fall into the 6- to 12-inch category. But there will be places that get 12 to
18. And it's not out of the question that New York or Boston will be among those
places."

The National Weather Service issued a blizzard watch from New York City and Long
Island to southern Connecticut, southern Rhode Island and parts of southeastern
Massachusetts, including Boston. Parts of the Mid-Atlantic and Northeast,
including Philadelphia, Baltimore and Washington, were under winter storm
watches.

Washington's transit system said it would shut down transportation system for
the disabled  at 4 p.m. Monday and warned that bus service was imperiled. New
York issued a snow alert and was preparing trucks for an assault on city
streets. New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo promised state residents that his crews had
more than 2,000 trucks and 443,000 tons of road salt at the ready.

The menacing forecast comes less than two weeks after February wrapped up as the
nation's second-warmest since climate tracking began in 1895. But days of bitter
cold, with more to come, doesn't bode well for the  flowers that had prematurely
emerged on trees and plants across much of the region.

The storm was billed as a potential nor'easter -- brutal storms that form along
the East Coast as warm air from over the Atlantic Ocean clashes with arctic cold
to the north and west. Coastal flooding and beach erosion were also concerns.

Most of the region will be dealing with extremely cold temperatures until the
weekend, so don't look for a quick melt, Kines says. The big storm, if it
materializes, would hit just a week before spring officially arrives.

"The fact that it is snowing, that happens this late" in the season, Kines says.
"When you start talking a foot of snow or more, that doesn't happen very often."

Contributing: Bart Jansen

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Matt Rourke, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2017 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              205 of 252 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                               May 1, 2017 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

May Day protests target Trump policies;
Immigration among the biggest subjects of demonstrations

BYLINE: Rick Jervis, @mrRjervis, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 396 words


Hundreds of thousands of demonstrators are expected to take to the streets
Monday in massive May Day events across the USA mostly protesting the policies
of President Trump.

May Day -- also known as International Workers' Day -- has spawned protests
around the globe in past years highlighting workers' rights. But on Monday, the
impetus for the U.S. marches span from immigrants' rights to LGBT awareness to
police misconduct.

"There's a real galvanization of all the groups this year," said Fernanda Durand
of CASA in Action, which will lead a march of about 10,000 people for
immigrants' rights through downtown Washington. "Our presence in this country is
being questioned by Donald Trump. We are tired of being demonized and
scapegoated. We've had enough."

Durand's protest is part of the Rise Up umbrella movement that promises 259
events in more than 200 cities in 41 states focusing on immigrants' rights, she
said. Another widespread effort, dubbed Beyond the Movement, will feature a
collection of racial-justice groups and include protests in more than 50 cities,
from Portland, Ore., to Miami.

Erick Sanchez, another Washington-based organizer, said he's seen the melding of
different groups in previous events this year, from the Women's March on
Washington to climate change awareness protests. Monday will be the culmination
of gelling these disparate groups, he said.

"There's really a sense that we're in this together," he said. "That an attack
on one is an attack on all."

Trump released a statement Friday declaring May 1 "Loyalty Day" as a way to
"recognize and reaffirm our allegiance to the principles" upon which America was
built, calling on all government buildings to display the U.S. flag and schools
to observe the holiday with ceremonies.

The holiday has been proclaimed by every president since Dwight D. Eisenhower,
on differing dates, but Trump's critics skewered the timing of the proclamation
on social media.

"If I were like, the worst president ever & wanted to make my critics look like
traitors, I would declare May 1st Loyalty Day," wrote @Onision.

Originally a pagan celebration dating back two millenniums and heralding the
return of spring, May Day has morphed into a global observance of workers'
rights. But its emergence as an international workers' rights day actually arose
from a May 1, 1886, Chicago strike for the eight-hour workday.

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Sophia Tareen, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2017 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              213 of 252 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              May 26, 2017 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

G-7 leaders to size up 'America First' president;
Russia is likely to come up during group's discussions

BYLINE: David Jackson, @djusatoday, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 496 words


Candidate Donald Trump's frequent refrain on the campaign trail was that other
countries treat the USA unfairly.

Very likely, he had multilateral groups such as the Group of Seven in mind.

This weekend, at President Trump's first summit with the world's most advanced
economies, other members of the G-7 will get the chance to assess what the
president's "America First" foreign policy means for them.

"The main agenda item of the other G-7 members will be sizing up Trump, figuring
out who he is and what he stands for," said Charles Kupchan, a former National
Security Council member and a senior fellow with the Council on Foreign
Relations.

There's a wide range of issues on the agenda. The group will address concerns
about Russia's aggression toward other countries, North Korea's nuclear weapons
program, Syria's civil war and the threat of terrorism, an even bigger priority
in the wake of Monday's attack on concertgoers in Manchester, England.

Trade is sure to be a high priority as Trump seeks to get what he sees as the
best deals for Americans, even if it means shaking up long-standing trade
agreements. What's more, Trump is considering whether to the pull the United
States out of the 2015 Paris climate accord to cap carbon emissions -- a move
many G-7 members are almost certain to condemn.

Trump's attendance at the G-7 in Taormina, Italy, on the island of Sicily, caps
his first foreign trip as president.

Formed in the mid-1970s, the G-7 summit is designed to give global leaders an
opportunity to discuss global challenges in more relaxed settings. The
discussions among G-7 members -- the United States, Canada, France, Germany,
Italy, Japan and the United Kingdom -- will probably include potentially
difficult discussions about a former member of the group: Russia.

Expelled from what was then the G-8 over its annexation of the Crimean region of
Ukraine in 2014, Russia is under fire after accusations of attempted
interference in elections in Western countries, including the USA. G-7 members
have criticized Russia over its support of Syrian dictator Bashar Assad. Russia
and Syria are accused of killing anti-Assad rebels in the guise of fighting
Islamic State terrorism.

Russia remains an awkward topic for Trump.

Last week, the Justice Department announced the appointment of a special counsel
to oversee the FBI's investigation into possible collusion between Trump
campaign associates and Russians who allegedly sought to influence the 2016
presidential election by hacking Democratic political organizations.

Trump called the investigation a "witch hunt" and sought warmer relations with
Russia. This month, he welcomed top diplomats to an Oval Office meeting at which
he reportedly disclosed classified information in an attempt to get Moscow to
step up its fight against the Islamic State.

"I am not 100% sure that we can say today ... that we have a common position,
common opinion, about Russia," European Council President Donald Tusk said
Thursday.

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Andrew Harnik, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2017 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              216 of 252 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              June 9, 2017 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

U.K. vote puts May's majority in jeopardy;
Coalition may be necessary once the final results are in

BYLINE: Kim Hjelmgaard, and Jane Onyanga-Omara, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 604 words


British Prime Minister Theresa May's Conservative Party was projected to win the
most parliamentary seats in the country's election Thursday but fall short of a
majority, according to an exit poll and an election forecast.

If the projections hold, May loses her political gamble to strengthen her
party's majority as she heads into difficult talks with the European Union over
the nation's impending withdrawal from the 28-nation political bloc.

The BBC predicted Conservatives would win 322 seats to 261 by the Labour Party.
It forecast the Scottish National Party to win 32 seats and Liberal Democrats to
take 13, with the remainder split by smaller parties.

A national exit poll suggested the Conservatives would win 314 of 650  seats
while the Labour Party, led by Jeremy Corbyn, would win 266 seats. To form a
government, 326 seats are needed. Final results were expected early Friday.

If correct, May would need to team up with smaller parties to form a ruling
coalition government. It would be an extraordinary humiliation for her and she
could face pressure to resign.

It is also possible that Corbyn could secure enough seats to form a government,
although May would be given the first opportunity to do so.

In the last parliamentary election in 2015, then-prime minister David Cameron's
Conservative Party won 331 seats. Britain's referendum on EU membership in June
2016 was narrowly approved by the public, 52% to 48%, prompting Cameron -- who
opposed Brexit -- to resign. May, Home secretary at the time, succeeded him.

She called for Thursday's election in April when polls suggested she would win a
landslide victory that would give her more leverage to negotiate favorable exit
terms with the EU.

A narrow victory Thursday would hurt her ability to achieve that, as EU leaders
have vowed to make Britain pay a steep price for leaving the alliance.

During the campaign, May vowed to build a "stronger, fairer and more prosperous
Britain," while Corbyn's signature campaign slogan was to govern "for the many,
not the few."

A win for May would leave Washington with a British leader ready to work with
President Trump despite  differences over how to approach climate change, NATO
and other global concerns. If Corbyn wins, Trump can expect a hostile challenge
to his positions.

The election was a two-horse race between the Conservatives and Labour -- the
Liberal Democrats party has consistently come a distant third in national polls.

Expectations that May would romp to victory had been weakened by the recent
terrorist attacks in Manchester and London as well as a lackluster campaign by
May, said Richard Whitman, a professor of politics at the University of Kent.

"The Conservatives believed that by simply making this vote about perceptions
around May's strong leadership on leaving the EU this would win it for them.
What they've found instead is that the electorate really is interested in detail
on health care, education and social care issues." Corbyn has focused on the
Conservatives' cuts in those programs.

Paula Brown, 48, a south London therapist, said she backed Corbyn because her
daughter is going to college in September and Labour  pledged to abolish
university fees of $12,000 a year for students starting courses this fall.

David McDermott, 69, a  London retiree, said he hoped for a Conservative
majority because Labour "is so far against what we believe in."

Government figures show about 2 million people  34 and younger registered to
vote between April 18 and May 22 -- 20% higher than in the same period before
last June's EU referendum. Analysts said  youth turnout could be key to the
outcome.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo ADRIAN DENNIS, AFP/Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2017 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              218 of 252 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            June 14, 2017 Wednesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Networks, stop breaking 'CHiPs' off the old TV block;
But if you must, here are some to consider

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 6D

LENGTH: 551 words


Hollywood studios live up to their liberal stereotype in at least one respect:
They love to recycle.

On the heels of a criminally half-hearted remake of CHiPs, how else to explain
revisiting Baywatch flotsam, however pretty, when it first washed up on TV
screens in the '90s? From what I've seen of  the widely panned remake,  the
Dwayne Johnson-Zac Efron abs scam sounds dumber than the original, which, in an
odd way, must be some kind of achievement.

At least when you recycle plastic, you get a water bottle.

The financial benefits of remakes are understandable: Familiarity with -- and
fondness for -- the originals can draw the attention of viewers bombarded with
so many entertainment choices. But at some level, jamming through too many lame
copies just because a studio owns the rights stifles new ideas.

Some TV-to-film reboots work by honoring the original, even if they don't tell
the same story. Star Trek gained new life in theaters. Tom Cruise's Mission:
Impossible improved when the films embraced the TV show's team model, with
operatives working as interlocking puzzle pieces.  (Wonder Woman doesn't count
here, since the well-received blockbuster traces its roots more to comic books
than the cheesy '70s series. And they were all cheesy in the '70s.)

Others, including the 21 Jump Street franchise, succeeded by going against the
grain, turning TV melodrama into big-screen slapstick.

That's the big problem with Baywatch (which an earned a disappointing $51.1
million at the U.S.  box office), CHiPs ($18.6 million) and others like them:
They try to out-silly shows that, even at their most charming, were a bit
ridiculous.

How do you parody Baywatch, a series with Speedo-thin plots and characters? Best
answer: Don't.

That said, if you can't beat 'em, copy 'em. So, working under the creative limbo
principle - How low can you go? - we've scoured the TV graveyard, digging up
old chestnuts that could be warmed over and re-served on the big screen - with a
tweak or two:

Chachi Loves Chachi -- Scott Baio returns to his career-defining role in this
spinoff of a weak spinoff (Joanie Loves Chachi) of '70s sitcom hit Happy Days.
One crazy plot concept: Chachi goes into politics. #MakeAmericaWaWaWaAgain

The Mystery of Al Capone's Vaults -- Geraldo Rivera is back, but this time the
vault isn't empty:  Rivera's former Fox News buddy, Bill O'Reilly, is inside
doing a podcast.

Gilligan's Island: Nothing Atoll -- Climate change claims the castaways'
uncharted -- make that underwater -- desert isle. If only the Professor could
have perfected that coconut temperature regulator. Glug, glug, glug,
Skip-perrr!!! On the other hand, if Dwayne Johnson and Zac Efron and their
Baywatch buddies showed up ....

Joe Billionaire -- Joe Millionaire, whose lack of riches was the twist in a
brief Fox dating show phenomenon, has moved up in the world of income
inequality: He's now a fake billionaire! Potential spouses try to dig up his tax
returns.

Personimal -- A culturally aware update of Manimal, an '80s series memorable
only for its title, in which a doctor solves crimes by shape-shifting into
various animals. The new version faces contemporary challenges: Many species
featured in the original are now considered endangered, and Marvel's Wolverine
and Wolfsbane are always ganging up on our hero.

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo GPN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2017 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              221 of 252 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             July 6, 2017 Thursday
                                CA CHASE EDITION

Despite bumps in road, hybrid cars are still powering on;
Their future is bright amid shaky market

BYLINE: Nathan Bomey, @NathanBomey, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 308 words


Drivers may have lost interest in the most fuel-efficient cars because of low
gasoline prices, but don't kick hybrid vehicles to the curb just yet.

In fact, their future looks more certain than ever after Swedish automotive
brand Volvo announced Wednesday that it would stop launching conventional
gasoline-engine vehicles after 2019. Volvo said all of its new models would be
electric cars, hybrids or "mild" hybrids, which are gasoline vehicles partially
powered by battery-driven motors.

Despite plummeting sales for the world's most popular hybrid, the Toyota Prius,
and a shaky market for electric cars, Volvo is moving ahead in a real-world
example of how foreign regulations are exerting more influence on the U.S. car
market.

The industry is still hoping  President Trump will weaken U.S. fuel economy
standards amid low gasoline prices that have undermined the appeal of
fuel-efficient vehicles. That in turn has driven up demand for crossovers,
sport-utility vehicles and pickups.

But automakers operate on a global scale and like to develop models they can
sell internationally to spread out costs and maximize revenue. With China and
European regulators pressing for fuel-efficient vehicles to combat air pollution
and climate change, automakers like Volvo may have no choice but to embrace
hybrids until lower battery costs make pure electric vehicles more affordable.

Anticipation of stricter emissions standards in Europe "is one of the reasons we
are making this announcement," Volvo global CEO Hakan Samuelsson said in a news
conference.

Volvo is owned by Chinese automaker Geely, which is under pressure to deliver
more fuel-efficient models in its home market.

"This is where some of the talk about going backward on the fuel economy
emission standards is out of step with the rest of the world," Autotrader.com
analyst Michelle Krebs said.

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo volvo

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2017 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              226 of 252 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             July 27, 2017 Thursday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Turn away from a new Cold War

BYLINE: Norman Solomon

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 347 words


The drive to put more sanctions on Russia might feel good. But fueling a new
Cold War can only propel the United States in the wrong direction. It's time to
turn away from a collision course, not step on the gas.

Whatever you think of Vladimir Putin -- or Donald Trump, for that matter -- they
are the presidents of the world's nuclear superpowers. Piling sanctions on
Russia means escalating tensions. And that's extremely dangerous.

When this year began, the Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists moved its
risk-estimate Doomsday Clock closer to apocalyptic midnight than at any time
since 1953. "The probability of global catastrophe is very high, and the actions
needed to reduce the risks of disaster must be taken very soon," the Bulletin's
expert panel warned.

If new sanctions target Russia, the predictable results will include angry
responses from the Kremlin and more polarized attitudes in both countries --
damaging the prospects for any détente while boosting a spiral of mutual
hostility.

Democratic lawmakers rightly deride Republicans for their "climate change
denial," but both parties are locked into a kind of "nuclear war denial" in
relation to Russia. The latest sanctions bill is part of an obsession with
denouncing Russia that leaves scant room for considering how to reduce the
dangers of nuclear war between the two countries.

Such a war would be horrific. "A war fought with the deployed U.S. and Russian
nuclear arsenals would leave Earth virtually uninhabitable," according to Steven
Starr, a former member of the Physicians for Social Responsibility national
board.

In a warning last winter, former Defense secretary William Perry said,  "We're
going back to the kind of dangers we had during the Cold War."  Those concerns
are even more relevant and urgent now: "We are starting a new Cold War. We seem
to be sleepwalking into this new nuclear arms race."

While parading for sanctions against Russia, the sleepwalkers on Capitol Hill
are endangering the future of humanity.

Norman Solomon is an author and a co-founder of RootsAction.org, an online
activist group.

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2017 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              228 of 252 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              July 31, 2017 Monday
                                 FIRST EDITION

'Dunkirk' conquers box office for a second weekend;
'Emoji Movie' overcame severely negative reviews

BYLINE: Lindsey Bahr, The Associated Press

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 4D

LENGTH: 441 words


The Emoji Movie survived negative reviews but couldn't defeat Dunkirk, which had
enough fight left to conquer the box office for a second weekend in a row.

Down only 44% from its first weekend, director Christopher Nolan's World War II
film earned $28.1 million to take first place, according to studio estimates
Sunday. Dunkirk has grossed $102.8 million domestically to date.

The Emoji Movie finished second with $25.7 million. The film, featuring the
voices of T.J. Miller and Anna Faris as anthropomorphized emojis, got pummeled
by critics (only 8% liked it on aggregate review site Rotten Tomatoes), but
audiences still turned out.

"It's great when the critics and audiences are in sync, but in the end it comes
down to: Has the film reached the intended audience?" says Adrian Smith, Sony's
president of domestic distribution. "Seeing these results, it clearly has."

Sony expects the film, which cost an estimated $50 million to make, to play well
for the rest of the summer.

The divide between reviews and a film's success has been a continuing topic this
summer, as some films, such as Baywatch, capsized under poor reviews, and others
like Emoji seemed immune.

"Kids don't care about reviews, and there is a severe lack of family films in
the marketplace," says Paul Dergarabedian, senior media analyst for comScore.

But Emoji  fell at the box office throughout the weekend after a strong Friday
when it placed No. 1, possibly because of negative word of mouth on social
media, Dergarabedian says.

Also holding on quite well is  R-rated comedy Girls Trip, which took third place
with $20.1 million. Even in its second weekend, Girls Trip beat out the splashy
new Charlize Theron action film Atomic Blonde, about a British spy on a mission
in Berlin during the Cold War, which opened fourth with $18.6 million.

While reviews were generally positive, audiences gave the film a middling B
grade on CinemaScore.

In fifth place was Spider-Man: Homecoming, now in its fourth weekend. The new
web slinger added $13.5 million, bumping the film's domestic total to $278.4
million. Homecoming has surpassed both Amazing Spider-Man movies at the North
American box office, although it still lags behind behind the Tobey Maguire
Spider-Man films.

Kathryn Bigelow's Detroit, based on the 1967 riots, launched in a handful of
markets, including Detroit, New York, Los Angeles and Atlanta. It earned a
strong $365,455 from the limited launch.

Also playing well in limited release is the Al Gore-led climate change
documentary An Inconvenient Sequel: Truth to Power, which took in $130,000 from
four locations.

Final figures are expected Monday.

Contributing: Kim Willis

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2017 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              230 of 252 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             August 11, 2017 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

GOP loosens government grip on land;
'Energy dominance' policy wants areas open to development

BYLINE: Bartholomew D. Sullivan, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 1309 words


As the new Republican-dominated House convened in early January, anticipating
the arrival of President Trump, the chairman of the House Natural Resources
Committee declared it time for a "paradigm shift" in how the more than 25% of
the country that is owned by the federal government is managed.

Almost eight months into a Republican-led effort, that shift is underway.

On the first day of the new Congress, Republicans passed a rule that made it
easier to make conveyances of federal land by treating such transfers as
cost-free even if they would potentially cause losses of revenue from mining or
drilling rights.

Days after Trump took office, then-congressman Jason Chaffetz of Utah introduced
legislation that would have disposed of 3.3 million acres of public land in 10
Western states. After irate calls and protests, he withdrew the bill days later.

In March, the new Interior secretary, Ryan Zinke, repealed a January 2016
moratorium on new coal leases on federal land by the Bureau of Land Management
before a planned three-year environmental assessment -- that would have looked
into "the social cost of carbon" -- could be completed.

In April, the president asked Zinke to study the size of national monuments made
since 1996 by presidential fiat under the Antiquities Act. The review was in the
context of a new policy of "energy dominance" and the planned acceleration of
resource extraction from public lands.

In June, Zinke, a former Montana congressman and Navy SEAL, said the department
would postpone elements of the methane rule that requires energy companies to
capture the natural gas on public lands rather than flaring it off, the standard
industry practice.

In a meeting in July with Office of Management and Budget Director Mick
Mulvaney, Zinke said he planned to implement the energy dominance Trump called
for by requiring his department to reach faster decisions on leases and permits
on federal land and becoming a partner with extraction industries rather than an
adversary. Mulvaney said the Interior was "leading the way" in the  deregulation
Trump advocates.

Zinke's views on the evolving Republican House public lands strategy are
complicated. He said he wants to be a good steward and opposes turning over
federal land to local or state governments or private interests. His
justification for delaying full implementation of the methane rule wasn't so
much that it was bad public policy, since it would stop wasting a public
resource that could generate revenue, but balancing that goal with the cost to
the industry.

Though raising revenue from public lands is in tune with the goals of House
Republicans such as Natural Resources Chairman Rob Bishop of Utah, Zinke is not
entirely on board with all their agenda. When Republicans convened their
national convention in Cleveland last summer, the platform committee agreed to a
policy of providing "an orderly mechanism requiring the federal government to
convey certain federally controlled lands to the states." Zinke, a member of the
committee who disagreed with the policy statement, walked out.

Zinke told senators at his confirmation hearing, and in several public
appearances since, that one of his heroes is Theodore Roosevelt, the Republican
president who doubled the number of national parks and signed the 1906
Antiquities Act. At a White House roundtable with reporters in July, Zinke
talked of lessons learned from John Wesley Powell, who surveyed the West with
the U.S. Geological Survey in the late 1890s, and Gifford Pinchot, the first
chief of the U.S. Forest Service from 1905 to 1910.

The Interior secretary, comfortable making the rounds in wrinkled jeans and a
cowboy hat, is steeped in the history of his department but devoted to the
mission to make the country's natural resources pay.

David Bernhardt, Zinke's deputy,  is an oil and gas lobbyist and lawyer whose
clients have included Halliburton Energy Services, the company once run by
former vice president Dick Cheney; Rosemont Copper, which seeks a permit to mine
in Arizona; and Cadiz, which seeks access to the aquifer water under the Mojave
Desert, according to the environmental activist group Greenpeace's "Polluter
Watch" project.

Also on staff is Associate Deputy Secretary James Cason, who notified several
members of the senior executive staff in June that they were being reassigned.
One, director of policy analysis Joel Clement, the department's specialist on
Arctic climate change, was reassigned to an office handling oil lease royalty
payments. He wrote a Washington Post op-ed saying that he was being retaliated
against and that the transfer was intended to make him quit. Cason held Interior
jobs under George W. Bush and was involved in minerals management under Ronald
Reagan.

After learning of the reassignments, Sen. Maria Cantwell, D-Wash., and seven
other Democratic senators wrote to the Interior Department's inspector general,
saying the suggestion that the executives were moved to silence or "punish them
for the conscientious performance of their duties is extremely troubling and
calls for the closest examination." The senators called the transfers "a serious
act of mismanagement" and "an abuse of authority."

Soon after he was named, the department's principal deputy solicitor, Daniel
Jorjani, was called as a witness before Bishop's Natural Resources Committee
oversight hearing June 28 to examine the impact of "excessive litigation" filed
against the department. The committee's ranking Democrat, Rep. Raul Grijalva of
Arizona, questioned the entire premise of the hearing.

Rep. Tom McClintock, R-Calif., sought to discredit environmental activists and
those implementing consent decrees. . "An objective would be essentially
collusion between litigants and ideological zealots in the bureaucracy to
achieve a foregone or fore-ordained conclusion by court order that they know
they couldn't get by regulation or by law," he suggested. Jorjani said he would
not make any assumptions about intentions or characterize parties as zealots.

In his written testimony, Jorjani said settlements can be "useful and
beneficial" by saving taxpayer money and are reviewed by federal judges to
assure they're entered into in the public interest.

"Judges are already empowered to deal with litigation that is without merit or
frivolous, including the authority to punish attorneys for pursuing abusive
litigation," Grijalva said. "The number of cases where courts use that authority
is small, and it happens no more often with environmental litigation than in
other kinds of cases."

Witness Lois Schiffer, a former general counsel to the National Oceanic and
Atmospheric Administration, said that in her experience, government lawyers take
their ethical obligations seriously and "do not collude."

Rep. Paul Gosar, R-Ariz., said a "blanket statement that government lawyers
don't collude is a false statement because they're humans."

Bishop has championed Western land use issues since he was a state legislator in
the early 1990s before bringing his cause to Washington. In May, Bishop's
committee looked at what it called "executive branch overreach of the
Antiquities Act" to make the case for more local approval before designations
are made. A 13-page memorandum to the Budget Committee this year contains his
case for the proposed "paradigm shift," as well as calling for $50 million to
facilitate conveyances of federal land to state, local and tribal governments.

Besides wanting to diminish the size of national monuments, Bishop opposes
acquiring additional lands until those the government manages are put in order.
The Interior oversees the national parks, which have $12 billion in deferred
maintenance.

The entire Utah congressional delegation, including Bishop, objected when
President Obama declared the Bears Ears national monument in December, weeks
before leaving office.

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2017 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              239 of 252 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          September 21, 2017 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Jordan Klepper, provocateur, is 'The Opposition';
His character is a more 'paranoid' version of his persona

BYLINE: Gary Levin, @garymlevin, USA TODAY

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 3D

LENGTH: 615 words


Jordan Klepper is an angry white man.

Or, rather, he plays one as host of Comedy Central's The Opposition (Sept. 25,
Monday through Thursday, 11:30 ET/PT), a new Daily Show companion that stars one
of its former correspondents as an arrogant blowhard.

While the Colbert Report channeled Bill O'Reilly, Klepper is aiming his sights
more generally at the alt-right media, magnified in the Trump area as a place
where contrariness is its own reward.

"This guy is a provocateur first," he says in an interview at the show's
spacious offices -- overlooking a Hooters -- in a shabby midtown hotel, where a
former ballroom serves as his studio. "He's going to be the first guy to stand
up against something; he just hasn't figured out what that thing is yet."

So the show also will "poke some holes in how the left gets so sacrosanct with
some of their issues as well," Klepper says. "We'll feed it through the
opportunistic host, who will flip on his own ideas if it makes him get more
clicks. That's his ideology."

If that also sounds a bit like our current president, it's purely intentional.

At a practice taping on Sept. 15, Klepper aimed his satirical sights on climate
change, PBS, "soulless progressives," the "deep state" and (of course)
mainstream media. "I don't like it when people agree," he told his guest, a
Politico editor. "Compromise is the ultimate C-word."

Klepper, 38, isn't really angry; he's a smart, genial, 6-foot-4 native of
Kalamazoo, Mich., with a pompadour and a background in improv. He joined Daily
in 2014, replacing John Oliver, and bridged the transition from Jon Stewart to
Trevor Noah.

He honed the character, a more "paranoid" version of his Daily Show persona, as
he interviewed supporters at Trump rallies during the 2016 election. "What
became eye-opening to me was where they were getting their information," he
says. "It wasn't necessarily CNN, and it wasn't MSNBC. It was a little bit of
Fox (News), but it was InfoWars, the Blaze" and Breitbart, so-called "alt-media"
that approached stories from a conservative, anti-mainstream point of view.

"There's a validity given to any website that treats itself as news, and it gets
passed around in a way that allows it to be its own echo chamber," he says.
"What makes it insidious is that it gets picked up and finds its own way
downstream."

Noah, an executive producer of the new series, says Klepper can stand out in an
increasingly crowded field of late-night hosts with his unique focus. "It's an
exciting opportunity, and it is challenging, because you're going to be in a
space where people are going to be comparing you to Colbert," he says.

Comedy Central president Kent Alterman says Klepper's show is a solid fit,
perhaps in contrast to The Nightly Show, hosted by former Daily correspondent
Larry Wilmore, canceled last summer after 19 months. "Jordan is aiming squarely
at the new world that we're living in, but at the same time it has a natural
connection to the Daily Show. We're excited we can restore that hour in a really
potent way."

Fans of the genre will see familiar touches in The Opposition: A topical opening
segment, plenty of news clips, a real-world interview subject who serves as a
mock foil, and a band of six contributors, called "citizen journalists," who
make the news instead of reporting it. "It's the act of being transgressive and
showing up at a place and causing a ruckus that is the story," he says.

In one remote segment, Laura Grey (Klepper's wife of four years), does a James
O'Keefe-style undercover exposé on how the removal of American icons is
tantamount to "washing our history." No, not Confederate statues; the
animatronic robot band at Chuck E. Cheese pizza restaurants.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Gavin Bond

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2017 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              241 of 252 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            October 16, 2017 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Conservationist Jane Goodall: Earth in danger;
She warns that governments are 'tamping down on Mother Nature'

BYLINE: Owen Ullmann, @oullmann, USATODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 509 words


Iconic conservationist Jane Goodall has a chilling warning for all of us Earth
dwellers: Stop pillaging the planet or "we may not even be on it anymore."

"We're seeing extraordinary problems everywhere," said Goodall, who became an
international celebrity for her groundbreaking study of chimpanzees in Africa in
the 1960s. In an interview with USA TODAY, she cited climate change, destruction
of wildlife habitats and depletion of natural resources, among other concerns.

"It just seems there are forces tamping down on Mother Nature," Goodall, 83,
said, referring to the Trump administration, the government in her native United
Kingdom and other countries around the world that she says are poor guardians of
the environment.

"People seem either not to realize or are determined not to bother," she said,
"but the fact is, this planet has finite natural resources and they're being
treated as though they'll go on forever."

"It's absolutely clear that if we carry on as business as usual, then for my
great-great-grandchildren, the world will be very different. We may not even be
on it anymore," she added.

Goodall was in Los Angeles for the premiere of National Geographic Documentary
Film's Jane, being released Friday in select theaters. It follows her life
starting in 1960 at age 26, when she arrived in a remote area of Tanzania to
study chimps, and made global headlines for discovering that they are highly
intelligent and social.

The film is based on more than 100 hours of footage of Goodall in Africa that
was recently discovered in National Geographic archives. The film is directed by
Brett Morgen, who also directed documentaries on Kurt Cobain and the Rolling
Stones.

Goodall, who had no formal scientific training, became an instant sensation
because of her cutting-edge research in a field dominated by men. "I was given
this incredible opportunity to be the first person ever to go out and see these
amazing animals in the wild," she said.

Goodall said the timing of the film's release is "absolutely perfect" because of
growing global concern about irreversible damage to the planet.

"This film takes you back to how things should be and makes you determined to
fight so that we re-create a world where things will be the same again," she
said.

Morgen said that "in times of darkness," like the present, superheroes become in
vogue, "and Jane is a real-life superhero." Goodall's passion and dedication
make for an inspiring story that has deeply moved audiences at other premieres
of the film, he said.

Goodall, who spends most of her time traveling the world to preach the
importance of conservation, said it is vital to give people hope that they can
reverse the development and pollution that are destroying Earth.

"If young people lose hope in the future because of the (Trump) administration,
because of the onslaught on the environment, then they'll give up and then there
is no hope," she said.

"So my job is to go around ... and show something so pristine and so pure that
it makes people want to bring that back and to save what's left."

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Chris Pizzello, Invision, via AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2017 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              245 of 252 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            November 10, 2017 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

The dead can unlock iPhones;
When seeking clues to a killer's plans, time is of the essence

BYLINE: Elizabeth Weise, USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 996 words


SAN FRANCISCO - Your shiny new smartphone may unlock with only your thumbprint,
eye or face. But it turns out you don't need to be alive to get past this unique
security barrier, opening new frontiers for individual privacy and law
enforcement.

The FBI is struggling to gain access to the iPhone of Texas church gunman Devin
Kelley, who killed 25 people, including a pregnant woman whose unborn baby also
died. The devastating tragedy has unearthed a gruesome idiosyncrasy of modern
biometric technology: A living person isn't necessary to unlock many devices.

It turns out the agency likely could have unlocked Kelley's phone with his
thumbprint, if he had enabled Touch ID to unlock it and officials had done so
within 48 hours of Kelley's death by his own hand. That time limit passed, and
the phone remains locked, but it raises a question few buyers of the latest
iPhone or Samsung typically consider -- does someone need to be alive for
today's increasingly common biometric recognition systems to work?

In many situations they don't, said Anil Jain, a professor of computer science
at Michigan State University and expert on biometric technology.

Biometrics has to do with body measurements. In computer circles it's about
using specific individual body measurements as a way to confirm identity. These
include fingerprints  and facial recognition software. Beyond computers, some
very sophisticated secure entryway systems make use of iris recognition, hand
geometry and voice recognition.

In the case of Kelley's iPhone, the limiting factor was the 48-hour clock on how
long a fingerprint can be used to unlock the phone. This presumes Kelley had
Touch ID enabled on his phone, which the FBI has not confirmed. However, about
80% of iPhone users do, according to Apple. Touch ID has existed on all iPhones
since the 5S was released in 2013 until the iPhone X, which replaces  Touch ID
with facial recognition.

Forty-eight hours after the last time an iPhone is unlocked with a fingerprint,
the fingerprint function stops working and the user is required to tap in their
passcode. If the FBI had tried in that 48-hour period, would it have worked?

Decomposition and fingerprints

Probably, Jain said, depending on how decomposed Kelley's body was. A rotting
body changes shape, including the digits, which distorts  fingerprints. How fast
it rots depends on where it was found or stored. "Body parts under water and in
very hot climate will decompose much faster," Jain said.

A study done in 2016 at Oak Ridge National Laboratory found that both iris and
fingerprint biometric data could be obtained from bodies up to four days after
death in warmer seasons and for as many as 50 days in winter.

Optical or capacitive?

The other hurdle is what kind of fingerprint reader is being used: optical or
capacitive. Optical systems, such as those used on iPhones, use images to build
up  specific digital maps of the ridges and whorls of the finger. There have
been multiple reports of people using simple dental mold models of fingers to
reproduce exact finger patterns and open smartphones. So it might have been
possible for the FBI to simply make a cast of Kelley's finger to attempt to open
his phone.

More sophisticated systems use capacitive scanners that use the  electrical
properties of the human skin as part of the measurement. These are harder to
spoof and generally require a living digit, as after death the conductive
property of the skin is quickly lost. But it can be accomplished by making a
conductive copy of the deceased's finger, Jain said.

In his lab, researchers  accomplished this by first making an impression of a
finger using the same material dentists used to make molds of teeth. In their
case, it's the finger of a living student. Next, they put conductive silicone or
gelatin inside the mold to make a cast. Once the fake finger is extracted from
the mold, it can be used to spoof a conductive fingerprint scanner.

Eyes are the windows of the soul

The Samsung Galaxy 8  incorporates iris scanning as one identification option
for users. This, too, can be thwarted, though it's more difficult.

The same decomposition issues that face those trying to copy a finger are true
for the iris, so time is of the essence. It's also not possible to make a cast
of the iris as it's encased within the eyeball. But a good picture of the iris,
which presumably could be taken soon after death, could be used to spoof.

A security researcher in Berlin reported being able to engage the Galaxy 8's
iris-recognition ID system simply by making a lifesize print of an image of an
eye and then gluing a contact lens to the picture to give it depth. Others have
been able to spoof iris-recognition systems with photos alone. So as long as a
photo of the iris in question was taken before it began to decompose, it might
be possible to get into some systems.

Show me your face

The new iPhone X replaces fingerprint recognition with Face ID. Modern facial
recognition systems are harder to spoof in part because they build 3-D rather
than flat digital models of the face. This is why when iPhone X users start
facial recognition, they have to move their head around so the system can get
multiple images from which to build its digital model of their face. A dead body
makes this difficult.

"It would be hard to turn the head around because rigor mortis can occur as soon
as four hours post mortem," Jain said. One way to get around that might be to
move the camera around the stationary head, he suggested.

Using a cast of the entire head to scam Face ID is something Apple has already
thought of. On its Face ID Security page, the company explains that the Face ID
system is specifically trained to spot and resist spoofing attempts to unlock
phones with photos or masks.

Apple also allows users to engage an additional level of security that requires
the user to look at the phone to unlock it to make it impossible to unlock a
phone simply by pointing at the face of its sleeping user.

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: graphic Anil Jain

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2017 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              246 of 252 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          November 15, 2017 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Andy Weir shoots for the moon in page-turner 'Artemis';
Author of 'The Martian' offers a new techo-thriller

BYLINE: David Holahan, Special to USA TODAY

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 4D

LENGTH: 522 words


It's late in this century, up on the moon, and Jasmine Bashara, nicknamed Jazz,
is a struggling 26-year-old Saudi citizen who has lived in Artemis, a lunar city
of 2,000 diverse earthlings, since she was 6. Poor, irreligious and sassy, she
could make Amy Schumer blush.

Being an independent delivery person/petty smuggler isn't working out. She lives
in a coffin-like cubicle appointed only with a bed and a shelf, and she mostly
eats "gunk," the dried algae that is the standard fare of the moon's "little
people" (who presumably turn green after a hearty helping). Her main squeeze,
Tyler, was stolen away by another man, an Israeli no less.

Jazz longs to be free of her hardscrabble existence. One of the many things that
apparently hasn't changed in more than half a century is income inequality. She
describes her lunar socio-economic status as working-class, her "hood" in
scatological terms, and her "residence" this way: "My coffin isn't going to be
featured in Better Homes and Moonscapes anytime soon, but it's all I can
afford."

Andy Weir is back. His second sci-fi novel, Artemis (Crown, 305 pp.,  ***), is
an action-packed techno-thriller of the first order. His first was The Martian,
a best seller that launched the movie starring Matt Damon.

Being up to speed on high school science helps here, although the reader also
can skim all that high-tech jazz and simply follow the topsy-turvy  plot.

The book opens with Jazz failing -- in spectacular fashion -- her test to join
the EVA Guild (acronyms like EVA often are not explained), which would have
allowed her to lead lucrative tourist forays onto the moonscape. This setback
sets the stage for a dubious life decision that propels the low-gravity plot
into motion. For $1 million slugs (the local currency), she agrees to help a
businessman sabotage a rival. Needless to say, things don't go as planned.

When Jazz isn't entertaining the reader with her snappy commentary ("I threw off
my clothes faster than a drunk prom date"), she is involved in enough derring-do
to make James Bond jealous. The pages fly by, taking the reader into orbit some
238,900 miles above this vale of tears -- arguably a good thing given current
events down below.

But Weir's book fails to fully beam his audience up. A little futuristic context
would be welcome. How has the world changed in 50-plus years, as in climate
change, for example? How about geopolitics: Israelis and Arabs coexist on the
moon, but there's not a line about how they are getting along on Earth.

And as for pop culture, virtually all the references are totally 20th century,
whether Star Trek (century-old reruns?) or Eli Wallach (how about Vin Diesel?)
or Scooby-Doo (the pooch just isn't that lovable).

The reader doesn't even learn if space colonization is a one-off development or
if more cities are planned on the moon or elsewhere. Like the domed structures
of Artemis, the novel is hermetically sealed from the world outside.

Still, by concocting cliff-hanging action worthy of Indiana Jones, Weir has
provided the perfect vehicle for humans who want to escape, if only for a time,
the severe gravity of planet Earth.

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2017 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              250 of 252 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 18, 2017 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Decades of pent-up anger feed white nationalist crusade;
Movement tailors tactics to a ripe political climate

BYLINE: Trevor Hughes, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 864 words


This summer's seemingly overnight arrival of the self-described "alt-right" and
white nationalist groups -- marked most prominently by a deadly car attack at a
"Unite the Right" rally in Charlottesville, Va., in August -- drew worldwide
headlines, but the movement simmered for decades before it burst into public
view.

Underlying that shift from society's fringes to center stage is a new strategy
that taps into the frustrations of white people angry at a society they say has
marginalized them.

President Trump's election  became a major rallying point for white nationalists
as the Republican repeatedly amplified some of their views in campaign rallies
and tweets.

"It just absolutely electrified this community," said Keegan Hankes, an analyst
for the Southern Poverty Law Center, which tracks hates groups, including the Ku
Klux Klan. "They really felt like they had someone to rally behind."

The Charlottesville attack that heads to a grand jury Monday has done little to
dim the movement.  White nationalists have orchestrated  controversial public
appearances, fought and won high-profile legal battles with universities and
dominated the airwaves.

Building on this newfound interest, white nationalists deployed tactics borrowed
from the generations-old KKK and today's far-left groups and adapted media
techniques often used against them.

Kyle Bristow, a self-described "alt-right" activist and attorney for
high-profile white nationalist Richard Spencer, said  corporations, the
government and academia that "relentlessly" attack the nation's traditional
values have only prompted the movement's growth.

"Middle America is rallying to the flag of the alt-right," he said. "Older
generations recognize that America is no longer the place that it once was or
could be, and people of this generation tend to be more conservative in trying
to reclaim the America that was lost."

The term "alt-right" covers a loosely defined group whose far-right ideology
includes racism, populism and white nationalism. It is embraced by white
supremacists, who believe white people should dominate all other races, and
white nationalists, who say whites are a distinct nation that needs special
political and legal protections.

Opponents accuse white nationalists of being white supremacists in disguise and
say the term "alt-right" is a euphemism to hide racist goals.

Regardless of what name these groups choose,  estimates on how many people
associate with the movement are difficult to come by. Many followers say they're
reluctant to be publicly identified because they fear losing their jobs or being
attacked for their beliefs.

The Southern Poverty Law Center says the murkiness serves a purpose: It allows
white nationalists to conceal whether their movement is truly a groundswell or
just a highly effective but tiny group of people.

Online followings provide a glimpse of white nationalists' reach. The law center
says more than 300,000 people are registered as users on the oldest white
nationalist site, Stormfront, which bills itself as "the voice of the new,
embattled white minority." Spencer's Twitter account has more than 80,000
followers, not all of whom necessarily connect with the movement.

Online communities have played a major role in  modern white nationalist
movements, and the Foundation for the Marketplace of Ideas plays a key role in
sharing those voices. The foundation lists freedom of speech, religion and
equality  among its tenets, then adds, "We are engaged in a total war in a fight
for the existence of our people, and scorched earth tactics is morally proper in
this existential struggle."

Opponents say that  agenda poses a  danger to  values of individual freedom,
equality and tolerance.

"White nationalism is inherently an ideology of violence," Hankes said. "There's
no peaceful path to that."

Despite lip service to scorched-earth tactics, white nationalists have left
behind many of the deeply controversial and condemned symbols of the past in
favor of more subtle messages to lure new members.

They use many of the KKK's tactics, such as invoking the protection of white
culture and values, while avoiding the white hoods, cross-burnings and torches
of the past. They also use strategies borrowed from left-wing groups and
anarchists, including mass protests and lawsuits.

White nationalists have effectively used media coverage to spread their message,
move into the mainstream and gain  members.

Such rebranding of white nationalist ideas has allowed more Americans to feel
comfortable publicly supporting at least some of the movement's goals, experts
say. After all, it's hard to argue against personal liberty, freedom of speech
and law and order.

"This is stuff that's right out of the playbook of white nationalism from
decades prior," said Brian Levin of  the Center for the Study of Hate &
Extremism at California State University in San Bernardino. "It's not just
connected to race, but also morals and culture.  Whenever we're at an inflection
point ... when people feel change and fear, they are more likely to revert back
to arguments that may be biased and comforting, as opposed to truthful. And I
think what we're seeing -- people are amped up."

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Andrew Nelles/The (Nashville) Tennessean

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2017 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved
