
                               2 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          September 18, 2013 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Some crops migrate north with warmer temperatures;
It's a boon for N.D. farmers as U.S. agriculture goes topsy-turvy

BYLINE: Elizabeth Weise, @eweise, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 1454 words


John Nowatzki's brother left North Dakota in 1965. Two years ago, he came back
for a visit. The brothers spent a day driving around the area where their family
had farmed cool-season grains such as wheat and barley for almost 100 years.
Only now the fields were full of warm-season corn and soybeans.

"He was amazed at the different crops we were growing. He kept asking, 'What's
going on?'" says Nowatzki, who teaches farming technology at North Dakota State
University in Fargo.

He decided to analyze the weather data and found  that from 1900 to 2010, the
growing season in their hometown of Langdon had lengthened by 21 days.
"Twenty-one days to a farmer in North Dakota is really important. Maybe not to a
farmer in Kansas, but here it means the difference between being able to grow a
cool-season crop like wheat and a warm-season crop like corn," he says.

Today the state is bursting with fields of corn and soybeans. Seed types bred
for the area and precision agriculture techniques are a big reason both of these
high-value crops can be grown here, but some say the warming climate also plays
a role.  Without those extra growing days between the last and first frost, none
of this northward march of warmer-weather crops would be possible.

North Dakota is at the leading edge of a shift in North American weather
patterns, with more variable weather and rainfall; longer, hotter summers; and
warmer winters. USA TODAY visited the state as the seventh stop in its look at
how climate change is affecting life in America.

In the town of Rugby, N.D., 50 miles south of the Canadian border, climate
change is written in the fields. Where once wheat was king, field after field is
now full of feed corn. At the beginning of September, farmers are hustling to
get combines out to cut the golden wheat, but green fields of corn are
everywhere -- and still a month from harvest.

Jim Teigen switched to corn two years ago on the 2,800 acres he and his son farm
here on land his family has worked since 1905.  Over the 100 years Teigen's
family has been here, the average first frost, which marks the end of the
growing season,  was Sept. 21. This year, he's hoping and even expecting to go
to at least Oct. 7.

Recent history makes that seem a good bet. Statewide, North Dakota's growing
season since 1879 has lengthened by 12 days, says state climatologist Adnan
Akyüz at North Dakota State University. Before the 1970s, corn just wasn't grown
north of Bismarck. "Now we're seeing it all the way up to the Canadian border,"
he says.

According to Akyüz's calculations "16% of the total heat necessary to mature a
corn plant in Fargo is due to the climate change."

Climate change a net positive

Although the world's hotter and more erratic climate has lowered yields and
devastated farmers in many areas of the globe, U.S. agriculture has been
protected partly by  geography, says Bruce McCarl, a professor of agricultural
economics at Texas A&M University in College Station.

"We have more area where production is limited by cold rather than by heat. So
on net, we come off a bit better," McCarl says.

In North Dakota, that has contributed to an economic boom. Growers are getting
harvests that would have been unimaginable years ago, says Mike Ostlie, an
agronomist at the Carrington Research Extension Center of North Dakota State
University, about 150 miles northwest of Fargo. "Used to be, every three to five
years there was a crop failure. Now I don't know when that last happened."

In the near term, climate shifts will likely mean better yields for most
American farmers. But  warmer temperatures and more erratic rain are expected to
lower harvests by the end of the century.

Meanwhile, in North Dakota, things are so good that the long drain of children
moving off farms is beginning to reverse, says Steve Metzger, a farm management
expert at Carrington. "The last five years have brought a lot of young people
back to the farm. Since 2007, we've had the six most profitable years in
agriculture ever in the state."

A $300 billion industry

This matters because agriculture is an enormous driver in the U.S. economy.  The
farmers and ranchers who work the nation's 2 million farms  produce $300 billion
to $350 billion worth of crops and livestock each year, according to the U.S.
Department of Agriculture (USDA).

But across the nation, what we can grow, where and when is changing. In the
United States, 2012 was a full degree Fahrenheit warmer than the hottest year
since record-keeping began in 1895, according to the National Oceanic and
Atmospheric Administration.

One degree nationally may not seem like much, but that translates into very
different numbers on the local level. For example, North Dakota's average
temperature has increased 2.7 degrees Fahrenheit over the same century, Akyüz
says.

Climate change in agriculture is "happening before our very eyes," says Jerry
Hatfield, laboratory director for USDA's National Laboratory for Agriculture and
the Environment in Ames, Iowa. "Everyone's rethinking everything."

New York state used to be considered too cool to grow soybeans. In 2013, farmers
planted a record 320,000 acres of the protein- and oil-rich beans. "The Upstate
New York farmers didn't think they could grow soybeans, and now they can," says
David Wolfe, a horticulture professor at Cornell University in Ithaca, N.Y.

In California, the average temperature has increased 1.5 degrees since 1895,
with accelerated warming in most regions over the past three decades, according
to a report released in August by the California Environmental Protection
Agency. Winter chill time, critical for fruit trees to produce flowers and
fruit, has been decreasing since 1950. These are vital for almonds, California's
highest-value crop, as well as cherries and apricots.

In Florida in 2012, a warmer-than-average winter didn't provide enough chill
hours for the state's Southern blueberry crop.

In Texas, there's been a shift from acreage devoted to crops to rangelands for
grazing animals as temperatures have risen and water has decreased.

Adaptability goes so far

The USDA is paying close attention to this. America's farmland is some of the
most productive in the world in part because U.S. farmers long have been known
for innovation and flexibility.

Growers today are using that willingness to experiment to cope with shifts in
local climates. They're planting cover crops such as clover and rye that reduce
erosion, retain water and combat weeds, experimenting with different tillage
patterns and turning back to crop rotations that some had abandoned for a
two-year corn-soybean planting cycle.

Still, many worry that  the quickening intensity of global warming forecast over
the next few decades may be too much for this once-resilient sector to overcome.
The USDA forecasts that much of the nation will warm by 1.8 to 3.6 degrees
Fahrenheit in the next 40 years, more so in the center of the country.

When that happens, the southern half of the United States will have too little
water and too much heat, McCarl says.

"You can't grow crops in a blast furnace," he says.

Not convinced

Nationally, many farmers are making changes in what they do, but that doesn't
mean they're convinced climate change is real, or human-caused, says Linda
Prokopy, a professor of natural resources at Purdue University in West
Lafayette, Ind.

She surveyed more than 5,000 farmers across the Midwest and found that 66% said
they believe climate change is occurring.  Of those, only 41% said humans are
responsible for it by burning fossil fuels that create heat-trapping gasses. The
rest say it's either a naturally occurring cycle or don't know what causes it.

Charles Rice, a professor of soil science at Kansas State University in
Manhattan, Kan., thinks it's the phrase that's the problem. "If you talk to
farmers they'll say, 'Well, my ponds are drying up, my animals have more heat
stress, and I'm planting two weeks earlier.' They're saying all the right
things, but they can't spit out 'climate change' because it's been politically
tainted."

One who's skeptical is  Gary Nelson, 59. He's been farming 2,500 acres near Fort
Dodge, Kan., since 1973.  "If you would look historically, I think there have
been warm periods and cold periods."

Roger Johnson, president of the National Farmers Union in Washington, D.C., says
he knows there are surveys out there that say farmers don't think it's changing
because of mankind's actions, "but that's just not what the science says."

Donn Teske farms land his family first homesteaded in 1886. He's beginning to
think his part of Kansas will be too dry to grow corn at all.

"I can't talk about it in the coffee shop, and I can't talk about it in the beer
joint. But I call it climate change."

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Photos by Elizabeth Weise, USA TODAY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2013 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               4 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          September 25, 2013 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Climate report puts the heat on humans;
Global warming mainly man-made, scientists expected to say

BYLINE: Doyle Rice, @USATODAYWeather, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 528 words


A landmark report from the world's top climate scientists this week is likely to
say with heightened certainty that humans are behind the planet's rising
temperatures, andthat surface temperatures are not the only indicators of
climate change.

Senior scientist Kevin Trenberth of the National Center for Atmospheric Research
in Boulder, Colo., who was a review editor on the report, says other signs that
bear witness to changes include shrinking Arctic sea ice, melting Greenland ice,
warming oceans (especially the deep ocean) and sea-level rise.

This will help "defuse the issue of the supposed hiatus in global warming,"
which Trenberth says really isn't a hiatus at all. The leveling off of average
surface temperatures since 1998 is what some are calling a "hiatus" or "pause"
in global warming, but that's  due in part to the fact that 1998 was such an
unusually warm El Niño year. El Niño is a periodic natural warming of Pacific
Ocean water that affects global weather patterns.

Also, much of the heat may be sinking into the deep oceans, according to a study
released earlier this year.

Based on an earlier draft, one of the expected conclusions of the report to be
released Friday in Stockholm from  the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change
-- the international group that assesses the science related to climate change
and its impacts -- is that there's 95% certainty that humans are the main reason
behind global warming. A 2007 IPCC report put the confidence level at about 90%.

The report, the fifth the group has produced since it was established in 1988 by
the United Nations, is likely to be  another  comprehensive study  on the
science behind climate change. Reports are issued every few years and are a
synthesis of the research published in the years since the last report.

The report is the work of more than 2,000 scientists whose drafts were reviewed
by scores of governments, industry and environmental groups. "I know of no other
document that has undergone this scrutiny," Thomas Stocker, co-chairman of the
working group that wrote the report said this week from Stockholm. "It stands
out as a reliable and indispensable source of knowledge about climate change."

The primary U.S. agency that deals with climate and weather also praises the
expertise of the IPCC: "The periodic IPCC assessments are widely considered the
world's most comprehensive and authoritative assessment of climate change," says
Brady Phillips, a spokesman with the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration.

"They synthesize our scientific understanding about how Earth's climate system
works, project changes over time and discuss potential impacts and mitigation,"
he adds.

The report being completed in Stockholm deals with the physical science aspects
of the climate system and is the first of a four-part assessment that covers
several aspects of global warming.

Will the report have any influence on U.S. policy as it relates to climate
change? "Not really," Trenberth predicts. He adds that those who matter in the
administration are well informed but that those in Congress who don't believe in
global warming won't budge.

Contributing: The Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2013 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               5 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            August 7, 2013 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

This will only get worse;
Louisiana is shrinking as climate change softens up the already-vulnerable Gulf
Coast

BYLINE: Dan Vergano, @dvergano, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 2147 words


Pelicans and pickups roam the beach, where the waves roll in and return, lapping
over the open water of the Gulf of Mexico.

The water covers land that was once beach, and it has devoured land that was
once marsh tucked behind this 6-square-mile barrier island, a speed bump for
hurricanes headed north from the Gulf.

On this sunny day, the Tarpon Rodeo -- billed as "the oldest fishing tournament
in the United States!" -- is underway, with fishing boats and truck-bed hot tubs
competing in nearly equal numbers on the road. But beneath the sunshine here on
the edge of this vanishing wetland, human mistakes are adding up.

Indeed, the in-your-face transformation -- a product of climate change and the
rewiring of the Mississippi -- is threatening the spawning grounds for much of
the nation's seafood, the pit stop for the Gulf's oil industry and the home of
the beloved bayous and fishing "camps" that make life here unlike anywhere else.
With every bit of wetlands lost -- each day a football field's worth -- the
people and places of the Gulf Coast become that much more vulnerable to the next
hurricane.

"I revel in every moment I'm out on the beaches, the bayous, the ponds," says Al
Duvernay, 61, a life-long Louisianan. A retired oil industry worker, Duvernay
now volunteers for efforts to rebuild the land sinking under the waves, a
retreat he has seen firsthand over the course of a lifetime spent on the
Mississippi River Delta. "Another part of me is compelled to come back here,
because I know it is all going away."

In the past eight decades, Louisiana has lost 1,880 square miles of coastal
marshes, or an area about the size of Manhattan every year. With another
hurricane season upon us, it is land that Louisiana and the nation can ill
afford to lose. The same threat of lost barrier islands and wetlands stalks more
than half of the coastal properties of the continental United States, extending
from Maine to Texas. But here in southeastern Louisiana, it's at its worst.

USA TODAY traveled to this place where the Mississippi meets the Gulf of Mexico
as the sixth stop in a year-long series to explore places where climate change
is changing lives.

"The sea is rising and the land is sinking," says Louisiana's state
climatologist, Barry Keim, based at Louisiana State University in Baton Rouge.
"The two together mean that wetlands are disappearing here at unprecedented
rates worldwide." Add in the threat of more powerful hurricanes spurred by
climate change, Keim says, "and you have to worry about the past repeating
itself here."

"Louisiana is in many ways, one of the best examples of starting to see some of
the near-term implications of climate change," says environmental policy expert
Jordan Fischbach, of the Pardee RAND Graduate School in Pittsburgh, part of the
team that last year developed tools for the state to decide what coastal
restoration projects to pursue. "In some ways, I feel like it is the canary in
the coal mine because they are seeing effects that change people's day-to-day
lives."

Cemeteries are sinking and washing away in towns like Leeville, La., on their
way to becoming isolated spits of land. Onetime orange groves and cotton fields
are waterlogged.

Change here is constant but not subtle, so authorities have embarked on
ambitious projects to, actually and figuratively, turn the tide. In May, the
Louisiana Coastal Protection and Restoration Authority (CPRA) announced 39
projects it hoped to see reverse the damage, part of a 50-year, $50 billion
plan. They range from restoring marshes to spilling fresh river water into the
delta to rebuilding barrier islands.

Every 3 miles of wetlands restored means 1 foot less of  storm surge, the water
wall pushed ahead of storm winds that is often one of the biggest killers in a
hurricane, Keim says. "I worry a 50-year plan isn't enough, that it won't be
enough," he says. "If we were talking about a 500-year plan, or a 1,000-year
plan, that might be enough to bring things back."

The storm surge in Hurricane Katrina reached a record 25 to 28 feet, where it
hit hardest in Mississippi. It killed 1,200 people and caused $75billion in
damages, according to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.

"Once you go through something like Katrina, you are never the same," says
Duvernay, who spent the day after the storm in his fishing boat rescuing his
neighbors, trapped in the upper floors of drowned homes. "You never want to see
that again."

MISSISSIPPI MISTAKE

Driving along Louisiana State Highway 1, more a bridge than a road from New
Orleans to Grand Isle, Hilary Collis of the Coalition to Restore Coastal
Louisiana looks across wide-open lakes and estuaries, a few slivers of sand and
mud dotted with marsh grass and short, squat mangrove trees. She then points to
what isn't there anymore.

"All the open water you are seeing was once wetlands," Collis says. "Just a few
millimeters at a time it sank, and now it's gone." Unlike the vanished cypress
trees that once dotted the marsh lining the bayou that parallels the highway,
the mangroves have migrated from farther south, thriving in today's brackish
water and warmer temperatures.

How did it happen? For one thing, the Mississippi River has stopped doing its
job: building wetlands. A massive levee program beginning in 1927 rerouted the
Mississippi and put it "in a straitjacket," Keim says, kept its freshwater and
mud from spreading across the Mississippi River Delta and replenishing the
marshes. So without the silt, the marshes started to sink.

"They turned off the sand and mud machine that built up the wetlands," is how
Duvernay puts it.

At the same time, the sea has risen about 7 inches globally in the past century,
driven by climate change, alongside an increase of Earth's average surface
temperature of more than 1.4 degrees. The increase is largely due to
heat-trapping carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases, emitted into the air by
burning coal, oil and other fossil fuels, boosting temperatures, according to
the U.S. National Academy of Sciences. On the world's coasts, the result has
been a change from the past 1,900 years of stability, as a warmer ocean expands
and warmer air melts glaciers, leading to higher seas.

Along Louisiana Highway 1, which carries travelers the last 60 miles from
Lockport, La., to Grand Isle, the results are clear. Dead cypress trees killed
by saltwater still stand in isolated spots, ringing ponds that have become
brackish lakes.

"I watched it all happen, places where I could fish and camp as a child are now
just open water," Duvernay says.

Keim, also a Louisiana native, sheepishly admits that he grew up as a child
thinking that cypress trees just looked that way, dead. "It took a little
education to figure out that the intrusion of saltwater had killed them all in
the years before I was born," he says.

Louisiana 1 is also the only road to Port Fourchon, the southernmost port in
Louisiana, which supports 90% of the nation's offshore oil and gas rigs.
Vulnerable to flooding, the highway is the key to 18% of the nation's oil
production, according to January's draft of the federal National Climate
Assessment report. "Every time there is a high tide or any storm, that road goes
out," Fischbach says.

And one final problem: Four major hurricanes -- Katrina (2005), Rita (2005),
Gustav (2008) and Ike (2011) -- have battered the region since 2005. Eroded,
inundated, cut up by oil company canals and even gnawed to the roots by invasive
South American rodents called nutria ("They eat marshland in its entirety," Keim
says), the wetlands' ability to halt these goliaths' storm surges has been
undermined.

The same warming ocean waters that are slowly rising also look likely to deliver
more powerful hurricanes to these shores. A 2010 Nature Geosciences study led by
Thomas Knutson of NOAA's Geophysical Fluid Dynamics Laboratory in Princeton,
N.J., concluded that future storms would be as much as 11% more intense in this
century, dropping about 20% more rain within 60 miles of their center.

On the plus side, global warming might mean that fewer storms form -- as many as
34% fewer -- in the years ahead. So we might see fewer, meaner storms, across
the planet. Though the frequency question is one of the many unsettled areas of
climate science, as some experts such as MIT's Kerry Emanuel predict a
proliferation of storms with these warmer conditions.

The debate matters not, Keim says.

"We don't need to know the answer to look at the data and know that hurricanes
have hit the Gulf Coast hard in the past," Keim says. "And the numbers tell us
that where something has happened in the past, it will happen again."

WHAT CAN BE DONE?

Once a stomping ground of the pirate Jean Lafitte, Isle Grand Terre is a patch
of sandy scrub curving before the Gulf of Mexico next to Grand Isle, a barrier
island that shelters salty lagoons, marshes and bayous from the open sea. The
island is home to five abandoned scientific buildings, the ruins of a
Confederate fortress and mosquitoes that swarm visitors. It's also the home of a
dune rebuilding project sponsored by local brewer Abita, which Al Duvernay
volunteered for earlier this year. He and other helpers were brought in by barge
in shifts to plant the dunes.

"This is success," says Collis, pointing to a strip of dune grass stalks that
extends several hundred yards along a newly installed beach fence, set about 40
yards back from the surf. Sand has already started to pile up against the fence,
burying slats 2 inches deep, the start of a new dune guarding the beach.
Volunteers had planted 18,000 stalks in the sand over two days in March, and now
they stood erect, their roots bidding to become another bulwark against a future
storm.

"The idea is the dune and the dune grasses grow together, becoming larger and
larger," Collis says. "If someday a hurricane comes and digs it all up then at
least it will have done its job of taking some energy out of the storm."

Even so, volunteer projects -- planting grasses on dunes, or mangroves in
lagoons -- go only so far. The state coastal authority's industrial-scale
projects are now beginning after more than two decades of planning, arguing and
voting. They received overwhelming support last year from the state Legislature.
Interestingly, the state's plan doesn't mention climate change; it just assumes
it will happen. The estimated rise in sea levels form the backdrop against which
projects are picked for priority.

At Port Fourchon, just a few miles down from Grand Isle on the oft-flooded
Louisiana 1, for example, a $5.4 million "Geotube" project now underway is
stuffing 6-feet-wide fabric tubes with sand nearly a mile down the beach.

But not everything is proceeding seamlessly. The fight over the coastal
restoration plan has inevitably headed to the courts. Some oyster farmers are
suing the state's coastal restoration project for Mississippi freshwater
diversions that could harm oyster beds. The goal of the diversion is to restore
delta-building sediment to sinking parts of the region and counter the saltwater
creeping ever farther inland.

The state's levee authority last month sued oil and gas companies for decades of
cutting canals willy-nilly through wetlands and letting saltwater in from the
Gulf. Louisiana Gov. Bobby Jindal, a Republican, is disputing the levee
authority's right to file the lawsuit.

CROWDING THE COASTS

Yet the legal issues often fold into the environmental ones, and those concerns
lead to another place of concern along the U.S. coastlines: overdevelopment.
About 39% of the U.S. population (works out to about 123 million people) now
live in shoreline counties, according to Census data. The deluxe camps on Grand
Isle -- seemingly almost daring the next hurricane's wrath -- are just one
symptom of this rush to the coast

"Global warming doesn't make people buy beachfront condos," Keim says, pointing
to another piece of the hurricane dilemma.

A quiet period for hurricanes that ended in the 1990s lured the nation toward
beach living, sparking a coastal construction boom that is still underway. From
Louisiana's camps and vacation homes perched high on stilt-like piers, to New
Jersey's shore towns, Americans still can't get enough of warm waves and soft
sand and are often undaunted by the dangers building on our coasts.

Those who are taking up this fight, though, see a silver lining in these dark
clouds.

"I am happier than I have been in a long time that some places will be saved,"
Duvernay says.

He cites not his own volunteer efforts, or his fishing habit, but the
realization that officials are starting to pay attention to this changing world.

"I'm happier there is a plan with some funding," Duvernay says, "but I still
worry it might be too little, too late."

Catch up with USA TODAY's year-long series examining how climate change is
affecting Americans' everyday lives online at: climatechange.usatoday.com

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, Color, Karl Gelles, USA TODAY (Map)
photo Rogelio V. Solis, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2013 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              12 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             May 1, 2013 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

When rain, rain won't go away;
One storm at a time, 'extreme precipitation' is assaulting the unprepared
Northeast

BYLINE: Dan Vergano, @dvergano, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1543 words


"I'd never seen the river that high," says Susan Hammond. "But I was pretty
certain the bridge wasn't going anywhere."

She was wrong.

On  Aug. 28, 2011, Tropical Storm Irene's rains swelled the Williams River,
smashing dams, flooding homes and carrying off the historic Lower Bartonsville
Covered Bridge.

This wasn't just another 1-in-500-years event happening, a freak occurrence, a
one-off event. Rather, experts see it as the new normal across the Northeast,
the latest in a series of calamitous weather events occurring because of, or
amplified by, climate change.

From valleys staggered by Irene, to coasts battered by Superstorm Sandy, the
24-hour outbursts of rain and snow, or "extreme precipitation," has increased by
74% in the past six decades there, according to January's draft of the federal
National Climate Assessment report.

Such storms have become the signature of climate change across the Northeast,
afflicting older cities and towns built at a time of more modest rainfall. This
heavy flooding is undermining aging bridges, eroding roads and overwhelming
drainage systems.

USA TODAY traveled to the birch- and maple-dappled hills of Vermont as the third
stop in a year-long series to explore places where climate change is already
changing lives.

"I grew up here. I live here now," Hammond says, standing on the gravel road
leading to the covered bridge's crossing. "The bridge has always been here."

That bridge, and hundreds more like it, were damaged in the storm, along with
dams, roads, houses and most everything in sight. Three people died and more
than $700 million in damage was sustained in Vermont alone.  Before trailing off
in Canada, Irene had killed 49 people and caused more than $10 billion in
damages in 2011, according to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration (NOAA).

That was only a warm-up for last year's Superstorm Sandy, which delivered even
more crippling blows, killing more than 130 people nationwide and causing more
than $75 billion in damages.

Hammer blows such as these storms are consistent with climate change's expected
effects on the Northeast, says climatologist Cameron Wake of the University of
New Hampshire in Durham.

"It's not just those two storms," he says. "We are suddenly seeing many extreme
precipitation events, ones that have led to several 100-year floods across the
region just in the last 15 years."

The soggy misfortune of these extreme events has reached well beyond the
Northeast. From the upper Midwest, suffering from recent flooding, to the desert
Southwest, where flash floods are more likely even amid sparser rain overall,
high-intensity storms are more frequent. But nowhere is the increase as
pronounced as in the Northeast, where already-moist air means more extreme
"extreme precipitation."

The more intense rainfall is a direct impact of warmer air temperatures tied to
climate change juicing the weather cycle, according to the federal assessment
report. Average temperatures in the region -- the home of some 64 million people
stretching from Washington, D.C., to Portland, Maine -- have increased 2 degrees
Fahrenheit in the past century, with most of the increase coming in the past
three decades.

The increase largely results from heat-trapping carbon dioxide and other
greenhouse gases emitted into the air by burning coal, oil and other fossil
fuels, boosting temperatures to spur increases seen worldwide in this century.

STORMS CHANGE 'EVERYTHING'

Amid trees just starting to bud with spring, Vermont's State Road 121 follows
the twisting course of the Saxtons River. Along the way, Timothy Cullenen, who
was municipal manager of nearby Rockingham, Vt., during Irene, points out
wrecked homes and condemned, covered bridges with sidewalls beaten out and
replaced.

"We had roads washed out, people trapped in homes," Cullenen says, recounting
how firefighters had to boat people out of homes inundated by a river suddenly
stuffed with battering-ram-size trees and hissing propane tanks with broken
valves. The frequency of these storms "changes everything for us, from what size
culverts we build, to where people can live," Cullenen says.

The Northeast averages about 55 inches of rain and snow annually, according to
NOAA records. That's 10% more than just over a century ago.

What's causing the additional rain? It's simple. Warmer air causes more
evaporation from streams, lakes and seas. Warmer air also holds more moisture.
So, when it falls, it really unloads -- thus, more extreme storms.

"Increased extreme precipitation in the Northeast is one of the clearest signals
of climate change that we can see nationwide," says climate expert Donald
Wuebbles of the University of Illinois in Urbana-Champaign. "It's not just more
rain, but more rain falling in buckets over long periods of time."

In the hills of the Northeast, heavy rains are funneled into valley streams and
rivers, carrying timber and sand downstream. "Bridges become dams when the water
rises and this stuff slams into them," says FEMA historic preservation expert
Peter Thomas.

In Irene, ground already saturated with rainwater couldn't handle the downpour,
making flooding more likely. (Rainfall totaled more than 25 inches for much of
the Northeast in August and September 2011, compared with about 8 inches
normally.)

"Streams and rivers scoured out by floods just become race tracks for the next
flood," Thomas says. "They won't have as much time to naturally restore
themselves if climate change is making floods more common."

'OH MY GOD': BRIDGE CRUMBLES

"I never had been able to see the river from my window in August before,"
Hammond says of the day the bridge washed out. All morning, she and her
neighbors had walked down to the bridge to see the river rise. Recording a video
of the flooding, she captured the terrible creaking of the century-old structure
and sight of it unrolling off its abutments into the water below. The wood
tumbled in the river for a half-mile.

Hammond's video and heartfelt, "Oh, my God," response to the bridge's
disappearance went viral on YouTube, seen by more than a half-million people and
shown widely on television. "I had no idea it had gone viral until my sister
told me days later, after we got power back," Hammond says.

The bridge had been in place since 1870. Now its wreckage sits, three rows of
timber in Rockingham's winter gravel dump, joined by stumps, trees and junk
pulled from the river by the town at a cost of $450,000.

"We used to have an emergency fund. And then we had an emergency. Now it is
gone," Cullenen says. "But we still might have another emergency."

CITIES STRUGGLE TO ADAPT

Towns and cities across the Northeast are built for the wrong century -- the
last one -- says civil engineer Paul Kirshen of Climate Solutions New England, a
colleague of Wake, the climatologist. "We've seen the 'once in a century'
storm's water level increase," he says. Where a storm with a 1% chance of
happening every year used to dump 6 inches of water (162,924 gallons per acre),
that same storm now delivers 8 inches (217,232 gallons per acre), according to
the U.S. Geological Survey.

That means street drains aren't big enough and wastewater facilities can't
handle floods. Culverts, the large pipes that carry water under roads, are
increasingly being washed out across the region, according to a 2009 Journal of
Applied Meteorology and Climatology study. Expensive sewer systems built for
last century's specifications are too small to handle the extra water. More cars
and more people mean more pavement, which dumps water on towns built in the
horse-and-buggy era, instead of letting it soak in.

For cities such as Philadelphia and Exeter, N.H., one solution has been to try
"low-impact" development: planting more greenery in a bid to soak up rainwater
before it hits the drains. Another change has been "flexible" development, in
which reservoirs and seawalls are designed so that additions can be made, if
needed. "That's a total change in engineering," Kirshen says. "In the past, we
built to specifications for now, and walked away."

A longer-term solution, Wake points out, is "putting less greenhouse gas in the
air."

Depending on future emissions, average yearly temperatures will increase
anywhere from 3 to 10 degrees by the 2080s, according to the draft federal
National Climate Assessment report.

NEW ENGLAND'S ESSENCE

Standing on the gravel road leading to her Vermont hamlet, Hammond looks at the
rebuilt Lower Bartonsville Covered Bridge, its spruce sides gleaming blond in
the sunlight, the sawmill scent of fresh-cut wood hanging in the air. The new
bridge, built to historical standards, now exceeds its original length by 17
feet to stretch 168 feet across the Williams River. It rests on concrete
abutments with pilings driven 40 feet into the ground -- not the stone causeways
that were undermined in the 2011 flood.

"A covered bridge is part of what New England is, and it connected us to the
world," Hammond says. "Maybe you have to live here to understand it. It really
was quite a blow to see it pulled away."

The new bridge is designed to last 75 years, taking it almost to the end of the
century, when it will face a very different New England.

"Unless something happens again," Hammond says, before walking back to her home.


LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, Color, Keith Carter, Karl Gelles and Janet Loehrke, USA TODAY
(Diagrams)
photo File photo by Jim Cole, AP At top, shots from Susan Hammond's video show
the Lower Bartonsville Covered Bridge collapsing Aug. 28, 2011. At left, what
was left on Aug. 29, 2011.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2013 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              22 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             April 12, 2013 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Global warmth: Oceans are taking it all in;
Waters heat up as atmosphere holds steady, study says

BYLINE: Doyle Rice, USA TODAY,

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 386 words


The temperature of Earth's atmosphere has been essentially the same for the past
decade or so, providing ammunition for skeptics of human-caused climate change.
(This despite the fact that of the nine hottest years on record, eight have
occurred since 2000, according to the National Climatic Data Center).

However, a recent study found that heat absorbed by Earth's oceans has increased
significantly over the same period, prompting the study co-authors to say that
the warming has been diverted and is heating the oceans instead of the
atmosphere.

The study was published in the journal Geophysical Research Letters, a
publication of the American Geophysical Union.

The current "hiatus" in atmospheric warming is temporary,  says study co-author
Kevin Trenberth of the National Center for Atmospheric Research in Boulder,
Colo., during a telephone news conference Thursday: "Global warming is
continuing but manifesting itself differently."

Here's how scientists say global warming works: Increasing amounts of carbon
dioxide and other gases caused by the burning of the oil, gas and coal that
power our world are enhancing the natural "greenhouse effect," causing the
temperature of the atmosphere and oceans to warm to levels that climate
scientists say cannot be linked to natural forces.

"Over 90% of the heat trapped by greenhouse gases winds up warming the oceans,"
said Josh Willis, a scientist with NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  "Oceans
cover two-thirds of the Earth's surface, so it's expected that they'll play a
large role in how climate change and global warming play out."

A large chunk of the warmth appears to be settling far down in the ocean about a
half-mile beneath the surface, Trenbreth says. New technology over the past
decade or so have allowed scientists to better measure the temperature of the
deep oceans, Willis says.

While Earth's excess heat comes from climate change, the amount that's absorbed
into the oceans (as opposed to staying in the atmosphere) appears to be due to
natural changes in climatic wind and ocean patterns, according to the study.

Temporary pauses and restarts in atmospheric temperature shouldn't detract from
the main story: "The planet is warming, climate change is happening and the
primary cause is greenhouse gases released by human activities," Willis says.

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo 2010 photo by Chip Chipman, Bloomberg news A commercial fisherman
pulls crabs onto his boat near Bodega Bay, Calif. Much of Earth's warmth appears
to be settling about a half-mile beneath the surface of the oceans, authors of a
new study say.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: NATION

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2013 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              24 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              July 12, 2013 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

DOE: Climate change will disrupt energy supply;
Power lines less efficient in higher temperatures

BYLINE: Wendy Koch, @wendykoch, USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 725 words


U.S. energy supplies will likely face more severe disruptions because of climate
change and extreme weather, which have already caused blackouts and lowered
production at power plants, a government report warned Thursday.

What's driving these vulnerabilities? Rising temperatures, up 1.5 degrees
Fahrenheit in the last century, and the resulting sea level rise, which are
accompanied by drought, heat waves, storms and wildfires, according to the U.S.
Department of Energy.

"It (climate change) is a very serious problem, and it will get worse," says
Jonathan Pershing, who oversaw the report's development. While impacts will vary
by region, "no part of the country is immune," he says.

"Sea level rise made Sandy worse," intensifying flooding, Pershing says.  When
the superstorm slammed the East Coast last year, it took down power lines,
damaged power plants and left millions  in the dark.

The report comes one week after President Obama, describing climate change as a
threat to future generations, called for action to address the problem "before
it's too late." He said he aims to cut heat-trapping greenhouse gas emissions
from new and existing power plants.

Echoing other research, the DOE report makes the case for why such reductions
are needed. It says coastal power plants are at risk from sea level rise and
power lines operate less efficiently in higher temperatures.

"The report accurately outlines the risks to the energy sector"  and should
serve as a "wake-up call," says Jennifer Morgan, deputy director of climate and
energy at the World Resources Institute, a non-profit that advocates for
sustainability.

The report cites prior  disruptions. Last year in Connecticut, the Millstone
Nuclear Power Station shut down one reactor because the temperature of water
needed to cool the facility -  from the Long Island Sound - was too high. A
similar problem caused power reductions in 2010 at  Hope Creek Nuclear
Generating Station in New Jersey and  Limerick Generating Station in
Pennsylvania.

Reduced snowpack in the Sierra Nevada mountains last year cut California's
hydroelectric power generation by 8%, while drought caused the U.S. Army Corps
of Engineers to stop  transporting  oil and coal along the Mississippi River,
where water levels were too low. In September 2010, water levels in Nevada's
Lake Mead fell to a 54-year low, prompting a 23% loss in the Hoover Dam's
generation.

While climate change is not the sole cause of drought,  scientists say rising
temperatures can  cause more moisture to evaporate from the soil. They say those
temperatures, which the third federal National Climate Assessment says could
rise 3 to 10 degrees Fahrenheit by 2100, will contribute more to drought in the
future.

In Texas, which is suffering a three-year drought that now affects 87% of its
land, conflicts are arising over the water-intensive process of extracting oil
or natural gas from shale deposits, known as hydraulic fracturing, or fracking.
In 2011, Grand Prairie banned city water for fracking. Other municipalities have
restricted water use for that purpose.

Nationwide, 47% of fracking wells are in water-stressed areas, says a report  by
Ceres, a Boston non-profit.

The DOE report cites research indicating that nearly 60% of current
thermoelectric power plants, which need water cooling to operate, are located in
water-stressed areas.

It says higher temperatures will boost  demand for air conditioning, which could
threaten energy security by forcing the nation's power system to operate beyond
ranges for which it was designed. It cites a study by DOE's Argonne National
Laboratory that found such peak demand, given current population levels, will
require additional electricity equal to 100 new power plants.

The dire tone of the DOE report, while warranted, can "give a reader a sense of
fatigue," says Joe Casola, a senior scientist at C2ES, formerly the Pew Center
on Global Climate Change. Yet he says it also points to solutions, such as
water-efficient technologies and protection for energy infrastructure.

"It's technologically within our means to address some of these issues now,"
Casola says. "There are a lot of things we can do."

Pershing agrees: "It's a problem we need to work on."  He says  the billions of
dollars in losses already incurred from climate-related disasters show the need
for additional measures.

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo 2010 Arizona Republic photo

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2013 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              28 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             March 22, 2013 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Renewable energy losing its shine in Europe;
Debt crisis makes it harder to justify - or afford - subsidies

BYLINE: Sumi Somaskanda

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 1302 words


For British entrepreneur Timothy Porter and millions of other Europeans who get
generous financial incentives for solar panels, the sun has been very lucrative.

Not only does the government pay Porter for the solar energy he produces, at far
higher than the market rate for electricity, but he can also use what he
generates for himself.

"It's fantastic," he said, admiring the solar panel he installed on the roof of
his home in the English West Midlands two years ago.

Such subsidies are widespread in Europe, where policymakers say that energy from
wind and the sun will stave off global temperature increases they blame on the
use of fossil fuels such as oil and coal. But Europe's debt crisis has many
countries worrying more about their bottom lines than climate.

Across the English Channel, German consumers are waking up to the costs of going
green: As of Jan. 1, they are paying 11% more for electricity than they did last
year thanks to government plans to replace nuclear plants with wind and solar
power that require significant and constant public money to be made
cost-effective.

There were a few reasons the subsidies were put in place years ago.

There was a general desire for energy independence from Russia, where natural
gas had  been used as a weapon to pressure nations on political matters and the
cost was unpredictable. Renewable energy was also seen as a source for jobs and
income.

There was also concern for the climate, say analysts: A 2011 Eurobarometer poll
showed that Europeans believe climate change to be a graver problem than the
financial crisis plaguing Europe.

Nowhere is this concern more acute than in Germany. The country has long had an
ambitious clean energy plan that aims to have the entire country running on 80%
renewable energies by the year 2050.

That plan was fast-tracked following the accident at Japan's Fukushima reactor
in March 2011, and by Germans' overwhelming opposition to nuclear power stemming
from the lingering memories of the nuclear disaster at Chernobyl in the former
Soviet Union more than two decades ago. For years after, forest-loving Germans
worried about picking wild mushrooms.

Chancellor Angela Merkel -- once a champion of nukes -- did an about-face.  She
announced that all of Germany's 17 nuclear plants would be shut down by the year
2022, 14 years ahead of schedule, and closed eight immediately.

Her decision might have little to do with the safety of Germany's nuclear
reactors. Merkel's conservative Christian Democratic Union party faces federal
elections in September: If she wants to remain chancellor she needs to siphon
votes from rival parties the Greens and Social Democrats, both anti-nuke.

Dubbed the energy transition, the move has become a logistical and financial
headache for Berlin. Nuclear power had represented one-fifth of the country's
energy supply, and Environment Minister Peter Altmaier recently estimated cost
for the shift to renewables could total up to $1.3 trillion by 2030.

The move left some of Germany's neighbors grumbling.

"Outside of Germany, we've noticed that there are two perspectives," said Gerd
Rosenkranz, a spokesman for the non-profit German Environmental Aid. "One is,
'there go those crazy Germans again' and the other is 'there go those crazy
Germans again - but it's possible that they'll succeed.' "

But at what price?

In Germany, the rapid switch to renewables has sent electricity prices soaring.
In January, the extra charges paid by German consumers to suppliers of renewable
energy alone rose 47%. That, analysts say, means annual electricity bills will
rise by nearly $258 for households across Germany.

"Because of the additional supply of electricity offered from renewables, the
price for electricity has fallen -- that's good for corporate or industry
clients, but not so for private homes," said Claudia Kemfert, an energy analyst
at the German Institute for Economic Research in Berlin. "That's a crooked
picture that nobody really expected beforehand."

Analysts say that Germans are willing to pay for renewable energy out of concern
for the environment and climate change.

"It's taken so seriously because we see that climate change is already
happening, that  (carbon dioxide) emissions are already causing some droughts,
floods and melting of the ice sheets," said Brigitte Knopf, head of the
Sustainable Solutions group at the Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact
Research.

Skeptics of Germany's energy transition at home and abroad say that  it is a
waste of money, that data indicate that global warming may not be what had been
predicted.

The cost of trying to change the climate has become too much to bear for other
European nations mired in debt or hobbled by overspending.

As austerity measures take hold from Spain to the Netherlands, governments have
been rushing to cut the  subsidies for green energy they once eagerly waved
through to help the infant sectors grow.

Those subsidies -- pioneered by Germany in 2000 to help meet Europewide climate
goals enshrined in European Union law -- spurred an unsustainable, artificial
boom in solar, wind and other renewables, which may have contributed to
financial meltdown on the continent.

Similar policies have spread to 50 countries worldwide, including 16 of the 27
EU member states. As a result, the renewables sector boomed, in particular
solar, even in countries such as Germany where a sunny day is far more rare than
in Spain.

"It's government subsidized electricity prices that have given rise to the
current problems in Europe, not renewable energy," said Sebastian Mariz,
managing partner at EPPA consultancy firm in Madrid. "(Subsidies) are just one
of the external costs which increase this electricity deficit."

That has left Europeans struggling to figure out what to do next. In Spain, a
country on the brink of economic collapse, the situation is dire: Madrid owes
$35 billion to Spanish utility companies -- debt accumulated over a decade of
government-regulated electricity prices.

European governments have now realized this growth -- which saw consumers
footing the bill for investors' soaring profit margins -- was out of control:
The U.K. and Czech Republic have already cut their subsidies in half, while
Italy imposed a cap on new renewable energy providers. Germany cut subsidies by
up to 30%.

"Germany needed to act," said Matthias Lang, an attorney at Bird & Bird in
Dusseldorf, a firm that specializes in energy. "The previous rate was simply not
sustainable. There is a limit where even the most willing consumers will
object."

Analysts say that whether it is renewables or fossil fuels, EU energy
infrastructure overall is aging -- about half of the continent's existing power
generating capacity from coal, nuclear and gas will have to be replaced in the
next 10 years, despite austerity, and that is expensive -- for fossil fuel
production or renewables.

"Investment will have to happen, there is little choice," said Frauke Thies, EU
energy policy adviser at Greenpeace. "The question is where these investments
happen and which technologies Europe invests in."

Analysts say the cost burden of moving to renewables is one Europeans will only
shoulder in the immediate future. As the technology and infrastructure improve
at a rapid pace, the expense will shrink dramatically.

"There are higher electricity prices and they will be higher for a certain time
period because of the transition, but at some point this system will be the
cheaper one because the nuclear reactors and conventional power plants are
getting increasingly expensive," said Rosenkranz of German Environmental Aid.

"The problem is, with the financial crisis there is not much cash at the moment,
and to get there you need to invest the cash now," said Stephane Bourgeois, head
of Regulatory Affairs at the European Wind Energy Association.

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Wind turbines in eastern Germany, by PATRICK PLEUL, AFP/Getty
Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2013 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              32 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           January 30, 2013 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Report: Climate change a threat to wildlife

BYLINE: Doyle Rice

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 150 words


From birds in the Plains to bighorn sheep in California,  a new study says
animals are struggling to adapt to the warming atmosphere  caused by the burning
of fossil fuels.

"Climate change is the biggest threat wildlife will face this century," says the
report out today from  the National Wildlife Federation in Reston, Va.

Animals have adapted to  climate variation since the beginning of time, but the
report says  changes now happen  much faster than they can  respond.

Federation climate scientist Amanda Staudt  says that many animal and plant
species are shifting their ranges to colder locales and that these shifts are
taking place two to three times faster than  anticipated.

"We are certainly beginning to see the effects of climate change on wildlife,"
agrees Mark Shaffer,  climate change policy director for the U.S. Fish and
Wildlife Service. "We're expecting more effects in the future."

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2013 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              42 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            June 26, 2013 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Obama should confront climate change fantasies

BYLINE: Bjorn Lomborg

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 551 words


President Obama's new climate

policies outlined Tuesday include

both brilliant and useless ideas. The

confusion stems from his unwillingness

to confront three climate

fantasies:

uRenewables are a major part

of the solution today. No, they are

almost trivial. Today, the world gets

81% of its energy from fossil fuels. By

2035, in the most green scenario, we

will still get 79% from fossil fuels.

Wind and solar will increase from

0.8% to 3.2% -- impressive, but not

what is going to matter.

uBiofuels should play a major

part of the solution. No. For now,

biofuels simply diverts food into cars,

driving up food prices and starvation,

while clearing forests for new fields

emit more CO2 than biofuels save.

uEfficiency can cut emissions.

No. Though efficiency is good, studies

show it has little climate impact

because its savings gets eaten up by

more use. As your car gets more efficient,

you drive it further, and the

money you still save get used for other

carbon-emitting activities.

But carefully implemented, Obama's

plan also shows the way to the

three climate truths.

Fracking is this decade's green solution.

Obama recognizes gas as a

"bridge fuel." Replacing dirtier coal,

cheaper gas from fracking has cut up

to 500 megatons of the U.S. CO2

emissions a year. This is about 10

times more than what renewables do,

and while renewables cost the U.S.

tens of billions of dollars, fracking

has saved the U.S. consumer $125 billion

annually in cheaper energy

prices. Fracking has local environmental

issues, but these can all be addressed

with good regulation.

Moving the U.S. fracking miracle to

the rest of the world will be the biggest

source of CO2 reductions this

decade, and simultaneously increase

global welfare by allowing energy access

to billions yet unserved.

Adaptation is smart, and Obama is

right to stress it. Wetlands, tidal barriers

and subway caps could have

dramatically reduced Hurricane

Sandy's impact, irrespective of how

little global warming impacted the

superstorm. There are many more

smart and cheap solutions to real

world problems.

Finally, we need innovation in

long-term green energy, which the

president wants to fund with $7.9

billion for fiscal 2014. As long as

green energy is much more expensive

than fossil fuels, it will always remain

a niche, subsidized by rich

countries to feel good. But if innovation

makes future green energy

sources cheaper than fossil fuels, everyone

will switch. Just like the 30-

year Energy Department research

into fracking made cleaner gas

cheaper than coal and produced a

historic U.S. CO2 reduction, twice

that of the European Union/Kyoto

reduction.

The final climate fantasy Obama

needs to confront is the idea that international

negotiations can somehow

bring about meaningful cuts.

We've tried this for more than 20

years and failed, and we will fail again

in 2015 in Paris. More than 180 countries

won't meaningfully reduce CO2

emissions from the fossil fuels that

power their economic growth.

The president should instead ask

the rest of the world to follow the U.S.

lead on green innovation. Economic

models show that this is by far the

best, long-term climate policy.

If we all invested far more to innovate

down the cost of future green

energy, we could out-compete fossil

fuels faster and truly solve global

warming.

Bjørn Lomborg is the author of The

Skeptical Environmentalist and director

of the Copenhagen Consensus

Center.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: OPINION

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2013 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              46 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            August 20, 2013 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Higher production won't free USA

BYLINE: Frances Beinecke

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 421 words


Increasing domestic oil and gas production is no panacea for our nation's energy
needs or economy. That will only intensify our fossil fuel addiction. It also
won't free us from the tyranny of the global oil market. U.S. oil production may
be up 44%  since 2008, but so are prices. The costs of crude oil have risen 6%
in that time.

And it is damaging communities' health, air, water and land.

The fracking that is driving our oil and gas surge has grown at breakneck speed.
Our public safeguards haven't kept pace. Companies have lobbied their way around
bedrock environmental laws, and states have responded with weak rules and
limited enforcement.

When drill pads are built in our backyards and wild landscapes, these places
become vulnerable to toxic chemicals, contaminated water and permanent scarring.

We cannot continue down this path without safeguards that protect people, farms
and communities from these threats. And we need to recognize that some places,
such as those home to major drinking water supplies or rare landscapes, must be
put off-limits.

Also, more oil and gas production will only exacerbate climate change, the
central environmental challenge of our time, imposing growing costs on our
nation and imperiling our future.

Last year alone, Americans suffered $140 billion in crop losses, wildfires,
storm damage and other impacts of extreme weather made worse by climate change.
The federal government picked up the lion's share of the tab at an average cost
of $1,100 per taxpayer.

America faces a choice. We can stand by and watch energy companies industrialize
our communities and intensify climate change. Or we can pivot to a cleaner path.

True energy independence means reducing our reliance on oil and gas by investing
in America's abundant clean energy resources that can power our country and
boost our economy without endangering our health and climate.

The solar industry is 20 times the size it was a decade ago and employs more
than 100,000 Americans. Just one set of new efficiency standards for
refrigerators, dishwashers and other appliances will reduce carbon pollution by
emissions equivalent to 25 coal-fired power plants. Our new 54.5 mpg fuel
standards will cut oil imports by one-third and save consumers $1.7 trillion at
the pump.

These are the clean energy innovations that will lead us to a stronger economy,
healthier communities and a safer planet. This is what it takes for America to
be truly energy independent.

Frances Beinecke is president of the Natural Resources Defense Council.

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2013 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              48 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 27, 2013 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

SECOND LOOK;
NEW VIEWS ON WEEK'S TOP TALKERS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 313 words


TRUTH ON CLIMATE CHANGE

I can still remember the old 1960s TV show "Truth or Consequences." But at that
young age, I really didn't understand what was going on. Why did people give
wrong answers on purpose? And what were "consequences"?

It appears many of our leaders still haven't grasped the meaning of
"consequences" when it comes to climate change. But given the recent article
"Rising sea levels torment Norfolk, Va., and coastal U.S.," we can no longer
avoid the truth. Sea level rise is just one of the ways climate change will
blight our health, wealth and well-being.

And the truth is that fossil fuel emissions are responsible.

Fortunately for our climate and our economy, there is an elegant,
market-friendly way to roll back these emissions: a revenue-neutral carbon tax.
Collecting it as a "user fee" from coal, oil and gas producers, based on the
fuel's carbon content, will send a price signal to inventors and investors to
find the best ways to reduce their usage or deploy substitutes. And returning
100% of the revenue back to the public will neutralize the pocketbook hit from
higher energy costs.

No more excuses, and no more giving wrong answers on purpose.

Rick Knight

Brookfield, Ill.

THE NAME OF THE GAME

If we ever needed evidence of the role of money in collegiate sports, look at
the bowl games.

Bowl games named after companies that sell underwear (Gildan New Mexico Bowl),
weight-loss products (AdvoCare V100 Independence Bowl) and auto parts (AutoZone
Liberty Bowl) dominate the schedule.

While there have always been sponsors for the games, in the past, they didn't
try to push their wares so much that they took over the names of the games!

The Franklin American Mortgage Music City Bowl? The San Diego County Credit
Union Poinsettia Bowl? Who needs a game for entertainment value? Pay the players
and drop the hypocrisy.

William E. Sedlacek

Great Cacapon, W.Va.

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2013 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              50 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            August 29, 2013 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Cooler Pacific Ocean waters level rise in global warming

BYLINE: Dan Vergano, @dvergano, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 489 words


The flattening over the past 15 years of a rise in the world's average surface
temperature springs from a natural cooling pattern in the eastern Pacific Ocean,
climate scientists reported Wednesday.

That leveling off fed part of the skepticism toward warming predictions in
recent years, but researchers behind the new report see this "hiatus" as a pause
in an inevitable climb.

"Our results strongly confirm the role that (man-made) emissions are having on
the climate," says climate scientist Shang-Ping Xie, senior author on the Nature
journal study. "At one point over the long term, the effect we are seeing in the
Pacific will stop. I'm confident the bigger increases in warming will resume."

For now, the "hiatus" in global warming has left average surface temperatures
lodged about 1.4 degrees Fahrenheit above normal for the past century. The top
10 warmest years on record have all come since 1998 as a result, but none looks
markedly warmer than another.

Climate scientists have disagreed over the cause of the pause. Explanations
range from the atmospheric cooling effects of recent volcanic eruptions to
Asia's increased industrial smog or else natural cooling oscillations in ocean
surface waters.

"Our results show that Pacific cooling has indeed pulled down the average global
surface increases seen from global warming," Xie says.  Essentially, a
persistent La Niña-like weather pattern across the tropical eastern Pacific, an
area covering about 8.2% of the globe, has created  a "cool spot," he says. That
has balanced out temperature increases manifested elsewhere with the continuing
melting of the Arctic, rising sea levels and record summer heat waves across
continents, he says.

"The climate is complicated, and natural variability can mask trends seen over
century-long timescales," says  David Easterling of the National Oceanic and
Atmospheric Administration's National Climatic Data Center.  Similar plateaus in
temperature increases have occurred in seven to nine-year steps in the past, as
Easterling and colleagues showed in a 2009 study. "A lot of people have the
misconception that global warming means that temperatures should be steadily
marching upward, but natural variability plays a big role on the decade scale,"
he says.

MIT's Susan Solomon is more skeptical of the Pacific Ocean cooling as an
explanation. "Did the sea surface temperatures cool on their own, or were they
forced to do so by ... changes in volcanic or pollution aerosols, or something
else? This paper can't answer that question."

Xie acknowledges the criticism, saying some evidence suggests global warming has
transferred a portion of that heat to the ocean depths.

A report in The Economist magazine questioned whether the hiatus points to
overestimates in climate predictions. "I think we have strengthened the case
that what we are seeing is a cooling  that will naturally end at some point, and
the warming will resume," Xie says.

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2013 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              56 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              July 1, 2013 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Take more than one path to address climate change

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 339 words


FACEBOOK

President Obama unveiled a new plan to address climate change,  seeking new
global agreements and taking measures to reduce carbon pollution at home.

Many are going to lose their jobs because of President Obama's plan. We aren't a
bad polluter now compared with what we used to be. Plus, we are nothing in
comparison with the newly industrialized countries. This plan is just the
president's continued desire for more government regulation.

Obama is detrimental to this country's future.

Andrew Goetz

Coal and oil have ruined our rivers for a long time. Now our beautiful mountains
in West Virginia are about gone to provide energy to keep the lights on.

Gary Allen

It may be me, but wouldn't it seem logical to assist coal companies with a
phase-out and phase-in policy of old to new technologies?  A coal company is
going to reject anything that threatens its livelihood.  Compromise is the key
to a legacy, not mandates.

Edward W Greenlee

Great idea: Replace coal with natural gas. Natural gas is, of course, the result
of "fracking."

Next speech for Obama: pandering to the anti-fracking crowd.

Henk Vandenbergh

LETTERS

Millions of Americans who work in clean energy-related businesses would take
issue with Bjorn Lomborg's claim that clean energy has a marginal role in
addressing climate change  ("Obama should confront climate change fantasies,"
Opinion, Wednesday).

Renewable energy production has doubled in the last four years. Some states now
get 20% of their electricity from renewables. Yet the U.S. is still catching up
to other countries, such as Lomborg's native Denmark, which gets 40% of its
electricity from renewables.

Recent U.S. efficiency standards for everything from refrigerators to industrial
motors  will help cut carbon pollution by 100 million metric tons by 2035 and
save Americans $77 billion on energy bills, while driving innovation and
economic growth. It's no fantasy. Renewable energy is making a difference.

Dale Bryk, director; energy and transportation program; Natural Resources
Defense Council

New York

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Julie Snider, USA TODAY (Bar graph)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2013 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              60 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              July 1, 2013 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Time to switch to 'green' power

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 116 words


After President Obama laid out his plan to address climate change, we asked our
Twitter followers: What should be done about the environment?

How about a plan to cut oil use in half? We can do it with today's technology
and smart policy.

@UCSRachel

Climate change can be fought with carbon tax on fossil fuels plus offset with
income tax. It's simple. GOP Congress won't consider it.

@jamespettit4

Go green.  Turn AC off. Open windows. Use clothes lines to dry laundry instead
of a dryer.

@Hplage44

We need to switch to green energy as fast as we can: natural gas, solar, wind
and nuclear energy. Kill out coal and oil.

@sparta776

For more of this discussion, follow @USATOpinion or #tellusatoday on Twitter.

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Evan Vucci, AP President Obama outlines his plan to address
climate change at Georgetown University last week.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2013 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              65 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           October 31, 2013 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Spying uproar could spark changes not seen since 1970s

BYLINE: Jim Michaels, and Aamer Madhani, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1427 words


As criticism of the National Security Agency mounts, the U.S. intelligence
community is bracing for an overhaul of how it does business on a level not seen
since Sen. Frank Church held hearings into intelligence abuses nearly four
decades ago.

The contentious Church hearings, which held the nation spellbound with tales of
attempts at assassinating foreign leaders, led to momentous reforms, including
the establishment of an intelligence oversight committee.

Today's revelations are not nearly as dramatic, but the regular drip of leaks
from former NSA contractor Edward Snowden is reaching critical mass in
Washington, where lawmakers of both parties are beginning to rally around the
idea of reining in what they see as NSA overreaching.

"It is time for serious and meaningful reforms so we can restore confidence in
our intelligence community," Sen. Patrick Leahy, a Vermont Democrat and chairman
of the Senate Judiciary Committee, said this week. "Modest transparency and
oversight provisions are not enough. We need real reform."

Leahy and Rep. James Sensenbrenner, R-Wis., are proposing a series of changes as
to how the NSA operates.

While the political momentum is rising, some analysts worry that Washington will
go too far and harm U.S. intelligence capabilities at a time when al-Qaeda and
other terrorist groups remain a threat.

"There is well-founded concern that there may be moves to clamp additional
restrictions on intelligence activities" said Paul Pillar, a former CIA
official. "The political mood at the moment is one where there is a political
incentive to do something."

Until recently, key lawmakers defended the NSA and criticized Snowden for
spilling sensitive secrets.

But a recent report that the NSA eavesdropped on the cellphone of German
Chancellor Angela Merkel, a key American ally, as well as other foreign leaders
has transformed the political climate.

The Merkel allegations have "changed the atmosphere," said David Wise, who has
written extensively on intelligence issues.

A key turning point came Monday when Sen. Dianne Feinstein, who chairs the
Intelligence Committee and has vigorously defended the NSA against the Snowden
disclosures, expressed exasperation over the latest revelations.

"With respect to NSA collection of intelligence on leaders of U.S. allies --
including France, Spain, Mexico and Germany -- let me state unequivocally: I am
totally opposed," Feinstein said. "Unless the United States is engaged in
hostilities against a country or there is an emergency need for this type of
surveillance, I do not believe the United States should be collecting phone
calls or e-mails of friendly presidents and prime ministers."

'70S REVELATIONS DRAMATIC

The White House continued on Wednesday to deal with the fallout over monitoring
Merkel's cellphone.

National Security Adviser Susan Rice and Director of National Intelligence James
Clapper met with their German counterparts in Washington in what White House
spokesman Josh Earnest described as part of the administration's effort to
"resolve some of the tension that has arisen out of some of the reports on
surveillance activities reportedly conducted by the U.S."

Analysts point out that the reports surfacing today are not nearly as dramatic
as the charges in the 1970s, which included allegations that the CIA targeted
foreign leaders for assassination. At one point Church, an Idaho Democrat, waved
a poison dart gun in front of television cameras. The hearings led to a system
of congressional oversight and imposed restrictions on CIA activities.

The controversies today are about sweeping up information and the potential for
trampling civil liberties -- not black bag jobs in foreign countries.

Still, the political climate is growing more ominous for the intelligence world.
The specter of continued revelations from Snowden raises the stakes even further
and could place more pressure on lawmakers to take action.

Lawmakers, such as Leahy and Sensenbrenner, have already proposed bills that
would limit the amount of data the NSA can sweep up as lawmakers have hauled
administration officials to Capitol Hill to respond to allegations that Merkel's
cellphone was tapped.

In both chambers of Congress, lawmakers have offered fixes to the domestic
spying apparatus that they believe will lead to more transparency for an
oversight system that was largely built out more than 35 years ago and has
failed to keep up with technological advances.

Before the Merkel controversy erupted, lawmakers had focused on tightening
eavesdropping rules in the United States.

Bills have been introduced to outlaw the NSA's bulk collection and data-mining
of Americans' telephone and Internet records. Legislation has also surfaced to
change the supersecret Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act court, commonly
known as the  FISA court, which hears NSA and law enforcement requests to spy on
Americans.

Another bipartisan effort -- which the White House supports -- calls for
creating a privacy advocate at the FISA court, a person who could argue against
government requests when he or she felt it was appropriate.

MERKEL CASE CHANGES DEBATE

The larger debate on the NSA's role has been complicated by the disclosure of
monitoring the calls of foreign leaders such as Merkel and reports, disputed by
U.S., officials, about widespread NSA surveillance of private citizens in
France, Italy and Spain.

The first leak by Snowden to the British newspaper The Guardian -- which
revealed that the FISA court had secretly allowed the telecommunications company
Verizon to hand over a treasure trove of domestic call data -- caused distress
among some lawmakers. But immediate calls for changes were fairly muted. Some
legislators leaped to the defense of the NSA.

Part of the restraint may have been due to the fact that lawmakers had debated
and reauthorized FISA, the 1978 law regulating the intelligence courts, noted
Mieke Eoyang, a former Democratic aide to the House Permanent Select Committee
on Intelligence. In short, while the extent of the data collection may have been
surprising to the public, it didn't surprise most lawmakers, Eoyang said.

That, however, wasn't the case with the disclosure that the NSA was monitoring
Merkel's calls. "When the stories started breaking about Merkel and other
foreign leaders, you had members of Congress feeling like, 'Why wasn't I aware
of this," said Eoyang, the national security director at centrist Democratic
group Third Way. "Congress doesn't like to be surprised."

Aki Peritz, a former U.S. government counterterrorism official, said that the
comments from Feinstein, who has been a fierce defender of the NSA, mark perhaps
the first "ding in the armor" and the best indication that change is in the
offing.

"But when it comes down to doing reform or reforming the system, the question
becomes: What is there to actually reform?" Peritz said. "The U.S. intelligence
service is the most overseen intelligence service in the world. There is a lot
of oversight. The intelligence committees have access to everything."

James Lewis, a former State Department official and technology expert at the
Center for Strategic and International Studies, said he was particularly
concerned by a push to establish a privacy advocate in the FISA court. The
court, which is made up of 11 federal judges, meets to review government
applications for national security warrants and has taken on greater importance
in the aftermath of the 9/11 attacks. Since then, applications have nearly
tripled -- averaging about 1,700 per year -- and only a few have been denied by
the court.

Putting an advocate on the court amounts to having someone "whose job is to
block decision-making," Lewis said.

President Obama has called for a sweeping review of NSA and other intelligence
activities. A particular emphasis, said Caitlin Hayden, a National Security
Council spokeswoman, is an examination of whether the United States has taken
the appropriate posture when it comes to heads of state. The White House has
said it is not currently listening in on Merkel's conversations and won't in the
future, but has declined to say whether the U.S. intelligence community has
ceased eavesdropping on other foreign leaders, among them U.S. allies.

Intelligence professionals view today's activities as part of an age-old
continuum involving Congress bouncing between imposing new restrictions spurred
by abuses and then urging aggressive action when intelligence agencies fail to
prevent an attack, such as 9/11.

"It's best to think of this," said Pillar, "as a pendulum that swings back

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2013 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              68 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          February 13, 2013 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Emboldened and ready for battle

BYLINE: Susan Page, @SusanPage, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 947 words


In the State of the Union speech launching his second term, it was Barack Obama
2.0.

President Obama's hair was visibly grayer than at his first speech in the House
chamber four years ago. His tone was more combative. His rhetoric drew sharper
lines.

He has the scars of four tumultuous years in office and the credential of having
won re-election. During last year's election and especially since November's
victory, Obama has been emboldened on both the battles he chooses and the
tactics he uses. Voters had a stark choice on the 2012 ballot, he's noted; they
chose him.

"The American people don't expect government to solve every problem," he said
near the start of his hour-long speech. "They don't expect those of us in this
chamber to agree on every issue -- but they do expect us to put the nation's
interests before party. They do expect us to forge reasonable compromise where
we can."

The laundry list of goals Obama outlined had the sweep of a first term. He said
it was critical to address climate change, an issue he  sidelined after his
cap-and-trade proposal went nowhere in his first year in office. (If Congress
won't act, he said, he'd look for executive actions.) In an emotional close, he
added gun control to his priorities in the wake of the December shooting rampage
in Newtown, Conn.

He urged action to overhaul immigration, expand preschool education programs,
spur manufacturing and invest in clean energy. He endorsed an increase in the
minimum wage, unveiled an initiative to bolster protections for the nation's
cybersystems and created a commission to study  voting problems.

And as he had in each State of the Union speech since taking office during a
financial freefall, he called for government action to  help create jobs and
rebuild the middle class. "We have cleared away the rubble of crisis," he said.
Then he added, "It is our unfinished task to restore the basic bargain that
built this country, the idea that if you work hard and meet your
responsibilities, you can get ahead."

The State of the Union speech demonstrated that Obama's muscular inaugural
address signaled a change in his administration. In both speeches, he embraced a
more openly activist government and confrontational style. He feels empowered by
his re-election, advisers say, and liberated from running for office again. He's
also applying lessons from the past few frustrating years.

The question ahead is whether Obama's new strategy, which relies less on
persuading members of Congress than pressuring them with the force of public
opinion, will succeed in passing major legislation or simply create a new recipe
for gridlock.

That could be tested almost immediately, on the looming battle over automatic
spending cuts scheduled to go into effect on March 1. Obama said the "sudden,
harsh, arbitrary cuts" would jeopardize military readiness and slow the economic
recovery. He said he would support "modest" steps to save money in Medicare but
also called for changes in the tax code that would hit "the well-off and
well-connected."

Republican leaders have flatly ruled out more revenue, however, noting that tax
hikes on top earners were part of a deal struck to avert the so-called fiscal
cliff at the beginning of the year. Florida Sen. Marco Rubio, in the formal
Republican response, accused Obama of having an "obsession" about raising taxes.

Kentucky Sen. Rand Paul, in a response delivered for the conservative Tea Party
movement, accused both parties of being "guilty of spending too much, of
protecting their sacred cows, of backroom deals in which everyone up here wins,
but every taxpayer loses."

There was an emotional refrain when Obama cited the stories of those in the
visitors' gallery touched by gun violence, including the parents of a
15-year-old girl who had been shot and killed in Chicago a week after performing
in events here for Obama's inauguration.

He called background checks for gun buyers a "common sense reform" and mentioned
other ideas without specifically endorsing them. "Each of these proposals
deserves a vote in Congress," he said. To rising applause from Democrats in the
hall, he repeated the names of people and places associated with iconic shooting
rampages.

"Gabby Giffords deserves a vote," he said of the former Arizona congresswoman,
seated in the chamber's gallery. "The families of Newtown deserve a vote."

The president also called on Congress to pass a comprehensive immigration bill
that, among other things, would provide a path for "earned citizenship" for the
estimated 11 million illegal immigrants in the United States. "Let's get this
done," he said. Members of both parties rose to applaud that. On that issue,
there may be common ground with Republicans eager to repair frayed ties with
Hispanic voters.

On most fronts, though, Obama's relationship with GOP leaders has soured enough
that compromise seems distant.  House Speaker John Boehner, seated just behind
the president, looked pained through much of the speech. He and Republicans in
the hall mostly sat on their hands as Obama ran through proposals on addressing
climate change, on raising the minimum wage, on creating joint
government-business manufacturing hubs.

Still, the president's prospects have been boosted by the divisions within his
opposition, including sniping between establishment Republicans and the
conservative Tea Party movement.

Also fueling the president's sense of urgency is the certainty that political
attention at some point will shift to the 2016 campaign and the battle to
succeed him. "Generally speaking," said Neera Tanden, a former Obama adviser who
now heads the Center for American Progress, "we have a good year to get things
done."

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo JACK GRUBER, USA TODAY President Obama, pictured Tuesday before
his State of the Union speech, outlined an agenda with more of the sweep of
first-term ambitions.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2013 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              69 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             March 5, 2013 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

As Arctic ice melts, full steam ahead for shipping

BYLINE: Doyle Rice, @USATODAYWeather, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 493 words


Who said global warming is all bad?

There will certainly be more negative than positive effects from climate change.
But shipping routes across the Arctic Ocean -- which have been ice-covered and
impassable since humans invented ships millenniums ago -- could be open  for the
first time by midcentury because of climate change, a study suggests.

This includes shipping directly across the North Pole and through the famed
Northwest Passage, a sea route from Newfoundland toward the Bering Strait,
neither of which has ever been done. The study appears in Monday's edition of
the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences Plus.

"Nobody's ever talked about shipping over the top of the North Pole," according
to study lead author Laurence C. Smith, a geography professor at UCLA. "This is
an entirely unexpected possibility."

The earliest that ships could travel over the North Pole or through the
Northwest Passage would likely be in the 2040s or 2050s, Smith says. This sort
of shipping would  occur only in late summer and early fall, he adds. The prime
month would be September, when Arctic sea ice is at its annual minimum.

"The development is both exciting from an economic development point of view and
worrisome in terms of safety, both for the Arctic environment and for the ships
themselves," Smith says.

Going directly across the Arctic, or through the Northwest Passage, could lead
to significant savings in time and money for shippers.

In the past couple of summers, a few dozen ships have traversed the Arctic
through the Northern Sea Route. It is controlled by Russia, which charges  "a
lot of money" to use it, Smith says. Ships that use the North Pole route,
though, would  need to be special, ice-breaking ships because of random floating
ice remaining on that route. Regular ships -- which make up about 99% of the
world's fleet, Smith says -- might be able to use the Northwest Passage.

No part of the world has seen as much warming in recent decades as the Arctic.
Since the 1980s, temperatures in the Arctic have risen faster than the global
average.

Last September, sea ice  covered the least amount of area ever observed in the
satellite record (1979-present), according to the annual Arctic Report Card of
the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA).

Most of the Arctic Ocean  is controlled by five countries -- the USA, Canada,
Russia, Denmark and Norway -- all of whom have a coastline on the ocean. The
center of it, however, including the North Pole, is in international waters.

Given this potential for new shipping routes in the Arctic, NOAA recently issued
a plan for updated Arctic maps as part of a major effort to improve navigation
for Arctic areas experiencing increasing vessel traffic as ice disappears.

"Ships need updated charts with precise and accurate measurements," said Capt.
Doug Baird of NOAA's Coast Survey's marine chart division. "We don't have
decades to get it done. Ice diminishment is here now."

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, Color, Julie Snider, USA TODAY (map)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2013 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              77 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            January 22, 2013 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Burning concerns;
Drought, heat trigger jitters before fire season

BYLINE: Trevor Hughes, USA TODAY,

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 784 words


High in Colorado's Rocky Mountains and beneath a foot of snow, a wildfire is
still burning.

Sparked by an errant October campfire, the 32-acre Fern Lake Fire in Rocky
Mountain National Park has been smoldering in a remote area of the park, feeding
off downed timber and weather that made 2012 the nation's hottest year on
record.

The unusual winter fire and the conditions that created it have experts across
the country bracing for what could be yet another smoke-filled summer. Although
experts say it is too early to predict how bad 2013 might be, the ongoing
drought and rising temperatures are concerns.

"We know we're going to have a fire season. It's just a question of how long and
how bad," says Jeremy Sullens, a wildfire analyst for the National Interagency
Fire Center (NIFC) in Boise.

Last year was the warmest on record for the USA, acccording to the National
Climatic Data Center in Asheville, N.C., surpassing  the previous record set in
1998. The average temperature for 2012 was 55.3 degrees,  one full degree above
1998.

Driven in part by last summer's sweltering temperatures, wildfires burned 9.2
million acres nationally in 2012, an area roughly the size of Massachusetts and
Connecticut combined, according to the NIFC. Only twice have more than 9 million
acres burned in a single year, in 2006 and 2007, since good records began to be
kept in 1960.

The wildfire season's length and intensity is driven largely by how much snow
and rain falls each winter and spring. Heavy, wet snows tend to delay the season
by keeping the ground, grasses and trees wet. Even the weight of snow plays a
factor in some fires: Tall grasses that haven't been squashed down like normal
carry fires faster and hotter, Sullens says.

The fire agency says  there's continued drought across much of the western and
central United States, "with severe to exceptional drought conditions spreading
from Southern California through the Rockies and into the Plains and the mid-
and upper-Mississippi Valley. Parts of Georgia and Alabama also had extreme to
exceptional drought conditions."

And according to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, ongoing
drought is expected to persist until at least May in a swath of the country from
Southern California and Nevada across Utah, Colorado and Wyoming to Kansas,
Oklahoma and Nebraska.

Put another way: It hasn't snowed or rained much and forecasters say it doesn't
look likely to get any better.

Experts such as Katharine Hayhoe, director of the Climate Science Center at
Texas Tech University, say wildfires will most likely get worse in the western
USA as climate change lowers rainfall, raises average temperatures and
contributes to insect infestations that are killing millions of trees, leaving
forests full of dry timber ready to ignite.

What's interesting, Hayhoe says, is that the number of wildfires breaking out
each year has remained relatively constant even as temperatures rose and
precipitation declined. What's changed? How quickly they grow.

"We're not seeing more frequent fires. We're seeing bigger fires," she says. "As
it's getting hotter and drier, it's making it harder to control those fires."

To help combat those faster-growing wildfires, the U.S. Forest Service last
summer announced plans to lease four new, large firefighting helicopters and
seven very large firefighting airplanes. In its published strategy for fighting
wildfires, the Forest Service said the wildfire season now averages 78 days
longer than it did in the mid-1980s.

While winter is gripping most of the country, firefighters are readying their
equipment, looking to weather forecasts to help determine how many airplanes,
helicopters and people they will need to battle blazes when they break out.

"We spend the winter months assessing our resources and preparing for the
summer," says NIFC spokeswoman Robyn Broyles.

Back in Colorado, the Fern Lake Fire continues to smolder beneath a blanket of
snow, burning in 800 years' worth of accumulated debris in a remote area. Many
visitors have a hard time understanding that a wildfire can still be burning in
the middle of winter beneath a blanket of snow, says park spokeswoman Kyle
Patterson.

She says the fire will likely burn through the winter, unless heavy, wet snows
arrive. But three weeks into January, the snows have been light and dry, she
says. "It's like spitting on a campfire."

Hughes also reports for The (Fort Collins) Coloradoan. Contributing: Doyle Rice.

---

Largest 2012 wildfires

In the USA, by acres burned:

Long Draw (Oregon), 557,628

Holloway (Oregon/Nevada), 460,850

Mustang Complex (Idaho), 341,488

Rush (California), 315,577

Whitewater-Baldy (New Mexico), 297,845

Source: National Interagency Fire Center

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Dec. 2 photos by Sam Noblett, The (Fort Collins) Coloradoan The
Fern Lake Fire in Rocky Mountain National Park is still smoldering under snow in
a remote area.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2013 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              80 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             May 22, 2013 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Keep Okla. tornado in perspective;
Disaster was tragic, but larger ones have occurred. What's now different is
overbuilt heartland.

BYLINE: Lee Sandlin

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 737 words


During the live coverage of the horrific events in Moore, Okla., on Monday
night, meteorologist Mike Morgan on Oklahoma City TV station KFOR declared that
this was "the worst tornado damage-wise in the history of the world." Versions
of that phrase went on echoing through the national coverage of the disaster
that night.

No, this wasn't the absolute worst tornado ever, but there was still something
unusually horrible about it. The size and destructiveness were, as writer Andrew
Leonard in Salon put it, "unprecedented."

Without minimizing the tragedy of what happened in Moore -- where at least 24
people, including nine children, were killed -- it's worth putting this disaster
in perspective by looking back through history at earlier, worse tornadoes.

Consider for a moment another tornado that happened more than 200 years ago, on
the afternoon of June 8, 1805. An enormous black cloud came out of the Missouri
hills, crossed the Mississippi River, cut through Southern Illinois, and finally
petered out somewhere in Indiana. The land there was heavily forested and
sparsely settled. There were few witnesses and fewer reports of injury or
property damage. It might have left no trace in history, except for the
aftermath. Travelers found an impassable wall of downed trees, 2 miles wide and
hundreds of miles long, that remained in place for decades.

Tri-State Tornado

The 1805 tornado might be dismissed as some unrepeatable fluke -- except that
120 years later, on March 18, 1925, another tornado traced out almost the exact
same route. It became known as the Tri-State Tornado. Witnesses didn't see a
classic funnel cloud. Instead, they described it as a wall of fog that moved
across the landscape at more than 70 miles an hour, destroying everything it
touched. Monday's tornado in Moore lasted 40 minutes. The Tri-State tornado
lasted three and a half hours. The country there was no longer uninhabited, as
it had been in 1805, and almost 700 people died.

There have been others. The Moore tornado has been reported to be  1.3 miles
wide at one point, which is very unusual but not unprecedented. A tornado in
Hallam, Neb., in 2004 was measured at two-and-a-half miles wide, and there is
radar evidence that a 1999 tornado in the open country of northern Oklahoma was
larger.

Even the extraordinary images of complete destruction from Moore will seem
familiar to historians of violent weather. The preliminary estimates are that
the tornado rated an EF-5 on the Enhanced Fujita Scale, with winds of about 200
mph, but Moore experienced a tornado in 1999 where the winds were clocked at
above 300 mph.

The truth is that tornadoes like this are rare but not unheard of. They have
been part of the reality of life in the American heartland for centuries. So why
do people have the idea that there is something so horribly sinister about this
newest one?

For all to see

Partly, of course, it's the sheer overwhelming violence and terror of the
tornado itself, transmitted in real time and viewed over and over again by
millions of people on news websites and the Internet. This naturally has the
effect of dulling the memory of previous catastrophes.

There is also the current tendency of the news media to treat every
meteorological event in apocalyptic terms. But now there is also our growing
urgency about climate change. In much of the online discussion about what
happened in Moore, we can hear the repeated fear that there's something
unnatural going on with the weather, that this one event -- and if not this one,
then surely the next -- will be the tipping point for global disaster.

Among meteorologists, there's widespread consensus climate change is real, but
very little concern about what one tornado might or might not prove about it. In
the first decade of this century, there were only three EF-5 tornadoes anywhere
in North America; nobody knows why. In 2011 alone, there were six.

What should concern us is what a tornado like the one in Moore says about the
heedless way we occupy the American landscape. The heartland is being enormously
overbuilt. Tornadoes are going to be more frequent occurrences in densely
inhabited areas because there are going to be fewer empty places for them to
touch down.

Whatever happens to the larger climate, events like Moore are increasingly going
to be the norm.

Lee Sandlin is the author of the new book Storm Kings: The Untold History of
America's First Tornado Chasers.

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Valerie Mosley Springfield (Mo.) News-Leader Movie theater in
Moore, Okla., on Tuesday.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2013 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              82 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            August 29, 2013 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Automakers' green push mostly hype

BYLINE: Dan Becker and, James Gerstenzang

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 634 words


The auto companies have a serious case of Prius envy. Just look at how they seek
to sell their cars.

They tout "efficient" models, making "best in class" claims, shouting
"ecoconscious" and how gently they treat the environment. You'd think all they
were selling was the Prius. Unfortunately, when it comes to fuel efficiency and
emissions, few come close to the Toyota hybrid.

As 2014 models arrive in showrooms, the integrity of the car makers' pitch is
about more than truth in advertising or savings at the pump. It goes to the
heart of the Obama administration's program to fight global warming.

Under the plan's 54.5 miles per gallon standard, the fleet of new cars sold in
the United States in 2025 is slated to nearly double gas mileage and halve
carbon dioxide emissions, the major cause of climate change. Despite loopholes
that, for example, allow the companies to make no improvements in the biggest
pickup trucks' mileage through 2021, the rules are already cutting oil use and
global warming pollution.

The auto industry's adherence to the rules is crucial: The less we guzzle, the
less we pollute. The industry must also make cars that live up to its claims.
When the claims are inflated, the federal government must step in, forcing the
companies to stop misleading consumers.

How do they mislead us?

They tout highway mileage. Chevrolet's 2013 Impala delivers 18 mpg in the city
and 22 mpg in combined city-highway driving. But Chevy promoted the 30 mpg
highway rating that only one version of the vehicle achieved. Surprise! It bears
little relationship to the mileage drivers actually get. For years, the
Environmental Protection Agency has maintained loophole-riddled test procedures
that they know allow automakers to cheat. It is time the agency fixed the flaws
in its tests.

They apply imaginative language to mileage claims. Ford says its 2014 Taurus
delivers "impressive fuel economy." But with city-highway ratings no better than
23 mpg, five of six versions fail to meet the government's fuel economy target
for cars of that size. We're not impressed.

They play down crucial facts. Chevrolet touts the 38 mpg highway rating of its
2013 Spark. But the Spark only hits that mark in a manual transmission model.
Just 6.5% of new cars sold here use manual transmissions.

Other than the Prius -- 2012's top-selling car in California -- most clean
vehicles the companies push are built in minuscule numbers. During this year's
first eight-and-a-half months, Chevrolet built about 20,000 plug-in electric-gas
Volts and Nissan not quite 15,000 all-electric Leafs, Automotive News reports.

Their production pales when compared with General Motors' gas-guzzling pickups:
Nearly 511,000 Silverados and Sierras, to name just two, from January through
mid-August. Their best mileage? Merely 21 mpg in combined city-highway driving
-- and that is for their rare hybrid versions.

The success of Obama's green program depends on how closely the auto industry
sticks to the spirit, as well as the letter, of the rules it negotiated with the
administration.

The car makers need to act responsibly, making efficient vehicles that slash oil
use and global warming pollution while cutting costs at the pump. That's how
they can pay back the American people for the $82 billion bailout that saved
their tailpipes.

The Federal Trade Commission is responsible for making sure that consumers
aren't bamboozled by false advertising. The government must enforce the strong
clean-car and truth-in-advertising rules.

If government and industry each does its job, consumers won't drive off dealers'
lots in what they think are gas-sippers, only to guzzle and pollute.

Dan Becker directs the Safe Climate Campaign, where James Gerstenzang, a former
environmental reporter for the Los Angeles Times, is the editorial director.

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo David Dewhurst

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2013 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              87 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 20, 2013 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Poll: Americans want climate action;
But backing for regulation has declined

BYLINE: Wendy Koch, USA TODAY,

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 577 words


Most Americans say global warming is serious and want the United States to
address it, but their support for government regulations has fallen in recent
years, says a poll out today  conducted for USA TODAY.

Three of five say global warming is a very serious global problem, and two of
three say it will hurt future generations either a lot or a great deal if
nothing is done to reduce it, according to the poll of 801 U.S. adults done in
conjunction with Stanford University and Resources for the Future, a
non-partisan research group, which funded the research.

"It seems obvious" the Earth is warming, says survey participant Ken Anderson,
30, a database administrator in West Valley, Utah, citing consensus among
climate scientists about the overall issue. Yet, he says, "it will be more of a
concern for my children and my children's children."

Also notable: 71% say they see the effects of global warming, and 28% say it
made the damage from last year's Superstorm Sandy "much worse," though 41% say
it had no effect.

"Large majorities of Americans remain concerned about global warming," says
co-author Jon Krosnick, Stanford professor of communication, political science
and psychology. Three of four (73%) say global warming is "probably happening,"
but 85% took that view in 2006.

Other climate polls -- each with differently worded questions -- have shown
slightly fewer Americans say global warming is real but they also find that
attitudes have stabilized in recent years. Last month, Pew Research Center said
67% see "solid evidence" the Earth is warming -- about the same as in 2012 but
up from 57% in 2009 and still down from 77% in 2006.

"It's consistent with the patterns we've seen," says Frederick Mayer, a
professor of public policy and the environment at Duke University. He says the
findings are "modestly encouraging for modest policy action."

This year, the Environmental Protection Agency proposed a limit on the amount of
greenhouse gases that new power plants can emit. The rules, slated to be
finalized next year, mostly target coal-fired plants because of their relatively
higher emissions.

The poll finds a slight majority of Americans, 55%, back a government limit on
power plant emissions, and only 21% say it's a "good idea" to get electricity
from coal.

The poll found that at least 75% say the United States should take steps soon to
try to prepare for global warming, even if other nations do less. Nearly half,
or 44%, say such actions will help the U.S. economy; 30% say they will hurt it.

The results show a noticeable dip in Americans who say the government should
require that cars, appliances and buildings use less energy. Those who say it
should require more fuel-efficient cars dropped from 44% in 2006 to 27% now.
Those who favor such an approach for appliances fell from 41% to 26% in the same
time period.

Stephen Ansolabehere, government professor at Harvard University, says that
shift may be due to a decline in the public's confidence in the government,
noting the bumpy rollout of the Affordable Care Act.

Survey participant Theolyn Brock, 42, who has lived in Florida since 1974, says
hurricanes and beach erosion in her state have definitely worsened in recent
decades, and she attributes part of that to global warming. She'd like to see a
U.S. shift toward solar and wind power similar to what Germany's doing. She
recently returned from a vacation there: "You could see it everywhere -- solar
panel after solar panel."

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Frank Pompa, USA TODAY (bar graphs, pie charts)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2013 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              92 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             May 22, 2013 Wednesday
                                FA CHASE EDITION

Tornado Alley doesn't have exclusive rights to twisters;
Regional identification is obsolete

BYLINE: Rick Hampson, @RickHampson, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 702 words


The twister that smashed the city of Moore, Okla., gave the nation a vivid
glimpse of life in Tornado Alley, a vaguely defined region between the Rockies
and the Mississippi that claims grim pride in being "the severe weather capital
of the world."

But where once most Americans could watch the danger and drama of a big, killer
twister with a certain detachment, changes in weather, demographics and culture
have all but obliterated such a comfortable remove.

Literally and figuratively, Tornado Alley now could be almost anywhere; the
alley is more like a field that seems to spread by the year.

That funnel cloud in The Wizard of Oz (actually a 35-foot tapered stocking) was
remote and exotic. But the Oklahoma disaster is a reminder that Tornado Alley is
less a geographic description than a state of mind, as twisters seem to range
farther afield and extreme weather in general turns up in unexpected places -- a
deadly tornado in western Massachusetts (June 2011), an earthquake in central
Virginia (August 2011), storm surge on Wall Street (October 2012).

The number of recorded tornadoes has shot up over the years, but Tom Jeffrey, a
hazard scientist with CoreLogic, a Santa Ana, Calif., analytics firm, says it's
not clear if that's because there are more tornadoes or more people reporting
them.

He gives several explanations for our increased concern about tornadoes and all
kinds of   bad weather. Climate change seems to portend meteorological extremes;
cable TV news and social media focus national attention; meteorologists are
better able to detect, track and measure tornadoes; and the population is larger
and more dispersed -- a larger target.

Conversely, when twisters set down in western Oklahoma or parts of the Texas
Panhandle, Richard Mize noted last year in The Oklahoman of Oklahoma City,
"chances are all they'll scare is a bunch of cows and all they'll hit is some
oil tank batteries. "

The implied restrictiveness of "Tornado Alley" -- the term was coined by two Air
Force meteorologists in 1952 -- was comforting to those not in it.

But many of the once-specific regional weather identities -- West Coast
earthquakes, Mountain West wildfires, Midwest blizzards and floods, East and
Gulf Coast hurricanes -- seem increasingly obsolete.

In this new world, a natural weather disaster is more terrifying to Americans
everywhere because they know it can happen here -- we're all Dorothy and Toto,
running for the storm cellar with cruel, vengeful nature bearing down on us.

But Tornado Alley has no monopoly on tornadoes. In fact, according to National
Oceanic and Atmospheric Association data analyzed by the Santa Ana, Calif., firm
CoreLogic, only three of the 10 states with the highest number of tornado
touchdowns from 1980 to 2009 fell within it. Only one alley state, Kansas, was
in the top five.

Tornado Alley remains the symbolic heart of America's fascination with
tornadoes, a place where the dark funnel cloud is an integral part of local
history and culture.

The region wears its name like a badge of honor. Delta Sigma Pi, the academic
business fraternity, has a "Tornado Alley Region." The Science Museum of
Oklahoma in Oklahoma City has a "Tornado Alley Day."

Unlike a blizzard, flood or hurricane, whose drama rests in its long approach
and uncertain course and outcome, a tornado descends suddenly from above, often
offering warning of minutes rather than days. In Moore, many people had only
about 15 minutes' warning.

Here, generations know the green-black color of the sky, the eerie silence
before and after the twister hits, the sound of the funnel itself, a remarkable
imitation of a very large freight train.

Jeffrey, the CoreLogic scientist, is a Wisconsin native who learned as a child
to head for shelter at the sound of a tornado siren and later worked in
southwestern Kansas.

The first time the siren there sounded, many of his fellow workers at the Grant
County office building ran out the door, hopped in cars and drove off. He
panicked -- wasn't there a shelter in the building?

There was. But, he learned, the Kansans weren't fleeing the tornado -- they were
going to get a look at it.

That, he said, is when he knew he wasn't in Wisconsin anymore. He was in Tornado
Alley.

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo File photo by STEPHEN JAFFE, AFP/Getty Images An EF5 tornado
ravaged Del City, Okla., on May 3, 1999, and killed about 40 people. An EF5
tornado has winds of more than 200 mph.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2013 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              95 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           November 12, 2013 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Liberal groups double GOP in spending

BYLINE: Fredreka Schouten, USA TODAY,

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 413 words


President Obama and many congressional Democrats repeatedly have condemned the
flood of outside money in elections, but liberal activists and
Democratic-aligned groups have adopted the strategy in a slew of recent
contests.

Liberal super PACs (political action committees) have spent about $10.8 million
on federal races this year -- twice as much as conservative super PACs,
according to the Center for Responsive Politics' tally of independent spending.
Much of the money has flowed to a handful of special elections. Liberal money
also makes up 70% of the election-related federal spending by  politically
active non-profit groups.

Unions and two billionaires promoting liberal causes led non-party, outside
spending in last week's state contests in New Jersey and Virginia, respectively.
"For better or worse, people are getting comfortable with the new
campaign-finance landscape," said Sheila Krumholz, the center's director.

Super PACs, which can raise and spend unlimited amounts, first emerged in 2010
after federal court rulings, including the Supreme Court's Citizens United
decision overturning a long-standing ban on corporate money in elections.

The amped-up political activity by liberal groups raises the stakes for the 2014
midterm congressional elections as both parties battle fiercely for control of
the Senate. Republicans need a net gain of six seats to flip control to their
party.

Last year, conservative super PACs outspent Democratic-aligned groups by more
than 2-to-1. This year, Republican donors, disheartened by their failure to oust
Obama and the damage inflicted by last month's government shutdown, have been
slower to fund conservative PACs, said Fred Malek, a veteran GOP fundraiser.

But don't expect any retreat from Republicans, who are closely watching the
troubled rollout of the Affordable Care Act, Malek said. "Enthusiasm is growing
in leaps and bounds as it becomes clear what a turkey Obamacare is," he said.

Two billionaires -- California environmentalist Tom Steyer and outgoing New York
City Mayor Michael Bloomberg -- have helped drive up spending in support of
Democratic candidates as they push climate-change and gun-control issues,
respectively. Both backed Democrat Terry McAuliffe, who narrowly beat Republican
Ken Cuccinelli in the Virginia governor race.

Steyer spent $8 million and ran ads that slammed Cuccinelli's environmental
record. The race demonstrated that "if you are a climate denier, you face
enormous risk," Steyer said.

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2013 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              96 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             March 11, 2013 Monday
                                FA CHASE EDITION

script revisions;
Howard offers laments for Magic split, says saga has made him 'better man'

BYLINE: Sam Amick, @sam_amick, USA TODAY Sports

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 1561 words


The famous view on the road to Dwight Howard's house in Bel Air is spectacular,
the Hollywood hills below unfolding into the valley where stars have come and
gone.

On a clear day, it has been said of this classic route on Mulholland Drive, you
can see all the way to Canoga Park, some 14 miles away. And on this day, Howard
-- the Los Angeles Lakers center and aspiring actor whose dream of becoming an
icon had so much to do with him coming here -- can see all the way to Orlando.

The big man who was so beloved there returns Tuesday for the first time since he
was traded seven months ago, this time as the villain. In an exclusive interview
with USA TODAY Sports, Howard acknowledged that this script -- the one that
included twists and turns and battered his once-sparkling image -- should have
been written differently.

"In Orlando, I handled a lot of stuff the wrong way," said Howard, sitting at
his kitchen table. "If any of those people in Orlando are upset with how I did
it, I apologize for the way I handled it and the way it was handled in the
media.

"I really just got caught up in wanting to please everybody else. I really love
that city. That was the hardest thing to do was to leave that city, because I
basically grew up there. That was my whole life. Orlando was it. I did not want
to leave all that behind -- the city, just everything about it. The fans. But I
wanted a change.  I just felt like there was something else out there for me."

The new scenery wasn't the only change for Howard.

The last 15 months -- from the trade demands in Orlando to the April back
surgery from which he says he returned too soon to the public relations disaster
that angered fans and led to the loss of sponsorships with McDonald's and
Gatorade -- convinced Howard that he needed to look at himself.

"There are a lot of things about me that have changed," said Howard, 27, an
Atlanta native who was drafted first overall out of high school in 2004. "I'm
becoming a better man because of the stuff that has happened to me this last
year and a half.  Even though I'm going through it where everybody in the world
can see it, I'm happy that it's happening.

"If it didn't happen, I'd be stuck in my ways. I would never change, and then it
would be a lot worse. For all this stuff to happen, for me to sit back and see,
and evaluate myself and what I could've done better, and realize that I needed
to make a change, I'm getting better. I'm growing up. I'm maturing."

Howard made clear that includes taking responsibility for his part in the saga
that was "Dwight-mare." While Howard was hardly the first NBA superstar to seek
a trade, the way he handled it made an uncomfortable situation worse.

His indecisiveness didn't help, nor did the stream of stories quoting anonymous
sources speaking on his behalf that dominated the news cycle for months. The
tipping point came in April, when Howard hugged Stan Van Gundy in front of
cameras and news reporters, not knowing the then-Magic coach had just told the
media that his big man wanted him fired. Howard, who had led the Magic to the
NBA Finals in 2009 and the Eastern Conference finals in 2010, said he should
have spent more time separating fact from fiction to those who mattered most.

"Whenever something happened, I should've let my teammates know. I should've
said, 'OK, this is what's going on. I know what's being said, but this is how I
really feel,'" Howard says. "Or, 'Hey, Coach, this is what's being said, but
this is how I feel,' instead of just letting everything pile on and me not
saying anything."

The friction hasn't completely subsided. During an interview with a Los Angeles
television reporter that aired March 4, Howard's comment that the Magic were
"full of people nobody wanted" and that he "led that team with a smile" drew
criticism from former teammates Jameer Nelson, Rashard Lewis and J.J. Redick.
But unlike last time, Howard quickly clarified his comments.

"My whole thing that I wanted to get out about the situation ... was just the
fact that we were underdogs," he says. "We were underrated. We were the team
that nobody cared about. The only people who supported us were the people in
Orlando.  I hated the fact that we weren't known. I hated it to the point where
I was (upset) that I was the only player that people knew from Orlando."

Life in L.A.

If the "Map of the Stars" for sale all over town here is the unofficial record
of local relevance, Howard has yet to truly arrive in Los Angeles. His leased
nine-bedroom, 14-bathroom, 11,000-square foot home, which features an
entranceway with a life-sized Lego replica of his head and shoulders given to
him by Ellen DeGeneres, did not make the map.

With free agency looming and a Lakers team many saw as title contenders pushing
just to make the playoffs, the notion that he might not spend years as an L.A.
A-lister is surprising, considering the fanfare surrounding his arrival. Howard,
even with the Lakers' recent successful stretch (they've won 16 of their last 22
games through Sunday), is still taking the L.A. confidential approach in
discussing his future.

"The only thing that matters is right now," he says.

Howard initially favored the Brooklyn Nets when he was asking out of Orlando
last season, but he also has longed to be in L.A., a backdrop more than big
enough to match the dreams he wakes up to every day. And while the mirror on his
bedroom wall says nothing about what's in his future, a sheet of paper taped to
it speaks volumes about his mind-set.

"Be an icon. Be iconic," it reads in black marker.

A list of Howard's goals for this season that are mostly out of reach also hangs
nearby - a championship, 80% shooting at the free throw line (he's at 47.8%), a
fourth defensive player of the year award. There are vows to "dominate every
game, every practice," to "play free" every night and play "110% every minute."
Howard might be making a Lakers list for next season, though, as long as he's
convinced the problems that plagued them this season can be resolved.

When asked what needs to happen for him to re-sign this summer, Howard cited his
most valued factor -- winning -- but declined to go further. As for his
relationship with Kobe Bryant that has been distant at times but appears to be
improved recently, Howard insists he can be content in a climate in which Bryant
attracts much of the spotlight.

"I just use everything that has happened this year as a time for me to humble
myself, to see how things could be (in the future)," Howard says. "Watching
Kobe, as far as like everybody (saying), 'Kobe did this. He's the greatest in
the world, the best at everything,' there's nothing ever said bad about Kobe. As
a player, that's what you want.

"I don't take it as, 'Oh, I've got to talk about Kobe today (when reporters
ask). I'm like, 'How can a guy like Kobe, who's got five rings, got every
accomplishment in the world, how can he sit up here and not allow all these
great things that people say about him stop him from being who he is?' ... The
more (good things) people say about him, the harder he works. That's a
champion's mentality.  I admire that."

Stay or go?

Bryant's future is something for Howard to consider, considering Bryant's
contract expires in the same summer of 2014 that the Miami Heat's LeBron James
could opt out of his deal and possibly join the Lakers. While Bryant has said he
will retire after next season, the 34-year-old who is third in the league in
scoring (27.7 points) could play longer.

Lakers coach Mike D'Antoni, whose ability to keep Howard involved in the offense
down the stretch this season could play a part in the center's decision, says
Howard has been in a better place mentally since the All-Star break.

"I think there (are) a lot of factors -- getting in better shape, getting more
comfortable, accepting things the way they are," D'Antoni said. "(It's)
understanding that, 'OK, we'll figure out everything else after the season is
over, but in the meantime I'm going to play hard and be comfortable.'"

Howard's painful recovery from back surgery has played a part in the Lakers'
struggles, as he spent five months debilitated after the surgery and returned to
the floor one month after he had resumed running on a treadmill. He keeps a
video on his phone as a reminder of how far he has come -- Howard being
applauded in his doctor's office for doing a half-inch calf raise while holding
onto the wall.

"Did I come back too early? I did," said Howard, who has averaged 16.2points,
12.3 rebounds and 2.4blocks a game after returning late in the preseason and
also has been playing with a torn labrum in his right shoulder since early
January. "But I was just trying to do whatever I can to help this team win."

Lakers general manager Mitch Kupchak, who as a player twice had the same back
surgery as Howard, says the Lakers have no concerns if they are able to re-sign
him.

A full recovery, regardless of where Howard's future lies, is his hope. Healing
on all fronts.

"You go from high school to the NBA, and you're thrown in the fire," Howard
said. "You've got to learn on the fly. It takes time. So I'm happy that
everything happened. Some things I wish wouldn't have happened the way they
happened. But at the end of the day, every star, every person that has been
iconic, has gone through a time in their lives where it was just bad. Everybody.
It just made them better."

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2013 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              101 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 26, 2013 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

2013: A riveting year in tech;
Social soared, while the old guard fought for relevance

BYLINE: Jon Swartz, @jswartz, USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 1878 words


Is it the beginning or the end?

As 2013 hurtles to its conclusion, the debate on 2014 has just begun: Is the
tech industry on the verge of a renaissance, or is the bubble about to burst?
The glass-half-full types point to Twitter's titillating IPO; the other half
insist that's when investors cashed in on social media's hype.

The truth, as always, is somewhere in the middle. It's indisputable Twitter's
public offering will usher in a wave of IPOs. But the payoffs may not match the
froth of the microblogging service, forcing would-be IPO candidates to seek
corporate suitors.  Twitter shares are hovering near $65, up 44% from Nov. 6,
its opening day of trading.

The social-media storm comes against a backdrop of wrenching changes. Tech's old
guard -- Microsoft, Hewlett-Packard, Dell and Cisco Systems -- continues to
wrestle with the slowly dying PC market; smartphone sales, meanwhile, are
expected to top 1 billion in 2014 -- roughly three times the population of the
USA. (By early October, there were more than 1.5 billion smartphones in use
worldwide.)

The fertile mobile advertising market -- expected to more than double from today
to $25 billion in 2016 -- is inflating the boom, creating the promise of
profitable companies at warp speed. Venture capital firms will raise more money
in 2014 than the $28 billion in 2007, according to Venture Economics.

"Consumers are spending much more, percentage-wise, on technology. It is
evolving at a pace I have never seen in my 30 years in the field," says Tom
Kilroy, executive vice president of sales and marketing at Intel. "The 'Internet
of Things' is what we used to call embedded technology -- in cars, hotels,
billboards."

Boom II is different on several fronts, however. Incubators, angel investors and
individuals are plowing cash into start-ups, sparing consumers from being
burned. "Consumers got hurt the first time," says Kevin Rose, general partner at
Google Ventures and co-founder of several start-ups, including news aggregator
Digg. "Now, some well-off people may lose a small chunk of change."

This tech boom is fundamentally different from the one in the 1990s in another
way. Established companies base their headquarters here instead of Silicon
Valley, shifting the center of gravity farther north.

Last year, venture capital firm Benchmark Capital opened a satellite office
close to the  Tenderloin neighborhood. Spotify is there, with Twitter and Square
in mid-Market Street.

Tech executives either live in San Francisco or maintain homes here. Yahoo CEO
Marissa Mayer has a high-rise penthouse near Powell, and Facebook CEO Mark
Zuckerberg bought a house, then adjoining lots, in San Francisco.

Divining 2014

It all made for one of the most tumultuous years in tech, and set the stage for
riveting theater over the next 12 months. Several themes bear watching in 2014:

Changing of tech guard? Behind an avalanche of products and ads that simply
overwhelmed Apple and other consumer-electronics companies this year, Samsung
Electronics has put itself on the precipice of supplanting Apple as Silicon
Valley's leading consumer-electronics brand.

In other industries, this would be considered a defining moment, akin to Pepsi
overtaking Coca-Cola.

The moment has had an air of inevitability among some industry experts after
months of watching the $288 billion Korean consumer-electronics behemoth "kill
it" with a barrage of ads, the Gear smartwatch and a profusion of new
smartphones and tablets in the U.S. More are expected at the CES tech show in
Las Vegas next month. Analysts estimate Samsung will ship more than 350 million
smartphones this year.

"Could Apple ever lose the cool, innovative tag to Samsung?" asks independent
analyst Jonathan Yarmis. "It's not out of the question. And it would be a
cheaper alternative."

Samsung lacks star power but is built on an intricate hierarchy, and slowly but
surely intends to raise the profiles of executives.

"In 2013, our Galaxy S and Note series of smartphones achieved sales of 100
million units, and we expect to be No. 1 in both shipments and revenue for
handsets and smartphones this year," says J.K. Shin, head of IT and mobile
communications at Samsung.

Crisis of confidence? Two years after the death of Steve Jobs, Apple has quietly
-- and intentionally -- distanced itself from its mythical co-founder.

The company is reluctant to comment on Jobs' lingering impact, and officials are
visibly uncomfortable when his name is uttered. The reasoning mirrors what
Disney went through after the death of Walt Disney: It's unfair to the current
executive team, and it reminds the American public of the not-so-distant glory
days.

Don't cry for Apple, however. It not only has a mountain of cash (about $150
billion) and just signed a multiyear deal with China Mobile but enjoys a huge
edge in design, user loyalty and perceived ingenuity. Marc Andreessen, who sits
on the boards of HP and Facebook, has pointedly said Asian companies such as
Samsung are hamstrung by a me-too business approach that favors the team over
the flashy individual.

The countdown for the rumored Apple iWatch is on, too, with bets on a late 2014
release. Apple's biggest product launch since iPad in 2010 could go a long way
toward cementing its status among consumers if done right.

"Apple takes time to get things right -- it redefines markets," Rose says.

The Next Big Things? Cryptocurrency and wearable computing devices captivated --
and confounded -- tech pundits and consumers.

Despite skepticism about its value, Bitcoin prices topped $1,000 in November
amid signs it was breaking into mainstream use. Start-up Gyft, a mobile
gift-card company backed by Google Ventures, recently joined the fray with a
holiday reward program tied to more than 200 retailers, including Amazon.com's
Zappos and Gap.

"It's a commodity now, but it will be a phenomenal currency soon," says James
Beshara, CEO of Crowdtilt, which has integrated Bitcoins in its mobile
crowd-sourcing platform.

Bitcoin prices have cooled since, closing at above $670 on Monday.

"It is an interesting innovation, but we have not invested in it until there is
regulatory clarity and until these companies find a stable bank partner," says
Alex Ferrara, a partner at Bessemer Venture Partners.

Meanwhile, Google's head-mounted Glass computer may have been derided for its
retro-nerd look, but keep in mind it is a long-term work in progress. By the
time it reaches its final form in a few years, it could be contact lenses, film
coated onto prescription glasses or glasses that interact with a wristband.

Eric Hippeau, managing director at Lerer Ventures, an angel fund specializing in
tech start-ups, envisions an era of connected devices, in which most apps will
be built with the same technology.

Cumbersome and expensive IT apps, for example, will be displaced, says Hippeau,
who previously was CEO of The Huffington Post and a longtime Yahoo board member.

Soaring to new heights? There seems to be no end to Google's trajectory. Fifteen
years after it was started by CEO Larry Page and Sergey Brin, the search
behemoth appears as inventive and financially stout as ever. It topped $50
billion in sales for the first time this year, its stock eclipsed $1,000 a
share, and it is rolling the dice on big ideas that Page calls "moon shots."
Projects range from Google Glass and driverless cars to robots, an anti-aging
start-up and high-altitude balloons that provide Internet access to remote
areas.

"The way Google runs is a sort of bizarre, bottoms-up innovation model, where
people are encouraged to think outside the box," Google Chairman Eric Schmidt
told USA TODAY in an exclusive interview in September. "These ideas actually
came from the bottom up."

Added Sundar Pichai, senior vice president of Android, Chrome and apps at
Google: "Our goals are ambitious -- some would say crazy -- but we believe big
thinking and constant innovation can lead to transformative technology that can
help change people's lives for the better."

Google alum Marissa Mayer oversaw a reclamation/rejuvenation project at Yahoo,
with a slew of acquisitions, including Tumblr. She may just be warming up.
"We'll keep you guessing even better next year," a smiling Mayer told USA TODAY,
hinting at even more acquisitions, at a holiday party in December.

Shares at LinkedIn and Facebook, meanwhile, soared to records, a testament to
strong financial results. Facebook, in particular, continued to refresh its
product. The latest addition? Video ads, although CEO  Zuckerberg admitted to
USA TODAY that the company does a poor job of bracing its more than 1 billion
members for change.

And then there was Jack.

Squaring off

Square CEO and Twitter co-founder Jack Dorsey was the poster boy for tech in
2013 -- just look at the cover of any major publication, including this one.
Both of his companies moved into snazzy new digs this year and, with Twitter
stock performing well, expect a Square IPO in 2014. "I don't think of (Silicon
Valley's current feverish climate) as a bubble or resurgence," Dorsey said on a
visit to USA TODAY's New York bureau in September.

The business models of today, he said, are "more substantial in providing
value."

Somewhere in between. While BlackBerry and Dell continued slides into
irrelevance, PC juggernauts Microsoft and Hewlett-Packard soldiered on in a
market increasingly dominated by smartphones and tablets.

The PC is far from dead -- just walk into any office building in America and
look at most  cubicles -- but both companies are betting heavily on mobile
devices. Microsoft Surface 2 sales showed signs of life, and HP reported
better-than-expected fourth-quarter net income of $2 billion on $29.1 billion in
sales.

"We're excited about things to come" with new HP tablets next year, HP CEO Meg
Whitman said after the 74-year-old company announced strong quarterly financial
results last month. "The innovation engine is alive and well here."

BIG BROTHER, MEET BIG DATA

We interrupt this year in review to bring you Big Brother.

The National Security Agency's staggering ability to eavesdrop and hack rich
troves of data from the likes of Google, Microsoft, Facebook and Apple splashed
cold water on the public's trust in tech and its ability to secure private
information such as bank and medical records.

The largest tech companies vowed to fight back, with a mix of enhanced computer
security, lawsuits, calls for great legislative oversight and public relations
spin. But it remains to be seen whether any of the efforts will thwart the
government's unquenchable thirst for national security in a post-9/11 world.

Speaking of tech gone wild, the website for the Affordable Care Act,
HealthCare.gov, was a muddled mess that called into question the government's
ability to oversee its own legitimate online operation.

Hacking and online trickery reached a head this month, when Target admitted that
credit and debit card numbers for some 40 million people who shopped at the
retailer were stolen.

It was the latest in a string of high-profile breaches that underscored that
modern-day crooks, like their predecessors, are "focused on (stealing) cash --
and the easiest way of getting money in today's world is stealing credit card
records," says Vince Steckler, CEO of anti-virus company Avast Software.

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Mark Lennihan, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2013 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              103 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              May 13, 2013 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Batteries up! Stored-energy research buzzes;
Nations expand on carbon-free renewable power

BYLINE: Wendy Koch, @wendykoch, USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 1600 words


On an arid mountain in Eureka County, Nev., a mining company believes it's
struck the 21st-century equivalent of gold.

The precious commodity is vanadium, a metal that can be extracted from shale
rock and used to make powerful, long-lasting batteries for cars, homes and
utilities.

If Vancouver-based American Vanadium gets federal approval for its proposed
Gibellini Hill Project -- a 30-day public comment period ends May 29  -- it will
operate the only vanadium mine in the United States.

The battle to build a better battery is intensifying as the United States and
other countries, faced with growing global demand for electricity and a need to
reduce greenhouse gas emissions that worsen climate change, look to expand
carbon-free renewable energy such as wind and solar.

Batteries are key. They can directly power electric cars and buses, and
indirectly, homes and big buildings, by storing solar and wind power for times
when the sun doesn't shine and the wind doesn't blow. They balance out
renewables that produce energy intermittently, so consumers can power laptops or
run refrigerators 24/7.

The race is on. Universities, start-ups and major companies are working with new
materials such as vanadium, or tweaking the lithium-ion battery that Sony
introduced more than 20 years ago for personal electronics. Some advances, such
as the ones that Toyota and IBM are developing to power cars for 500-plus miles
on a single charge, won't make it to market for at least five years.

Others are making their debuts this year, including a battery by Ontario,
Canada-based Electrovaya, which enables homes with solar panels to go entirely
off grid, or one by General Electric, which will be paired with a Texas wind
farm to provide continuous power.

"It's the dawn of the energy-storage age," says Bill Radvak, president of
American Vanadium, which is partnering with the German CellCube battery
manufacturer Gildemeister. He says storage could be the "holy grail" for
renewable energy. "There was no major battery market three years ago," he says,
adding that is changing quickly.

In February, California, which mandates that 33% of its electricity come from
renewable sources by 2020, required a Los Angeles-area utility to ensure some
capacity comes from energy storage. On May 1, Germany, which is shuttering its
nuclear power plants as it boosts renewables, began subsidizing homeowners'
purchases of batteries to store power from solar panels. China's five-year plan
calls for 5% of all electricity to be stored by 2020. In the United States,
about 2% of electric capacity is pumped-hydro storage: water that sits behind
dams that generates electricity when sent through tubines.

The global market for storing power from solar panels is forecast to explode,
from less than $200 million in 2012 to $19 billion by 2017, according to a
report  by IMS Research.

One factor driving this growth is the plummeting price of renewables, especially
solar panels, which have fallen at least 60% since the beginning of 2011. As a
result, industry groups report historic growth as U.S. electric capacity from
solar panels jumped 76% and from wind turbines rose 28% last year alone.

OBSTACLES AHEAD

Still, batteries face obstacles, including cost and safety. Lithium-ion
batteries aboard two Boeing 787 jets failed in January, causing a fire on one
and smoke on the other. In March, batteries from one manufacturer caused
problems in two Mitsubishi vehicles: a hybrid Outlander car overheated and an
all-electric i-MiEV caught fire during testing at an assembly plant.

While the EV industry says these incidents are the exception rather than the
rule, money has also been a problem. In October, Massachusetts-based A123, a
lithium-ion battery manufacturer that spent $132 million in federal stimulus
funds, filed for bankruptcy  protection. In December, Wanxiang American, the
U.S. arm of a Chinese automotive parts giant, bought A123's technology.

Toyota's Jaycie Chitwood said lithium-ion batteries are too expensive to make
electric cars cost-competitive without subsidies. Speaking at the Advanced
Energy 2013 conference last month in New York City, she said Toyota is expanding
its line of electric vehicles to meet the U.S. government's fuel-efficiency
targets -- not because they're profitable. She said it gives a $14,000 discount
for each new electric RAV4.

"Batteries continue to be a challenge," especially those for electric vehicles,
Esther Takeuchi, chemistry professor at SUNY Stony Brook, said at the same
conference. "Things aren't where we'd want them to be, but they're getting
closer."

Her university and others, some with federal funding, are looking not only at
new chemical mixes but also at nano-sizing the chemical elements -- making them
microscopically small -- to make them more efficient. Takeuchi said successful
batteries often have specific applications, such as lead-acid versions for auto
ignition or lithium-iodine for pacemakers. She said lithium-ion has worked well
in cellphones and laptops, their initial use.

Batteries will improve, "but not at the pace that we've seen in recent years,"
writes Richard Muller, a physics professor at the University of
California-Berkeley, in his 2012 book, Energy for Future Presidents: The Science
Behind the Headlines. He says  growing demand for portable electronics sped the
development of already-known battery technologies, and it will take awhile to
commercialize new ones such as lithium-air.

Batteries are  one of many ways to store grid-scale energy. The most common is
pumped hydroelectric.

"Storage is the glue that can hold the grid together," said Matthew Maroon of GE
Energy. GE, which opened a $100 million factory in Schenectady, N.Y., to build a
sodium nickel-chloride battery, announced earlier this month  that Invenergy
will install its Brilliant wind turbine with Durathon batteries at a Texas wind
farm later this year.

The U.S. government is promoting energy storage. In November, the Department of
Energy announced grants for 23 research-and-development projects and picked
Argonne National Laboratory in Lemont, Ill., as the first  "innovation hub" for
batteries and energy storage. Argonne will receive $120 million over five years.

Batteries are getting particular attention because they're versatile. While
pumped hydro facilities require lots of land and water and are meant for
utility-scale projects, batteries can be used anywhere and are easily scalable,
so they can help power not only a car but a factory.

"Everyone's finally realizing, 'Hey, this works.' ... It's the key to the
future," says Brad Roberts of the Electricity Storage Association, an industry
group. He says the industry's hiccups are part of its growth, and adds: "I don't
see any hesitation on the part of venture capitalists."

ALTERNATIVES IN WORKS

IBM's Allan Schurr is bullish on his company's new lithium-air battery, which
takes in oxygen from the air to form a chemical reaction that generates an
electric charge.  It's lighter and denser than the lithium-ion ones in most of
today's electric vehicles, which use heavy metal oxides to drive the chemical
reactions that produce power.

"The performance we've seen in tests so far is at or above our expectations," he
says. With 500 miles on a single charge, he says, "You'd take the 'range
anxiety' out of the equation." The current Nissan Leaf gets up to 75 miles on a
single charge, and the Mitsubishi i-MiEV, 62 miles. Schurr expects a prototype
to be developed next year, but its commercial availability will take at least
five years.

Toshiba has developed a rechargeable lithium-ion battery, the SCiB, that has a
new oxide-based material, lithium titanate, that allows quicker charging times.
It's used in the Honda Fit's EV and Mitsubishi's i-MiEV.

Huge lithium-ion batteries, filling 53-foot shipping containers, are being used
for grid-scale projects. Since September 2011 on a ridge of Laurel Mountain in
West Virginia, AES Energy Storage has used them to store 64 megawatts of energy
generated by windmills. That capacity, if it ran continuously, would be enough
to power nearly 50,000 U.S. households for a year.

"There's no one battery technology that is one-size-fits-all," says GE's Maroon.
He says each has its advantages and disadvantages, and, "The market is big
enough for each technology to survive."

---

A glossary of common batteries

Batteries often work the same basic way even if they use different metals. They
are mini-power plants that produce electricity by creating chemical reactions.
As atoms move between two plates of different metals via a chemical solution
called an electrolyte, they produce voltage that's discharged through a metal
wire on the other side.

Lead-acid (auto ignition): They have atoms pass from a plate of metallic lead
through sulfuric acid to a plate of solid lead oxide.

Lithium-ion (personal electronics, electric vehicles): They have carbon on one
end and a metal oxide on the other, using lithium salt in an organic compound as
the electrolyte in the middle.

Lithium-air (still in development; possible uses include electric vehicles):
They use lithium metal and oxygen as inputs at the two ends.

Nickel-cadmium (portable electronics, electric vehicles): Their metal plates are
nickel-oxide hydroxide and cadmium.

Sodium-sulfur (electric vehicles, grid-scale storage): A type of molten-salt
battery, it's made from liquid sodium and sulfur.

Vanadium redox flow (grid-scale storage): They use vanadium, a metal named for
Vanadis -- the Scandinavian goddess of beauty and youth -- in different
oxidation states to store chemical energy for repeated use.

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Argonne National Laboratory Chemist Trevor Dzwiniel runs an
experiment at a unit of Argonne National Laboratory in Lemont, Ill. The
Department of Energy picked Argonne as the first "innovation hub" for batteries
and energy storage.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2013 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              105 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             June 25, 2013 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

What we're following

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 209 words


NEWS President Obama announces a series of executive orders to help combat
climate change during a speech today at Georgetown University. The centerpiece
is to issue regulations to curb greenhouse-gas emissions from new and existing
power plants. Get more details at usatoday.com/news.

NEWS The Supreme Court convenes again today to announce more rulings.

Six cases, including gay marriage and voting rights, remain this term. View
rulings at usatoday.com/news.

NEWS Massachusetts voters decide today on a new senator to fill the seat held by
Secretary of State John Kerry. The special election pits longtime Democratic
Rep. Ed Markey against Republican businessman Gabriel Gomez. See who wins at
usatoday.com/news.

MONEY Economic reports out this morning: durable goods for May; Standard &
Poor's/Case-Shiller index of home prices for April; new home sales for May; and
the Consumer Confidence Index for June. Check the numbers at usatoday.com/money.

SPORTS Action at Wimbledon resumes today with defending women's champion Serena
Williams in center court. Game, set and match at tennis.usatoday.com.

What's popular online:

WikiLeaks' Assange

calls the shots on Snowden

Smithfield Foods severs ties with Paula Deen

Police question Scottie Pippen after Malibu assault

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo J. Scott Applewhite, AP

DOCUMENT-TYPE: NATION

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2013 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              108 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          September 19, 2013 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Rick Perry's cattle rustling;
Bob and Cal chew over Texas governor's luring businesses from other states.

BYLINE: Bob Beckel and Cal Thomas

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 986 words


Cal Thomas is a conservative columnist. Bob Beckel is a liberal Democratic
strategist. But as longtime friends, they can often find common ground on issues
that lawmakers in Washington cannot.

Today: Taxes and jobs.

BOB: I see the Republican governor of Texas, Rick Perry, visited my home state
of Maryland. He's run TV ads inviting businesses to move to Texas because he
claims the business climate in the Lone Star state is preferable to that of
Maryland.

CAL: And not only in Maryland. He's visited California, too. I suppose you think
it's the political equivalent of cattle rustling! Maryland Gov. Martin O'Malley,
a Democrat who is thinking of running for president in 2016, treated Perry's
visit like an invasion. He wasn't pleased.

BOB: To say the least. Gov. Perry is not known for etiquette. He broke a silent
rule among governors, which is that a governor does not go into another state
and steal jobs.

CAL: That rule is so silent I've never heard of it. Perry calls it
"competition." I like that.

BOB: Much of this job pilfering has been done by Southern states, which are
trying to lure businesses from the North with promises of tax incentives and
low-wage jobs.  They also promise to keep unions out of the company's business.
That's pretty attractive for a company, but not for the workers in the North who
lose their jobs, or workers in the South who get low pay and few benefits.

CAL: Democrats have brought this on themselves, Bob. Maryland has some of the
highest taxes in the nation. According to Change Maryland, 31,000 residents have
moved from 2007 to 2010, taking $1.7 billion in tax revenue with them. Even the
Democratic mayor of Washington, D.C., Vincent Gray, may be getting it. He just
vetoed a "living wage" bill passed by the City Council. Had it become law,
Wal-Mart would not have completed construction of several new stores.  Many
entry-level jobs would have been lost, not to mention new tax revenue. The mayor
called the bill a "job killer." He sounds like Rick Perry.

BOB: As for multimillionaires who flee high-tax states for low-tax states, I'll
make you a bet. Although I can't prove this because statistics do not yet exist,
I will bet you that people who leave their home state for another keep their
homes in their old states and call them "vacation" homes. I would further bet
that those vacation homes get a lot of use!

CAL: Maybe, but you are experiencing problems because you have two residences,
one in Maryland and one in New York, which is necessary because of your Fox News
show. Aren't you outraged at being taxed twice because both states claim you?

BOB: I'm not outraged because I still live in Maryland, which is a low-tax state
compared with New York. But I'd rather live in Maryland than Texas, which
provides the weakest and poorest of their citizens with inadequate services.

CAL: Too many "services" addict  people to government. Texas offers huge tax
incentives, which is what built that state and the United States of America.

BOB: Those "incentives" cost money just like the services you complain about.
Let's look at this another way. Businesses that move from Maryland to Texas
might benefit from a profit standpoint, but consider the people who work for
those companies and their children. The Science and Engineering Readiness Index
rated Maryland's schools as above average in math and science. Texas ranked
below average.  You could move your business from Maryland to Texas, but your
employees' children will have an inferior education.

CAL: I've lived in Texas twice, and my kids received a good education  in
public schools there (when they studied!). But businesses exist to make a profit
so they can pay their workers and stockholders. If increasing amounts of those
profits are going to government, they will find a friendlier business
environment.

BOB: There is another concern when businesses migrate  to maximize profits. They
might leave behind a well-trained workforce with no guarantee the workers they
hire in states like Texas will be as qualified as the ones they left behind.

CAL: That may be true, but that would be part of the company's decision.
Businesses take their most important workers with them if they can't be sure of
replacing them. I've moved countless times in my career, mostly for a better job
and new opportunities. No one should expect to keep the same job and live in the
same place in our mobile society.

BOB: You have a point. And with increasing numbers of immigrants competing for
jobs,  "income migration" may be a factor in some of this mobility. But I think
this could  be a zero sum game. States like Texas are fighting over existing
businesses. Moving businesses around won't contribute to growth compared with
growing an existing business or starting a new one.

CAL: That's a fair point, Bob. It's nice to hear a liberal mention growth!
Growing businesses and starting new ones create jobs. More jobs provide more tax
revenue for state governments, in case you don't think governments have enough
of our money. But a first step to encouraging business growth and formation is
keeping the businesses you have. Maryland lost 6,500 small businesses between
2007 and 2010, according to Change Maryland.

BOB: How many of those businesses were lost to other states or simply closed in
the face of a bad economy is the question. I've also lived in Texas. I'd love to
see how transplanted Marylanders deal with the heat of a Texas summer!

CAL: O'Malley should visit Texas and invite businesses there to come to
Maryland. He could explain why higher taxes and overregulation are superior to
Texas policies. Why, Texas even has a more upbeat song than Maryland. Sing along
with me, Bob: "The stars at night are big and bright, deep in the heart of
Texas."

BOB: "Maryland, my Maryland! Avenge the patriotic gore, that flecked the streets
of Baltimore, and be the battle queen of yore, Maryland! My Maryland!"

CAL: I rest my case.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo LM Otero, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2013 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              114 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           February 19, 2013 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Pipeline project defines folly

BYLINE: Bill McKibben

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 373 words


A year ago, President Obama sent the Keystone pipeline project back for more
review. In the months since, Mother Nature filed compelling public testimony:

The hottest year in American history.

An epic drought that drove up the price of food worldwide.

Superstorm Sandy, with the lowest barometric pressure ever recorded north of
Cape Hatteras.

An Arctic melt so intense that  NASA scientists said we faced a "planetary
emergency."

Those abrupt and extreme changes in the planet's patterns demonstrate the
stupidity of prolonging our addiction to fossil fuel, which is exactly what
Keystone will do.

By providing a new and easy way to access the "dirtiest oil on earth," the
pipeline will drive the expansion of tar-sands production. It is the definition
of folly.

Its proponents have always claimed it will create lots of jobs (it will create
some, for a couple of years, which is nothing to sneeze at -- but the real jobs
bonanza comes when we move decisively toward renewable energy) or boost energy
independence (which is nonsense -- this oil is destined for export). By easing
the glut of Canadian oil, even its backers concede, it will raise, not lower,
gas prices.

But the biggest argument for Keystone has always been: If we don't take the oil,
someone else will. The oil barons boasted a year ago that they would build a
pipeline to the Pacific instead -- but people across Canada have risen up to
block that plan, which is now all but dead.

That same kind of movement has arisen in the United States, where Keystone has
become the first environmental issue in a generation to bring Americans into the
streets and jails.

Sunday, on the National Mall in Washington, D.C.,  the largest climate rally in
U.S. history took direct aim at the pipeline. As the Rev. Lennox Yearwood said,
"This is our  lunch-counter moment for the 21st century," when activism can help
decide the future.

And should President Obama reject the pipeline,  he'd be the first world leader
to block a big infrastructure project because of the damage to the climate.

That's a legacy -- the only one people will care about in the decades ahead.

Bill McKibben is Schumann Distinguished Scholar at Middlebury College in Vermont
and founder of the global climate campaign 350.org.

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2013 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              117 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              May 17, 2013 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

U.S. weather is known for going to extremes;
No. 1 with 80%-90% of the planet's tornadoes

BYLINE: Doyle Rice, @USATODAYWeather, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 555 words


North America -- and the USA in particular -- has the world's wildest weather
extremes: No other part of the planet can boast its ferocious  stew of
hurricanes, tornadoes, droughts, floods, wildfires, blizzards, heat waves and
cold snaps.

"You'd be hard-pressed to find another patch of land on Earth the size of the
USA that boasts such a variety of such intensely extreme weather inside its
borders," says meteorologist and author Robert Henson of Boulder, Colo.

"We get more high-impact weather than any other country on the planet," agrees
Sean Potter, a meteorologist and weather historian in New York City.

This  extreme weather provides the  backdrop for a seven-part Discovery Channel
series, North America,  premiering Sunday at 9 p.m. ET/PT.

Filmmakers say that weather plays a huge part in the series. "North America has
some of the most extreme weather on the planet -- something I'm sure will
resonate with a lot of Americans," says series producer Huw Cordey of Discovery.

Our wild weather has always fascinated us, and was a shock to the  early
pioneers. "Europeans who settled America from east to west were progressively
amazed by the spectrum of conditions they encountered," Henson wrote in his book
The Rough Guide to Weather.

What makes it so wild?

"The U.S. is uniquely situated in the mid-latitudes -- about halfway between the
equator and the North Pole -- and between two oceans," Potter notes. "The
contrast of cold, dry, Arctic air from Canada and moist, tropical air from the
Gulf of Mexico, Pacific and Atlantic help fuel the massive storms that move
across the country year-round, bringing everything from blizzards to heavy rain
and thunderstorms," he says.

Tornadoes, such as the ones that slammed Texas on Wednesday, are nearly unique
to the USA. Each year, "the U.S. experiences about 80% to 90% of all of the
tornadoes that occur across the world," says Randy Cerveny, a professor of
geography at Arizona State University.

"The U.S. averages more than 10,000 severe thunderstorm events per year, with
more than 1,000 tornadoes," Potter says. "By comparison, China, which is
slightly larger in size, sees around the same number of severe thunderstorms but
fewer than 10 tornadoes per year."

Also, as for wild temperature extremes, the fact that North America has no
east-west mountain range means there's nothing to stop the cold winds from the
north meeting the warm weather from the south, Discovery's Cordey says.

These weather phenomena shape the landscapes, which in turn shape the wildlife,
as the Discovery series will showcase.

"The deserts depend on the annual monsoons -- pretty much the only proper rain
for the year -- and the animals have to adapt accordingly," Cordey says. "The
Plains are racked by extreme weather changes -- very cold winters, where the
ground can be thick with snow, to blistering hot summers."

Many animals can't cope with massive seasonal shifts and migrate (or hibernate)
in winter, he says. "Indeed, North America has some of the greatest migration
spectacles on the planet. No coincidence, as this is a direct result of the
weather changes."

"What remains to be seen," Henson says, "is how the USA's wildlife will adapt
not to a single weather event but to a sustained change in climate, as our
warming trend continues and both drought and heavy rains become more intense."

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Doyle Rice and Robert W. Ahrens, USA TODAY (chart)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2013 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              125 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           February 21, 2013 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Obama group plans ad blitz on gun plan;
Online barrage to press reticent lawmakers

BYLINE: Fredreka Schouten, @fschouten, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 621 words


President Obama's new grass-roots advocacy group will target more than a dozen
members of Congress with online ads this week for failing to voice support for
his plan to expand background checks to all gun buyers, organizers told USA
TODAY.

The advertising push is part of a so-called national day of action planned
Friday by Obama's backers to rally support for background checks. It will mark
the first large-scale test of Organizing for Action's ability to mobilize the
president's army of 2.2 million campaign volunteers to press for legislative
change.

Obama and a group of his closest advisers launched Organizing for Action (OFA)
in late January to transform his campaign operation into a tax-exempt group to
advance his second-term priorities, including gun control, immigration and
climate change.

Organizers did not disclose which lawmakers they would target in the first round
of advertising but say they could spend as much as $100,000. The goal is to
expand criminal background checks on all gun purchasers. The current system
applies only to federally licensed gun dealers and excludes guns sold privately.
In addition, OFA is sponsoring more than 100 events  across the country to
demand congressional action.

"That's the strength the OFA will bring to supporting the president's agenda,"
said Jon Carson, the group's executive director and the former director of the
White House office of public engagement. "We have voices in every corner of this
country who are supporting his agenda and can make their neighbors understand
where their members (of Congress) stand on these important issues."

The push for background checks is just one part of the president's sweeping plan
to reduce gun violence in the wake of the school shooting massacre Dec. 14 in
Newtown, Conn. Carson said OFA backs the full package, which includes renewing
the ban on assault weapons and limiting ammunition magazines to 10 rounds.

Carson said the group is starting the push with background checks because
there's broad support for the issue. A Quinnipiac poll released this month found
92% of voters supported universal background checks, and a bipartisan group of
senators is working on legislation to close loopholes in the system.

NRA spokesman Andrew Arulanandam said his group is "doing whatever we can right
now" to push its gun rights message, but he declined to comment on the OFA ad
campaign without more information on the lawmakers to be targeted.

Obama's decision to establish a separate advocacy group, organized as a social
welfare group under the U.S. tax code, is an unprecedented move for a sitting
president.  "The president is essentially creating his own lobbying entity,"
said Anthony Corrado, a professor of government at Colby College in Maine.

Unlike the Democratic Party, which faces strict campaign contribution limits,
Organizing for Action will take unlimited money from corporations, unions and
individuals. That will free it to raise big sums quickly to mount aggressive,
campaign-style grass-roots and advertising efforts.

Campaign-finance watchdogs, such as Democracy 21 President Fred Wertheimer, have
slammed the decision as a "dangerous" precedent that will allow special
interests to curry favor with the administration.

Jim Messina, Obama's 2012 campaign manager and OFA chairman, said the group will
not accept money from PACs or federal lobbyists.  "This grass-roots movement is
going to be funded just like the campaign was," Messina said. "Our average
contribution was $51."

The goal is to create a group that survives past Obama's presidency, Carson
said.

He said thousands would participate in Friday's events, which include
letter-writing campaigns, vigils and news conferences.

Contributing: Susan Page

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Carolyn Kaster, AP President

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2013 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              127 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             March 15, 2013 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Sail uncharted waters, but do it in style;
Exotic spots like Burma are best seen with the lavish comforts of a river cruise

BYLINE: Laura Bly, @laurably, USA TODAY

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 4D

LENGTH: 1347 words


Roughly 500 miles up the Irrawaddy River from the Rangoon hotel where Noel
Coward allegedly found inspiration for his ditty Mad Dogs and Englishmen, 30
cruise passengers trundle toward a local market in the noontime sun.

Cameras and smartphones raised and ready, we document an intoxicating parade of
bicycle rickshaws, betel nut stalls and curious grins -- including those from
two young motorcyclists. Clad in traditional Burmese longyis, wraparound skirts
favored by both sexes, the men offer high-fives as they videotape our
East-meets-West encounter with an ardor equal to that of their perspiring
visitors.

Two years after Burma's government released liberation activist and Nobel Peace
Prize winner Aung San Suu Kyi from 15 years of house arrest and launched an
ongoing series of reforms, the Southeast Asian country also known as Myanmar is
coming out of the tourism shadows. A record million visitors arrived here last
year, two-thirds of them vacationers, with an additional 30% boost expected in
2013.

But with bone-rattling roads, an archaic train system and fewer than 800 hotels
nationwide (most of them below international standards), the easiest -- and
poshest -- way to explore this emerging Buddhist stronghold is by boat on the
Irrawaddy, the country's geographic and spiritual heart.

We're hitching a ride on the grand dame of the Irrawaddy, Orient-Express' Road
to Mandalay. Launched in 1964 as a Rhine cruiser but based in Burma for the past
17 years, the vessel spends anywhere from three to seven days plying the
120-mile stretch between the ancient kingdom of Bagan -- home to more than 2,000
stone temples that loom from the morning mists like apparitions -- and Mandalay,
a former royal capital and strategic trade center less than 300 miles from the
Chinese border.

It's part of an expanding fleet catering to international tourists on the
Irrawaddy. And it's contributing to what Todd Smith, owner of Lake Tahoe-based
AdventureSmith Explorations, calls a "golden age" for upscale small-ship and
adventure cruises to exotic locales from the Mekong River to Mexico's
ecologically rich Sea of Cortez.

Small but well-supplied

Extensively refurbished two years ago, the Road to Mandalay features 43 snug but
sumptuous cabins kitted out with flat-screen TVs and Bulgari amenities. Onboard
facilities include a top-deck swimming pool, fitness room and spa, rattan-filled
observation lounge and a dining room serving a mix of European and Asian fare
(think New Zealand rack of lamb with mango chutney, or calamari in a spicy Thai
green curry with Burmese long eggplant and baby vegetables).

There's also a gift shop with a well-chosen selection of handmade Burmese crafts
from silk scarves to lacquerware, and a convivial, wood-paneled piano bar where
British colonials would have fit right in. Local beer is gratis, and gin and
tonics -- a favorite libation in a climate where temperatures are pushing 110
degrees in early March -- go for $4. Evening entertainment is low-key and
Burmese-themed, from a demonstration of tribal costumes to an acrobatic show
under the stars on the top deck.

The chance to "get a flavor of the countryside and get here before mass tourism,
but do it in comfort" has lured  Jim Beard of Vancouver, British Columbia, who's
up early to watch a passing flotilla of tiny wooden fishing dugouts and
teak-laden barges.

And it's also part of what attracted Richard Rogers. He and his wife, Rosyln,
from Melbourne, Australia, took their first Road to Mandalay cruise three years
ago as a way to reach distant areas they wouldn't be able to see otherwise, and
because they knew their money would be going to Orient-Express rather than to a
hotel owned by the military junta. They're back this week to dedicate a
classroom they financed through the auspices of the ship's doctor, who also runs
a free medical clinic near the Road to Mandalay's jetty in Bagan.

The differences for tourists since their initial journey have been dramatic,
Rogers says -- both in the number of fellow visitors and in Burmese citizens'
newfound freedom to talk openly about everything from resentment over China's
pervasive economic influence to the 2015 election, where hopes for Aung San Suu
Kyi's National League for Democracy run high.

"Back then, we were a constant source of curiosity," Rogers recalls, "but it's
already starting to change. And unfortunately, with that change comes problems.
There's a lot of money flying around, and people think tourism will be a
panacea."

New towns to explore

A few Road to Mandalay guests choose to stay onboard during the day, where the
options include kicking back with a Burmese foot massage. But most are eager to
take advantage of the ship's extensive and well-organized shore excursions,
which, like those of most upscale river cruises, are included in the fare.

They range from a sunset temple tour in Bagan, where the only other admirers are
a handful of fellow passengers, to a visit to a Buddhist convent near Mandalay,
where the nonagenarian abbottess graciously rises from her afternoon nap to pose
for pictures.

For the past few weeks, unusually low water levels have forced the Road to
Mandalay to anchor more than 20 miles west of Mandalay. The diversion means a
long, bumpy bus ride to such key sights as the U Bein Bridge, which stretches
more than 3,000 feet and is billed as the longest teak span in the world.

But it also gives passengers easy access to Myin Mu, a river town of about
40,000 people, and to a village of 2,000 a few miles out of town. The first time
the boat led a tour here, just two weeks ago, the passengers were the first
Westerners some villagers had encountered.

This time around, the surprise and delight is still mutual on both sides --
until one tourist, despite Orient-Express' recommendation to the contrary,
reaches into her handbag for brightly colored pens. Within moments, she's
surrounded by a throng of youngsters whose happiness dims when the supply runs
out.

Will her openhearted generosity help foster a culture of begging from tourists,
still a rarity here? Only time will tell.

Coming up

March 29

Custom culinary tour, Hong Kong

List

If you go...

Orient-Express' 82-passenger

Road to Mandalay offers three-, four-, seven- and 11-night cruises, all of which
include domestic flights and sightseeing, starting from $2,520 per person for
the three-day Mandalay-Bagan option and $4,030 for the 11-day "Gorges of the Far
North" itinerary. A new Burma-based vessel, the 50-passenger Orcaella, will
launch in July.

Information:

orient-express.com; 800-524-2420

List

More places to go cruises to take

SOUTHEAST ASIA'S

MEKONG RIVER

Four major North American river

lines -- AmaWaterways, Uniworld,

Viking River Cruises and Avalon

Waterways -- have added trips

here since 2009, with itineraries that

focus on Cambodia and Vietnam.

The newest, launched last September

in partnership with Asia-based

Pandaw River Cruises, is Avalon's

32-passenger Avalon Angkor;

14-day trips from Ho Chi Minh City

to Bangkok, including a seven-day

cruise, start at $3,205 per person.

avalonwaterways.com; 877-797-8791

MEXICO'S SEA OF CORTEZ

Un-Cruise Adventures, which also

offers expedition cruises in Hawaii

that include such activities as

stand-up paddle-boarding and

kayaking, features week-long trips

aboard the 64-passenger, newly

refurbished Safari Voyager. Mexico

rates start at $2,995 per person.

un-cruise.com; 888-862-8881

PORTUGAL'S DUORO

RIVER VALLEY

The UNESCO World Heritage site,

whose steep vineyards produce

the country's famous port wine,

is drawing more interest -- and new

ships -- this year. Viking's 10-night

tour combines a Douro cruise on

the 124-passenger Viking Douro

with several days in Portugal's

capital, Lisbon. Rates start at

$2,156 per person.

vikingrivercruises.com; 800-706-1483

Also adding sailings on the Douro,

beginning this month:

uAmaWaterways, whose 108-

passenger AmaVida boasts

spacious suites of up to 323

square feet (from $2,346 per

person for a seven-night cruise)

amawaterways.com; 800-626-0126

uUniworld's new, 118-passenger

Queen Isabel (from $2,739 per

person for a seven-night cruise)

uniworld.com or 800-733-7820

Laura Bly

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Photos by Laura Bly, USA TODAY

DOCUMENT-TYPE: TRAVEL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2013 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              128 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              May 14, 2013 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Fire season expected to be fierce out West;
High temps and low precipitation equal danger

BYLINE: Doyle Rice, @USATODAYWeather, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 320 words


Despite an unusually slow start to the wildfire season,  all signs are pointing
to  a dangerous, difficult and challenging year, particularly in the parched
western USA, federal officials warned Monday.

So far this year, more than 14,000 fires have charred roughly 175,000 acres
nationwide,  the lowest numbers to this date in the past 10 years, said
wildland fire analyst Jeremy Sullens of the National Interagency Fire Center in
Boise.

On average, he said,  about 25,000 fires have burned about 823,000 acres by this
time of  the year.

The reason for the low numbers is an unusually cool weather pattern that's
helped suppress fire activity in the southeastern parts of the nation.

However, "just because we started off below average in the Southeast has no
bearing on the fire season in the West," Interior Secretary Sally Jewell said in
Boise as part of the fire season announcement.

The forecast expects fire potential  to be above normal in much of the West,
including almost all of Arizona, New Mexico, California and Oregon, as well as
portions of Montana, Idaho, Colorado, Utah and Washington.

"We've had above average temperatures and below-average precipitation in the
West, a combination that doesn't bode well for a good season," Agriculture
Secretary Tom Vilsack said.

Jewell said that the nation's 12 driest years on record  have occurred in the
past 15 years, which she said is a sign of a changing climate.

The one exception to an otherwise calm season has been California.Daniel
Berlant, information officer of the California Department of Forestry and Fire
Protection, known as CalFire, said more  than 1,200 fires have burned 40,000
acres, , far above the state's average to date of 600 fires and 1,200 acres.

"It's very unusual to have this much fire activity this early in the year,"
Berlant said. "Dozens of wildfires burning in May is unheard of. These are
conditions we should be seeing in July and August."

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, Color, Robert W. Ahrens, USA TODAY (map)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2013 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              131 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              July 12, 2013 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Jeep Grand Cherokee is grander for 2014, with annoyances to bear;
Big on 'cool,' but little things like shifting give pause

BYLINE: jhealey@usatoday.com, USA TODAY,

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 1021 words


The Jeep Grand Cherokee, a midsize SUV, has had a charmed life since the current
generation arrived mid-2010 as a 2011, the important first new vehicle from
post-bankruptcy Chrysler.

The timing caught the front edge of post-recession recovery and it landed in an
emerging sweet spot in the market. It was a premium, two-row SUV with
gold-plated credibility and premium accessories just when buyers were moving in
that direction.

By the end of 2011, the new model's first full year, it was the best-selling
Chrysler product after the Ram pickup.  This year, it's on pace for 170,000
sales, still No. 2 behind Ram.

But the segment's too competitive to stand pat, so the 2014 Grand Cherokee, out
since February, got significant updates. Dimensions and chassis are unchanged,
but front and rear styling's new. An eight-speed automatic and a diesel engine
highlight drivetrain changes. And the interior is nicer and more practical.

Test Drive rolled up miles in a rear-drive V-6 Limited ($37,585) during the
Cars.com/USA TODAY/MotorWeek $38,000 Midsize SUV Challenge near Chicago (Grand
Cherokee won) and separately in a four-wheel-drive V-6 Overland with a slew of
accident-avoidance options ($48,685).

Loved 'em both.

There are plenty of higher-mileage, lower-price midsize SUVs -- but they are
cars, not trucks.  Maybe more "sport," notably less "utility."

Grand Cherokee is a truck, more or less. It has car-style crossover SUV
construction, but it feels more solid than others (it's heavier than most) and
is rated to tow and haul more.

Its rear-drive/four-wheel-drive chassis balances the weight more evenly, making
it feel more agile than front- or all-wheel-drive SUVs that are 500 pounds
lighter but quite front-heavy.

Grand Cherokee also has the somewhat choppy, stiff ride of a truck. Some will
find that bothersome; others reassuring.

Chrysler's 3.6-liter V-6 is standard and taken by 85% of buyers. The other 15%
take the 5.7-liter Hemi V-8. A 3-liter diesel is due in October.

New for the V-6 are dual exhausts, like the V-8. Most makers shun duals because
the extra weight cuts into mileage, but Jeep liked the "looks cool factor" of
duals, and testing found that the design of the two pipes made the Jeep quieter
by 4 decibels, enough to really hear the difference. "That did it: looks cool,
and 4 dB quieter," says Jim Morrison, Jeep product marketing director.

The V-6's new eight-speed automatic snaps through the gears under acceleration,
but sometimes pauses enough before downshifting at moderate speeds to be
bothersome. And its electronic shift lever is atrocious -- fussy and feels
unpleasant.

Other matters, good and not:

Seats in the testers were comfy and had scrumptious leather.

The dashboard looks and works better. The steering wheel no longer obscures a
key portion of the speedometer. Larger numbers and letters on the driver info
screen fixed the previous squint factor.

The Uconnect infotainment and control system is simple and reliable. It loved
Test Drive's Windows phone.  Relatively simple voice commands easily found radio
stations, navigation addresses, climate-control settings. And if you'd rather
use the touch screen, the buttons are big and obvious.

Visibility's good. Not a given these days because designers like to "style" the
rear roof area for distinction and sometimes wind up blinding the driver.

Cargo space behind the second row is generous. A single lever tips the head
restraints and folds the backseat in one move.

The brake pedal feel was too soft on the RWD tester, better on the 4x4.
Inconsistency is worrisome.

In the manner of robust coffee, Grand Cherokee might be a bit much for some. And
even those who find it to their taste will have to overlook some bounce over
bumps and the maddening shifter, as well as low mileage and high price.

Big sacrifices, but the new Grand Cherokee is worth it.

WHAT STANDS OUT

Image: At home slinging mud or parked next to a Ferrari.

Interior: Upmarket models shame some luxury cars.

Mileage: No eco cred until the diesel's available.

2014 JEEP GRAND CHEROKEE

What? New styling, drivetrain and interior changes are among midcycle updates
for 2014 of the popular midsize, four-door, five-passenger SUV. Available with
rear-wheel drive (RWD) or four-wheel drive (4x4).

When? Went on sale in February. Diesel engine is optional beginning in October.

Where? Made in Detroit at Chrysler's Jefferson North Assembly Plant. V-6 and
Hemi V-8 engines made at Trenton, Mich. Diesel comes from Ferrara, Italy.

How much? Starting prices for gasoline models range from $29,790 including
shipping to $51,990. Diesel will be $4,000 more than similarly equipped V-6,
$1,800 more than similar V-8.

What makes it go? 3.6-liter V-6, picked by 85% of buyers, is rated 290
horsepower at 6,400 rpm, 260 pounds-feet of torque at 4,800 rpm.

5.7-liter Hemi V-8 is 360 hp at 5,150 rpm, 390 lbs.-ft. at 4,250 rpm.

3-liter V-6 diesel is 240 hp at 3,600 rpm, 420 lbs.-ft. at 2,000.

All are mated to eight-speed automatic transmission.

Rear-wheel drive is standard. Three levels of four-wheel drive are optional.

How big? Similar in size to other midsizers, such as Ford Edge, Hyundai Santa Fe
Sport; hundreds of pounds heavier, though.

Cargo space is 36.3 cubic feet behind rear seat, 68.3 cubic feet when back seat
is folded.

Rated to tow 6,200 to 7,400 pounds, haul 1,050 to 1,170 pounds of people, cargo,
accessories, depending on model. Turning circle diameter: 37.1 ft.

How thirsty? V-6 rated 17 mpg in the city, 25 mpg on the highway, 20 in combined
city/highway driving (RWD), 17/24/19 (4x4).

V-8 rated 14/22/17 (RWD), 14/20/16 (4x4)

Diesel: 22/30/25 (RWD), 21/28/24 (4x4).

RWD V-6 test vehicle registered 22 mpg (4.55 gallons per 100 miles) in mix of
highway, suburban driving; 17.3 mpg (5.78 gal./100 mi.) in tame suburban
running. The 4x4 V-6 test vehicle registered 15 mpg (6.67 gal./100 mi.) in brisk
suburban driving.

Tank holds 24.6 gal. V-6 burns regular (AAA nationwide average at midweek, $3.50
per gallon). V-8 prefers mid-grade, regular is OK. Diesel burns ultra-low-sulfur
diesel ($3.82).

Overall: Higher price, lower mileage than others, but remarkably pleasant and a
premium personality.

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photos, b/w, Chrysler via Gannett

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2013 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              134 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          September 11, 2013 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Climate change leads to golden age for black qbs

BYLINE: Jason McIntyre, @jasonrmcintyre, USA TODAY Sports

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 3C

LENGTH: 962 words


George Whitfield, the coach who has been dubbed everything from a quarterback
engineer to the Quarterback Whisperer, says he was caught off guard the first
time he received questions like this about a player from college recruiters:

"How athletic is he? Can he beat a defender one-on-one if left in a jam?"

Whitfield, who has tutored the likes of Ben Roethlisberger, Cam Newton and
Andrew Luck,  said he responded without hesitation: "I instantly said yes. I
didn't have his 40 time or his shuttle time in front of me, but my answer was
yes."

He also says those questions are now a prerequisite with anyone he speaks with
in college football or the NFL.

"Andrew Luck can beat a defender one-on-one. RG3 (Robert Griffin III) can too,"
said Whitfield, who played quarterback at Tiffin (Ohio) University and then in
the Arena League. "Gone are the days of seeing a Drew Bledsoe- or Jim
Everett-type QB. Defensive linemen used to be rhinos who pushed the pile, but
now they're agile and relentless, like bears. The evolution of defensive lineman
has been significant."

A record was set this past week in the NFL, but you probably didn't hear about
it. Nine African Americans started at quarterback. Seven were drafted in the
last three years, starting with Cam Newton going first overall in 2011.

To combat all the sleek, powerful pass rushers, NFL teams increasingly are
turning to athletic quarterbacks who can beat defenses through the air or on the
ground. And African-American quarterbacks -- who in the 1980s and '90s
frequently were diverted at the high school level to play receiver or cornerback
or running back, according to Whitfield -- are finding immediate success: Three
of the top four passers in the NFL last year in yards-per-attempt, arguably the
most important stat for quarterbacks, were Griffin (first), Newton (third) and
Russell Wilson (fourth).

More  talented black quarterbacks will enter the NFL in the coming years. Teddy
Bridgewater of Louisville could be the No.1 pick in the 2014 draft. Clemson's
Tajh Boyd looks like a first-round pick. The University of Miami's Stephen
Morris could go high. And in 2015, perhaps the best of the bunch, Florida
State's Jameis Winston (who has played one college game!), will be eligible for
the draft.

It is conceivable that by Week1 in 2015, half of the 32 NFL teams could have a
black starting quarterback.

"Absolutely that could happen," said Daniel Jeremiah, an NFL Network analyst who
has been an NFL scout with the Baltimore Ravens, Philadelphia Eagles and
Cleveland Browns. "So many African-American quarterbacks are now being allowed
to throw the ball in college, and they're being successful. There's another
whole wave of talented kids coming."

The NFL isn't just entering the read-option era. The NFL is approaching the
Golden Age of the Black Quarterback.

It is difficult to discern exactly when the switch was flipped and
African-American quarterbacks turned from being viewed as strictly runners into
passers as well, but those interviewed for this story pointed to a grass-roots
change: High school coaches, at some point, decided to put the ball in the hands
of their best athlete.

Said Whitfield: "You can bracket a receiver or crowd the line to slow a back.
But a dual threat at QB? You have your hands full all day with a Taylor
Martinez, Tajh Boyd, Jake Locker, whoever."

On the high school level, these quarterbacks weren't running the option like
Tommie Frazier at Nebraska or Tony Rice at Notre Dame. They were running the
spread offense. Teams spread the field and let their best player make decisions
with his arm or legs.

"These kids coming out are very skilled passers because every high school
program is throwing the ball now," Jeremiah said. "Those guys weren't running
the triple option in high school. They've been throwing since ninth grade."

The trend picked up when Vince Young came along, fresh off his dazzling
performance in the Rose Bowl against Southern California, ready to pick up where
Michael Vick left off when he was incarcerated. And JaMarcus Russell (first
overall in 2007) was right behind Young.

But both were colossal busts within a few years, something that had Whitfield
concerned about the perception of black quarterbacks in the NFL. Russell ate his
way out of the league by 2010; Young, a disaster off the field, was let go by
the Tennessee Titans in 2010.

"I was a little nervous when Vince and JaMarcus were out of the league,"
Whitfield said. "How do other NFL teams view that? Will other young African
Americans get those opportunities?

"Then Cam comes on the scene."

Newton, who at 6-5 and 245 pounds is bigger than most linebackers, proved a
turning point for not only the read option in the NFL but also the resurgence of
the black quarterback. Newton completed 64% of his passes and threw for 422
yards in his first career game; his rookie season arguably is the greatest for a
quarterback in NFL history.

Whitfield said he had a discussion about running vs. passing with Newton, and he
tells the same thing to all the quarterbacks he coaches, such as Johnny Manziel
of Texas A&M.

"I told him he had to demonstrate his way to fly the ship from the cockpit --
leave the parachute on your back as a just in case," Whitfield said. "Mike Vick,
in his first few years, would play with his hand on the rip cord, and he
couldn't wait to rip it and take off and do his thing. I told Cam, God gave him
the biggest parachute ever for anyone who has played QB. But let's play it the
way (Tom) Brady, (Peyton) Manning play the position. Survive and thrive for 10
to 15 years with no parachute."

What will NFL defenses do if this keeps up?

"They'll have to play zone," Whitfield said. "All 11 defenders need their eyes
up field on the QB."

Jason McIntyre also writes for TheBigLead.com

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Bob Donnan, USA TODAY Sports

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2013 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              135 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           October 9, 2013 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

IMF foresees 'a lot of financial turmoil';
U.S. default would become an issue for the global economy

BYLINE: Paul Davidson, USA TODAY,

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 450 words


A failure by Congress to raise the nation's borrowing limit "could severely
damage the global economy," the International Monetary Fund said Tuesday as it
trimmed its global economic forecast due to slowing growth in emerging markets.

If Congress doesn't increase the nation's borrowing authority this month, "It
would probably lead to a lot of financial turmoil," IMF chief economist Olivier
Blanchard said at the annual meeting of the IMF and World Bank. "It would be an
issue for all credit markets, including China."

Blanchard added that the current federal government shutdown -- resulting from a
separate standoff over funding the government -- would hurt the U.S. economy
and, in turn, the global economy, only if it persisted for several weeks.

"Our assumption is that the shutdown will end and there'll be no problem raising
the debt ceiling," Blanchard said.

The IMF also cut its global growth forecast to 2.9% in 2013, down from its 3.2%
projection in July. For 2014, it now forecasts 3.6% growth, down from its
forecast of 3.8% in July.

"The world economy has entered yet another transition," Blanchard said, noting
that growth in the U.S. and other advanced economies is picking up, while growth
in China and other emerging markets is slowing.

In the U.S., the IMF predicts the economy will grow 1.6% this year and 2.6% next
year, down slightly from its July forecast. The private sector is strengthening,
Blanchard said, but excessive federal belt-tightening is hampering growth. The
cuts, he said, "are too large and too arbitrary."

The eurozone, meanwhile, is slowly recovering from recession, largely because
"of a change in mood" which could be "self-fulfilling if consumers and firms
decide to continue to increase spending." But southern nations such as Spain and
Italy "are still struggling," with rising exports failing to offset falling
demand from domestic consumers.

In emerging markets, growth is slowing in part because of a sharp drop in
commodity prices and rising interest rates. Emerging markets are projected to
expand 4.5% this year and 5.1% in 2014, down about a half a percentage point in
both cases from the IMF's July forecast.

China must rebalance its economy "toward (domestic) consumption" and away from
exports while India and Brazil create a friendlier climate for business
investment. Blanchard said.

He noted that foreign capital is fleeing emerging markets as the Fed signals its
intention to pull back its stimulus, a development that has pushed up U.S.
interest rates and made foreign investments less attractive. He said emerging
markets as a partial response should lower their exchange rates -- which would
make their exports more attractive to other countries.

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2013 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              140 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            January 22, 2013 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

President's speech takes on divisive issues;
His words more unyielding, his manner more confident than four years ago

BYLINE: Susan Page, @SusanPage, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 852 words


Less hope. More opportunity.

Barack Obama's first inaugural address to an unprecedented 1.8 million massed on
the National Mall was buoyed by exuberance over the historic moment of swearing
in the first African-American president -- but it also was defined and limited
by the unfolding financial crisis that dominated his first term.

In his second inaugural address Monday, his crowd was smaller, the breakthrough
that his presidency represents more familiar, and his own words promising a
post-partisan era tempered by the confrontations of the past four years.

Even so, the opening for President Obama to shape his own agenda and his ability
to push it through a resistant opposition may well have grown.

In his first four years, top White House concerns were determined in large part
by the economic crisis and two wars he inherited. With a recovery now under way
and U.S. troops in Iraq and Afghanistan headed home, Obama is in a better
position to set his own priorities -- not to mention he may feel liberated by
the fact that he won't be running for office again.

In a brisk 18-minute address on a cold day, the president embraced more divisive
issues and drew sharper lines than in the speech he delivered in 2009.

For the first time, an inaugural address endorsed gay rights and same-sex
marriage; Obama said "our journey is not complete until our gay brothers and
sisters are treated like anyone else under the law." He vowed action on climate
change (a hot-button phrase he didn't utter in his 2009 address), saying no one
"can avoid the devastating impact of raging fires and crippling drought and more
powerful storms." He alluded to the school shooting rampage in Newtown, Conn.,
that has prompted him to add gun control to his agenda, saying children there
and elsewhere should "know that they are  safe from harm."

And he drew a bright line on the spending issues that are about to erupt on
Capitol Hill as automatic spending cuts and a bill to continue funding of the
federal government are debated.

"We must make the hard choices to reduce the cost of health care and the size of
our deficit," Obama said. But "the commitments we make to each other -- through
Medicare and Medicaid and Social Security -- these things do not sap our
initiative; they strengthen us. They do not make us a nation of takers; they
free us to take the risks that make this country great."

The contemptuous reference to "a nation of takers" was a slap at Republican
presidential nominee Mitt Romney, who was secretly videotaped during the
campaign as dismissing the "47%" who were "dependent upon government," and at
his running mate, House Budget Chairman Paul Ryan, R-Wis., who has contrasted
the country's "takers versus makers."

As he did four years ago, Obama decried the capital's grinding partisanship. "We
cannot mistake absolutism for principle, or substitute spectacle for politics,
or treat name-calling as reasoned debate," he said. At his first inaugural, he
said he had come "to proclaim an end" to the "worn-out dogmas that for far too
long have strangled our politics."

This time, however, he didn't argue he would be able to reconcile the warring
sides or bring a new kind of politics to Washington. Rather, he seemed to be
braced for waging those partisan wars -- winning them, he hopes, by marshaling
public support.

His words were more unyielding, his manner more confident than four years ago.

"If the first inauguration was the coming-out party for the post-partisan
politics that he ran on in 2008, today's inaugural was the announcement of a
more fierce realism and recognition of deep, unbridgeable partisan differences,"
said Lawrence Jacobs, director of the Center for the Study of Politics and
Governance at the University of Minnesota.

Jacobs noted how often the president used the word or cited the idea of coming
together in pursuit of American ideals. Obama grounded his arguments on
government regulation and spending to the promises of the Declaration of
Independence.

Five times Obama said "Our journey is not complete." Five times: "We the
people." Seven times: "Together."

Obama's re-election has validated his first victory. A two-term president can't
be dismissed as an historic aberration, the way the one-term Jimmy Carter
sometimes has been. While second terms are often difficult and scandal-ridden,
it has given Obama another chance to pursue issues such as immigration  that
were sidelined during his first term.

Republican have hardly been vanquished. Navigating issues like gun control and
energy through the GOP-controlled House of Representatives looms as a huge
challenge. Still, just before the inauguration began GOP aides said the House
would vote Wednesday to raise the debt ceiling -- postponing what could have
been an early and bitter standoff.

"This generation of Americans has been tested by crises that steeled our resolve
and proved our resilience," Obama declared."A decade of war is now ending. An
economic recovery has begun. America's possibilities are limitless.  My fellow
Americans, we are made for this moment, and we will seize it -- so long as we
seize it together."

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo H. Darr Beiser, USA TODAY President Obama delivers an 18-minute
inaugural address on the west front of the U.S. Capitol.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2013 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              141 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            January 25, 2013 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Organizer postpones big Pa. gun show;
Boycott by vendors hurt annual event

BYLINE: Yamiche Alcindor, USA TODAY,

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 476 words


A decision Thursday to postpone a large Pennsylvania gun show has sparked debate
about whether such events are coming under fire in the wake of last month's
Newtown, Conn., shooting massacre.

Reed Exhibitions announced it was postponing the Eastern Sports and Outdoor Show
in  Harrisburg, Pa., which had been scheduled for Feb. 2 to Feb. 10. The change
came after Reed banned assault rifles at the show, prompting several exhibitors
to boycott.

"In the current climate, we felt that the presence of modern sporting rifles
would distract from the theme of hunting and fishing, disrupting the broader
experience of our guests," the company said in a statement.

Reed Exhibitions plans to reschedule "as the national debate clarifies."

The Pennsylvania postponement comes as Glendale, Calif., lawmakers consider
passing an ordinance banning guns and gun shows on city property.

Those efforts and others, made in the aftermath of the Sandy Hook school
shootings that killed 26 people, may signify changing attitudes toward gun shows
and gun possession, according to Tom Lorenz, a Glendale city spokesman.

"Some City Council members and the police chief see it as a symbolic message
that gun violence is not tolerated in our community," Lorenz said. Legislators
recently asked the city attorney to draft the new gun law.

The attorney now has four to six weeks to write an ordinance that would make it
a misdemeanor to have or sell a gun on city property.

Gun advocates argue that gun shows and gun rights will remain stronger than ever
because of push-back by citizens eager to protect the Second Amendment.

The region where the Pennsylvania show was supposed to take place will lose
about $80 million in revenue, said Rick Dunlap, a spokesman  for Hershey
Harrisburg Regional Visitors Bureau.

"This economic loss is collateral damage from a national debate," said Dunlap,
adding that local businesses rely on the show for first-quarter earnings.

Gun rights advocates argue that the president, congressional leaders and
gun-control supporters are unfairly using the Newtown shooting to pressure
organizations and the public into restricting guns.

"An attack on one firearm is an attack on all," said Alan Gottlieb, founder of
the Second Amendment Foundation, a non-profit legal defense organization based
in Bellevue, Wash. "They are trying to pit one gun owner against another gun
owner."

Gene Hoffman, chairman of the Calguns Foundation, another gun-advocacy group,
said banning one of the most-popular-selling rifles in the world doesn't make
sense.

He and Gottlieb  said they doubt future event organizers will make attempts
similar to  what was done by Reed Exhibitions in Pennsylvania to curtail gun
shows.

"This is a strong warning to anyone throwing a gun show in America," Hoffman
said. "You don't get to police what is legal and otherwise protected by the
Constitution."

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo George Frey, Bloomberg A crowd views handguns at the Rocky
Mountain Gun Show in Sandy, Utah, on Jan. 5. There was a small rally at the show
for more limits.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2013 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              148 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            March 14, 2013 Thursday
                                 CHASE EDITION

President rallies his agenda advocacy group;
Obama says purpose is to meet his goals and 'it's not about 2014'

BYLINE: Fredreka Schouten, USA TODAY,

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 425 words


President Obama on Wednesday told volunteers and top donors who helped  his
re-election that their active involvement in a new advocacy group could help
make his second-term agenda a reality.

In his first address to Organizing for Action, Obama cited "suspicion" about the
group's motives and whether it really was created to help Democrats make gains
in Congress in next year's midterm elections.

"It's not about 2014," he said. "I actually want to govern -- at least for a
couple of years," Obama told the group of about 75 at  an upscale hotel
restaurant just blocks from the White House. "But I also want to make sure that
the voices of ordinary people are heard in the debates that are going to be
taking place."

He said the organization could help rally the public support needed to persuade
members of Congress to make "the right decisions."

"If you have a senator or a congressman in a swing district who is prepared to
take a tough vote  on immigration reform, or legislation around background
checks for guns, I want to make sure that they feel supported and that they know
that there are constituencies of theirs who agree with them," Obama added.

Obama headlined a two-day "founders' summit" where the group's leaders, donors
and activists are brainstorming ways to keep the campaign's  volunteers engaged
in policymaking now that the election is over.

Speaking earlier Wednesday, the group's leaders cast the organization as a
grass-roots force that will  push gun-control legislation, curb climate change
and other  White House priorities -- rather than a partisan group focused on
elections. "This is something that should be celebrated, not criticized," former
White House senior adviser David Plouffe said.

Organizing for Action, launched in January by former White House and campaign
aides, is working to raise about $50million. More than 1million people have
undertaken at least one "volunteer action" since  late January, said Jim
Messina, who ran Obama's re-election campaign and now chairs the new
organization.

Campaign-finance watchdog groups  have assailed the new group, saying its
decision to accept unlimited contributions and Obama's plan to meet with donors
amounts to selling White House access to contributors.

Two watchdog groups, Democracy 21 and the Campaign Legal Center, sent a letter
to Obama on Wednesday, saying  his actions could violate a federal ban on
officials soliciting gifts. American Crossroads, a  Republican super PAC, also
mocked the group in a Web video released Wednesday.

Contributing: The Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2013 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              150 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            March 27, 2013 Wednesday
                                 First EDITION

Leaving the 9-to-5 by age 35?;
These folks are working to retire before they hit 40

BYLINE: Matt Krantz, @mattkrantz, USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 1288 words


To most people, "retiring early," means 55. But to Jason Fieber, that's  too
long to wait.

Everything Fieber does is with one goal: retiring well before he hits the big
4-0. Fieber, a 30-year-old service adviser at a car dealership in Sarasota,
Fla., even moved to the Sunshine State from his Michigan home,  in large part to
live in a state without  income tax. The sunnier climate also lets  him to more
comfortably use the bus to get everywhere without a car.

By keeping costs down, Fieber, who earns $50,000 a year,  saves 60% of his net
income  and has accrued more than $100,000 in three years. He figures he can
bank more than $400,000 by the time he's 35. That's plenty for him to retire on,
he figures, since he only spends $15,000 a year.

"I knew nine-to-five until you're 65 isn't the answer," says Fieber, who  runs a
blog chronicling his plan.  "The goal is to move from the working class to the
investment class. Money can work harder than I ever could."

Briefcases, pocket protectors and martini lunches are  signposts of bygone days.
But some young workers are going even further, calling the idea of waiting until
age 65 to retire as outdated as a lime-green  cubicle.

Ambitious young workers, primarily in their 30s, but also in their early 40s and
even their 20s,  refute the idea that workers must slave  for decades.  These
"extreme early retirement" fans are finding ways to make  financial decisions
now  to have ample nest eggs to give them freedom by the time they're 40,  or
even younger.

To aspiring extreme early retirees, even the term retired is outmoded.  The
preferred goal is to be financially independent as quickly as possible. "I'm
just trying to find the best way to play the game," says Ryan Farrelly, 31, of
Staten Island, N.Y., who plans to be "financially independent" by 35. "It's
about reaching financial independence, vs. just retiring."

Farrelly's plan started years ago. By being mindful of  spending,  Farrelly has
saved enough to buy two rental properties in addition to his house. At this
clip, he says the rental income will be ample to support him and his wife in
four years. They pay for everything in cash.

But retiring early isn't just about being frugal.  Key principles that many with
that goal  hold true:

Faith in nest-egg mathematics.  Fans of extreme early retirement say any worker
who makes the right choices  has a greater chance at retiring young,  getting
the most benefit of what Albert Einstein once called the most powerful force in
the universe: compounding. Mathematics dictate that $100,000 saved by a  young
worker is worth much more in the future than $100,000 saved by a 50-year-old,
due to the power of compounding. Starting to save now,  while other
thirtysomethings are  loading up on expensive cable  plans and fancy
smartphones, speeds  retirement.

Extreme-early-retirement believers also typically hold great faith in the  4%
rule, which  dictates that a retirement nest egg can last for decades  if the
retiree withdraws  4% in the first year, then increases the dollar amount each
year for inflation. Some extreme early retirees spin the 4% rule a bit by
setting a goal of never taking more than 4% of their portfolios out each year no
matter what. Doing so means that those who can save 25 times their annual
expenses would have enough  to last their lifetimes.

Strict spending priorities. Extreme early retirees dodge  the trappings of the
rat race, avoiding wasting money,  to reach financial freedom.  The urge to get
that giant house, fancy new car or shiny smartphone are lost on them. "Most
Americans spend more than 100% of their income, including the debt they
accumulate," says John Greaney, 57,  of the Seattle area, who retired when he
was 38,  largely by banking  a majority of his income as an engineer for an oil
and gas company.

Early retirees see items that aren't necessary  as  barriers.  Housing is a big
area  in which many people overspend, Greaney says.

But that's just the start, says Patrick Meninga, 37, of  Kalamazoo, Mich., who
quit his full-time job  at an addiction treatment center two years ago. By
avoiding costs others think are necessities, such as cable, expensive cellphone
plans and movie services,  Meninga  spends less than $1,000 a month and says he
can cut spending even more. At  $12,000 a year, Meninga figures he can  live off
his $180,000 in savings  invested in stocks, by withdrawing no more than 3% a
year and making up the difference from income generated by ads from websites he
runs mainly for fun.

While some might think that avoiding a luxurious lifestyle is a sacrifice, to
many, trying to avoid the work-to-65 routine is what makes life interesting.

"The key is living like you did when you were a student," says Rich  Ligato, 45,
who lives in San Diego. While not  financially independent,  Ligato and his
wife, Amanda,  stopped working  steady jobs more than a decade ago. Their goal
is  working for three years, taking odd jobs, saving  money, then  enjoying a
year-long  vacation break,  doing something such as living in India or biking
along the Western coast of the U.S. Then  they take entirely different jobs.

Rich is currently teaching biking classes and managing an apartment;  Amanda
teaches  yoga. "It's not about money, it's about freedom," he says. "If you're
just driving to make things secure and safe, think about what that means.
There's nothing interesting in life. You might as well die."

Banking on a diversified low-cost stock portfolio. Extreme early retirees must
be very savvy in managing their money.  If they're too aggressive, or make a big
mistake, such as panicking and selling in a bear market, they could devastate
their portfolios. But if they play it too safe, they won't get the returns
needed to make a portfolio last  60 or more years. Many extreme early retirees
benefited from the market's run this year.

But retiring early  requires a new investing strategy.  Unlike  retirees who
load up on low-return, ultra-safe investments such as Treasuries, Greaney has
85% of his portfolio in stock and  15% in fixed income.  The key is to bet on
low-cost investments and resist  panic selling during bear markets.

There's plenty of  healthy skepticism from traditional financial advisers about
the merits of retiring  early.

Cary Guffey, a financial adviser at PNC Investments, cautions that
early-retirement hopefuls might be overlooking  hidden risks. He says he's seen
clients successfully retiring in their mid-50s, but usually with the help of a
pension plan, which most younger workers don't have.

He also warns young investors of the high costs of medical insurance and the
financial risks of a major health event. Furthermore, he warns that if the
portfolio doesn't last as long as expected,  young retirees may find themselves
returning to work with outdated skills and a big gap in their rsums.

Christine Fahlund, financial adviser at T. Rowe Price, says the 4%  rule is
designed to generate a reliable stream of income for someone planning to retire
for 30 years, not 70.

But many extreme-early-retirement fans insist they've thought through  these
factors. Changes to health benefits make it  easier  to retire early, Greaney
says. Fieber says there are many high-deductible plans available that are
cost-effective, although he currently doesn't have life insurance.  Meninga says
he's easily found high-deductible health insurance policies that fit his budget.

As for the worry about skills getting outdated, Greaney keeps his engineering
license current by taking continuing education classes. He didn't retire early
because he didn't like his job. He just didn't like the office politics, he
says. "I liked engineering; I just got fed up going to all the meetings."

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2013 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              151 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            March 28, 2013 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Cyprus an omen for U.S. stock rally;
What happens to Cyprus is not really the issue. What happens next is.

BYLINE: David Callaway

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 701 words


Of all the possible threats to derail the booming U.S. stock market this spring,
none of Wall Street's high paid experts would have pointed to the tiny
Mediterranean island of Cyprus before last week.

Indeed, many Americans might have a hard time finding the mythical birthplace of
the love goddess Aphrodite on a map.

Dangerous phase

Yet the financial turmoil that threatens to ruin the country's economy and
banking system, as soon as today, spotlights the start of a dangerous new phase
in the European financial crisis that could stall the sudden surge in stocks,
even halt the newly growing U.S. economy. As the Standard & Poor's 500 index
prepares another assault on its all time high, investors in U.S. shares should
tread carefully.

While Cyprus may be puny -- even smaller than Greece -- in terms of its
significance to global markets, its turmoil is symptomatic of a European
financial system careening from crisis to crisis without end. The U.S. financial
scare that started with the collapse of subprime mortgages in early 2007 and
ended with a shuddering thud in the months after Lehman Bros. crashed at the end
of 2008, was a brutal financial hurricane. Yet it was short in comparison with
what Europe has endured.

Languid pace

Like a leisurely French lunch with cheese, three dessert plates and then coffee,
the crisis in Europe has rolled on for an additional five years -- each serving
of chaos and market pain more threatening to the region's economic well-being
than the last. Now, after almost a year of relative stability in Europe that has
seen the U.S. economy recover and begin to rebuild in places such as housing and
stocks, the euro crisis is back, almost like clockwork, in the spring.

What happens to Cyprus is not really the issue. It will be made to suffer fiscal
and social pain at the hands of monetary authorities as Greece, Iceland,
Ireland, Portugal, Spain and Italy before it. What happens next is the issue.
Will the markets in European debt, sensing the blood of bank depositors and
investors in Cyprus, take their campaign to the next target? Already Wednesday,
concerns about selling in Slovenia and Luxembourg began to circulate.

The big problem may again be Italy, though. Prospects for a coalition government
coming together are dwindling.

Former prime minister Silvio Berlusconi is threatening to be the only viable
alternative, a scenario that would toss the continent's financial markets into a
frenzy because of the monetary trouble that occurred under his previous watch.

Already this week, investors are selling Italian and Spanish bonds and buying
into safer bond markets in Germany and the United States. Another European
summer of turmoil and financial chaos could do great harm to the U.S. recovery
and stock market by hurting the business prospects of our international
companies and forcing U.S. interest rates to remain too low for much longer,
prolonging the agony of  retired Americans who often rely on savings rates for
income.

Recovery roadblock?

The recovery, which helped President Obama win re-election and looks better for
his prospects with each passing month in 2013, could easily falter on another
international crisis, thrusting the budget debate in Washington back to the top
of Obama's agenda for a second term and diverting attention from other
priorities, such as health care, immigration, guns and climate change.

Europe has survived three dangerous summers now of speculation that its
ambitious project to create a single currency and economic market would crash in
a wave of bankruptcies, busts and job losses. Perhaps it will survive a fourth.

The Cyprus flare-up has revived uncomfortable feelings among the world's
investors, though, including U.S. investors. Those who have finally begun wading
back into stocks after more than five years, having missed the complete recovery
of the Dow Jones Industrial Average and S&P 500 stock index from the depths of
early 2009, could find themselves at the mercy of bad timing once again.

Courtesy of another European country they never thought would matter to them.

David Callaway is editor in chief of USA TODAY. His opinions are his own and do
not reflect the views of the editorial page of USA TODAY.

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Petros Karadjias, AP Protesters wave Cyprus' flags as they rally
outside the Cypriot presidential palace in Nicosia on Wednesday.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2013 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              159 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             June 5, 2013 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Top brass say they lost focus on sex assaults;
Fight overhaul of the military justice system

BYLINE: Tom Vanden Brook, USA TODAY,

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 557 words


The military's top uniformed officers acknowledged before a Senate panel Tuesday
that they had lost focus on sexual assaults in their services while they also
opposed proposals that would remove commanders' discretion to overturn decisions
to prosecute troops and throw out their convictions.

"I took my eye off the ball in the commands I had," said Gen. Martin Dempsey,
chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, in response to a statement by Sen. Joe
Manchin, D-W.Va., that little had changed despite 20 years of negative
publicity.

A decade of war, Dempsey said, had pushed aside the issue in favor of improving
"command climate."

Some members of the Senate Armed Services Committee supported the service
chiefs' opposition to legislation that would strip commanders of their ability
to overturn jury decisions in sexual assault and harassment cases. Others,
however, hammered the military for its consistent failure to stem the growing
number of such cases.

Calls for overhaul of the military justice system have grown louder since the
Pentagon released a report last month showing a 35% jump in the estimated number
of sexual abuse incidents in 2012 compared with 2010.

"You have lost the trust of the men and women who rely on you that you will
actually bring justice," Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand, D-N.Y., told the leaders of
the Army, Air Force, Marine Corps, Coast Guard and Navy. She has introduced one
of seven bills the committee is considering to deal with sexual assault in the
military.

The bill from Gillibrand, who chairs the subcommittee on personnel matters,
would put decisions to handle sexual assault cases in the hands of military
judges and juries. Currently, decisions on charges, the jury's makeup and
whether a conviction or punishment can stand are handled by a defendant's
superior. That commander receives advice from a military lawyer.

Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, D-Nev., vowed  changes.

"The situation of sexual exploitation in the armed services is beyond the pale.
Something has to be done about it. It cannot continue," he said. "I'm looking at
every one of these bills that have been suggested, and we're going to have to do
something."

Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz., said the crisis had grown so dire that he could no
longer recommend to a young woman to join the armed services.

Gillibrand told the chiefs that not all commanders are committed to dealing with
sexual harassment and assault. Some, she said, do not welcome women in the
military.

Added Sen. Claire McCaskill, D-Mo., "We have two problems -- one is that you
have sexual predators who are committing crimes, and two is that you have work
to do on the issue of a respectful and healthy work environment."

Sen. Roy Blunt, R-Mo., seemed exasperated that Adm. Jonathan Greenert, chief of
Naval Operations, wasn't aware of how U.S. allies  dealt with sexual assault.
How could that be the case, Blunt asked, since the problem has been known for
years?

Greenert acknowledged that was "something I should have done."

Several incidents of sexual abuse have caused widespread outrage, and have
prompted calls for action.

Sen. Carl Levin, D-Mich., the committee chairman, said it was up to commanders,
not just laws, to ensure that sexual assault is not tolerated: "The problem of
sexual assault is of such scope and magnitude that it has become a stain on our
military."

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Photos by Jack Gruber, USA TODAY Gen. Martin Dempsey, chairman of
the Joint Chiefs of Staff, second from right, and Gen. Raymond Odierno, chief of
staff of the Army, center, stand with other top brass at a Senate committee
hearing Tuesday.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2013 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              167 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            August 20, 2013 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Changing energy landscape holds wealth of opportunities

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 531 words


When Mexican President Enrique Peña Nieto unveiled a plan recently to allow
private investment in his nation's energy production, it received relatively
little notice. But it is a very big deal. Mexican oil has been the province of a
government controlled-monopoly since the industry was nationalized in 1938.

Adding private sector know-how could easily increase production by 25% or more
in a decade as new drilling technologies are brought to bear. This would add to
an equally positive and unanticipated development: the vast increase in oil and
gas production in the USA and Canada.

The global energy landscape is changing at a stunning pace. North America is
close to energy independence, which once seemed unattainable. Better yet, the
U.S., long dependent on supplies from potentially hostile nations, will attain
self-sufficiency in 20 years, according to a study by BP.

There are many lessons from all this. The first, and most obvious, is never to
assume that the status quo is a permanent state. If oil-rich countries in the
Persian Gulf are not viewing these developments with alarm, they are delusional.
And if manufacturers in Asia and elsewhere don't see how cheap energy will fuel
industrial growth here, they should. After years of decline, it's already
happening -- another big surprise.

A second conclusion is that free enterprise has a way of solving problems that
is beyond the capabilities of government. The surge in domestic oil and gas
production -- spurred on by such new techniques as hydraulic fracturing (or
"fracking") did not come about as the result of government energy polices, but
largely in spite of them. And Mexico's recent shift is an acknowledgment that
public ownership of the oil industry does little but stifle growth and deny
government much needed revenues.

The most important conclusion is that these developments provide a learning
opportunity. It's time for both government and society as a whole to step back
and see what works and what doesn't.

In the four decades since the Arab oil embargo caused gasoline rationing here,
U.S. energy polices have been -- charitably speaking -- a mixed bag. While
conservation measures and programs such as requiring electric utilities to buy
power from alternative energy sources have been a success, the same could not be
said of grand schemes to mandate synthetic fuels in the 1970s, onerous and
politically motivated ethanol policies of recent years, or the numerous tax
breaks handed out to reward energy companies for their lobbying. Such handouts
are the inevitable result of betting on technologies that look silly in
hindsight.

Recent developments in North American energy production even suggest ways to
attack the complex threat of global warming. If government is serious about
climate change -- and it should be -- two approaches stand out as most
productive. One is to invest in basic research to find means to cope with
warming that do not exist now. The other is to tax pollutants and then let the
market adjust and innovators innovate.

In the end, the most important gains  could come from radical shifts that are as
unanticipated as was North America's emergence as an oil and gas powerhouse.

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, Color, Veronica Bravo, USA TODAY (Line graph)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2013 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              180 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          November 13, 2013 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

One simple way to help: Give money

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 467 words


Jessica Alexander, The Dallas Morning News: "Wanting to help victims of a
massive disaster is a human instinct that should be lauded. Unfortunately,
well-meaning people repeatedly get it wrong. This time, it seems that some are
already responding in unsuitable ways. ... When old shoes and clothes are sent
from the U.S., they just waste people's time and slow down getting lifesaving
medicines and food to affected people. ...There is one simple way that people
who want to help can help: Donate money."

Adam Sobel, CNN: "Does it seem, in fact, that these weather disasters are
happening more often? Well, they are. The damage caused by tropical cyclones has
risen dramatically in the past century everywhere it has been assessed. But
essentially all of that is attributable to development of vulnerable coastlines,
rather than changes in the storms themselves. The population of the Philippines,
rich in vulnerable coastlines, has roughly doubled in the past 30 years. There
as elsewhere, more people are simply exposed to danger."

Jennifer Moroney and Stephanie Pezard, U.S. News & World Report: "As the United
States rebalances toward Asia -- a region of the world that bears the brunt of
more than half of the world's natural disasters -- humanitarian assistance and
disaster relief is bound to become an even more frequent mission of the U.S.
military than it is already. Improved preparedness and efficient coordination
mechanisms can help ensure that, when time is of the essence, the United States
provides the most effective response."

Conor Friedersdorf, The Atlantic: "When I read a rundown of military assets
being sent to rescue survivors and deliver supplies, I feel grateful for the
logistics officers marshaling their expertise, but also struck by the fact that
the tools we're using were designed to fight wars and are being temporarily
repurposed. I wonder what a fleet as well-funded as the U.S. military's would
look like if it were optimized for natural disaster response. How many victims
would have been reached already?"

St. Louis Post-Dispatch, editorial: "We can write checks, and should, but we've
got our own natural disasters -- heat, flood, drought, tornadoes and (knock
wood) the New Madrid Fault. We've got earthquakes in our hemisphere (Haiti 2010)
that haven't been cleaned up. ... Climate disasters are coming so fast that the
Philippines can't catch up. And maybe not the rest of us, either. If we're wise,
the Philippines will be the canary in the global coal mine. This is where the
worst effects of global warming are being felt first. Without serious, sustained
attention and the kind of sacrifices in lifestyle that few nations seem prepared
to make, every coast will feel what the coasts of the Philippines felt. Perhaps
not as violently, but every bit as surely."

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: OPINION

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2013 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              181 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 17, 2013 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Deciding where to retire? Forget taxes;
Millions of Baby Boomers are starting retirement with fewer financial resources
than they had hoped for. There are many reasons: Defined benefit plans are
largely a thing of the past, many Boomers didn't save enough, and others lost
their jobs unexpectedly. Strapped to maintain their lifestyles, many have
decided to look for a place to retire with lower taxes. But while no one wants
to pay taxes, that priority could be misplaced. Here are 5 reasons to rethink
that idea.

BYLINE: John Brady, Founder, Topretirements.com,

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 532 words


If moving to a low-tax state is a priority

Some thoughts to consider:

Weigh your other priorities first -- your lifestyle dreams, climate preferences
and desire to be near your family are still important.

Hire a tax professional to determine your potential exposure in your new state.
A pro-forma tax return is the only real way to know if a new state offers a
meaningful tax break.

A tax-friendly state does make sense for some. For example if you are going to
keep working, get a sizable pension, or have millions in a 401(k), finding a
state that goes easy on taxing those items could save you tens of thousands over
time.

Look out for property taxes. These are usually the most onerous taxes for
retirees because they bear no relation to your income. Some states, like
California and Florida, have generous property tax protections. But you don't
necessarily have to move to reduce your property taxes. Once you retire you
should consider downsizing to save on all kinds of costs, not just taxes.

Bottom line

Keep in mind what the wise old tax lawyer says: "Don't let the tax tail wave the
dog." In other words, look at the whole picture, as your quality of life is
what's important.

Topretirements.com is a popular website where Baby Boomers go to find their best
place to retire. It's a USA TODAY content partner, and its content is produced
independently of USA TODAY.

1. Life is short -- enjoy yourself. You worked hard all your life. So why not
think about retirement as a new adventure? When Topretirements.com asked its
members what the best thing was about their retirement, none of the top 3
answers -- having less stress, getting to do what I want, having more time --
had anything to do with money. Keeping taxes low is desirable, but not as
critical as finding a place to retire where you can enjoy the lifestyle and
activities you've dreamed of.

2. Reduced income means lower taxes. Once you stop working full time you will
have less income to tax. Chances are that once standard exemptions are factored
in your total income will be low enough, even in the few states where Social
Security is taxed, that you will be liable for minimal, if any, income tax. Is
it worth it to move to a new state just to save a small amount?

3. State sales taxes are not much a factor for most retirees. With your reduced
disposable income, the state sales tax differences from state to state will be
minimal. And necessities like food are usually exempt anyway.

4. States and localities with low taxes might come with a lower quality of
services than you are used to. Public services might be below your expectations:
Public libraries, community centers, universities, police departments, etc.,
often don't get the financial support you might think they deserve.

5. Your tax situation in any given state is a complex and movable situation. It
is difficult to get clear information from individual states on all the ways
their tax laws could affect your situation. Taxation of pensions, retirement
distributions from your 401(k) and IRA, Social Security benefits and senior
exemptions are all over the map. Taxes differ from municipality to municipality.
As the political winds change, so can these laws.

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Robert Bush, Getty Images/iStockphoto

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2013 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              183 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 26, 2013 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

5 Key dates for Obama;
Important moments awaiting in 2014 can shape the rest of president's tenure

BYLINE: Susan Page, @susanpage, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1857 words


The good news for President Obama, members of Congress and other capital
policymakers as they look ahead to 2014: Next year can't possibly be as bad as
this one has been.

Right?

The year that is limping to a close was defined by the disastrous rollout of the
Affordable Care Act, the 16-day shutdown of the federal government and the
disclosures by contractor Edward Snowden of National Security Agency spying that
prompted presidential apologies to foreign friends and allies. Proposals to
overhaul the immigration system and tighten gun laws went nowhere despite being
supported by most Americans. The standing of the president and the Congress sank
to record or near-record lows.

That said, some encouraging glimmers at year's end include a bipartisan budget
deal (admittedly a modest one) that passed and an economic recovery that is
gaining steam.

During the next 12 months, a handful of key moments will help shape the rest of
Obama's tenure in the White House, calm or roil the most turbulent regions of
the world, and set the political landscape for the 2014 midterm elections and
the 2016 presidential contest. At stake are efforts to steady the Affordable
Care Act, reach a longer-term deal to limit Iran's nuclear program and draw down
America's longest war.

At stake are history's assessment of the 44th president -- and, perhaps, the
public's eroding faith in national institutions generally.

"There are a lot of things coming to a head," Democratic strategist Paul Begala
says of the coming year.

To be sure, natural disasters, foreign crises and economic twists can occur at
any point, opening opportunities to succeed or stumble. But for the president,
the clock is ticking to launch final priorities, solidify lasting achievements
and fix persistent problems before the political world turns to the battle to
succeed him in 2016. There's still time to get big things done: In his sixth
year in office, Ronald Reagan signed a major overhaul of the tax code.

"The bottom line is, 2014 needs to be a year of action," Obama said at a
downbeat news conference before heading to Hawaii on vacation.

Here are five crucial dates that will help determine how he does in fulfilling
that goal.

2014

Obama's  bully pulpit

It was a big speech -- his electrifying address to the Democratic National
Convention in Boston in 2004 -- that launched Barack Obama as a national figure.
Rhetoric helped rescue him when his presidential campaign faltered over race and
a firebrand former pastor. His soaring language before a crowd massed in
Chicago's Grant Park the night he was elected in 2008 boosted his standing
across the country.

The State of the Union address next month will be an opportunity for Obama once
again to use the bully pulpit to reach and persuade the nation. Speaking to what
is likely to be the biggest audience he will command all year, the president can
outline his legislative agenda for the year. Will he renew his push for an
immigration overhaul? Revive efforts to simplify the tax code? Address growing
economic inequality?

In his first speech to a Joint Session of Congress, in 2009, Obama focused on
efforts to stem the financial crisis -- "the state of our economy is a concern
that rises above all others," he declared -- and in the addresses that followed
he has pushed for education legislation, touted the end of the Iraq War and
demanded votes on gun control legislation. Last February, 33.5 million people
tuned in.

"The State of the Union address is obviously important; it gets the most
attention from the news media and from citizens," says political scientist
Jeffrey Cohen of Fordham University. That said, there are limits to what words
can do. After five years in office during a polarized time, it's hard to find
many Americans who are open to persuasion. "People really have their minds made
up," Cohen says, "and the people who don't have their minds made up are fed up."

Consider the goals Obama highlighted in the State of the Union a year ago. He
said 2013 would be "our best chance for bipartisan, comprehensive tax reform."
It's stalled. He wanted "high-quality preschool available to every single child
in America." That hasn't happened. He said, "The time has come to pass
comprehensive immigration reform." It didn't. He proposed raising the minimum
wage, saying, "We should be able to get that done." Apparently not.

Obamacare  in recovery

Some deadlines in the Affordable Care Act have turned out be remarkably elastic.
The timetable for small businesses to give employees a choice of plans on the
new marketplace was delayed for a year. So was the requirement that bigger
businesses offer health coverage. The deadlines for individuals to sign up to
start coverage on Jan. 1 was nudged back.

March 31 remains the key date, the deadline for Americans to have enrolled for
health care coverage or face a fine. If they don't have insurance through their
employer or in a government program, the law says they have to have signed up
for a plan or pay a penalty.

On the day before the HealthCare.gov website opened Oct. 1, Health and Human
Services Secretary Kathleen Sebelius was asked what success would look like.
"Well, I think success looks like at least 7 million people having signed up by
the end of March 2014," she told NBC. Then, the administration projected 3.2
million would sign up by Jan. 1 and 1.2 million would follow in each of the
first three months of the year. Enrollment levels haven't come close to those
targets.

The March 31 enrollment levels are likely to be seen as a referendum on whether
the website and the exchanges work. It will show whether younger, healthier
adults -- the ones needed to sustain the finances underlying the Affordable Care
Act -- signed up. "The important thing that everyone in health policy knows is,
what's the risk pool?" says Zeke Emanuel, an analyst who helped devise the law.
"Are we going to have the right balance of people?"

No other issue is more critical to Obama's legacy. "George W. Bush is going to
go down in history as the president of the Iraq War," Cohen says. "Obama is
going to go down in history as the president of health care."

Will Iran  make a deal?

Concern about the regime in Iran developing nuclear weapons has been one of the
most serious foreign policy challenges facing Obama and his predecessor -- and
one complicated by the fact that Washington and Tehran haven't had diplomatic
relations since the Iranian hostage crisis erupted more than three decades ago.

Even so, just before Thanksgiving, Iran and the West announced the first steps
toward what could be a landmark deal. Tehran agreed to roll back or freeze parts
of its nuclear program for six months in exchange for relief from some
international economic sanctions. At the end of the six months, the two sides
are supposed to have reached a larger, longer-term agreement.

The six-month timetable is likely to be triggered shortly, after technical
issues being discussed in Geneva are worked out. The accord can be renewed for
another six months to continue negotiations, if needed, which would push back
the deadline to the end of the year.

Obama has been trying to put out fires on Capitol Hill, threatening to veto a
push to tighten sanctions on Iran. He has had to calm concerns raised by leaders
of Israel and Saudi Arabia, who argue Tehran is just trying to buy time without
actually forfeiting its nuclear capability.

For Obama, concluding the deal would "add to the theme that wars were closed off
or prevented from happening" during his watch, says Ray Takeyh, a former senior
adviser on Iran at the State Department. Takeyh says Obama has been closely
involved in crafting strategy on this issue. "If it works, it will always be an
achievement for this president."

Controlling Congress

For second-term presidents, midterm elections have a history of being harsh.

In 2006, George W. Bush's sixth year, the GOP lost control of the House and
Senate. In 1986, Ronald Reagan's sixth year, Republicans lost the Senate. Though
Democrats managed to pick up  seats in 1998, during Bill Clinton's second term,
no president in modern times has seen his party gain control of the House or
Senate in the sixth year of his tenure.

When Republicans bore the brunt of the blame for the government shutdown last
fall, some Democrats were buoyed about their long-shot to regain control of the
House, which would require scoring a gain of 17 seats. More feasible is a
Republican takeover of the Senate. The GOP needs a net gain of six, and
Democrats are playing defense: 21 Democratic-held seats are up, compared with 14
Republican-held seats.

Prime targets: the seven Democratic seats in states Mitt Romney carried last
year.

Facing a Congress under unified GOP control would complicate Obama's final two
years in office, making it harder for him to pass legislation on immigration or
climate change, restore funding for education and win confirmation for
appointees to everything from federal agencies to the Supreme Court.
Congressional committees controlled by the other side are more likely to launch
investigations and summon Cabinet secretaries to Capitol Hill for a grilling.

"I was there for a majority of Democrats and I was there for a majority of
Republicans and I was there for when it was 50-50," says former Arkansas senator
Blanche Lincoln, who lost her bid for a third term in 2010. She says the
differences for the president under each scenario were stark.

Obama saw Republicans gain control of the House during his first midterm, in
2010. Losing the Senate in 2014 would mean he would move out of the White House
with the Democratic Party in significantly weaker condition than when he
arrived.

Leaving Afghanistan

Obama's opposition to the invasion of Iraq helped him claim the Democratic
nomination over Hillary Rodham Clinton in 2008, and voters' weariness over the
wars in Iraq and Afghanistan contributed to his victory in the election over
John McCain. The Iraq War is over, and  the U.N. mandate for combat operations
in Afghanistan expires at the end of next year.

What happens then isn't clear. The United States has been trying to convince
Afghan President Hamid Karzai to sign a bilateral security agreement setting the
ground rules for a continued American presence for the next 10 years. It would
allow several thousand U.S. troops to train and advise Afghan forces.
Counterterrorism operations by special operations forces could continue.

If no agreement is reached, the U.S. mission might end entirely. That so-called
zero option once seemed an improbable threat. but analysts no longer say it's
inconceivable.

Given the eagerness of most Americans to see this chapter close, failure to
reach a deal probably wouldn't cost Obama politically, says Vali Nasr, a former
administration adviser on Afghanistan and Pakistan who is dean of the Johns
Hopkins University School of Advanced International Studies. But the substantive
impact over the longer term could be catastrophic.

"It becomes a problem down the road if ... the place disintegrates into civil
war,"  he says. "If Afghanistan unravels, the reasons that got us there in the
first place may very well return."

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: graphic Charles Dharapak, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2013 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              188 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           November 19, 2013 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Cold War 2.0: Space race relaunch;
U.S.-Russia battle built wonders. Imagine if we worked together.

BYLINE: Robert Zubrin

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 777 words


Russian-American relations are deteriorating. It is not just a matter of side
issues such as Edward Snowden and Syria. A faction in the Kremlin's ruling camp,
exemplified by prominent Putin adviser Alexander Dugin, is urging the regime to
embrace a new "fourth political theory" synthesis of communism and fascism to
prop up the regime's domestic power and make Russia the leader of the global
forces opposing the West.

"Liberalism," says Dugin, meaning the whole Western consensus, "is an absolute
evil. ... Only a global crusade against the U.S., the West, globalization and
their political-ideological expression, liberalism, is capable of becoming an
adequate response. ... The American empire should be destroyed."

This is dangerous stuff. It not only threatens the prospects for freedom in
Russia but also could lead to a global catastrophe. We need to turn this trend
around. How? Here's my answer: Let's invite Russia to join with us in a grand
project of sending humans to Mars.

Global leader again

The idea has a long heritage. Carl Sagan proposed a similar concept to help
counteract U.S.-Soviet tensions in the 1980s. It was a good idea then, but it's
critical now.

Unlike the 1980s Soviet Union, which could bask in its superpower status,
today's Russia has something to prove. That could mean real trouble. But a joint
Russian-American human Mars exploration program would allow Russia to stand
before the world as a great nation again, without needing to muscle anyone.

I was just in Russia giving talks to technical audiences and the news media on
Mars exploration. It was clear that space still excites  the Russian public, and
that there are many talented people there who'd like nothing better than the
chance to strive together on such a great project.

It is also what America needs. Our human spaceflight program is adrift. We need
a concrete goal really worth pursuing. More robotic missions to Mars, such as
the orbiter that NASA launched on Monday, aren't enough. We need to take the
next step.

We now know that Mars was a warm and wet planet for more than a billion years.
If we went to Mars and found fossils of past life on its surface, we'd have good
reason to believe that we are not alone in the universe. If we sent human
explorers, who can reach underground water where Martian life might yet persist,
we'd be able to determine whether life on Earth is the pattern for life
everywhere, or simply one esoteric example of a far vaster tapestry.

There would be other benefits. A humans-to-Mars program would be an invitation
to adventure to every young person. The result would be millions of engineers,
inventors and  researchers creating new industries, finding new cures and
sparking economic growth that dwarfs the cost of the effort. The same return
would hold true for all other nations participating, which could include not
only the U.S. and Russia but also Europe, Japan, India, China, Brazil and
everyone else willing to share the costs, tragedies and triumphs.

New frontier

Beyond that, there is the ultimate reason to act: the doorway it opens to the
future. Mars is uniquely endowed with the resources needed to support
technological civilization. For our generation and those to follow, Mars is the
New World. It is the challenge of our time.

The U.S., Canada, Russia, Europe and Japan already collaborate on the
International Space Station. But that is a glacial bureaucratic effort, drifting
without objectives. To capture the world's imagination, the Mars program should
have the dash and daring of the 1960s space race. Our bold goal should be to
land on the Red Planet within a decade.

It can be done. We are much better prepared today to go  to Mars than we were to
send men to the moon in 1961, when President Kennedy started the Apollo program
and we got there eight years later. A hard-driving effort could get us to Mars
on a similar schedule, at a shared cost of several tens of billions of dollars,
a pittance compared with the trillions that could be wasted in a global
confrontation with Russia.

Working together with the Russians is a practical move, too.  It would add
launch capacity, alternative technologies for propulsion and life support, and
expertise in space nuclear power generation, which is needed to support extended
operations on the dusty Martian surface where solar power can be unreliable.

The American people want and deserve a space program that is really going
somewhere. The forces of light in Russia want a chance to join the free world.
We can accomplish both, by joining hands to take on the challenge of Mars,
together.

Robert Zubrin, president of the Mars Society, is author of The Case for Mars.

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo NASA TV via AFP/Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2013 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              192 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          February 20, 2013 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

DO HAPPY WORKERS MEAN HIGHER PROFIT?;
Treating staff well appears to pay off

BYLINE: John Waggoner, @johnwaggoner, USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 1213 words


Most people would like to believe that there's a kind of economic karma:
Companies that treat employees well will see their stock prices rise, and those
that treat employees badly watch their stocks fall.

If only it were that simple.

In theory, benevolent employers should have an advantage. "To me, it's
absolutely true," says Jerome Dodson, manager of the Parnassus fund. "If a
company treats its employees well, the business should prosper and that should
show up in the stock price," Dodson says.

It's a philosophy Dodson embraces in his own company. "When you have reduced
employee turnover, it makes a huge difference in earnings," he says. "We don't
need as many people, we don't have to hire headhunters, we're not continually
retraining people."

And, in fact, there's fairly solid evidence that companies that treat employees
well see their stocks prosper. It's just that some companies that aren't noted
as great workplaces can see their stock prices rise, too.

Consider Google, nearly universally acclaimed as a great place to work. Its
stock has soared about 700% since its public debut  in August 2004.

Google's offices abound with areas designed to promote interaction, from a
bowling alley in Mountain View, Calif., to a pub lounge in Dublin, Ireland. The
computer search company has a great health plan, a college reimbursement plan,
legal aid, even travel assistance. Heck, if an employee dies, Google will
continue to pay 50% of the deceased's salary to his or her family for a decade.

Or consider Marriott, which offers employee discounts at its thousands of hotels
worldwide. Work there 25 years, and you get free stays at the company's hotels
and timeshares. Marriott has gained an average 11.3% a year for the past decade,
vs. 7.9% for the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index with dividends reinvested.

The argument for companies that treat employees well, however, is not simply
because people like to get benefits, although they do. "The data strongly
support the fact that organizations that focus on the engagement of their
employees deliver stronger performance," says Julie Gebauer, managing director
for talent and rewards at Towers Watson. "It's not just making them happy --
that's not a business issue. Engagement is."

Low turnover

Employees who feel engaged tend to do better jobs and are more willing to put in
the extra hours, Gebauer says. They also tend to stay at the company -- and
that, too, is a good thing, says Dodson. "There's all kinds of cost savings when
there's low turnover," he says. At his company, 10-year employees become owners,
and that, too, trickles down to the bottom line. "It motivates them to save us
money," he says.

Companies on Fortune's list of 100 Best Companies to Work For tend to have less
employee turnover than average. In information technology, an industry notorious
for job-hopping, voluntary turnover is 5.9% at the companies on the list, vs.
14.4% industrywide. In professional services, turnover in the best places to
work is 11.3%, vs. 24.7% industrywide.

Low turnover means that good employees stay and are more productive. The inverse
is also true: Companies that have happy employees are less likely to have
unhappy workplace events, such as strikes or class-action lawsuits -- events
that investors generally hate.

Publicly traded companies in the Fortune 100 Best Companies to Work For list
have gained an average 10.8% a year since 1998, according to the Russell
Investment Group. Many of the publicly traded companies named as Best Companies
to Work For in 2013 saw their stocks perform admirably last year:

Whole Foods soared 31%, vs. 13% for the S&P 500.

Marriott gained 28%.

American Express advanced 22%.

Naturally, there were some disappointments, the most prominent of which was
Chesapeake Energy, down 25% last year. Part of Chesapeake's problem was its
continuing lavish perks for executives: Directors earned an average of more than
$500,000 in 2011, according to the website Footnoted. Its CEO has earned
notoriety for similarly lavish perks, including the company's $12.1 million
purchase of his antique map collection in 2009. (The CEO later paid back the
company, under pressure from shareholders.)

One big question, however, is whether companies that treat employees well do so
because they are already successful and growing, and simply have the financial
wherewithal to be generous. Google, for example, sits atop $48 billion in cash
on its balance sheet; so does Cisco, another company on Fortune's list.

Furthermore, some industries, such as airlines and autos, were long known for
generous treatment of employees -- but that was when the companies were much
more profitable than they are now.

Cutting perks

When a company is struggling, however, its first step is typically to start
cutting employee perks, says Charles Bobrinskoy, manager of Ariel Focus fund.
That's typically seen as more humane than mass layoffs.

You could also argue that companies in low-margin businesses -- think grocery
stores and fast-food chains -- tend to have the least amount of money to spend
making employees happy, and would therefore be least likely to show up on lists
of great workplaces, much less great stocks.

But Parnassus' Dodson disagrees. For example, his portfolio includes Costco but
not Wal-Mart. "Costco pays their employees well and has good benefits," Dodson
says. "They want people who are professional, not just quitting and going on to
the next job." Costco has gained 30.5% the past 12 months, including reinvested
dividends, according to Morningstar, the mutual fund trackers, vs. 19% for
discount stores.

And even in the beleaguered media industry, some companies still offer
outstanding benefits. Morningstar, for example, gives employees a six-week paid
sabbatical every four years. And employees are allowed to take as much vacation
time as they need, says Bevin Desmond, president of international operations and
global human resources at Morningstar. "It can be difficult for people to get
used to," she says. "We hire people who are smart, motivated, aggressive and
ambitious, and they put everything they can into the job."

Benefits help in transitions

Having a good benefits package also makes the transition easier when Morningstar
buys another company, Desmond says. "It tends to warm them up a bit to have a
nicer medical plan."

And, she says, Morningstar competes heavily with technology companies, which are
noted for generous benefits. It pays off: Their chief technology officer came to
Morningstar from Microsoft.

But good employee treatment means more than a good dental plan, says Gebauer of
Towers Watson. "What makes the biggest impact are things that don't have
significant costs," she says. "How expensive is it for a senior leader to give
an employee a pat on the back, or give someone the opportunity to work from home
for a day or two?"

While every company that treats employees well doesn't automatically outperform
the S&P 500 in the stock market, those that habitually treat employees badly
often do suffer for it -- and for a long time.

"Companies that have a poor reputation see a bit of a lag," says Linda-Eling
Lee, executive director at MSCI. "And I do think that companies that lag -- it's
amazing that they chronically underperform. They lurch from crisis to crisis."

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo 2010 Bloomberg News photo Beloved workplace Google, based in
Mountain View, Calif., has seen its shares soar about 700% since the company's
2004 IPO.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COVER STORY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2013 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              195 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              June 10, 2013 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Getting their CEO degrees;
Colleges help student entrepreneurs get their start-ups on the road

BYLINE: Laura Baverman, USA TODAY,

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 851 words


In two days, Ameya Kulkarni will stand before 200 potential investors and
experienced entrepreneurs at Google's headquarters in Silicon Valley. He'll
pitch an idea he dreamed up in business school at Duke University, a start-up he
believes transforms the way job searches happen.

Kulkarni feels a little pressure. He's a first-time company founder and just one
month off the North Carolina graduation stage. But he's also confident in the
skills he developed at Duke.

The start-up he built with classmate Amy Vaduthalakuzhy finished in the top 10
in the college's Start-Up Challenge. He completed a year-long Program for
Entrepreneurs course and found a mentor in Kathryn Minshew, a Duke alumna and
founder of fast-growing career development start-up, The Muse.

Plus, this crowd is a warm one. They're all Duke alumni, brought together by the
college to support and celebrate Duke-born start-ups.

"I had free reign at Duke to do whatever I felt like, to take risks and get
resources and mentorship," says Kulkarni, founder of Jobbertunity, an online
tool for job seekers to organize job searches and career fair recruiters to
manage résumés. "I know a little bit about business now, I know failure is OK,
and I have comfort knowing that other people at Duke before me have done it,
too."

Welcome to the next generation of campus entrepreneurship, in which students
don't just want to learn the principles of starting a company, they actually
want to start one.

The sweet spot for colleges, says Bill Aulet, managing director of the Martin
Trust Center for Entrepreneurship at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology,
is figuring out a way to help them do both.

"At many leading schools, 40% to 50% of students want to be entrepreneurs, and
the question is, 'How are we going to train them in rigorous ways?'" he says.
"So they wake up on Monday morning (after graduation) and know what to do."

For many schools, it's started with more courses, clubs and internships tailored
to entrepreneurs. The University of Washington, for example, will soon offer
neuro-entrepreneurship, a course focused on building businesses around the
brain. It also puts students in internships with angel investment groups and
gives them money to spend.

Five Ohio liberal arts colleges  used grants from the Ewing Marion Kauffman
Foundation to create entrepreneurship training and programs for non-business
students such as musicians, equestrians and biologists, says Wendy Torrance, a
director of entrepreneurship at the foundation. Many campuses  hold Start-up
Weekend events, mini TED (Technology Education Design) conferences and business
plan competitions.

But to help students turn  ideas into real start-ups after graduation, colleges
are tapping into their alumni networks and business connections.

MIT and Stanford University each created start-up accelerator programs in the
past two years meant to compete with  non-collegiate programs held by Y
Combinator in Silicon Valley and TechStars in cities around the country. At
MIT's Founders' Skills Accelerator, students  get a stipend, "real world"
support such as help finding a lawyer or developing a marketing strategy, along
with mentors. Each of the first 10 companies to complete the program raised
money from investors, Aulet says.

This summer, six international teams will join class two, helping to expose the
eight MIT teams to global markets and challenges. Aulet is calling the 14 teams
"Rhodes Scholars of Entrepreneurship."

A pioneer in campus accelerators was the University of Washington, with 20
student-led companies in the last three years, awarding each up to $25,000 in
grants.

"We want to help these students make the transition from student teams to
start-up companies, so they are doing everything an early-stage company does
here," says Connie Bourassa-Shaw, director of the Buerk Center for
Entrepreneurship at UW's Michael G. Foster School of Business. "They have to
meet milestones, and they've got to raise outside money."

The program is working. Each start-up has raised between $40,000 and $1.2
million, she says.

Duke has ramped up its connections with entrepreneur and investor alumni,  says
Howie Rhee, managing director of student and alumni affairs for the Duke
Innovation & Entrepreneurship Initiative. The Start-Up Challenge now includes
500 alumni as judges and mentors, and DukeGEN Angel Pitch events, such as this
week's  in San Francisco, are growing in influence and popularity.

Kulkarni and Vaduthalakuzhy have high hopes for the event. Jobbertunity isn't
yet ready for investors, but some common ground in Silicon Valley might help
raise awareness.

"It's going to be very, very important," Kulkarni says. "We're in the dating
phase. It's important to form relationships and get feedback for when we're
ready for the next steps."

Laura Baverman is a Raleigh, N.C.-based business journalist covering start-ups
and entrepreneurship for regional and national publications. She previously
covered entrepreneurship for the Cincinnati Enquirer, a Gannett newspaper.
Baverman can be reached via e-mail at lbaverman@gmail.com or Twitter
@laurabaverman.

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Jon Gardiner, Duke Photography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2013 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              198 of 205 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             August 16, 2013 Friday
                                 CHASE EDITION

Sports in brief

BYLINE: Compiled by John Tkach from staff, wires

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 2C

LENGTH: 720 words


U.S. Open stadium to have roof by 2017 tournament

U.S. Tennis Association officials said Thursday that Arthur Ashe Stadium -- the
U.S. Open's main stadium -- could be covered as soon as the 2016 tournament but
more likely the following year. The Ashe roof is part of a larger plan to
rebuild and expand other courts at the Billie Jean King National Tennis Center
in New York. No. 2 stadium Louis Armstrong also will be covered eventually.

Italian skipper says Cup champ Oracle cheated

Skipper Max Sirena of Italy's Luna Rossa became the latest America's Cup
competitor to accuse defending champion Oracle Team USA of cheating. Oracle last
week acknowledged it modified its boats without permission of the Measurement
Committee for four America's Cup World Series regattas that were warm-ups last
year to the 34th America's Cup. Oracle's admission prompted Grant Dalton, the
managing director of Emirates Team New Zealand, to tell the San Francisco
Chronicle on Tuesday he thought the American syndicate was cheating. An
international jury is investigating and can sanction Oracle, including a fine,
forfeiture of races or disqualification from the America's Cup.

Biles steals show in U.S. Gymnastics Championships

Simone Biles grabbed the early lead in the U.S. women's gymnastics championships
in Hartford. Biles, 16, put together an all-around score of 60.500 on Thursday
in the opening round, ahead of returning Olympic gold medalist Kyla Ross. Ross,
who helped the U.S. women win the team gold in London last summer, is second
after posting a total of 59.750. Brenna Dowell is third, followed by Peyton
Ernst and Maggie Nichols. McKayla Maroney, who won two medals in London, posted
the highest score on vault in her first major competition since having a series
of leg surgeries last fall. Maroney averaged 15.5 on her two vaults, edging
Biles by a tenth of a point.

North Carolina AD hints at Hairston's future

North Carolina athletics director Bubba Cunningham hinted Thursday that men's
basketball player P.J. Hairston will play in at least some of the Tar Heels'
games in the 2013-14 season. Hairston, the leading scorer for the Tar Heels last
season at 14.6 points a game, has been in the spotlight in the offseason for a
series of incidents and has been suspended indefinitely by coach Roy Williams.
The most recent incident came July 28 when Hairston was cited for speeding and
careless and reckless driving. The suspension was announced a few hours later.

Simpson earns silver in women's track 1,500 meters

Defending champion Jenny Simpson of the USA won the silver medal and high school
phenom Mary Cain finished 10th Thursday in the women's 1,500 meters in the world
track and field championships in Moscow. Abeba Aregawi of Sweden won in 4
minutes, 2.67 seconds. Simpson, who had led for most of the first three laps,
finished in 4:02.99. In the men's 400-meter hurdles, the USA's Michael Tinsley
finished second to Jehue Gordon of Trinidad and Tobago.

-- Fred Baer,

Special for USA TODAY Sports

NBA preseason features eight games overseas

The NBA released its 116-game preseason schedule, beginning Oct. 5 in Istanbul,
when the Oklahoma City Thunder will play the Turkish club Fenerbahce Ulke. The
2013-14 NBA Global Games preseason schedule includes eight NBA teams playing
eight games in eight cities. Besides Oklahoma City's game in Istanbul, there
will be contests in Beijing; Shanghai; Bilbao, Spain; Manchester, England;
Manila; Rio de Janeiro and Taiwan.

76ers owner Harris buys NHL's Devils

Josh Harris, owner of the NBA Philadelphia 76ers, is the new owner of the NHL
New Jersey Devils. The founder of one of the world's largest private equity
firms. Harris and his group paid $320 million to Jeff Vanderbeek for the rights
to the Devils and the lease to the Prudential Center in Newark. The deal was
announced Thursday after attorneys for the two sides took about 15 extra minutes
to sign off on the transfer of the financially strapped three-time Stanley Cup
champions. Harris, whose main partner is fellow equities investor David Blitzer,
needed roughly a week to close the deal after talks with Philadelphia attorney
Andrew Barroway fell through. The NHL's board of governors approved the deal
Wednesday. Vanderbeek will remain with the Devils as a senior adviser.

Compiled by John Tkach from staff, wires

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Eric Risberg, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2013 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved
