
                               3 of 272 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             June 18, 2015 Thursday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Climate change debate warms up;
Environmental groups ready to capitalize on pope's encyclical, while bishops
across U.S. must decide how aggressively they want to push the teachings

BYLINE: Gregg Zoroya, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 707 words


Press gaggles, ready-made sermons, tolling church bells, rallies, fasting,
vigils and even some gentle nudging of  Congress  are just some of the echoing
follow-throughs planned after the release of the pope's climate encyclical
Thursday.

"I invite everyone to accept with open hearts this document," Pope Francis told
tourists  gathered outside the Vatican on Wednesday. "Our 'house' is being
ruined, and that hurts everyone, especially the poorest among us."

But while a core number of American bishops, joined by Catholic environmental
and grass-roots groups, will ring in the unveiling with  enthusiasm, it remains
to be seen how  those leading the largest single church in the U.S. -- with
nearly 72 million Catholics -- will respond.

Two archbishops, including the president of the U.S. Conference of Catholic
Bishops, will offer reaction at a news conference in Washington on Thursday
morning. A handful of others will do the same across the country.

But the vast majority of America's 270 Catholic bishops will be left to decide
how aggressively to push teachings they received in secret Tuesday, said  Manuel
Dorantes, a Vatican spokesman.

"I think once they get the encyclical, they read it and they see what the Holy
Father said, there's going to be more bishops on board," he said.

According to a draft  leaked Monday,  Francis states global warming is mostly
due to human activity and  burning  fossil fuels.

Already active are the Jesuits, of whom Francis is the first to be elected pope.
More than a dozen Jesuit institutions across the country will hold prayer masses
in support of the encyclical.

uphill effort

Catholic Climate Covenant, an environment education and advocacy network, is
working with the conference to send out prepared sermons on the pope's climate
teachings to encourage delivering  such remarks Sunday, said Dan Misleh, Climate
Covenant executive director.

Other initiatives include encouraging bishop-led media events on local
climate-change impacts, sending parishes  summaries of the encyclical to slip
into church bulletins, designing and distributing interactive video programs and
urging the tolling of bells across the nation at noon June28 -- one of the first
Sundays after the encyclical's release.

Catholic environmental groups are pushing even harder, organizing congressional
district events, particularly for members of Congress who are Catholic, to hand
them copies of the document and "really ask them with a very prayerful and open
heart to read it," said Patrick Carolan of the Franciscan Action Network.

For many organizers in the U.S., it could be an uphill struggle: A significant
percentage of U.S. Catholics don't believe global warming is caused by human
activity. Half of Republican Catholics don't believe in global warming at all,
and of those who do, only 25% say it is caused by man, according to a recent Pew
Research Center survey.

Among Catholic Democrats, 80% believe global warming is real, with six out of 10
saying it is caused by man. Overall, nearly nine out of 10  Catholics view
Francis favorably, placing large numbers of U.S. Catholics at odds with their
feelings for the pontiff and his encyclical's conclusions.

building on momentum

U.S.  bishops appointed by Francis' more conservative predecessors, Pope
Benedict XVI and Pope John Paul II, constitute much of today's leadership.
They've focused on opposing abortion and same-sex marriage.

"I think you will see some bishops who will grab (the climate encyclical) and
run with it, be very supportive," said  Thomas Reese, a senior analyst at the
Catholic National Reporter. "Other bishops ... they  won't criticize it. They
just won't be out there pushing it as hard as other people."

Organizers hope to keep attention  on it through  September, when the pope
visits the White House, addresses a joint session of Congress and speaks to the
U.N. General Assembly.

"It is stunning," Misleh said. "I have not seen anything like this, and I have
worked in the Catholic Church all my life." He concedes some in the U.S.
Catholic leadership might be slow to push  it.

"They also have a lot of other concerns," Misleh said.  "So I think it's
unrealistic to expect them to drop everything they're doing and just focus on
the environment."

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Sean Gallup, Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2015 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              14 of 272 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 2, 2015 Wednesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Dissent dwindles on climate change

BYLINE: Kim Hjelmgaard

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 627 words


President Obama, Chinese leader Xi Jinping, Russian President Vladimir Putin and
Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan don't see eye to eye on a lot of things.
But they don't differ on this: Humankind is warming the planet, and we need to
do something about it.

As for climate scientists, it's not too much to say that virtually all of them
are on board with the idea that man-made fossil fuels caused by burning coal,
oil and gas are heating planet Earth.

It wasn't ever thus, this overwhelming feeling that those who would deny man's
influence on rising temperatures are simply wrong and not part of the
conversation, whether in the negotiating rooms at Le Bourget, where United
Nations climate talks are taking place through Dec. 11, or the wider debate
around the world.

In Copenhagen in 2009, the last time world leaders congregated on this scale --
150 of them were in Le Bourget on Monday, a record outside the U.N. Assembly in
New York -- to try to forge a global plan to limit greenhouse gas emissions, the
"deniers" were hardly a majority. They were on the margins. But they still
loomed large over the proceedings in a way that filtered down to how the event
was portrayed by the international news media, myself included.

I recall making the journalistic effort to inject  "balance" into the stories I
wrote by pointedly stating that there were individuals and groups that disputed
the human contribution to climate change. They were vastly outnumbered and
outgunned, but the dissent seemed to deserve some recognition in the interest of
journalistic balance.

About a month before the summit in Copenhagen, the Climate Research Unit email
controversy, or inevitably "Climategate," concentrated the minds of these
dissenters.

A cadre of deniers had hacked into a database belonging to Britain's University
of East Anglia and claimed to have uncovered evidence  showing that some
scientists made up data to prove global warming existed. That evidence never
fully materialized, but the alleged revelation cast a mini-shadow over those
talks, at least in the public imagination.

It's early days for the two-week conference  in Paris, but it seems obvious that
six years and a lot of hand-wringing later, climate change skepticism has been
further relegated to the shadows. The evidence, scientists agree, is that clear.

Unless, of course, you are one of the leading contenders for the Republican
Party's nomination to be the next president of the United States. "I consider it
to be not a big problem at all," front-runner Donald Trump has said. Ben Carson,
another top candidate, has said, "There is no overwhelming science that the
things that are going on are man-caused and not naturally caused."

Still, this time around, I have yet to notice the balancing qualifiers so
prevalent in the climate coverage of the past. Balance is not balance if it's
simply wrong. It's faux balance.

The global scientific community says human-fueled climate change exists. The
world's governments say it exists. The case seems clear, and decisive.

Although not to everyone. One group is showcasing its global warming doubting
wares in Le Bourget's exhibition halls. The Committee for a Constructive
Tomorrow, or CFACT, will debut this week in Paris a documentary called Climate
Hustle, billed (by CFACT) as the most important take on climate change since Al
Gore's An Inconvenient Truth in 2006. David Rothbard, the film's executive
producer, also the president of the organization, says in a news release that
the documentary "debunks the (global warming) scare and clears the way for a
return to sound science and rational debate."

In the face of near unanimity from scientists and world leaders, his is a lonely
crusade.

Hjelmgaard is a Berlin-based correspondent for USA TODAY.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo JIm Watson, AFP/Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2015 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              15 of 272 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            February 16, 2015 Monday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Reflecting sunlight offers no quick fix for feverish planet

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 453 words


Efforts to reduce emissions of climate-disrupting greenhouse gases are moving at
a pace that is, well, glacial. Human activity continues to spew tens of billions
of tons of carbon dioxide into the air every year. And even though a
bone-chilling cold snap has the eastern U.S. shivering this week, the globe as a
whole continues to warm at a scary pace.

So it's not surprising that some scientists, economists and politicians have
begun to discuss a Plan B.

Variously known as "solar geoengineering," "radiation management" or "albedo
modification," Plan B involves spraying particles into the atmosphere that would
reflect sunlight and cool the Earth's surface. Particle injection would be
cheaper than emissions reduction and, like a volcanic eruption such as Mount
Pinatubo in the Philippines in 1991, could produce relatively rapid results.

Voila! Problem solved.

Um, not so fast. As a National Academy of Sciences panel reported last week,
solar geoengineering is no substitute for efforts to reduce greenhouse gas
emissions and adapt to a changing climate. Here's why:

Squirting sulfate particles or other aerosols into the atmosphere doesn't
address the root cause of climate disruption, nor would it counteract ocean
acidification and other effects of elevated carbon dioxide levels. Once particle
injection began, it would have to go on for centuries, unless ways were
developed to remove large amounts of carbon dioxide from the atmosphere.

The risks posed by this global science experiment are poorly understood. Some
areas might get floods and others drought. Blue skies and starry nights would
probably be replaced by milky hazes and red sunsets.

Some sort of international body would need to oversee the injection program.
It's hard enough for a husband and wife to agree on the best bedroom
temperature. Imagine the nations of the world trying to set the planet's
thermostat.

"The nearly two years' worth of reading and animated discussions that went into
this study have convinced me more than ever that the idea of 'fixing' the
climate by hacking the Earth's reflection of sunlight is wildly, utterly,
howlingly barking mad," panel member Raymond Pierrehumbert, a University of
Chicago geophysicist, wrote in Slate.

The government-sponsored panel had a more favorable view toward another form of
"climate intervention" -- removing CO2 from the atmosphere. This approach is far
less problematic, but it's slow and uneconomical.

As for injecting particles into the atmosphere to cool the planet, the
scientists recommended more research to determine whether such ideas could be
viable someday. That's fine, as long as policymakers treat particle injection as
a last-ditch scheme that is less Plan B than it is Plan Z.

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Bullit Marquez, AP file photo

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2015 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              20 of 272 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             August 3, 2015 Monday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Obama to cut more carbon emissions;
Climate change effort will face opposition

BYLINE: David Jackson, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 345 words


The Obama administration is set to announce steeper-than-expected cuts in carbon
pollution from power plants, part of a stepped-up push to emphasize climate
change in the weeks ahead.

The new Clean Power Plan -- certain to be challenged in the courts and in the
Republican Congress -- will require power plants to reduce carbon emissions by
32% from 2005 levels between now and 2030.

That's a 9% increase from the rules as proposed a year ago, according to the
White House.

In a video announcing the revamped plan, Obama called it "the biggest, most
important step we've ever taken to combat climate change."

The revamped rules will be formally released Monday, Obama said.

The plan also calls for a faster transition to renewable energy sources by 2030.

Obama plans to sell this and other climate change plans in a series of
high-profile events over the next several months.

He plans to address a National Clean Energy Summit in Nevada and will become the
first president to visit the Arctic area of Alaska.

Climate change will also be a major topic when Obama meets with Pope Francis at
the White House in September.

Later this year, Obama aides and government officials from other countries will
negotiate the details of a global climate agreement.

Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., and other Republicans have said
that Obama's proposed emission cuts are unrealistic and will slow business
growth and job creation.

Members of the energy industry have  announced plans to sue over the new
emission cut rules, saying the administration lacks the legal authority to
impose them.

In his video, Obama said that climate change is causing hotter summers, rising
sea levels, longer wildfires and more destructive extreme weather events, and is
contributing to more asthma cases.

The administration has moved in previous years to limit greenhouse gas emission
for cars, trucks and heavy-duty vehicles.

Yet, Obama said in the White House video, "existing power plants can still dump
unlimited amounts of harmful carbon pollutants into the air we breathe."

Contributing: Jordan Joynt

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Luke Sharett, Bloomberg

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2015 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              21 of 272 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 1, 2015 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Investors share climate burden;
Clean-energy companies are still finding their footing

BYLINE: Matt Krantz, @mattkrantz, USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 473 words


The planet is heating up. World leaders are taking action. And  making money
from global warning  presents its own challenge.

The United Nations climate summit kicked off Sunday afternoon, putting a number
of companies developing technology to cool the planet in play Monday. But given
the lack of any form of global cooperation on this complex problem or major
technological breakthrough, so far the stocks have been a bust.

Shares of the 20 companies at the forefront of developing technology to address
climate change, developed by Motif Investing, were down an average of 0.7%
Monday despite the efforts  by Microsoft co-founder Bill Gates and President
Obama to address the problem. The PowerShares WilderHill Clean Energy
exchange-traded fund, which is targeted at companies that are working on clean
ways to produce energy, is up just 0.5% to $4.28.

The lack of a meaningful pop in shares of companies might come as a surprise to
investors who see climate change as an increasingly significant problem. Gates
as well as Obama, French President Fran¸ois Hollande and other global leaders
are pushing a plan to help funnel investment to drive down the cost of clean
energy at talks in Paris.

But for mainstream investors,  growth and profitability of many such companies
isn't there yet. A one-day political event doesn't change how sour investors
have gotten on the industry.

The Motif Investing Climate Change portfolio is down 6.7% over the past year and
1.4%  the past month. These climate-change-fighting stocks lagged the Standard &
Poor's 500's 0.7% rise for the  year and 0.1% increase the past month. More than
half of the stocks in the Climate Change portfolio are down this year.

Focusing on clean energy hasn't been much better. The PowerShares WilderHill
Clean Energy exchange-traded fund, which tracks clean-energy companies, is down
19% this year.

The problem stems from the lack of returns from these  companies despite the
massive investments required. Take SolarCity, which sells, installs and leases
solar panels on homes. Many investors figured this company was at the forefront
of the future and sent its  value to more than $7billion in early 2014, says S&P
Capital IQ. Despite the great story, including the involvement  of Tesla founder
Elon Musk, the company has lost money every year since 2012.

Meanwhile, its debt continues to pile up, soaring to more than $2billion as of
the end of the third quarter. That's roughly double the company's long-term debt
at the end of 2014. Shares of SolarCity have lost nearly half their value the
past year sending the company's value down to less than $3billion.

Perhaps the involvement of Gates and other business leaders and politicians can
make a difference.  Because lately, the high investments and low returns from
global-warming stocks have put investors portfolios on ice.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Alain Jocard, AFP/Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2015 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              23 of 272 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             June 18, 2015 Thursday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Pope's push on climate change is welcome

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 197 words


TWITTER

We asked followers what they thought about Pope Francis weighing in on climate
change.

The issue of climate change is of such importance that all support is needed.
Efforts by President Obama are also very good.

@ZCarlander

The left will use the pope as a metaphorical club in the climate debate, but the
real impact is a damaged, politicized papacy.

@ZanzibarBMcFate

It's not political. It's the future of our world. The politicians made it
political pandering to their campaign donors.

@Bigfoot695

Follow @USATOpinion or #tellusatoday for more.

LETTERS

In USA TODAY's article "With stroke of pen, pope could alter climate debate,"
Republican presidential candidate Rick Santorum says the pope should stay out of
the climate change debate. He says,  "We probably are better off leaving science
to the scientists" (News, Monday).

If that's the case, Santorum and other Republicans need to follow his  advice.
Scientists have spoken on the issue. The debate is really over.

Almost unanimously, climate scientists agree that climate change is occurring
and that man is a contributing factor.

Leaders would serve us better by addressing this issue rather than denying it.

Greg Sloan

Butler, Pa.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2015 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              27 of 272 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            June 17, 2015 Wednesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Pope's encyclical colors debate on our climate;
It's the right move for Catholic Church

BYLINE: Kirsten Powers

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 508 words


Pope Francis will release a  teaching letter -- known as an encyclical -- on
Thursday that's widely anticipated to be the first in the church's history to
focus on the environment.

A leaked version endorses the notion that human activity contributes to climate
change and that this menace disproportionately harms the poor.

Many U.S. conservatives are not pleased, believing that the Vatican is blindly
bending to elite opinion and stepping out of its lane.  Some conservative
Catholics have expressed concern to me that Pope Francis is pulling a "reverse
Galileo" by endorsing science that could turn out to be wrong, thus harming the
credibility of the Catholic Church.

Perhaps there should be more concern in the alternative. If the science is
correct, then how would the church's silence in obeisance to conservative
climate skepticism enhance its credibility? After all, the American Association
for the Advancement of Science announced in 2014 that the scientific consensus
that "climate change is happening, and human activity is the cause" is as
airtight as the "science linking smoking to lung and cardiovascular diseases."

The latter  link was not always accepted. In 1956,  the American Cancer
Society's Charles Cameron addressed skeptics: "Though the complicity of the
cigarette in the present prevalence of cancer of the lung has not been proved to
the satisfaction of everyone, yet the weight of evidence against it is so
serious as to demand of stewards of the public welfare that they make the
evidence known to all."

Even so, the ACS would not "propose to tell the public not to smoke." Cameron
noted, "If time should establish the innocence of tobacco, such a course will
prove less blameworthy than failure to suggest caution to smokers and potential
smokers of cigarettes."

Similarly, the potential error of the Vatican advocating for measures to combat
climate change based on scientific consensus is far less dangerous than the
error of disregarding it.  Moreover, advocating for the care of God's creation
fits squarely in the pontiff's bailiwick. Pope Benedict XVI was dubbed the
"green pope" for his rallying cries, and Pope John Paul II spoke powerfully of
"ecological responsibility."

Pope Francis is elevating the issue with the encyclical.  A recent Public
Religion Research Institute poll found an interesting division among U.S.
Catholics: White Catholics are twice as likely as Hispanic Catholics to say
climate change is not happening, whereas Hispanic Catholics are more likely than
white Catholics (61% to 39%) to say  scientists agree human activity is
responsible for increasing temperatures. Hispanic Catholics are also three times
more likely to believe they'll be personally impacted by climate change.

"Laudato Si (Be Praised), On the Care of Our Common Home," as the upcoming
encyclical reportedly is called, will likely be a unique, and welcome,
contribution to the environmental debate.

Kirsten Powers writes weekly for USA TODAY and is author of the upcoming The
Silencing: How the Left is Killing Free Speech.

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2015 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              36 of 272 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             April 24, 2015 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

USA needs to do its part to preserve the planet

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 416 words


On Earth Day, President Obama called on the nation to protect the planet for the
generations to come and address climate change now.

Advancing clean energy is a good goal for many reasons, including reducing air
pollution and transitioning away from oil that must eventually run dry. But the
alarmist notion that we must drastically cut carbon emissions right now is
overblown.

If the global warming scientists are correct, then it is probably already too
late to prevent significant warming. For the United States to make drastic
changes that would hurt our economy, while other countries continue their carbon
output unabated, is crazy. Work on the transition to clean energy, sure, but the
best approach to global warming is to prepare for warmer temperatures. Coastal
cities, and agriculture and water officials need to plan ahead.

David Swain

Fossil fuels aren't going anywhere anytime soon. So-called renewable energies
aren't going to cut it, not for now anyway. They do have drawbacks.

Richard Button

One of the fallacies that the deniers of climate change propagate is that
attacking climate change costs money, and that doing nothing has no cost.
Nothing is further from the truth.

Terry Mayer

If in 20 years, because of a long-term drought, we can't grow crops to feed
people in America, let alone the rest of the planet, deniers will look silly.

A vast majority of climate scientists say global warming is happening. It is
potentially the most serious crisis humans have faced. People say liberals are
exaggerating, but the skeptics should  simply take a look at what scientists
have concluded on the matter.

Joe Bezas

Climate change notwithstanding, we need to stop polluting the air we breathe,
water we drink and land we live on. There is no way populations can continue to
increase, with people not only consuming more than our planet produces but also
destroying it. It really does not matter whether global warming is true.
Destroying the planet we live on is insanity.

Bruce Mort

Twitter

We asked our followers

what they are doing to help

the environment.

TWITTER

@USATOPINION

I'm not flying on a jumbo jet,

burning thousands of gallons

of fuel, to a conference.

@KestrelArts

I'm doing what I do every

day: Maintain a golf course

with sound environmental

practices.

@EMorrisonCGCS

I'm participating in my city's

recycling efforts, and throwing

out old cellphones, a coffee

makerand other items.

@JeffOstach

I'm eating vegan, which is

the same thing I do every

day, to help animals and the

environment.

@HMOORE123

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: OPINION

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2015 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              43 of 272 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           January 22, 2015 Thursday
                                 FIRST EDITION

A natural fit: Al Gore, Pharrell and 'Live Earth';
Worldwide concerts will rally around climate change

BYLINE: Kim Hjelmgaard, USA TODAY

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 2D

LENGTH: 457 words


Pharrell Williams and Al Gore are working to stage the next Live Earth event, a
global set of concerts that will be broadcast to about 2 billion people this
year in an effort to build support for combating climate change.

Williams, a singer/songwriter/producer best known for his hit song Happy, will
serve as creative director of the event, which will feature more than 100
artists performing over 24 hours on June 18 at venues around the world.

"We literally are going to have humanity harmonize all at once," he said at
Wednesday's announcement at the World Economic Forum.

No details on venues or performers were released Wednesday, although BBC reports
that New York has been chosen as the U.S. city to host one of the concerts,
along with Paris and cities in Brazil, South Africa, China and Australia.
Producers are also working to broadcast the event to countries around the world.

A previous Live Earth event was held in 2007, with concerts on all seven
continents, Antarctica included. Artists such as Madonna, Kanye West and Keith
Urban performed, but Williams noted that the shows also included "pundits and
comedians who didn't understand global warming, and we were often ridiculed. We
wanted to do something very different this time."

The main U.S. venue in 2007 was Giants Stadium in East Rutherford, N.J. A small
"satellite" show featuring Garth Brooks and Trisha Yearwood was held on the
National Mall near the U.S. Capitol in Washington, D.C.

This year's Live Earth is an attempt to galvanize interest the topic of global
warming ahead of key climate change talks in Paris in December.

Former vice president Gore, who won a Nobel Peace Prize in 2007 for his work on
raising awarness of climate change, including his production of the documentary
An Inconvenient Truth, said it is "absolutely critical" that the world build
momentum going into United Nations-brokered negotiations in Paris.

On the sidelines of Wednesday's announcement, USA TODAY asked Gore what is
needed to sustain public interest in a topic that routinely flits in and out of
the news and still regularly divides many worldwide.

"Mother Nature has the most persuasive voice," he said. "Climate-related extreme
weather events have really changed thinking dramatically."

In a 30-minute presentation in which he reminded the audience that 2014 was the
hottest year on record, Gore showed a series of dramatic slides that linked many
of the world's extreme conflicts and trouble spots -- from Syria to China -- to
a warming planet whose infrastructure is being "radically changed."

"Man-made global warming pollution already in the planet's atmosphere traps as
much extra heat energy every day as would be released by 400,000 Hiroshima-class
atomic weapons," Gore said.

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Michel Euler, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2015 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              55 of 272 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             July 9, 2015 Thursday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Conversation starters

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 352 words


COPS FACE SKEPTICAL JURIES

In the eyes of the law, a cop's word is no better or worse than anyone else's.
But until recently, at least, officers who took the witness stand in uniform
typically enjoyed a presumption of rectitude. However, a seemingly unrelenting
barrage of video images depicting police at their worst has taken a toll on
uniformed officers' credibility, on the street and in the courtroom. Video
evidence rarely refutes an officer's testimony outright. But like the dog that
didn't bark, the absence of video evidence can fuel a jury's doubt.

That such pervasive suspicion has even the most diligent officers looking over
their shoulders is hardly surprising. Probably nothing can restore public
confidence in the police to the Pollyannish levels that once prevailed in some
privileged communities. But the video cameras that have so memorably exposed bad
cops at their worst can also vindicate the heroism and good judgment of those
who risk their lives every day on the public's behalf.

Brian Dickerson

"Detroit Free Press," columnist

THE ECONOMICS OF CLIMATE

Taking strong climate action is a multitrillion dollar opportunity for better
economic growth. Recent trends in the global economy are building momentum for
low-carbon growth and development. To meet the goals of raising living
standards, tackling poverty and reducing climate risk together, the scale and
speed of change must accelerate, spurred on by cooperation both internationally
and between the public and private sectors.

With the help of international partnerships, it is possible to generate better
economic growth while achieving nearly all of the emissions reductions needed in
the next 15 years to avoid dangerous climate change.

We are the first generation that can eradicate extreme poverty, and possibly the
last one that can turn the tide against climate change and secure sustainable
economic growth. Together, we can ensure a secure, prosperous and sustainable
future.

Felipe Calderón

Former president of Mexico

Chair of the Global Commission

on the Economy and Climate

Lord Nicholas Stern

British economist, commission co-chair

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2015 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              58 of 272 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 15, 2015 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Paris deal needs to be stronger to reach goals

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 425 words


FACEBOOK

Leaders from 195 countries agreed over the weekend to a climate deal intended to
slow the rise of greenhouse gases.

The Paris climate summit has simply kicked the can a few years down the road.

The "goal" of limiting warming to below 2 degrees Celsius was pure
grandstanding.  The developing world is not going to agree to any legally
binding caps, never mind reductions of their carbon emissions.

The "deal" is voluntary, which allows nations to set their own targets and
policies without international oversight.

John Cameron

America will comply with the deal and hobble its economy, while other nations
will improve their competitive global positions against us. Even if you examine
the climate change issue accurately and sniff out the alarmist hokum,  the fact
is, other countries simply won't comply without enforcement.

Bob West

The agreement addresses fossil fuels, but what about overpopulation that
pollutes the planet and drains  resources? Adding more people, especially in
Third World countries, only will increase our carbon footprint, drain our
resources and increase pollution.

Dan Schaal

The Paris deal is more like a "cross your heart" promise with no enforcement
mechanisms.

Richie Bamboo

TWITTER

We asked what followers thought about the Paris deal on climate change.

The Paris agreement is one big joke.  It has no enforcement behind it
whatsoever.

@SundevilSal

It may be a step toward reducing carbon emissions, but legally binding measures
are needed to achieve the temperature  goal.

@23degree_org

If politicians cared about the environment, they would hold video conferences
instead of flying there. Wake up, people!

@PatRob75

Follow @USATOpinion or #tellusatoday for more.

LETTERS

I am  saddened and fearful about the impact of climate change economically,
morally and environmentally on our country and our world. It is a moral
imperative for us to take positive action to alleviate its effects on all of us.
A global agreement in Paris is an important step toward reducing the risk of
catastrophic consequences.

Going forward, nations will need to revise their commitments to be far more
ambitious if we hope to avoid breaching the 2 degree Celsius threshold. To many
people, sea level rise or food shortages seem remote -- or so frightening --
that they see no solution except to hide their heads in the sand. It's very
important to combat both obliviousness and hopelessness regarding this issue.

I am a member of Citizens Climate Lobby, which is working to build political
will toward action on this issue.

Miriam Kirscht

Ypsilanti, Mich.

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2015 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              64 of 272 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 2, 2015 Wednesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

World needs climate agreement;
He seeks 'legally binding' targets to aid global economy

BYLINE: David Jackson, and Kim Hjelmgaard, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 298 words


President Obama expressed confidence Tuesday that the world's nations can soon
strike a global climate change agreement, including "legally binding" targets
designed to forge a "low-carbon global economy" in the century ahead.

"I'm convinced that we're going to get big things done here," Obama said during
a news conference that followed two days of climate talks in Paris.

The president also said he and Russian counterpart Vladimir Putin continue to be
at odds over Russian support for Syrian leader Bashar Assad, and last week's
shooting at a Planned Parenthood office in Colorado shows the need for sensible
gun laws.

Obama criticized some of the rhetoric surrounding Planned Parenthood and
abortion. Though there is a "legitimate, honest debate" about abortion in the
USA, Obama said, people should make sure "we're talking about it factually,
accurately, and not demonizing organizations like Planned Parenthood."

As Obama flew back to the USA on Tuesday, diplomats from about 180 countries
remained in Paris to try to hammer out a global agreement designed to address
the destructive impact of warming temperatures on the Earth's environment.

The trend of global warming "affects all trends," Obama said, making it "an
economic and security imperative" for every country.

Officials in large industrial countries have questioned the idea of a global
climate change agreement, saying it might hurt their economies. That group
includes China, India -- and the United States, where members of the Republican
majority in Congress have vowed to block a variety of Obama administration
climate change initiatives.

Obama said he is confident that Russia will realize that a successful campaign
against the Islamic State will require Assad's removal from power, which might
not happen for some time.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Christophe Ena, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2015 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              65 of 272 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 14, 2015 Monday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Landmark climate accord doesn't end in Paris

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 526 words


In today's fractious world, getting 195 nations to agree on anything, even
whether the sun rises in the east, isn't easy. So, in many ways, the climate
change deal that emerged from Paris over the weekend, a month after terrorist
attacks traumatized the city, represents a remarkable achievement on behalf of
humanity.

But the things that made the Paris agreement so broadly acceptable to so many
countries -- its voluntary nature, its lack of enforcement tools, and the many
"requests" and "urges" throughout the 31-page text -- are the same things that
threaten its effectiveness.

Previous U.N.-sponsored efforts to create legally binding cuts in greenhouse gas
emissions ended in failure. So the Paris accord takes a pledge-drive approach:
Each nation decides for itself how it plans to curb emissions, and by how much.
Every five years, countries will be expected to submit stronger pledges.

The pledges made so far aren't nearly enough to meet the Paris target of keeping
the planet "well below" 3.6 degrees Fahrenheit of warming. So the agreement is
less a solution than it is an effort to provide more structure and encouragement
to the effort to control man-made climate change.

In the best case scenario, the Paris accord will evolve like the competition
between countries, and increasingly across regions, to sign new free trade
agreements. Successive rounds of negotiations take on their own momentum and
lead to more and more progress.

In this scenario, countries will keep upping their pledges as new technologies
emerge and renewable energy becomes more competitive. China,  the world's top
carbon emitter, will drastically reduce its burning of coal, which is choking
its cities with smog. Peer pressure will prevent countries from cheating.
Working together, the worlds' nations will stave off catastrophic warming.

In the worst case scenario, countries will fail to meet their pledges, either by
cheating or by recalibrating what they can afford. They will renege on financial
commitments to help island countries survive rising sea levels. A glut of
low-cost fossil fuel energy will stifle widespread adoption of greener
technologies. Republicans in Washington will yank the U.S. out of the Paris
accord, giving other nations an excuse to bail as well. Barring a technological
miracle, global warming will continue unabated and wreak havoc on the planet.

Which, if either, scenario prevails is yet to be determined. But, if nothing
else, the Paris agreement -- hashed out during what's shaping up as the warmest
year since modern record-keeping began -- sends a strong signal that the time
for debating the basic science is past, and the time for mitigation and
adaptation has arrived.

As the agreement states, "Climate change represents an urgent and potentially
irreversible threat to human societies and the planet and thus requires the
widest possible cooperation by all countries." With so much at stake, the U.S.
participation in negotiating the Paris agreement is only a first step. Selling
the idea at home, and building consensus to follow through on America's
commitments, will be the true test of the Obama administration's climate legacy.


LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Christophe Petit-Tesson, epa

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2015 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              67 of 272 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             April 10, 2015 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Global warming didn't give Malia asthma;
Obama's smoking a more likely factor

BYLINE: James S. Robbins

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 474 words


President Obama blames global warming for his daughter's asthma. Today that's
politically useful spin, but the science says something different. If you're
looking for a culprit, it just might be Malia's dad.

In an interview Wednesday in support of a new White House climate change
awareness campaign, the president noted that his 16-year-old daughter had asthma
when she was 4. He said that as a father, when your child says she has trouble
breathing, "the fright you feel is terrible." Fortunately, doctors were able to
treat Malia's condition quickly.

The president connected his daughter's malady to global climate change. In a
discussion Tuesday, he said "all of our families are going to be vulnerable" to
global warming-induced health risks because "you can't cordon yourself off from
air or climate."

A White House fact sheet connected the dots, saying that asthma rates have more
than doubled in the past 30 years. "Climate change is putting these individuals
... at greater risk of landing in the hospital."

The good news is that there is less reason for alarm than the White House
suggests. The Environmental Protection Agency cautions that "outdoor air
pollution and pollen may also worsen chronic respiratory diseases, such as
asthma." Yet the EPA also reports that our air quality has improved; aggregate
emissions of common pollutants have decreased 62% between 1980 and 2013. It is
unlikely cleaner air is causing an increase in asthma.

Whether there is a link between asthma and global warming, Malia herself hasn't
really experienced much. The high school junior was born in 1998, when
temperatures spiked. By some measurements, the world hasn't warmed significantly
since then.

Which brings us back to her father and his Marlboros. The president, who quit
smoking years ago, has long  kept his tobacco use out of doors. That's a
common-sense tactic. But sometimes, science can show common sense has less sense
than you think.

Research funded by the National Institutes of Health has shown that smoking
outside doesn't totally protect children from secondhand smoke. Even when
smoking is done outside, nicotine in infants' hair is five times higher for
babies with outside smoking parents than non-smoking parents. Smoking-related
chemicals in infants' urine are seven times higher. Other studies have found
similar results.

According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, "tobacco smoke is
one of the most common asthma triggers." CDC warns, "If you have asthma, it's
important that you avoid exposure to secondhand smoke."

No father wants to feel that his habits might hurt his children. But sometimes
you have to look in the mirror to find the guilty party, not search the
stratosphere for a hidden culprit.

James S. Robbins writes weekly for USA TODAY and is the author of The Real
Custer: From Boy General to Tragic Hero.

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2015 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              68 of 272 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           August 19, 2015 Wednesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

EPA proposes huge methane limits;
Agency affirms its commitment to cutting pollution that contributes to climate
change by targeting oil, gas industry's emissions

BYLINE: Doyle Rice, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 345 words


The Environmental Protection Agency released proposed standards  Tuesday for
reducing methane and other pollutants from oil and gas operations in the USA.

The rules require extensive cutting of methane emissions, finding and repairing
leaks at oil and gas wells and capturing natural gas emitted from hydraulic
fracturing.

Methane --  25 times more powerful than carbon dioxide at trapping atmospheric
heat -- is a contributor to global warming.

The proposal also aims to reduce volatile organic compound  emissions, such as
benzene and xylene, that can lead to respiratory and cardiovascular ailments.

"Through our cost-effective proposed standards, we are underscoring our
commitment to reducing the pollution fueling climate change and protecting
public health while supporting responsible energy development, transparency and
accountability," EPA Administrator Gina McCarthy said in a statement.

The proposal is part of President Obama's Climate Action Plan to cut methane
emissions from the oil and gas sector by 40% to 45% from 2012 levels by 2025,
the EPA said.

The oil and gas industry is the USA's largest single source of methane in the
atmosphere, followed by livestock emissions and landfills, according to the EPA.
Overall, methane accounts for nearly 9% of  greenhouse gas emitted as a result
of human activity in the USA.

The EPA estimated the rule would cost the oil and gas industry $320 million to
$420 million in 2025, and reduced health care costs and other benefits would
total $460 million to $550 million, according to the Associated Press.

Environmental groups applauded the plan.

"Curbing the oil and gas industry's rampant methane pollution problem is the
next biggest thing the White House can do to fight climate change after
addressing carbon pollution from power plants,"  Meleah Geertsma, senior
attorney at the Natural Resources Defense Council, said in a statement.

The  House Committee on Natural Resources was less complimentary.

"The EPA's plan ...  flies in the face of technological reality," Chairman Rob
Bishop, R-Utah, said in a statement.

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2015 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              69 of 272 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           September 22, 2015 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Tense topics are on agenda for Xi and Obama as presidents meet;
Cyberattacks, climate, economy will be discussed

BYLINE: David Jackson, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 608 words


After what figures to be a pleasant meeting with Pope Francis this week,
President Obama will face more contentious conversations with a powerful global
rival: President Xi Jinping of China.

Hacking, cyber security, military ambitions in Asia and Chinese economic
troubles are among the tense topics on the agenda when Obama and Xi meet at the
White House on Thursday night and Friday.

Obama and aides are preparing to protest Chinese militarization of the South
China Sea and looking for increased cooperation on dealing with climate change.

Xi will visit the White House after months of allegations that the Chinese
launched hack attacks against the United States. That includes the theft of
personal information about millions of Americans via a hack of the Office of
Personnel Management.

"Things have certainly been tense the last few months," said Mira Rapp-Hooper, a
senior fellow with the Asian Pacific Security Program at the Center for a New
American Security. "It was a complex relationship before. In the last few
months, it has only gotten more so."

Obama has hinted at new sanctions on China over cyberattacks. At the same time,
officials are looking to strike a deal with China on mutual rules for cyber
security, including what Obama has described as an "international framework"
designed so the Internet does not become "weaponized."

In a recent speech to corporate executives, Obama said he will address
cyberattacks with his Chinese counterpart, including claims that the Chinese are
engaged in intellectual property theft.

"We are preparing a number of measures that will indicate to the Chinese that
this is not just a matter of us being mildly upset," Obama told the Business
Roundtable.

Cyber thefts "will put significant strains on the bilateral relationship," Obama
said, and the U.S. government is preparing "some countervailing actions in order
to get their attention."

This month in a meeting with troops at Fort Meade, Obama said of the Chinese and
cyber security, "We can choose to make this an area of competition -- which, I
guarantee you, we'll win if we have to -- or, alternatively, we can come to an
agreement in which we say, this isn't helping anybody; let's instead try to have
some basic rules of the road in terms of how we operate."

China has denied accusations of hack attacks and accused the United States of
spying on it.

China's relations with its neighbors -- particularly U.S. allies such as Japan
and South Korea -- will also be a topic of Obama-Xi meetings, which will begin
with a private dinner Thursday and continue in discussions Friday.

A major source of contention: a string of artificial islands that China has
forged in the South China Sea and stocked with military equipment and airstrips.
Other countries in the South China Sea, as well as the United States, see the
islands as military provocations.

"We have long encouraged China to find a constructive, diplomatic way to work
with other countries that have claims in the South China Sea to try to resolve
the differences of opinion there," White House spokesman Josh Earnest said.

Climate change may be a bright spot of this week's plans. U.S. officials are
looking for an addition to the climate change agreement the two nations reached
in November 2014.

China, where industrial pollution levels are major contributors to the warming
of the Earth, would be a key part of any global climate change agreement, the
subject of a major world conference later this year.

Also on the agenda: the Iran nuclear deal, Chinese demands to return fugitives
that escaped to the USA and a plunge in the Chinese stock market that depressed
American markets as well.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo AFP/Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2015 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              70 of 272 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           September 25, 2015 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

On climate, U.S., China share 'common vision';
Presidents could get pricklier on issues of cyber theft, military

BYLINE: David Jackson, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 597 words


President Obama hosted Chinese counterpart Xi Jinping for a private dinner
Thursday as they and their aides prepared for meetings designed to deal with
cyber security and a new agreement to cooperate on combating climate change.

Though Obama aides trumpeted a climate change deal to be announced Friday, Obama
and Xi are likely to have tense talks over allegations of cyber theft and a
Chinese military buildup in the South Chinese Sea.

The low-key dinner at Blair House, across the street from the White House,
preceded Xi's official state visit Friday. The presidents broke bread in the
shadow of rising tensions between the United States and China.

The Obama administration has accused China of cyber espionage against the U.S.
government and on private American companies. The United States has also
protested the Chinese military buildup in the South China Sea, calling it a
provocation toward U.S. allies such as Japan and South Korea.

In the agreement to be announced Friday, the United States and China will
outline a "common vision" for a global climate change agreement to be negotiated
at a conference in December in Paris.

The United States and China will pledge to expand domestic programs to reduce
heat-trapping carbon emissions, develop new and cleaner sources of energy and
find ways to finance these kinds of projects. China agreed to institute a system
that would essentially put specific costs on greenhouse gas emissions.

The deal builds on an agreement Obama and Xi reached the last time the American
president visited China, in late 2014.

The parties would like to reach an agreement on cyber security, but prospects
are uncertain.

"We have made clear to the Chinese both publicly and private that issues related
to cyber security -- and our concerns with China's conduct in cyberspace -- will
feature prominently on the agenda," White House spokesman Josh Earnest said.

U.S. officials have pointed at China in the theft of millions of personal
records -- from fingerprints to medical records -- that were hacked from the
Office of Personnel Management.

China has accused the United States of spying on it and interfering in internal
manners.

During a stop in Seattle this week, Xi said, "The Chinese government will not,
in whatever form, engage in commercial theft, hacking against government
networks, crimes that must be punished in accordance with the law and relevant
international treaties."

Earnest said, "We put more stock in their actions than their words."

The United States and its allies have protested the construction of islands in
the South China Sea that have been stocked with military bases. U.S.
surveillance of these sites has led to near-confrontations between American and
Chinese aircraft.

Obama and Xi are likely to discuss follow-ups to the Iran nuclear agreement, as
well as ways to confront North Korea's nuclear weapons program.

The dinner at Blair House was designed to provide a low-key opening for Xi's
visit, which followed Obama's high-profile meeting with Pope Francis.

In addition to bilateral meetings, Obama and Xi will conduct a brief news
conference. Xi will be guest of honor at a formal state dinner in the White
House on Friday.

The Chinese president will receive a White House welcome ceremony, though it
will probably draw a smaller crowd than the 11,000-plus who watched Francis roll
up to the presidential residence.

Unlike the event for the pope, who controls no armed forces, Obama and Xi will
conduct a military review during the welcome ceremony, including a 21-gun
salute.

"So there you go," Earnest said. "Pop your popcorn."

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Manuel Balce Ceneta, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2015 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              81 of 272 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              June 2, 2015 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Inaction is too costly

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 124 words


LETTERS

Commentary writer Michael Shank in "Extreme weather messes with Texas" rightly
associates extreme weather events and climate change.

Scientists are telling us that climate change is leading to unusually strong
rain and snow events, Arctic and Antarctic melting, and changes in weather
patterns.

In Texas and elsewhere, the fossil fuel industry is seeking to continue tax
breaks and subsidies for itself while discouraging investments in renewable
energy. As the weather events in Texas and around the world in recent months
have shown, we should more rapidly phase out fossil fuels and phase in solar,
wind and other clean energy.

The alternative of ever-increasing violent weather events is too costly for
humanity.

Michael Paparian

Sacramento


LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Rex C. Curry, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2015 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              82 of 272 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           February 4, 2015 Wednesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Embrace a clean- energy vision

BYLINE: Michael Brune

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 380 words


The Obama administration's recent announcements on oil and gas drilling are an
illogical mix of good news and bad. This contradiction is the inevitable result
of an "all of the above" energy policy that aims for compromise but fails the
basic test of right vs. wrong.

President Obama clearly understands at least one reason why drilling in the
Arctic National Wildlife Refuge and the Arctic Ocean is wrong, and he deserves
kudos for standing up to those who would sacrifice America's greatest wilderness
for oil profits. These unique environments are impossible to develop safely. It
is not a question of whether a disaster would happen, but when.

This much we  know: The consequences would be catastrophic and long lasting.
More than a quarter-century after the Exxon Valdez disaster, Prince William
Sound has still not recovered.

The president's energy policies also fail to acknowledge another inescapable
reality. As a study published last month in the journal Nature shows, we cannot
avoid catastrophic climate change unless we leave untouched at least a third of
oil reserves, half of gas reserves and more than 80%  of current coal reserves.
In light of that fact, risking the destruction of our public lands and
coastlines to find and extract more fossil fuel reserves becomes even more
foolish and irresponsible.

The good news is that we have a better path. Clean energy is already beginning
to replace fossil fuels, revitalize American industry and save Americans money.
But we will not truly be on the path to addressing climate change until we have
a  policy of developing  clean energy sources while reducing -- not escalating
--  fossil fuels. By 2030, we could cut oil for transportation by 50%. We could
also get virtually all of our electricity without burning  coal or gas.

The benefits would go  beyond saving our climate. We'd save thousands of
American lives cut short by pollution, while  protecting our oceans and our
precious wild places.

It is time to put "drill today and worry about tomorrow later" behind us for
good. By embracing a 100%  clean-energy vision, we can create a prosperous
society that  gets all of its power from sources that are safe, secure and
sustainable. Why should we settle for less?

Michael Brune is executive director of the Sierra Club.

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2015 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              99 of 272 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           September 3, 2015 Thursday
                                 FIRST EDITION

China sides with U.S. for peace;
70th anniversary of victory over fascism recalls united battle

BYLINE: Cui Tiankai

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 742 words


A huge black-and-white photograph in the central hall of the Chinese Embassy in
Washington draws visitors' attention. In the photo, taken during World War II, a
young American soldier and a Chinese boy are crouching in the trenches while
holding two pigeons in their hands. Above the photo are these words: For Justice
and Peace.

The photo touches our hearts because it is a testament to the history created by
Chinese and American people together. In history's deadliest war, people of
different nations united to defeat the fascist forces with immeasurable cost of
life and property. While hatred faded away, we should not forget that peace and
justice are never free.

Beijing hosted an event Thursday to commemorate the victory over fascism. It
aims not only to remember those who sacrificed everything, but also to celebrate
the triumph of good over evil, honoring China, the U.S. and all peace-loving
countries. We will never forget that China and the U.S. were allies fighting
side by side, and we'll be forever grateful for the U.S. contributions in
supporting China's resistance against Japanese aggression. American friends,
including veterans of the famous Flying Tigers, were invited to the event.

International order

The victory of 1945 laid the foundation for today's international order. The
charter of the United Nations, born in the ruins of World War II, raised a
series of important principles governing  international relations, such as
sovereign equality, collective security, international cooperation and common
development. These shared values will never be outdated. They still play a
central role in maintaining international order. Since World War II, despite the
Cold War and some regional conflicts, the trend toward peace and development has
remained strong, with the U.N. and many other international mechanisms playing
greater roles in world affairs.

Now the world is undergoing profound change. Globalization has deepened ties
between countries. A number of developing countries, including China, are
offering more public goods to the international community with growing
capabilities. Meanwhile, the international community is faced with many
challenges -- such as terrorism, climate change, financial risks, extreme
poverty and natural disaster -- that require better coordination. While the
frameworks of current international order should remain stable, it is important
to adapt to the changing situation. Gradual reforms and adjustments should be
introduced through inclusive consultations.

No irrational challenges

However, change often brings anxiety. Some people are suspicious that China is
trying to challenge current international order and U.S. global leadership. They
believe that such attempts will inevitably lead to conflict, or even war. Yet
the simple fact is that China has achieved remarkable growth by committing to
the peaceful development path, carrying out reform and opening up. China
benefits from the current international order and has been the guardian of such
order. Being an irrational challenger does not serve its interests. The Asian
Infrastructure Investment Bank is one of the efforts made by China to complement
the World Bank and other regional development banks, not to challenge them. We
welcome U.S. participation.

Differences between China and the U.S. have neither undermined our shared
international responsibilities nor hindered our cooperation in various areas. We
should look beyond our differences, stay committed to the core values and the
major framework of the post-war international order, and steadfastly reject
behaviors that challenge them. China and the U.S. should also leverage our
respective advantages to explore new measures to enhance cooperation in global
governance. So far, we have tremendous achievements, such as tackling climate
change and the Ebola epidemic. Later this month, President Xi Jinping will pay a
state visit to the United States, during which President Obama and President Xi
will have the opportunity to share their visions on the international order.

The young American soldier in the photo may never know that his friendship with
a little boy in a remote Chinese village can transcend time and distance. Just
like we did 70 years ago, China and the U.S., together with other members of the
international community, should and will continue to maintain and improve the
international order.

Cui Tiankai is China's ambassador to the United States.

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Embassy of China

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2015 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              108 of 272 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             April 13, 2015 Monday
                                 FIRST EDITION

China is in Paulson's sights;
Ex-Treasury chief sees 'reckoning' for that country

BYLINE: Susan Page, @susanpage, USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 1197 words


Hank Paulson, scanning the horizon, sees a day of financial "reckoning"
approaching. But for China, not the United States.

The former Treasury secretary, who was at the helm of U.S. economic policy when
the most serious financial crisis since the Great Depression broke, says changes
in American banking and government regulation since then have created a more
stable system that has stronger ways to respond to the ups-and-downs of a market
economy.

But in a new book, he warns, "It's not a question of if, but when, China's
financial system, particularly the trust companies, will face a reckoning and
have to contend with a wave of credit losses and debt restructurings" -- though
he also expresses confidence Beijing has the tools to manage that and avoid the
sort of far-reaching crisis that hit the United States in 2008.

"It is important that China stop its over-reliance on municipal debt to finance
infrastructure," he said in an interview. "I take comfort in the fact that
China's leaders understand this."

Henry M. Paulson Jr. has been watching China's emerging economy up close for a
quarter-century. While at Goldman Sachs, he negotiated early deals with China --
including the biggest private equity investment the firm had ever made,
$2.6billion  in the Industrial and Commercial Bank of China. While heading the
Treasury Department during the George W. Bush administration, he helped create
the Strategic Economic Dialogue to foster regular, high-level consultations
between the two nations.

In Dealing With China: An Insider Unmasks the New Economic Superpower, published
Tuesday by Twelve Books, Paulson argues that the United States needs a more
clear-eyed, coordinated and consistent approach toward the formidable challenge
from China. In an interview, he says that should include a more welcoming stance
than the Obama administration has taken so far toward the new Chinese-led Asian
Infrastructure Investment Bank.

But the question he gets most often is whether the financial meltdown in the
United States seven years ago, which has had consequences that continue to
ripple through many Americans' lives, could happen again here.

"Of course it could," he responds, sitting at a  table in the  home he and his
wife, Wendy, built four decades ago. It is tucked amid white oak trees in the
neighborhood where he grew up, abutting a Cook County forest preserve where they
can indulge their passion for bird-watching. "But I don't see anything the
magnitude we dealt with happening in the U.S. anytime soon. We have already
taken some very, very significant steps. Our banks are much better capitalized.
They're much better managed. We have better regulation. We have better risk
control.

"We still have plenty of problems we need to correct, and there are plenty of
risks in the global economy. Financial crises happen every eight, 10, 12 years.
But the key question Americans should be asking themselves, do we have the tools
necessary to make sure we don't have the sort of crisis we had or it spills over
into our economy?"

Do we?

"I believe we've got the necessary tools," he replies, "and I don't see those
sort of excesses building up any time soon."

BOBOLINKS RETURN

Binoculars hang around Hank Paulson's neck, and Wendy Paulson totes a tripod
with binoculars  as they tromp across a muddy field. In recent days, they've
spied Sandhill cranes, yellow-shafted flickers and a yellow-bellied sapsucker,
which has left tell-tell holes drilled in a tree. Bobolinks, grasshopper
sparrows and Henslow's sparrows have returned to this land, where controlled
burning has helped restore it to its native state.

At the moment, though, there only seem to be hordes of blackbirds, cawing
overhead.

They have gone birding all over the world. Her binoculars are dented from a fall
in Belize. Their favorite sighting happened just last year, in China's eastern
Jiangsu province, when they went in search of an iconic shorebird on the verge
of extinction.

"There were sheets of rain," he recalls. The wetlands muck was so deep that
Wendy's boots were sucked off her feet. "We were freezing. I could hardly feel
the binoculars with my fingers. Just when we thought we weren't going to see it,
suddenly my wife Wendy spotted it and we got it in the scope and we saw the
spoon-billed sandpiper."

The spoon-billed sandpaper: Paulson grins at the memory.

Now 69, he has a distinctive raspy voice, balding pate and earnest manner that
became familiar on TV news shows when the Bush administration was scrambling to
prevent a financial crisis from sparking a depression.

His schedule has slowed since those frantic days, but he's not really the
retiring sort. In 2013, he helped launch Risky Business, an initiative with
former New York City mayor Michael Bloomberg and billionaire activist Tom Steyer
that focuses on the economic costs of climate change. (He calls climate change
the biggest single risk to the global economy.)

He also founded the Paulson Institute at the University of Chicago, which aims
to promote economic ties and environmental cooperation between the United States
and China.

China has long been a draw. He has visited it more than 100 times, first as a
business executive interested in making deals and then as a government official
trying to shape policy. He first met the current Chinese president, Xi Jingping,
when he was a provincial official, greeting a visiting American businessman.

"Virtually every significant global problem, whether you're talking about how do
you sustain global growth or protect the environment, to minimizing the threat
of terrorism or the threat of nuclear proliferation, all of these become easier
if you're working in a complementary way with China and much more difficult if
you're working (at) cross-purposes with them. . . .

"The stakes are very big, and they're big on the upside and the downside."

'A NEW CHINA'

For the United States, relations with China have been shadowed by domestic
politics and overshadowed by recent international crises with ISIS, Iran, Iraq
and Syria.

That worries Paulson. He faults the Obama administration for not designating
"one go-to person" to speak for the president and coordinate policy with China,
and he thinks it was a misstep when the U.S. urged European allies to rebuff
Beijing's invitation to join a new Chinese-led international investment bank,
called AIIB.

Germany, France, Italy, England and others joined anyway last month.

Instead, he says, the United States should have told China, "We want to work
with you and give you ideas and advocate" for international standards, perhaps
joining the bank as an observer rather than a member.

China is not the biggest threat to the preeminence of the United States in the
global economy, he says. More perilous is the failure of America's political
system to address seriously the nation's most pressing economic problems, among
them a growing national debt and increasing income inequality.

"The United States' fate is in our own hands," he says, banging the table with
the flat of his hand. "The biggest risk is not China, but the biggest risk is
that our own political system won't do the things that we need to have it do in
order for us to remain strong."

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: graphic Anne Ryan, USA TODAY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2015 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              111 of 272 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              May 5, 2015 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

We're open and accountable

BYLINE: Dymphna van der Lans, and Walker Morris

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 361 words


We belong to a group of Clinton Foundation initiative heads who have extensive
backgrounds in global development, the corporate world and philanthropy. We were
drawn to the foundation for the same reasons as our more than 300,000 supporters
around the world --  its unique philanthropic model and its organizationwide
focus on efficiency, innovation and impact.

Recently,  questions have been raised about the foundation, but in our long and
diverse careers, we have encountered very few, if any, large non-profits that
match it in transparency and accountability.

Any global charity whose mission is to improve lives quickly and efficiently
will sometimes make mistakes. When they do happen, the Clinton Foundation is
committed to correcting them.

All charities need support to scale and sustain their programs, and the
foundation is no different. But unlike most charities, the foundation
voluntarily discloses contributors' names.

The truth is, when people support the Clinton Foundation, they  want something
in return: They want to see lives improved; they want to see communities,
businesses and governments working together to address problems that we all face
and collectively have the know-how and resources to fix.

For example, support from the Dutch government has allowed us to train more than
85,000 smallholder farmers in sustainable  techniques so  they can  improve
their food security, increase their incomes and combat climate change. Funding
from Australia and Germany makes it possible to work with local communities to
restore degraded land in ways that are  environmentally and economically
beneficial.

This week, President Clinton will visit with some of the smallholder farmers
we're helping in Tanzania, as well as our government partners in Kenya with whom
we are working to develop better land management systems.

We will always look for new, better ways to help  people, and we will never shy
away from challenges. That is what the Clinton Foundation does every day, and
that is why we are proud to work here.

Dymphna van der Lans and Walker Morris are the CEOs of the Clinton Climate
Initiative and the Clinton Development Initiative, respectively.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2015 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              113 of 272 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             July 23, 2015 Thursday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Conversation starters

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 335 words


ADA, 25 years later

Sunday marks the 25th anniversary of the Americans with Disabilities Act. When
President George H.W. Bush signed the ADA into law, he referred to it as "the
world's first comprehensive declaration of equality for people with
disabilities." But the United States has fallen behind other nations when it
comes to how we treat people with disabilities.

Occupational segregation is a major barrier. Employers and people with
disabilities interact too rarely. Some employers end up hiring people with
disabilities as token gestures, rather than recognizing them for their skills
and potential. Because workers with disabilities are often isolated, the
negative attitudes and stereotypes are rarely challenged.

People with disabilities also need improved access to higher education and to
appropriately tailored, up-to-date occupational training programs to break out
of low-wage job ghettos. Such programs could open the doors to higher-paying
careers in, for example, science and technology.

Training can also help disabled job applicants overcome negative stereotypes
among potential employers.

David Pettinicchio

Assistant professor

University of Toronto

Papal climate message

Missing from the climate change conversation has been a recognition of shared
values that should motivate us to address it. Love for our children and future
generations who could inherit a world more unpredictable and dangerous than
anything we have experienced. Compassion for the poor who stand to lose
everything in the face of environmental degradation. Love of creation itself,
from the iconic polar bears to the dwindling rivers in my home state of New
Mexico.

A world this precious should be cared for with the best tools we have available,
including faith and science. The same science that allowed me to access and read
Pope Francis' encyclical  instantly has allowed us to learn that climate change
is a real problem with real solutions that can benefit us all.

Bill Richardson

Former ambassador to

The United Nations

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2015 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              146 of 272 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            January 30, 2015 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Senate passes Keystone despite threat of veto;
White House wants more time to review oil pipeline

BYLINE: Paul Singer, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 389 words


The Senate voted Thursday to build the controversial Keystone XL pipeline,
despite a long-standing veto threat from the White House.

After three weeks of debate on 41 amendments, the Senate voted 62-36 to pass a
bill approving the north-south pipeline for Canadian oil that Republicans say
will create thousands of U.S. jobs. The tally was short of the 67 votes the
Senate would need to override a presidential veto.

Nine Democrats joined a unanimous Republican caucus to support the bill: Sens.
Michael Bennet of Colorado, Tom Carper of Delaware, Bob Casey of Pennsylvania,
Joe Donnelly of Indiana, Heidi Heitkamp of North Dakota, Joe Manchin of West
Virginia, Claire McCaskill of Missouri, Jon Tester of Montana and Mark Warner of
Virginia.

Thursday morning, Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., urged his
colleagues to pass the measure. "Constructing Keystone would pump billions into
our economy. It would support thousands of good American jobs," he said. "And as
the president's own State Department has indicated, it would do this with
minimal environmental impact."

House Speaker John Boehner, R-Ohio, said, "After dropping his scheme to tax
middle-class college savings, we hope President Obama will now drop his threat
to veto this common-sense bill that would strengthen our energy security and
create thousands and thousands of new, good-paying American jobs."

The bill essentially would close the environmental review process at the State
Department. The White House has opposed various versions of the bill because
Obama said the review should be allowed to play out. "That is a process that
long predates this administration," White House spokesman Eric Schultz said
Wednesday. "So we are opposed to any legislative maneuver that would circumvent
that process."

Democrats have objected to the Keystone bill in part because of arguments that
it would increase the use of Canadian oil sands, which environmental groups say
would increase carbon emissions and speed climate change.

Sen. Tom Udall, D-N.M., told senators Thursday they should instead adopt
standards for energy companies to use renewable fuels in generating electricity.
Udall argued that the Keystone pipeline would produce a short-term burst of
construction jobs, but once it is built, "the permanent jobs are in the range of
50."

Contributing: Erin Kelly

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Jose Luis Magana, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2015 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              147 of 272 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          February 25, 2015 Wednesday
                                CA CHASE EDITION

Obama vetoes Keystone Pipeline measure;
Congressional override unlikely

BYLINE: Gregory Korte, @gregorykorte, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 318 words


President Obama vetoed a bill Tuesday that would have approved the Keystone XL
pipeline, making good on a threat to reject a proposal embraced by Republicans
as a jobs measure but opposed by environmentalists as contributing to climate
change.

"The presidential power to veto legislation is one I take seriously," Obama
said. "But I also take seriously my responsibility to the American people. And
because this act of Congress conflicts with established executive branch
procedures and cuts short thorough consideration of issues that could bear on
our national interest -- including our security, safety and environment -- it
has earned my veto."

It was only the third veto of his presidency, but likely not the last as he
parries a Republican-controlled Congress in the final two years of his
presidency.

The White House has  issued 13 formal veto threats so far this year -- the most
ever at this point in a new Congress since President Reagan first started
issuing written veto threats in 1985.

Obama vetoed the Keystone bill shortly after it arrived at the White House from
the Senate, where  Majority Leader Mitch McConnell had held up its transmittal
so that Congress could be in session when it went to the president. An override
of the Keystone veto is unlikely. The bill passed the House 270-152 and the
Senate 62-36, margins well short of the two-thirds majorities needed to
override. McConnell said a veto override vote will be scheduled by March 3.

The 1,179-mile pipeline would connect tar sands crude oil in Alberta Canada with
an existing pipeline in Nebraska, allowing  TransCanada to pump 830,000 barrels
a day to refineries in the Midwest and the Gulf Coast.

Obama's veto doesn't mean the end of the Keystone debate. He could still approve
the project on his own authority. In the meantime, the State Department
continues to review the proposal to determine whether it's in the national
interest.

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2015 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              149 of 272 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            March 25, 2015 Wednesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Pollution fight comes before the high court;
Clean air rules are at issue in key case

BYLINE: Richard Wolf, @richardjwolf, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 365 words


Clean air rules that could save thousands of lives but cost billions of dollars
will be considered by the Supreme Court today in a case that portends future
battles over climate change.

The challenge to the  government's crackdown on mercury and other airborne
pollutants is the latest in a series of environmental cases to reach the court.
Its conservative majority has tread lightly on President Obama's initiatives,
but a bigger showdown over ozone regulations could be yet to come.

The case focuses on regulations 25 years in the making against mercury and air
toxics from coal- and oil-fired power plants. The Environmental Protection
Agency says those rules will prevent premature deaths and illnesses from asthma,
cancer and heart disease. Opponents say the benefits are overstated and the
costs understated.

What the high court must decide is whether the EPA followed the letter of the
law -- in this case, the Clean Air Act, which directed the agency to regulate
electric utilities if it was deemed "appropriate and necessary." Opponents say
the word "appropriate" required cost estimates.

The two sides are billions of dollars apart, particularly on the potential
benefits of emissions limits. Opponents say they're worth no more than $6
million annually. Advocates count $37billion to $90 billion in lives saved and
illnesses avoided.

"This is one of the most significant environmental rules in our history," says
Richard Revesz, director of the Institute for Policy Integrity at NYU School of
Law.

Among the potential winners if the EPA rules are upheld are pregnant women and
their fetuses, whose brain development can be harmed by overexposure to mercury.
Environmental groups say 4,200 to 11,000 lives could be saved annually.

Losers would include coal plants, many of which are clustered in the Midwest,
that have not improved their technology to reduce toxic emissions. Some would be
forced to close, which would reduce generating capacity and raise the cost of
electricity.

If the high court overturns the regulations, says Richard Faulk, a lawyer who
represents companies in environmental cases, "we're going to see EPA's expansive
and overreaching regulatory activities curtailed."

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Mark Wilson, Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2015 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              154 of 272 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              June 9, 2015 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Leaders to target economy, climate change, terrorism, Ukraine conflict

BYLINE: Kim Hjelmgaard, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 247 words


Leaders of the world's seven major industrial democracies wrapped up a two-day
summit Monday, pledging to take  action on global problems ranging from climate
change and economic  volatility to terrorism and the conflict in Ukraine.

German Chancellor Angela Merkel, the host of the Group of Seven meeting, said at
a wrap-up news conference that the G-7 called for an end to the use of fossil
fuels by the end of the century.

Merkel said the leaders also urged Greece to remain part of the European Union
and find ways to meet budget constraints required for new loans. And they
reiterated a call for continued economic sanctions against Russia until a cease
fire between Ukraine and Russian-backed separatists is fully honored.

The seven leaders -- representing the U.K., Canada, France, Germany, Italy,
Japan and the United States -- met at a resort in the Bavarian mountains.
Russia, which normally attends the annual meeting, was barred because of its
annexation of Ukraine's Crimean Peninsula last year and backing of the
separatists fighting in eastern Ukraine near the Russian border. The group also
refused to meet with Russian President Vladimir Putin last year, when the summit
was to take place in Sochi, Russia, because of the Ukraine conflict.

Leaders also were united in their call for Russian sanctions to remain in place.

On  the Islamic State's expansion in Iraq and Syria, President Obama vowed "to
get more Iraqi security forces trained, fresh, well-equipped and focused."

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Michael Kappeler, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2015 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              163 of 272 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           November 24, 2015 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

STATE-BY-STATE;
News from across the USA

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 2012 words


Alabama Montgomery: The artist who put his bronze sculpture of Rosa Parks in the
Rosa Parks Museum 15 years ago has given the piece a makeover.  The statue
received the most wear around her hands, sculptor Erik Blome told The Montgomery
Advertiser.

Alaska Juneau: The stars of the reality TV show Alaska Bush People admitted in
Superior Court to lying about their state residency, the Empire reported.

Arizona Flagstaff: The Daily Sun is soliciting nominations for its Citizen of
the Year, a person or group that made the city a better place.

Arkansas Springdale: Family members of the late trucking and transportation
entrepreneur J.B. Hunt plan to donate $5million to help build an Arkansas Game
and Fish Commission nature and education center here, the Arkansas
Democrat-Gazette reported.

California Elk Grove: A jury exonerated police officer Paul Beckham who shot
John Hesselbein, who was lying on the back seat of a police cruiser with his
hands handcuffed behind his back, The Sacramento Bee reported. Beckham testified
that Hesselbein was trying to reach into his rear waistband, and Beckham was
afraid Hesselbein was trying to retrieve a weapon.

Colorado Cortez: A man who held a community drawing for a rifle to benefit the
Mancos High School football team last month is facing criticism from people who
say he might be violating raffle and gun registration laws. In Colorado, only
registered non-profit organizations that have been in existence for at least
five years are eligible to apply for a raffle license, the Cortez Journal
reported.

Connecticut Wallingford: Police found about 250 marijuana plants in a local
garage after receiving reports of a break-in.

Delaware Dover:  Delaware is among the 10 states best prepared for climate
change, The (Wilmington) News Journal reported in looking at the results of a
national study. The States at Risk report praised Delaware's efforts to plan for
climate risks, especially coastal flooding.

District of Columbia: Schools in several states canceled or postponed trips to
the nation's capital after a video distributed by social media accounts
associated with the Islamic State threatened attacks on the city, The Washington
Post reported.

Florida Indian Harbour Beach: Florida Department of Transportation engineers
have proposed that City Hall consider a pair of roundabouts as a solution to
remedy Eau Gallie Boulevard beachside traffic-safety woes, Florida Today
reported.

Georgia Savannah: Three local boaters were rescued during  a fishing trip.  No
injuries were reported.

Hawaii Honolulu: A parasite affecting a portion of the feral cat population is
responsible for the death of a monk seal, Hawaii News Now reported.

Idaho Ketchum: Local leaders  say they're interested in having the U.S. Postal
Service deliver mail to homes and businesses rather than residents continuing to
pick up mail at the post office. The Idaho Mountain Express reported  that the
City Council  voiced support for looking into the possible change.

Illinois Chicago: A program will use Twitter to  reunite lost dogs with their
owners, the Chicago Tribune reported.

Indiana Indianapolis: IndyCar's Graham Rahal and Funny Car driver Courtney Force
became one of the speediest couples in the world after tying the knot Sunday in
a beachfront ceremony in Santa Barbara, The Indianapolis Star reported.

Iowa Des Moines: A Dec.3 forum for Republican presidential candidates sponsored
by the Iowa Brown & Black Presidential Forum has been canceled because of
"unresolved scheduling conflicts," according to a news release. A similar forum
by the Iowa Democratic Party is still scheduled on Jan. 11, The Register
reported.

Kansas Burlington: Kansas is spending about $20million to remove sediment from
the reservoir that serves as the primary water source for a  nuclear power plant
and several communities, The Wichita Eagle reported.

Kentucky Louisville: More than 1,700 people gathered Saturday for a daylong
celebration to mark the 10th anniversary of the Muhammad Ali Center, The
Courier-Journal reported.

Louisiana New Orleans: Sea otters Mollie and Clara joined longtime resident Emma
at the Audubon Aquarium of the Americas, The Times-Picayune reported.

Maine Augusta: The Maine Charter Commission  approved two more charter schools -
Acadia Academy, which plans to serve 112 students from preschool to second grade
in the Lewiston-Auburn area, and Snow Pond Arts Academy, which plans to start
serving as many as 124 students from the Central Maine area.

Maryland Baltimore: Mayor Stephanie Rawlings-Blake renamed the 2200 block of
Kirk Avenue after 27-year-old Craig Chandler, a six-year veteran of the police
force, who died Jan.9 from injuries suffered in a November 2014 on-duty car
crash, The Baltimore Sun reported.

Massachusetts Boston:  Customers and lawmakers are criticizing MBTA officials
for eliminating trains and stops on certain lines, The Boston Globe reported.
The new  schedules are set to go into effect Dec.14.

Michigan Redford Township: Rep. John Conyers, D-Mich., said he'll run for a 27th
consecutive term in Congress, the Detroit Free Press reported.

Minnesota Bloomington: Gov.  Dayton  announced plans to convene a statewide
water quality summit in February.

Mississippi Natchez: The former Isle of Capri casino barge  left its docking
place here and was towed upriver,  the Natchez Democrat reported.

Missouri Kansas City: A convicted mail thief was sentenced to federal prison
after trying to cash a fraudulent check at a  bank and leading police on a
chase. The Kansas City Star  reported that  Ronald  Hines, 64, was sentenced to
two years and six months in federal prison without parole.

Montana Billings: Yellowstone County hotel owners are fighting an ordinance that
requires them to turn over guest registers to any city employee, the Billings
Gazette reported.  The Yellowstone County Lodging Association, which has about
40 hotels in its membership, says it will work with Billings City Attorney Brent
Brooks to consider a new ordinance that would clarify the rules for turning over
their records.

Nebraska Lincoln: Lincoln Electric System plans to clarify its rate schedule,
the Lincoln Star reported, and will update the rates it will pay for
solar-produced electricity.

Nevada Reno: Local health officials say a dessert food manufactured and sold
here is linked to an E. coli outbreak that sickened nearly two dozen people, the
Reno Gazette-Journal reported.

New Hampshire Concord: Gov.  Hassan  asked the Department of Energy to
reschedule the December public hearings about the Northern Pass project to a
later date to allow more people to attend. The same day, the Society for the
Protection of New Hampshire Forests filed a lawsuit against the project, the New
Hampshire Union Leader reported.

New Jersey New Brunswick: Members of a historic synagogue destroyed Oct.23 in an
accidental fire gathered  to bury damaged sacred scrolls and books, the  Home
News Tribune reported.

New Mexico Portales: About half of the 125 turbines on the Roosevelt Wind
Project are producing electricity, the Portales News-Tribune reported. All
turbines will be commercially operational by the end of 2015.

New York Poughkeepsie: A $100,000 grant will help the Poughkeepsie Farm Project
expand its reach. The farm-to-school grant from the U.S. Department of
Agriculture was created to increase local foods served through child nutrition
programs and teach children about agriculture, the Poughkeepsie Journal
reported.

North Carolina Raleigh: The News & Observer  reported that special pre-holiday
hours are planned for farmers' markets around the Triangle on Tuesday. The
special sessions include markets in Chapel Hill, Durham, Cary and here.

North Dakota Williston: The Hula Grill was given  a six-month extension to put
in a system that can handle the amount of barbecue smoke produced by the
business, the Williston Herald  reported.

Ohio Akron: The recent E. coli outbreak initially linked to Chipotle restaurants
in the Pacific Northwest has hit Ohio with six cases, WKYC-TV  reported. Though
one of the victims has no known link to Chipotle, five others  with the
infection did report eating at the  restaurant chain.

Oklahoma Oklahoma City: Higher education officials across Oklahoma are looking
for ways to cut costs as they brace for a massive budget shortfall next year.
Projections show the state's 2016-17 budget deficit will be $800 million to $1
billion, The Oklahoman reported.

Oregon Portland: Police are investigating a possible hate crime at Lewis and
Clark College, KATU-TV reported.  A 26-year-old black student was attacked on
campus by three white men.

Pennsylvania Harrisburg: Pennlive.com reported that  22-year-old Leroy Stolzfus,
who is Amish, finished the Harrisburg Marathon  in just over three hours and
five minutes -- all while wearing his community's traditional clothing.

Rhode Island North Kingstown: Officials with the state and General Dynamics
Electric Boat celebrated the opening of a new $50million facility at its Quonset
Point shipyard here, the Providence Journal reported.  The new facility will be
building hulls for  new nuclear ballistic missile submarines.

South Carolina Greenville: Three South Carolina companies have been ranked in
the Human Rights Campaign's Corporate Equality Index, which rates LGBT inclusion
in the workplace. Law firms Nelson Mullins Riley & Scarborough LLP and Ogletree,
Deakins, Nash, Smoak & Stewart both scored 85% out of a possible 100% on the
list of 851 of the nation's largest companies. Denny's, the diner chain
headquartered in Spartanburg, scored 75%, The Greenville News reported.

South Dakota Mina: Glacial Lake Energy plans to spend $23million on improvements
to its facilities here and in Watertown, the Aberdeen American News reported.

Tennessee Memphis: A FedEx employee was killed in an apparent accident Sunday,
The Commercial Appeal reported.

Texas Austin: A study of municipal salaries has found Austin's work force is
overwhelmingly male, especially in upper-management jobs and other higher-paying
positions. The review by the Austin American-Statesman  looked at hourly wage
data for nearly 12,000 full-time municipal employees and found that the median
woman earns 86 cents for every dollar a man earns.

Utah Duchesne: A fire  destroyed Don Mckee's toy and gift shop,  KSL-TV
reported. Duchesne County Sheriff's spokesman Jeremy Curry says McKee was
putting wood into a wood-burning stove in the shop when the fire got out of
control.

Vermont South Burlington: Police responding to a morning fire Saturday said they
found a "significant" marijuana-growing operation on the second floor of a
building containing three apartments at 211 Hinesburg Road, Burlington Free
Press reported.

Virginia Richmond: More than 500 people overflowed a Virginia Commonwealth
University forum on race to demand an end to cultural insensitivity and to what
some called "cosmetic diversity," the Richmond Times-Dispatch reported.

Washington Port Angeles: Mount Rainier and Olympic national parks are offering
free park entry on the Friday after Thanksgiving to encourage people to get
outside. Park officials dubbed the day "Green Friday."

West Virginia Charleston: A coalition of public and private contributors teamed
up to acquire 32,000 acres of forestland for the state's effort to reintroduce
elk, the Charleston Gazette-Mail reported.

Wisconsin Oshkosh: Dakota D.S. Piper, 21, an inmate at the Winnebago County
Jail, faces multiple felony charges after he allegedly tried to escape from
custody by crawling through a ceiling at a Neenah hospital  and refusing to come
down until he saw his girlfriend, Oshkosh Northwestern reported.

Wyoming Jackson: Dozens of long-term tenants are looking for shelter after they
were forced out of the Pioneer Motel  because the building was declared unsafe
by the owner.  According to the Jackson Hole News & Guide, social workers  are
helping them find new homes.

Compiled by Tim Wendel and Jonathan Briggs, with Linda Dono, Mike Gottschamer,
Ben Sheffler and Nichelle Smith. Design by Mallory Redinger. Graphics by
Alejandro Gonzalez.

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: graphic

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2015 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              164 of 272 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 8, 2015 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Beijing readies for three days of smog under first-ever red alert;
Some blame weather for pollution's rise as officials seek school closings,
restrict driving

BYLINE: Hannah Gardner, and Liz Szabo, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 438 words


China's capital issued its first-ever red alert for air pollution Monday, as a
blanket of toxic smog prepared to descend on the city.

Beijing will restrict driving, construction and factory activity, after
forecasts that hazardous particulate levels will remain high for three
consecutive days.

The government also urged junior and middle schools to close those days,
starting Tuesday.

The city's Environmental Protection Bureau warned people to  avoid outdoor
activities.

Heavy smog poses a danger to everyone, especially people with heart disease or
lung conditions, such as asthma or emphysema, said David Lang, chairman of the
department of allergy and immunology at Cleveland Clinic, who visited China in
October.

About 7million people worldwide die every year because of air pollution -- about
1 in 8 deaths, the World Health Organization said.

China implemented its warning system two years ago when it began to acknowledge
the devastating impact of pollution on society and the economy after years of
denying the problem existed.

Since then, air quality in Beijing has improved somewhat, but levels of harmful
air particles regularly are above 25, the acceptable level  set by the WHO.

As world leaders continue to meet in Paris for talks on climate change, last
week's levels in some parts of Beijing soared above 600.

This week's red alert was issued because particle levels are forecast to be
higher than 200 and last for three days. Last week no such forecast was made, so
the alert remained orange, third highest of the four-level system.

During a red alert, cars can be driven only on alternate days.  People are
banned from grilling meat or setting off fireworks.

The government said it would increase street-sweeping to remove dust  and
provide more public  transportation for people forced to give up their cars.

The city's authorities blamed the high pollution on weak winds. Colder and
windier weather forecast for later in the week  should help clear the air.

Beijing residents seemed unimpressed, saying they find the warning system
confusing, given that more serious bouts of pollution failed to trigger a red
alert.

"If this is a code red, then what was last week?" said a blogger named
Shyhorseeatshay.

The United States hasn't seen air pollution like China's in decades, mostly
because of the Clean Air Act of 1970, said John Groopman, a professor  at the
Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health in Baltimore.

Before the Clean Air Act, there were days in Los Angeles when the smog was so
thick that "you couldn't even see that there were mountains and hills around,"
Groopman said.

Szabo reported from McLean, Va.

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo HOW Hwee YOUNG, european pressphoto agency

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2015 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              165 of 272 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 18, 2015 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

After four decades, good riddance to oil export ban

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 504 words


As part of the budget deal to keep the government running for another year, the
40-year-old ban on exporting U.S. crude oil is finally set to be lifted.

It's about time.

The ban, imposed in response to the Arab oil embargoes of the 1970s, has long
since outlived any usefulness it might have once had. More recently, it has done
palpable harm to domestic producers.

West Texas Intermediate, the benchmark for domestic oil, has been selling for
several dollars less per barrel than oil on international markets, a difference
that stems from the dearth of options for where it can be sent for refining.

This has made it harder for domestic producers to turn a profit and attract
investors, at a time when the global collapse in oil prices has eliminated
approximately 100,000 jobs in America. Surely this was not what President Ford
had in mind when he signed the ban in 1975, saying that the time had come to
"put ourselves solidly on the road to energy independence."

The ban has not made America more secure. According to the Institute for Energy
Research, it has not even had a major impact on gasoline prices. What it has
done is subsidize refiners, who benefit from a captive supply of oil to buy at
bargain prices.

In addition to being a case study in the law of unintended consequences, the ban
provides two other important lessons for lawmakers. One is that they shouldn't
enact laws out of emotion. They did so four decades ago when they responded to
anger over gas station lines and the rising power of oil-rich Arab sheikdoms.
They are in danger of doing so again today, out of the fear of terrorism and
large-scale immigration.

The other lesson is that, once in place, any law or regulation is extremely
difficult to get rid of, even if the conditions present at its creation
disappear. The Interstate Commerce Commission, for instance, was created to
regulate the robber-baron railroad empires of the 1880s. It lived on until 1995,
though no one could precisely articulate what it was for in its latter decades.

Similarly, the export ban has endured at a time when it is out of place and
contrary to U.S. interests. For the past several decades, policymakers and
lawmakers of both parties have been obsessed with boosting exports as a way of
reducing the trade deficit. And here they are with a ban on exports.

Remaining defenders of the ban, many from labor and environmental groups, are
simply against anything that helps oil producers. They are right to urge action
on climate change. But this can be done only by putting a price on carbon
pollution and reducing greenhouse gas emissions, not by trying to halt fossil
fuel production.

The United States recently passed Saudi Arabia and Russia to become the largest
producer of oil and other liquid fuels. This is good for the U.S. economy, and
the increased production of natural gas has helped the environment by displacing
coal for electricity generation.

In the final analysis, the best thing to say about the oil export ban is that it
is reaching the end of the road.

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Matthew Staver, Bloomberg

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2015 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              176 of 272 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             April 24, 2015 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Koch: Not all about money;
Explains his real agenda, how he's fighting 'evil' image

BYLINE: Fredreka Schouten, @fschouten, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1895 words


Charles Koch and his industrial empire are mounting an aggressive new defense of
his company and his political advocacy, with the billionaire insisting his work
to help elect Republicans is rooted in his decades-long quest to "increase
well-being in society."

"We are doing all of this to make more money?" Koch said of charges that his
drive to limit government's power will increase his bottom line. "I mean, that
is so ludicrous."

"I don't know how they can say that with a straight face," he said. "We oppose
as many or more things that would benefit us than would hurt us," he said,
ticking off potential losses at his Minnesota oil refinery if the Keystone XL
pipeline he supports is constructed and his opposition to the Export-Import
Bank, whose subsidies aiding U.S. companies he has decried as corporate welfare.

His comments came during an interview with USA TODAY in his office at Koch
Industries, where he discussed a range of topics -- from the nearly daily death
threats against him to what he termed the "hysteria" in some quarters about
global warming.

(For the record, Koch says this of climate change: "You can plausibly say that
CO2 has contributed" to the planet's warming, but he sees "no evidence" to
support "this theory that it's going to be catastrophic.")

The publicity-averse CEO is stepping into the spotlight as Koch Industries
launched a new advertising campaign this week that shows the company's reach
into all corners of Americans' daily lives -- from the Lycra in their workout
clothes and the gas in their tanks. A new "We are Koch" website tells uplifting
stories about employees and beneficiaries of Koch philanthropy.

The company also is advertising in professional sports arenas and earlier this
year inked a multi-year sponsorship deal to promote Koch Industries during
college basketball and football games at 15 universities. It's all part of a
10-year marketing campaign to introduce Koch to the  public in new ways, said
Steve Lombardo, a veteran Washington marketing and crisis communications expert
hired last year as the company's chief communications and marketing officer.

In October, Crown Publishing will release Koch's second book, Good Profit: How
Creating Value for Others Built One of the World's Most Successful Companies,
detailing his management philosophy.

Koch (COKE) has gained notoriety for helping to create and financially support a
sprawling network of think tanks, policy and political groups to advance his
limited-government agenda. In the 2014 election, two affiliated groups --
Americans for Prosperity and Freedom Partners -- bombarded Senate Democratic
candidates with more than $90 million in advertising in a successful effort to
flip control  to the Republican Party. Much of the network runs through
non-profit organizations that do not disclose donors' identities.

In the run-up to last year's midterm elections, then-Senate majority leader
Harry Reid, D-Nev., took the Senate floor more than three dozen times to
lambaste the Koch brothers -- Charles and his younger brother and company
co-owner, David -- as "un-American" and the leaders of a secret money "cult."

INCREASED PUBLICITY EFFORT

Koch said the company has stepped up publicity to help "defend ourselves from
attacks and make our employees feel better about the company" and to make clear
to customers and suppliers that "we're not this evil ogre trying to make your
lives worse."

Malcolm Harris, a professor of finance at Friends University in Wichita, said
Koch's political activity may be hurting his ability to retain and recruit
talent to his ever-expanding business empire. In the last two years or so, Koch
Industries has acquired all or parts of more than two dozen companies, including
Molex, an Illinois-based firm that makes electronic components for products such
as iPhones.

"When you acquire companies, you acquire a lot of employees," Harris said. "You
want them to become part of your team, and it may be hard if they are thinking,
'Oh gee. Aren't those the guys that eat babies in the morning?' "

Lombardo would not say how much the company is pumping into its latest round of
advertising, which includes digital ads on news and information sites, but
called it a "significant spend."

Even as he defends his company, Koch shows no signs of backing down from the
policy and political agenda that has made him the bogeyman of the left.

Earlier this year, the Kochs and their network of some 450 donors, who help
underwrite everything from political ads to university research grants,
committed to spending nearly $900 million in the two years ahead of the 2016
election. That's more than double the network's spending in the run-up to the
2012 elections and more than twice what the Republican National Committee
invested  that year.

Charles Koch said this week that only about a third of that will be spent on
electoral politics. The  network he and his brother oversee also is considering
wading into the Republican presidential primary for the first time and providing
financial support to as many as five candidates who have a "positive message"
and the ability to prevail in the 2016 general election. That move could drive
the Republican field closer to the Kochs and their libertarian positions, which
often sit at odds with GOP's business-friendly and socially conservative wings.

The Kochs' move to shape the GOP nomination battle has set off alarms among
campaign-finance watchdogs. "This is called the 'Koch primary,'" Fred
Wertheimer, president of the campaign watchdog group Democracy 21, said of the
brothers' plans. "Never mind those caucuses and primaries where millions of
Americans choose their candidates. The Kochs will do it for all of us."

GLOBAL REACH

Charles and David Koch each own 44.4% of  Koch Industries, but Charles, 79, is
the driving force behind the energy and manufacturing company, which employs
more than 100,000 people around the globe. He's served as its chairman and CEO
since 1967.

David Koch, who has the title of executive president, lives in New York where he
is a leading patron of the arts and has donated heavily to cancer research.
(Lincoln Center's New York State Theater, for instance, was renamed for him in
2008 to celebrate the $100 million he donated for its renovation.)

Charles Koch, however, has stayed put in the town where he grew up. His home
sits inside the walled, park-like compound where he was raised, an eight-minute
drive from the office. "Why move?" he said. "We've been very successful here."

His imprint is all over Wichita. The 10,500-seat sports arena at Wichita State
University, for instance, bears his name, thanks to a $6 million contribution
toward its renovation.

Koch's low-key persona belies his standing as the world's sixth-richest person
-- a slot he shares with his brother, David Koch, on the Forbes' rankings. He
shows up at the office by 7:15 a.m. most days. He's happy to chat about his
90-minute daily workout -- a routine that includes Pilates, strength training
and climbing on the Stairmaster.

On a recent Tuesday, he stood with  employees in the company cafeteria, Café
Koch, getting his $4.99 meal of chili and beer-braised brisket boxed up to take
back to his desk.

GOVERNMENT 'COERCION'

He and his aides express dismay he's been so vilified by politicians and popular
culture. The Kochs are the subject of two critical documentaries and are
regularly lampooned by late-night comics.

Didn't he expect aggressive pushback when his network was spending heavily to
dislodge Democrats from the Senate's majority?

"I didn't expect it to be as dishonest and as vicious as it was," said Koch, who
called the flood of death threats the "scariest" part of the last few years.

He still gets hate mail and death threats almost daily, like the one that landed
in a general corporate email box Tuesday that started with "How about you start
off by killing yourselves" and ended with "I hope you die slowly from prostate
cancer." The missive hit particularly close to home; both Koch brothers are
prostate-cancer survivors.

To hear Koch tell it, he's a reluctant political warrior -- drawn into elections
as a last resort because the ideas he's been promoting for 50 years about
curtailing the government's power haven't gotten enough traction.

(He doesn't consider himself a Republican,  although he's registered as one
because in deep-red "Kansas, that's the game.")

In his view, less government intervention means more opportunities for
individuals to thrive. He sees government's primary role as "coercion" and says
it should apply that force in limited circumstances, such as national defense,
public safety, enforcing settlements and preventing the spread of communicable
disease.

He maintains that the government's role in most everything else -- from
licensing cab drivers to regulating banks -- ought to be up for debate. His
voice rises to a near-shout when talking about criminal laws and the civil
forfeiture of assets in criminal investigations

"If somebody smokes a joint, we're gonna go in and bust them? We're gonna  raid
houses in case somebody has a banned substance? Confiscate their houses?"

"My God," he said, "if people don't see that as an abuse of force, of too much
government, then we're just not communicating."

His critics note that the Kochs' anti-regulation stance also advances their
economic interests. Reducing the government's permitting powers or lobbying for
reductions in federal and states gas taxes, as the Koch-affiliated Americans for
Prosperity is doing around the country, helps the bottom line of a business
rooted in oil refining and manufacturing.

While the company touts its environmental record, Democrats point to clashes
with the government. In 2000,  Koch Industries agreed to pay $30 million for
leaking oil into waterways in six states. At the time, it was the biggest civil
fine levied under the Clean Water Act.

"It's very difficult to disentangle their political beliefs from their business
interests. It's all wrapped up into one," said Daniel Schulman, an editor with
Mother Jones magazine and the author of the 2014 biography of Koch and his three
siblings, Sons of Wichita: How the Koch Brothers Became America's Most Powerful
and Private Dynasty.

"That said, Charles Koch doesn't always advocate for his interests. They'll take
the subsidies, and they have lobbied against those sorts of things," he said. "I
absolutely think they are true believers."

In one of its most unusual alliances, Koch Industries has teamed up with the
liberal think tank, Center for American Progress, and prominent Democrats, such
as former Obama administration official Van Jones, to work on a broad overhaul
of the criminal-justice system.

"I was initially cautious, trying to figure out whether I would find a hidden
agenda if I looked under a lot of rocks," Jones said about his collaboration on
the issue with Koch general counsel Mark Holden. "I take them at their word that
their libertarian values have led them to this issue."

"I'm sure they'll get some positive PR from this," Jones added. "But you have to
have a very strange view of PR to think that talking about getting felons out of
prison is a genius public-relations move."

Holden said he hopes the new cooperation with Democrats might change the tone of
the political discourse ahead of 2016.

"But I'm not naive," Holden added. "This is a political world. We'll be ready."


LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Robert Deutsch, USA TODAY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2015 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              181 of 272 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              July 17, 2015 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Frackphobics sabotage our climate;
If you care about the environment, protect it by using natural gas

BYLINE: Michael Shellenberger, and Ted Nordhaus

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 761 words


It is hard to remember now, but it wasn't long ago that natural gas was seen as
a critical tool to fight global warming and protect the environment. That's one
reason a new report released this month shows that natural gas has eclipsed coal
as the largest U.S. source of electricity for the first time.

Environmental groups used to call gas a "bridge fuel" away from coal to
renewables. The Sierra Club was so enthusiastic that it accepted $25 million in
funding from oil and gas interests to pay for part of its "Beyond Coal"
campaign, according to Time.

But a few years later, the environmental movement reversed itself. Recently, the
National Resources Defense Council successfully lobbied for a ban on fracking --
the practice of cracking open underground oil and gas formations with water,
sand and chemicals -- for natural gas in New York state. The Sierra Club
abruptly ended its alliance with the industry and announced a "Beyond Natural
Gas" campaign.

Gas next door

What changed? Gas became cheap and abundant thanks to fracking. And where
conventional natural gas production was historically centered in the oil patch,
shale gas is often present in places such as upstate New York, where a lot more
environmentalists live. As a result, while gas remains the state's No. 1 source
of electricity, its production there has been effectively banned.

Fearing that cheap gas would slow down the transition to renewable energy,
environmental leaders now claim that fracking is contaminating water wells and
depleting aquifers, and that leaking gas makes fracking worse for global warming
than coal.

In reality, gas remains a vastly superior source of energy than coal by
virtually every environmental metric -- just as it was a decade ago. That's
because coal is a dirty sponge rock. Burning it emits mercury, a toxic heavy
metal, and sulfur dioxide, which causes acid rain. You have to literally blow
the tops off of mountains to get the stuff. Whole river watersheds in West
Virginia are buried under toxic debris. This month, thanks in part to natural
gas, new federal statistics show that mountaintop mining is down 62% since 2008.

Natural gas is so clean, we burn it in our kitchens. It emits practically no
mercury and 17 to 40 times less sulfur dioxide, according to our study with the
Breakthrough Institute. As for water, simply switching electricity production
from coal to natural gas saves 25 to 50 times more water.

Critics claim these benefits are not being realized because gas has displaced
renewable energy and nuclear power instead of coal. In reality, more than 90% of
the growth in gas-fired generation since the onset of the shale gas revolution
in 2005 has replaced coal-fired generation.

Wind, solar need gas

Wind and solar energy depend on natural gas to keep the lights on when the sun
isn't shining and the wind isn't blowing, which is about two-thirds or more of
the time on average. Without natural gas, utilities would have to ramp coal
plants up and down rapidly to fill in for the wind and sun. When coal plants
make rapid changes to their output, they get even dirtier.

A study at the University of Texas-Austin, meanwhile, found that the amount of
natural gas that leaks during its production has decreased. Even if methane leak
rates were substantially higher, there would be little climate impact because it
is a short-lived greenhouse gas.

The main event when it comes to the fight against global warming is still carbon
dioxide, and there are few better ways to reduce carbon emissions than replacing
coal plants with gas turbines.

Fracking, of course, does not come without environmental costs. But the real
impacts of fracking are felt locally. In places such as Pennsylvania and
Colorado, fracking is industrializing rural landscapes. The rigs, pipelines and
truck traffic are changing bucolic landscapes. Local communities are struggling
to balance quality of life with the rights of landowners to exploit their
mineral resources and the need for development in struggling communities. These
are legitimate debates, probably best addressed locally,  but even then, we
should not forget the larger context.

Ultimately, how America navigates the fracking war will say a lot about how
clean our air will be and how much carbon we will emit. Energy transitions come
slowly. Developing a truly zero-carbon energy system will take decades. In the
meantime, despite local impacts, gas can bring us great environmental benefits.

Michael Shellenberger and Ted Nordhaus, founders of the Breakthrough Institute,
are authors of An Ecomodernist Manifesto.

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Brennan Linsley, AP

DOCUMENT-TYPE: OPINION

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2015 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              184 of 272 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            October 20, 2015 Tuesday
                                CA CHASE EDITION

Reports: Liberals win Canada vote;
Results poised to end 10-year rule of Harper and Conservatives

BYLINE: Gregg Zoroya and Greg Toppo, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 528 words


Justin Trudeau, the Liberal Party leader whose late father, Pierre, led Canada
for more than a decade, will be Canada's next prime minister, ousting the
Conservative's Stephen Harper, several Canadian media outlets projected late
Monday.

After polls closed in most of the nation, the Canadian Broadcasting Corp, along
with the CTV Television Network, projected that Trudeau's Liberal Party would
sweep national parliamentary elections. Polls were still open in British
Columbia, on Canada's west coast.

It is unclear whether the Liberal Party will form a minority or majority
government until more votes were counted.

Voters in Canada had a choice to continue Harper's nearly 10 years of
Conservative Party rule or turn left under Trudeau. Pre-election polls gave an
edge to the Liberals, led by Trudeau, 43. Harper, 56, had hoped to win a rare
fourth term in the elections to fill 338 seats in Parliament.

The campaign lasting 11 weeks was the country's longest and most expensive in
more than 140 years.

Trudeau had promised to cut taxes for the middle class, raise taxes on the
wealthiest 1% and boost government deficits to stimulate Canada's sluggish
economy.

"We have a chance to bring real change to Canada and bring an end to the Harper
decade," Trudeau said Monday in Harper's adopted home province of Alberta,
traditionally a Conservative stronghold, according to the Associated Press.

Trudeau, a former schoolteacher and member of Parliament since 2008, would
become the second youngest prime minister in Canadian history.

He has proposed improving relations between Canada and the United States.
Harper's strong stance in favor of the Keystone XL pipeline that would carry
crude from Alberta to Texas has clashed with President Obama's reluctance about
the project.

Trudeau supports the pipeline but says relations between the two major trading
partners should not hinge on one project.

Harper has also clashed with Obama on other issues, including the historic
nuclear agreement that the United States and other world powers recently reached
with Iran. He has been hawkish on defense, but has been hurt politically by a
weak economy this year. Harper tweeted Monday, "Today, I'm asking you to vote
Conservative to protect Canadian jobs and our economy," the AP reported.

Harper has nudged the traditionally center-left country to the right, lowering
sales and corporate taxes, avoiding climate change legislation and supporting
the oil industry against environmentalists. He campaigned on a promise of
ensuring "stability, not risk" and cast Trudeau as "just not ready" for higher
office. But Trudeau's performances in five debates received strong reviews.

As recently as 2011, the Conservatives won 38% of the vote to the Liberals' 26%,
with 19% for the New Democratic Party.

New Democratic Party leader Thomas Mulcair has said he would be willing to work
with Trudeau to form a government if no party won a majority of seats.

Canadian election rules allow candidates to win parliamentary districts with a
plurality of the vote rather than an outright majority. That makes it possible
for a party to win a majority of seats with less than a majority of the national
vote.

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo NICHOLAS KAMM, AFP/Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2015 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              185 of 272 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           October 22, 2015 Thursday
                                 FIRST EDITION

THE 'FUTURE' IS HERE

BYLINE: Patrick Ryan, @PatRyanWrites, USA TODAY

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 432 words


It's been three decades since he went Back to the Future as kooky scientist
"Doc" Emmett Brown, but Christopher Lloyd still can't lose the lab coat.

After  sequels in 1989 and 1990, Lloyd voiced Doc in an animated TV  spinoff of
the same name and Adult Swim's Robot Chicken, and made a character cameo in last
year's A Million Ways to Die in the West. Even now, he'll  call up famous lines
for fans on the street.

"People always want to hear 'Great Scott!' and 'Roads? Where we're going, we
don't need roads,'" Lloyd, 77,  says with a smile. "I'm happy to do it."

Not only is this year the sci-fi trilogy's 30th anniversary, it also marks a
prophetic milestone for fans. In Back to the Future Part II, Marty McFly
(Michael J. Fox) time-travels to Oct. 21, 2015, where sneakers tie themselves,
moviegoers devour Jaws 19 and the Chicago Cubs win their first World Series
since 1908. In one scene, a bully's "hoverboard rampage" is the top headline on
a futuristic Oct. 22 edition of USA TODAY, which uses a drone to snap photos.

Of all the movie's seemingly unattainable gadgets, "hoverboards seem to be on
the edge of actually becoming a reality," Lloyd says. "Flying cars? I don't know
-- that's complicated."

Fans certainly shouldn't cross their fingers for a dimension-bending coupe like
Doc's DeLorean, which was introduced in Robert Zemeckis' first Back to the
Future on July 3, 1985. Making a star of Fox and becoming the highest-grossing
film of that year ($210.6 million to date), the rip-roaring trilogy has remained
a pop-culture touchstone ever since and was re-released as a DVD/Blu-ray box set
this week.

Future has endured because it's "entertaining, funny and crazy," but also
because of its relatable themes and emotional resonance, says Lea Thompson, who
played Marty's mother, Lorraine.

"I really do believe the central construct is that one moment of courage can
change your entire life," Thompson says. "The idea of doing the right thing, to
protect someone you love. To kiss someone and know that they are not right for
you. To put an end to bullying.

"Whatever it is that happens in the movie, it's a powerful  lesson to teach your
children."

As for the possibility of a fourth Future, Lloyd says he would consider it --
but only if the original cast and creative team returned, and there was a story
worth telling. "There's always the danger of sequels not living up to the
original, so it'd have to be  momentous and current: dealing with ISIS or
climate change or something radical and have a real urgency to it. I don't know
what that would be."

Contributing: Bryan Alexander

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2015 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              202 of 272 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            March 12, 2015 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Soldiers face crisis in substance-abuse care;
Thousands needing help turned away

BYLINE: Gregg Zoroya, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1408 words


Twenty thousand soldiers who seek help each year at Army substance-abuse clinics
encounter a program in such disarray that thousands needing treatment are turned
away and more than two dozen others linked to poor care have spiraled into
suicide, a USA TODAY investigation has found.

The Army's transfer of substance-abuse outpatient treatment from medical to
non-medical leadership in 2010 has led to substandard care, the mass exodus of
veteran personnel and the hiring of unqualified clinic directors and counselors,
according to senior Army clinical staff members and records obtained by USA
TODAY.

"This is the crux of the whole thing," said Wanda Kuehr, a psychologist who
spoke out about the problems after retiring Feb. 2 as the program's director of
clinical services. Non-medical managers want to "get the reports in on time and
fill the slots. They think that makes a good program. Our goal is to give
treatment to soldiers. And (the bosses) see that as inconsequential ... What's
happening to soldiers matters, and the Army can't just keep pushing things under
the rug."

Five staff members who described similar problems asked not to be identified for
fear of reprisals. They "are very frightened if they tell the truth they will
lose their job," Kuehr said. "It's sad when we have (such) a climate."

The Army emphatically denies that its substance-abuse treatment efforts have
declined.

Kuehr and the current personnel said the strongest evidence is in  reports filed
by Army clinic reviewers who visit each post, pore through medical files and
talk with counselors. Dozens of these reports show chronic problems with poor
diagnosis and treatment.

One tragic result: The Army estimates that since 2010, about 90 soldiers
committed suicide within three months of receiving substance-abuse treatment. At
least 31 suicides followed substandard care, according to tabulations by the
clinical staff, although they did not specifically link the deaths to poor
treatment.

In a case in 2012, Army managers hired an unlicensed counselor at Fort Sill in
Oklahoma over the objections of senior clinical personnel. The counselor began
seeing patients and gave a "good" rating to a soldier who hanged himself two
hours later, according to an internal Army report provided to USA TODAY.

Other findings based on hundreds of pages of Army files, e-mails and reports,
along with interviews with program personnel:

As many as half of the 7,000 soldiers turned away last year after being screened
for potential drug or alcohol problems should have been treated, based on
documented evaluations of clinic performance by senior staffers.

Half of the Army's 54 substance-abuse clinics around the world fall below
professional standards for treating drug and alcohol abuse, and only a handful
are in full compliance, an Army assessment shows.

PowerPoint presentations by Army substance-abuse specialists to alert leaders of
the problems cite "poor continuity of care," "low staff morale/motivation" and
"lack of focus on mission."

While the number of soldiers seeking treatment declined 13% since 2009, the
number of counseling positions fell 37% from a projected need of 563 six years
ago to 352 today. Only 309 jobs are filled. That has led to waiting lists  at
some clinics.

Fourteen years of war have left thousands of soldiers coping with chronic pain
from injuries, post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD)  or family and financial
discord. Many turn to alcohol to escape or abuse pain medication, counselors
say. An Army survey over the past year finds that 104,000 soldiers -- one in
eight canvassed -- report serious drinking problems.

An Institute of Medicine panel of scientific experts on substance abuse warned
in a 2012 report that the military faces a crisis in drug and alcohol abuse.
Members of the panel, part of the National Academy of Sciences, said they were
surprised by documents supplied by USA TODAY showing deteriorating treatment.

"I thought that we had made an impact, that we had helped fix it, that the
(Department of Defense) was perhaps embarrassed by what we had found," said
Thomas Kosten, a research scientist with the Department of Veterans Affairs and
Baylor College of Medicine in Texas. "This kind of suggests that they had a
little back-pedaling since that time."

The Army defends its treatment standards since the substance-abuse program was
moved in 2010 from the Surgeon General's Office to the Installation Management
Command, which manages garrisons. Yet it struggled in rebutting the criticism.

Col. Anthony "Tony" Cox, who was chosen to help address complaints and defended
the program, had been a critic himself, according to e-mails he wrote that were
obtained by USA TODAY. They show that Cox briefed a senior leader last fall,
citing "erosion of quality care" and "increased risk of mission failure."

Cox said Wednesday that after USA TODAY raised complaints about the program in
late February, he re-examined the allegations and did an "about-face,"
concluding they were false.

Last week, Brig. Gen. Jason Evans, an Installation Management Command deputy
commander, said he was "deeply concerned" about Cox's contradictory statements.
But Wednesday, he said he was satisfied with Cox's explanation. Evans said the
program "is on solid ground and is trending in a positive direction."

Pam Budda, the program's civilian director, said allegations that as many as
3,500 soldiers were wrongly turned away from treatment last year are incorrect.
She said some soldiers aren't enrolled because assessments don't find a
substance-abuse problem.

Statistics show the percentage not enrolled in the program has declined from 48%
in 2009 to 36% in 2014.

Kuehr said she worked for years to stem what she saw as a decline in care,
urging that substance-abuse treatment be moved back to the Surgeon General's
Office. She said the new managers accused her of meddling. "They didn't seem to
grasp the seriousness of not diagnosing the patient accurately, not having goals
and not having an individualized treatment plan," she said.

Non-medical supervisors have told counselors to take time away from sessions to
shovel snow, mop floors, clean toilets and take out the trash.

Scores of psychologists and social workers at dozens of Army bases began
resigning, retiring, shifting to other positions or taking new jobs since the
change in commands. Fifty-eight clinical directors left, nearly three dozen
because of conflicts with management, according to an assessment by clinical
staff.

About half the 48 counseling positions at Fort Hood in Texas, the Army's largest
post, are unfilled, increasing "risk of negative patient outcomes, provider
burnout and further clinical staff loss," a Jan. 13 Army memo warned.

Staff quality review reports were the basis for an internal rating last August
that showed 27 of 54 clinics below professionally accepted standards for care,
22 that were borderline and only five in good shape. Kuehr and staff members
said care at some clinics has since gotten worse.

A January inspection report for the clinic at Yongsan Garrison in South Korea,
where 5,700 soldiers are posted, describes how the two counselors there barely
do any work: Their records show 103 hours of counseling in five months. Yet
there is a waiting list of 11 soldiers seeking help.

List

Programs

Full compliance

Fort Bragg, N.C.

Fort Gordon, Ga.

Fort Jackson, S.C.

JB Elmendorf/Richardson, Alaska

Rock Island Arsenal, Ill.

Borderline in

meeting standards

Fort Leonard Wood, Mo.

Fort Detrick, Md.

Presidio of Monterrey, Calif.

Fort Benning, Ga.

Fort Lee, Va.

Fort Belvoir, Va.

Fort Knox, Ky.

JB Langley/Eustis, Va.

JB Lewis/McChord, Wash.

Fort Rucker, Ala.

Fort Meade, Md.

Fort Bliss, Texas

Kaiserslautern, Germany

Baumholder, Germany

Hohenfels, Germany

Stuttgart, Germany

Wiesbaden, Germany

Schweinfurt, Germany

Ansbach, Germany

JB Myer-Henderson-Hall, Va.

Vicenza, Italy

West Point, N.Y.

Below standards

Fort Wainwright, Alaska

JBSA, Fort Sam Houston, Texas

Fort Campbell, Ky.

Fort Sill, Okla.

Fort Irwin, Calif.

Fort Carson, Colo.

White Sands, N.M.

Aberdeen Proving Grounds, Md.

Fort Riley, Kan.

Fort Hood, Texas

Fort Polk, La.

Fort Stewart, Ga.

Fort Drum, N.Y.

Carlisle Barracks, Pa.

Fort Leavenworth, Kan.

Schofield Barracks, Hawaii

Fort Huachuca, Ariz.

Redstone Arsenal, Ala.

Bamberg, Germany

Grafenwoehr, Germany

Benelux, Belgium

Daegu, South Korea

Camp Humphreys, South Korea

Camp Casey/Red Cloud, South Korea

Yongsan, South Korea

Camp Zama, Japan

Torii Station, Okinawa

Source Internal Army clinical review

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Erich Schlegel for USA TODAY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2015 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              204 of 272 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            March 25, 2015 Wednesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Playful Badgers grinning, winning

BYLINE: Eric Prisbell, @EricPrisbell, USA TODAY Sports

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 1085 words


When the University of Wisconsin basketball program recruited Bronson Koenig out
of high school, the guard recalls hearing about one of the hallmarks that
defined every Badgers practice: The only sound that ever emanates from players
is silence.

That is not the case this season. And at a tradition-bound program such as
Wisconsin, that's a big deal.

Whether it's two-man passing drills or player-coach communication, there is a
way of doing things under coach Bo Ryan that is as consistent as the state's
fall foliage. To Ryan, the old school coach with a peach basket in his office,
it might as well be 1985. The reason the regimen doesn't change much? It works.

This year -- as a seasoned team continues one of the greatest runs in program
history -- there is another calling card: laughter. It might as well be the
locker room soundtrack for a team that's in its fourth Sweet 16 in five years.

"We can flip a switch," senior Josh Gasser said. "It's important to have fun.
With this team especially, the looser we play, the better we are. ... We are all
goofballs. We are all kids, but we can still be adults and take care of business
on the court."

If you're looking for a  No.1 seed buckling under the pressure of trying to
reach a second consecutive Final Four, you've come to the wrong locker room. The
Badgers might not be  as free-spirited as the 2013 Florida Gulf Coast  Eagles --
a No.15 seed that laughed and dunked its way to the Sweet 16 -- but good luck
finding another Sweet 16 team this loose.

What distinguishes this team, which will play North Carolina in Thursday's West
Region semifinals, from the 13  others under Ryan is not necessarily the talent
or experience (and the Badgers are rich on both fronts). Assistant Lamont Paris
says the difference is the blend of personalities that creates a unique mood --
at specific times -- in practice, film sessions or even on rare occasions during
games.

These players can toggle from laser-focused to lighthearted and back to
ultraserious as easily as they execute a jump stop.

"That is a unique trait this team has," Paris said. "Most teams cannot do that.
For most teams, the water faucet is on or off. ... It's a looser climate
overall."

Keeping it light

Even in the waning moments of Sunday's Round of 32 victory against Oregon, with
the outcome still in the balance, Sam Dekker managed a smile as one of the boys
tasked with wiping the court had a small mishap.

In the locker room the day before the game, players roared in laughter as they
spotted a media member they thought was a spitting image of Frank Kaminsky. And
there was sophomore Nigel Hayes, often the instigator of comedic shenanigans,
tossing out challenging words -- cattywampus, onomatopoeia and
antidisestablishmentarianism -- during the news conference to keep the  site
stenographer on her toes.

"I loved it," Gasser said.

When characterizing the looser mood of the Badgers, Hayes uses the apt metaphor
of a muscle. Much like the team's intensity, a muscle cannot be flexed 24 hours
a day, or it's not pliable. It needs to relax at times, and when you do flex it,
the muscle is potent.

"If you were to just sit and flex all your muscles, you'd just pass out or be
lightheaded," Hayes said. "Every now and then you need to let go, and then, when
you get on the court, flex again."

This approach works well for these Badgers. Under the spotlight and scrutiny of
March -- and through the grind of a season that will be judged on whether they
reach the Final Four -- a little levity goes a long way.

"I've seen a lot of teams in this tournament so far just come in really tight,
especially the higher seeds and with all these upsets," Koenig said. "They are
playing really tight. We do a really good job just playing loose."

This team has a little more leeway because of consistent results. The Badgers
have lost three games, and only two with national player of the year candidate
Kaminsky on the court. Paris says the team has not had consecutive games in
which he has not felt good about the way it played.

When it comes to player-initiated levity, Paris said, "You can't do it and play
average basketball, because then it is a hoax." The lightheartedness happens
"often enough, but not too often. If it's happening too much, then it's a circus
and loses its value. It happens when it needs to happen, and only then."

Inside jokes

Players say the tone is set from the top. Film sessions are critical for
constructive criticism; the tenor is serious. But occasionally, in an effort to
keep things fresh and light, Ryan will remind players what can be lost amid the
grind: This is fun.

One time, Koenig said, Ryan showed a video clip of Kaminsky getting fouled and
pouting. Ryan sneaked in a quick scene from the movie Napoleon Dynamite because
of similarities in the title character's appearance with the 7-footer. Everyone
erupted in laughter. Then it was quickly back to the next teaching clip.

In a game against Minnesota, Hayes says, he slipped and went down on his knee,
kept his dribble and scored. Ryan used the clip in a film session, stopped it
and started playing Harlem Globetrotters music.

"People on our team understand situations really well," Kaminsky said. "We know
when to be really serious and to be hard on people. We know when to be light and
when to take a step back and appreciate what we are doing. This is definitely
one of the more interesting teams in the country because of the personalities
and characters we have on the team. It's so much fun."

Players now have almost as many inside jokes as they do ways to attack defenses
with the nation's most efficient offense.

Hayes says if they preface one player's name with the word "uh," it will trigger
immediate laughter. The reason? Top secret.

He says players will spontaneously strike a runner's pose, as if ready to burst
out of the starting block, for another personal joke. Another antic is attaching
nonsensical accents to random words they come across.

"We make the words sound nothing like they are supposed to," Hayes said. "Take
'federal prison.' Frank may walk in and say, 'feder-ah-ley pri-zone.' It may not
be funny to anyone else. It's really funny to us."

If this cast of characters wins four more games, it's anyone's guess how they'll
pronounce two other words: national champion.

That remains the singular goal. And by laughing at times in pursuit of it, they
think their muscles will flex best when most needed.

"Don't tell any other team that!" Hayes warned. "They may start doing it, too,
and play better."

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Caylor Arnold, USA TODAY Sports

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2015 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              211 of 272 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              May 5, 2015 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

STATE-BY-STATE;
News from across the USA

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 2030 words


Alabama Montgomery: The expansion of gambling in the state is part of budget
discussions this week, AL.com reported. Senate President Pro Tem Del Marsh
floated a draft bill for a statewide vote in September to allow expanded
gambling.

Alaska Fairbanks: An ordinance that would allow for mail-in ballots for North
Star Borough elections will be discussed at a work session on June 4 and is set
for a public hearing on June 11, newsminer.com reported.

Arizona Elgin: At least four area wineries saw frost damage last month to their
grape crops, the Arizona Republic reported, and growers estimated they lost 40%
to 60% of their harvest. The cost of the damage will not be known for months.

Arkansas Fayetteville: The University of Arkansas is getting a supercomputer
known as "Trestles" from the National Science Foundation and the San Diego
Supercomputer Center at the University of California, the university News
reported. Trestles will more than double the computational capacity at the
Arkansas High Performance Computer Center.

California Los Angeles: Seismologists said two recent earthquakes centered in
the Baldwin Hills area don't appear to be connected to drilling at the Inglewood
Oil Field, the Times reported.

Colorado Denver: As the city remains in the middle of bee swarm season, a local
bee expert is urging the public to call in a bee expert to remove hives instead
of taking action themselves, KUSA-TV reported. Bee swarming happens when a queen
bee takes roughly half of her worker bees with her, and the bees that remain are
forced to create new hives with a new queen.

Connecticut Hartford: The Southern pine beetle has been detected at four sites
in Hartford, Litchfield and New Haven counties, state official announced.

Delaware Claymont: A St. Louis developer has proposed building an office,
manufacturing and transit hub at the site of the former Evraz Steel Mill here.
The developer, Commercial Development Co., estimates the multimillion-dollar
project could bring as many as 5,000 jobs to the area, The News Journal
reported.

District of Columbia: Students from the SEED Public Charter School joined a
group of "citizen scientists" who are gathering data about wildlife for the
Smithsonian collection, The Washington Post reported. The museum's eMammal
project trains volunteers to set up infrared-activated cameras in parks, yards
or other natural areas.

Florida Cape Canaveral: SpaceX is targeting  Wednesday for a "pad abort" test,
which simulates a Dragon capsule launch pad emergency, at Cape Canaveral Air
Force Station's Launch Complex 40, Florida Today reported.

Georgia Atlanta: Gov. Deal, a Republican, signed a $1billion transportation bill
that goes into effect July 1, the Journal- Constitution reported. The law raises
the gas tax for the average driver by 6 cents a gallon, and imposes a $5-a-night
fee on hotel stays.

Hawaii Honolulu: Mark Garrity, the deputy direct of Honolulu's Department of
Transportation Services, said more people have been riding bicycles since
December when the city opened a 2-mile protected bike lane on South King Street,
The Honolulu Star-Advertiser reported.

Idaho Boise: The U.S. Department of Agriculture's annual National Agriculture
Statistics Service report ranks Idaho third in milk production nationally. Each
of Idaho's 516 dairy farms are family-owned, the Idaho State Journal reported.

Illinois Gurnee: Guinness World Records confirmed three records for Six Flags
Great America, the Chicago Tribune reported: Goliath as the world's fastest
(71.89 mph), tallest (180 feet) and steepest (85.13 degree) wooden roller
coaster.

Indiana Speedway: IndyCar team owner Sarah Fisher plans to open a
60,000-square-foot indoor karting track here, The Indianapolis Star reported. It
it scheduled to open in April 2016.

Iowa Des Moines: Hundreds of residents walked at Gray's Lake Park on Saturday in
remembrance of the victims of the Nepal earthquake, The Register reported.

Kansas Hutchinson: Five teenagers charged in juvenile court with making threats
to commit shootings on the last day of school at Hutchinson High School will
remain in custody, The Wichita Eagle reported.

Kentucky Louisville: Since a April 3 storm that dumped as much as 8 inches on
some areas of Louisville, owners of as many as 15 flood-damaged homes in
Louisville have been prevented from fixing their homes under a city ordinance,
and Metropolitan Sewer District officials said there may be hundreds more like
them who haven't come forward yet, The Courier-Journal reported.

Louisiana Lafayette: The Iberia Parish Sheriff's Office has received a subpoena
from a federal grand jury,  The Advertiser reported.

Maine Waterville: The Mid-Maine Homeless Shelter here has received a $1million
grant officials said will be used to help build a second floor for youth and
young adults, the Morning Sentinel reported.

Maryland Ocean City: New smoking restrictions on Ocean City beaches and the
Boardwalk began May 1, according to the Daily Times.

Massachusetts Boston: Logan International Airport officials have unveiled a plan
to cut to carbon emissions and spend millions of dollars to protect runways and
terminals from rising seas as part of an effort to address climate change, The
Boston Globe  reported.

Michigan Lansing: Voters today are being asked to to approve a tax increase that
would generate $1.2billion a year more for roads, the Detroit Free Press
reported. If the controversial Proposition 1 constitutional amendment passes,
Michigan's 6% sales tax would increase to 7%.

Minnesota St. Paul: The 8-year-old boy who took a car from his foster family and
drove down to Twin Cities with his siblings has a history of running away,
KARE-TV reported.

Mississippi  Canton: Two earthquakes shook parts of Madison County over the
weekend. The first was a magnitude-3.2, and the second was about an hour later
and was recorded at 3.0. Authorities are reporting no injuries and very little
damage.

Missouri St. Joseph: Local school district superintendent Fred Czerwonka has
resigned, The News-Press reported.

Montana Helena: Gov. Bullock signed a bill  to expand Medicaid eligibility,
making Montana the 29th state to do so through the Affordable Care Act, the
Great Falls Tribune reported.

Nebraska Columbus: Probation has been revoked for a 32-year-old man convicted of
vehicular homicide in the crash death of a local woman, The Columbus Telegram
reported. Brian Browning was sentenced to two to three years in prison.

Nevada Reno: Two female students from a local middle school have committed
suicide in the past few weeks, marking the first instance of multiple suicides
from the same Washoe County school in memorable history, according to district
officials.  The district is receiving help from the Nevada Division of Child and
Family Services, which sent its mobile crisis unit, the Reno Gazette-Journal
reported.

New Hampshire Sanbornton: A magnitude-2.1 earthquake was recorded last week,
the New Hampshire Union Leader reported.

New Jersey Camden: The International Pilgrim Virgin Statue of Our Lady of Fatima
is making a rare visit to the Camden Diocese, the Courier-Post reported. The
statue, which will be in South Jersey throughout the month of May, made the
first three of its 17 area stops Friday Saturday and Sunday.

New Mexico Albuquerque: A Bernalillo County Sheriff's deputy is on paid
administrative leave following a shooting that left one man dead, The
Albuquerque Journal reported.

New York New York: Senate Majority Leader Dean Skelos and his son turned
themselves  on federal corruption charges,  the Gannett Albany Bureau reported.

North Carolina Wilmington: The Maritime Heritage Program awarded the USS North
Carolina Battleship $200,000 for restoration purposes. The battleship was one of
the first 10 to join the American Fleet in WWII, WECT-TV reported.

North Dakota Dunseith: An agave is in bloom at the International Peace Garden
Conservatory here, the Minot Daily News reported.  The agave is a monocarpic
plant, meaning it will only flower once before it dies.

Ohio Sandusky: Cedar Point amusement park has filed to trademark the word
"Valravn," a supernatural raven in Danish folklore, WKYC-TV reported.

Oklahoma Tulsa: A woman has been hospitalized with severe burns after she was
blown out of her duplex when it exploded, KWTV-TV reported.

Oregon Salem: A trap malfunction killed two California sea lions at Bonneville
Dam, the Statesman Journal reported. The animals are trapped and removed to
protect threatened and endangered salmon and steelhead in the river.

Pennsylvania Allentown: Motorists were diverted around a sinkhole on Lehigh
Parkway South, WFMZ-TV reported.

Rhode Island Newport: Police are looking for the driver of a sport-utility
vehicle who witnesses said was responsible for an accident that sent a car
through the front window of a bridal shop, the Newport Daily News reported.

South Carolina Belton: Groundwork for a proposed underground pipeline is
beginning in the state, one that would carry fuel from Florida to a tank farm
near here, where company officials expect to construct a new facility to handle
the expanded load, The Greenville News reported. Construction on the pipeline is
expected to begin next spring, said officials with Kinder Morgan, the
Texas-based company that is proposing the $1-billion project.

South Dakota Sioux Falls: Police arrested Sadie Gwendolyn Redbear in the 2011
homicide of Daniel Eastman, the Argus Leader reported. Until the arrest, it was
the only open homicide in the last 10 years.

Tennessee Nashville: More than 61% of Tennessee's high school seniors filed
completed applications for federal student aid this year, the highest rate in
the nation, The Tennessean reported. Nationally, the completed application rate
averages 40.8%, according to an analysis from Bellwether Education Partners, a
Sudbury, Mass.-based national non-profit.

Texas Port Aransas: Corpus Christi  police chief Floyd Simpson  died in a
single-vehicle accident.  Simpson was riding a motorcycle  and wearing a helmet,
but it became dislodged.

Utah Roosevelt: A man is dead after being shot by local police officers who said
he was wielding a handgun and acting erratically, The Deseret News reported.

Vermont Burlington: The sound system next door is making it hard for people like
Olga Lopatina to love thy neighbor: Christ the King church here, the Burlington
Free Press reported. Since last summer, the church has been broadcasting the
sounds of bells and hymns to its Burlington neighborhood.

Virginia Arlington: The Northern Virginia Transportation Commission has ordered
a study to consider light rail and a bus rapid-transit line for easing travel on
the traffic-choked 13-mile portion of Route 7 from Tysons Corner to Alexandria,
The Washington Post reported.

Washington Everett: A Snohomish County utility board has hired an independent
investigator to look into allegations that the utility improperly awarded
millions of dollars of contracts,  The Everett Herald reported.

West Virginia Paden City: After being held for 20 years in Cairo, the West
Virginia Marble Festival will move here -- home of Marble King, the state's last
marble factory -- next year, the State Journal reported.

Wisconsin Madison: Wisconsin's three AFSCME councils are merging four years
after the state rolled back public-sector union rights, prompting two out of
three dues-paying members to drop out, the Wisconsin State Journal reported.
Mike Fox, a Pennsylvania-based international vice president for the American
Federation of State County and Municipal Employees, said losses in membership,
dues revenue and staff are only part of the reason for the merger.

Wyoming Sheridan: The Ucross Foundation ranch has been designated as an
important bird area, The Casper Star-Tribune reported. The distinction is
granted by the National Audubon Society and the American Bird Conservancy. It
recognizes habitats as crucial for bird populations.  The groups will work  to
identify and birds.

Compiled by Tim Wendel, Linda Tufano and Nicole Gill, with Morgan Baskin,
Carolyn Cerbin, Linda Dono, Mike Gottschamer, Dennis Lyons, Kaitlyn Russell and
Nichelle Smith. Design by Robert Hatfield. Graphics by Alejandro Gonzalez.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: graphic

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2015 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              212 of 272 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              May 5, 2015 Tuesday
                                FA CHASE EDITION

A-Rod case just one challenge for Clark

BYLINE: Paul White, @PBJWhite, USA TODAY Sports

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 4C

LENGTH: 434 words


They'll talk.

It might not help much in Alex Rodriguez's likely contract dispute with the New
York Yankees over his home run bonuses, but it's an approach that's cause for
optimism in the broader scope of the baseball players union's relationship with
Major League Baseball.

"This is one of those items that, despite the fanfare, is going to continue to
be a topic of discussion," says Tony Clark, MLB Players Association executive
director, in his first public comments since Rodriguez reached the first bonus
trigger with his 660th home run Friday. "We are communicating with Alex and his
representative to see what next steps might look like."

This issue hasn't bubbled over into the legal arena yet, and it's one that
probably ends up in the hands of an arbitrator, but it's part of the almost
routine labor relations for a sport now 20 years removed from its last work
stoppage.

"There are always going to be challenges," says Clark, who after the 2016 season
will enter his first negotiations for a collective bargaining agreement as the
union leader. Same for new MLB Commissioner Rob Manfred, who, like Clark, has
been at the table for previous contract talks but now has graduated to
commissioner from his previous role as management's lead negotiator.

"We won't know what bargaining looks like until we get into bargaining," Clark
says. "How we navigate the challenges is going to lead us to a deal or it is
not. We've been able to navigate them against the backdrop of the (sport's
economic) growth. We've been able to find where that fair and equitable balance
has been."

It's the day-to-day common-sense dialog on issues from performance-enhancing
drugs to this season's pace-of-play initiatives that mark baseball's current
labor climate.

Changes in the specifics of the drug program have been made along the way
without waiting for the next CBA talks -- the current agreement was reached in
2011 -- and similar discussions are helping the players' adjustment to the new
pace-of-game rules.

While feedback from players indicates they feel the flow of the game is better
-- not to mention shaving off roughly eight minutes -- the season's first month
has included trial and error with the process.

The next real test of the relationship that has management and the union as
sometimes partners in endeavors such as the World Baseball Classic comes in the
2016 negotiations, where Clark expects to be tested.

He is hopeful.

"The relationships and respect that have been communicated has proven beneficial
to find common ground sooner rather than later," he says. "That doesn't mean
that we'll always agree."

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Sean Dougherty, USA TODAY Sports

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2015 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              217 of 272 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              May 15, 2015 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Anchor blasted for Clinton donation;
ABC newsman gave money to foundation

BYLINE: Roger Yu, @RogerJYu, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 574 words


ABC News chief anchor George Stephanopoulos is coming under fire for donating
$75,000 to the Clinton Foundation. It's the latest fodder for conservative media
critics and a revelation that undermines the politico-turned-journalist's
standing to cover the Democratic Party's lead candidate.

Stephanopoulos, who once served as President  Clinton's strategist and spokesman
before launching a successful journalism career, made his donations to the
non-profit organization founded by Bill Clinton on separate occasions between
2012 to 2014, Politico reported Thursday.

That Stephanopoulos donated to the foundation in excess of $50,000 is publicly
available information, with his name listed on the donors' page on the
foundation's website. But the newsman never disclosed it himself as he was
reporting about the Clintons and Hillary Clinton's latest run for the
presidency.

"He should have taken the extra step to notify us and our viewers during the
recent news reports about the foundation," ABC News said in a statement. "He's
admitted to an honest mistake and apologized for that omission. We stand behind
him."

In a statement, Stephanopoulos, who's the host of Sunday political talk show
This Week and co-anchor of Good Morning America, said he made charitable
donations "in support of the work they're doing on global AIDS prevention and
deforestation."

"I thought that my contributions were all a matter of public record," he said.
"However, in hindsight, I should have taken the extra step of personally
disclosing my donations to my employer and to the viewers on air during the
recent news stories about the Foundation. I apologize."

Stephanopoulos also told Politico that he would not moderate ABC's GOP debate,
scheduled for February. "I want to be sure I don't deprive viewers of a good
debate," he told Politico.

For the year ended 2013, the foundation raised $294 million in revenue, mostly
from contributions and grants, its latest annual report shows. But donations
reached nearly $2 billion between 2001 and the end of 2014, The Washington Post
reported.

Much of it goes to laudable charitable efforts worldwide, ranging from HIV
prevention and childhood obesity to fighting climate change. But the foundation
has come under attacks, particularly from conservatives, for its ties to donors
who will inevitably seek favors if Hillary Clinton were to be elected next year.

About half of the major donors who were backing Ready for Hillary, a group
promoting her 2016 presidential bid, "have given at least $10,000 to the
foundation, either on their own or through foundations or companies they run,"
the Post reported in February before Clinton formally announced her candidacy.

ABC News' efforts to tamp down the issue won't be easy, media critics say.

As an illustration of the fine journalistic line Stephanopoulos walks in
reporting partisan politics, many pointed to an interview he had with the author
of a book  critical of the foundation.

In his April 26 interview with Clinton Cash author Peter Schweizer,
Stephanopoulos "repeatedly pressed  Schweizer to acknowledge the lack of a
'smoking gun' among the allegations in his book," reported The Washington Free
Beacon, the conservative online publication that says it emailed ABC News on
Wednesday evening for a comment prior to Politico's story.

"I don't think @abc can make this @GStephanopoulos donation flap go away by
saying 'We stand behind him,' tweeted media critic Jack Shafer.

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Lou Rocco, ABC

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2015 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              221 of 272 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              June 9, 2015 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

James, Cavs fine with ugly wins;
Warriors must rediscover long-distance stroke to rebound

BYLINE: Jarrett Bell, jbell@usatoday.com, USA TODAY Sports

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 3C

LENGTH: 695 words


Sure, they will play Game 3 of the NBA Finals on Tuesday inside climate
-controlled Quicken Loans Arena, but the Ohio backdrop outdoors is a bit
striking as the venue for this series shift.

It was overcast Monday, with the thick gray sky packing light rain. Sunny
California it is not. The forecast for Tuesday is for more of the same. Rather
ugly.

How fitting.

If the Cleveland Cavaliers are to wrest control of this series -- which seems a
lot more possible now -- they had better embrace the formula that got them over
the hump Sunday.

Just win ugly.

For all the subplots that have added spice to this compelling matchup between
the Cavs and Golden State Warriors, it ultimately might be determined by the
contrasts in style.

No doubt, the head Cavalier is on board with that notion.

"It's the grit squad that we have," LeBron James said Sunday, after his 39-16-11
triple-double fueled Cleveland to an overtime win that evened the series. "It's
not cute at all. If you're looking for us to play sexy, cute basketball, then
that's not us. That's not us right now. Everything is tough.

"And for us to win a Finals game shooting 32% from the field, it's just a
testament of how gritty we can be. It has to be that for the rest of the series,
no matter how many games it takes."

That identity, which has been forced upon the Cavs to a greater degree with the
season-ending losses of All-Stars Kyrie Irving and Kevin Love, is their best
hope.

Meanwhile, Golden State's best hope figures to be built around the prospect for
raining threes -- although the Warriors are similarly challenged to find their
inner grit.  We saw Sunday what can happen when MVP Stephen Curry gets cold. Too
many quick, one-shot possessions.

With Matthew Dellavedova, Cleveland's fill-in point guard, hounding the
sharpshooter for much of the night, Curry had his worst game of the season.

Curry, who scored the most frustrating 19 points you'll ever see, was  2-for-15
on three-pointers. He never connected on a trey when pesky Dellavedova was in
his pocket, and when the game might have been won in overtime on a long-range
shot from the corner -- the type Curry flicks through the nets with amazing
consistency -- he shot an air ball.

"Shots I normally make I knew as soon as they left my hand they were off," Curry
said. "That usually doesn't happen. Mechanically, I don't know if there's an
explanation for it. Just didn't have a rhythm and didn't find one the whole
game."

Was it the result of aggressive, physical defense knocking Curry out of sync?
The wear and tear of a long season? Has Curry even been the same since suffering
the head contusion during the Eastern Conference finals against the Houston
Rockets?

Imagine the woes if the MVP doesn't find his  touch for Game 3. It can throw the
whole scheme out of whack. The Warriors hoisted a Finals-record 35
three-pointers (hitting eight, for 22.9%) in Game 2, when they also had their
lowest assist total (16) of the season. That does not cut it.

Still, it's not time to panic. The Warriors won an NBA-best 67 games in the
regular season with their style. Curry insists  he won't lose confidence and
doubts he'll have another game like  Sunday's.

"I'm not going to let one game kind of alter my confidence," Curry assured.

Besides, they are so fun to watch, with all the movement away from the
basketball on any given possession and a fear-not mentality for jacking up
jumpers. It's still a bit stunning to see Curry or others pull up on fast
breaks, to take a three. But it has gotten them this far.

Whether it takes them all the way to a crown remains to be seen. But the wake-up
call has arrived. Despite a wide-open style touted as a reflection of the new
NBA, these are still the playoffs.

Warriors coach Steve Kerr knows. Kerr, who won five rings as a player with the
Chicago Bulls and San Antonio Spurs, described Game 2  as a grind-out, old
school-type of game. He doesn't expect that to change: "That's the style it's
going to be when you get this deep in the playoffs. It's rarely a track meet."

In other words, the Warriors had better brace themselves for a full dose of ugly
ball -- and perhaps even find a way to beat the Cavs at their own game.

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Bob Donnan, USA TODAY Sports

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2015 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              225 of 272 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             June 18, 2015 Thursday
                                 FIRST EDITION

WHAT'S HAPPENING ONLINE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 101 words


TODAY'S MUST-READS

We're there

as Pope Francis issues report on climate change

Stories, photos as Chicago

parade honors Blackhawks

We report as Dennis Hastert goes to court in hush-money case

MOST-CLICKED STORIES

After loss, what's next for

LeBron James

and the Cavs?

Maimed N.C. shark attack

victim, 16: It was 'biting up' my arm

Dale Earnhardt Jr. gets engaged to his longtime girlfriend

COOL STUFF

We report as U.S. Open tees off on tough course near Seattle

Steer clear! Foods to avoid when you're

traveling overseas

Stories and photos from E3, the huge video game expo

To find these items, go to

onlinetoday.usatoday.com

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Maurizio Brambatti, epa

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2015 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              232 of 272 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            August 11, 2015 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Roker's 'Storm' has many layers;
NBC icon digs into the science behind the catastrophe

BYLINE: Matt Damsker, Special for USA TODAY

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 358 words


The Storm of the Century

*** OUT OF FOUR

Al Roker

William Morrow 297 pp.

The human drama and complex natural history of the hurricane that leveled
Galveston, Texas, on Sept. 8, 1900, has been told and retold. Striking at the
dawn of modern meteorology, it remains the deadliest natural disaster in
American history, killing more than 8,000 people.

And its cautionary tragedy should haunt us now more than ever as climate change
and extreme weather imperil the future.

In The Storm of the Century, popular NBC meteorologist Al Roker doesn't hype the
relevance of Galveston's misfortune so much as deliver a fascinating,
multifaceted story.

Researching the lives of several survivors to impart flesh-and-blood immediacy,
he portrays grocer Arnold Wolfram,  police chief Edwin Ketchum and first-grader
Louise Bristol in their desperate hours. But none of their travails resonate as
strongly as those of Isaac Cline, Galveston's resident weatherman, an ambitious
member of the fledgling U.S. Weather Bureau caught in the literal and political
crosswinds of the storm.

Cline's story is at the core of this historical drama, which led a craftier
storyteller, Erik Larson, to focus on it so effectively in his 1999 book,
Isaac's Storm. Admirably, and with acknowledgement, Roker's big-picture approach
seeks to build on Larson's bestseller, providing a wealth of cultural context
and meteorological depth.

Roker is at his best on his home field: meteorology. His deeply knowledgeable
descriptions of how hurricanes form are well-written and interesting to the lay
reader who hasn't a clue as to why air masses converge, spiral and wreak havoc.
We learn that the science of weather forecasting we take for granted today was
well in place more than a century ago.

Shockingly, Galveston didn't benefit from the hurricane warnings that preceded
Sept. 8. At the time, the United States controlled Cuba, and in a sorry show of
bureaucratic bad faith, the U.S. Weather Bureau refused to heed the warnings of
Cuban meteorologists who predicted the severity of the storm.  Cline was
forbidden to warn his fellow Galvestonians of the storm's scope -- and the rest
is history.

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Eric Ray Davidson

DOCUMENT-TYPE: BOOK REVIEW

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2015 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              233 of 272 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           August 12, 2015 Wednesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Rubio's sweet but wasted bravery;
Fighting to kill jobs won't win election

BYLINE: James Bovard

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 470 words


America would be more prosperous if not a single sugar beet or sugar cane were
grown anywhere in the United States because bankrolling sugar production in
Florida makes as little sense as growing bananas in Maine. So when Sen. Marco
Rubio, R-Fla., walked into the Koch conclave earlier this month and defended his
home state boondoggle in front of the most powerful enemies of corporate
welfare, he became the bravest man in politics.

Rarely has such political daring been offered in a more worthless cause. Federal
price supports and import quotas combine to force American consumers to pay more
than $3 billion a year in higher prices, according to the Commerce Department.

Federal sugar policy has a long, sordid history. In 1816, Congress imposed high
tariffs on sugar imports in part to prop up the value of slaves in Louisiana. In
the 1890s, Congress abolished and then re-imposed the sugar tariff, spurring a
boom-bust in Cuba that helped drag the U.S. into the Spanish-American War.

Sugar is perhaps America's least efficient welfare program, costing consumers
vastly more than it benefits farmers. Despite  subsidies, the number of sugar
growers has fallen by about half in the past three decades. The General
Accounting Office estimated in 1995 that 1% of sugar growers captured almost
half of all the benefits from the program.

As a result of the high prices, candy and other food manufacturers are shifting
production to foreign nations (especially Canada). A study by Agralytica, an
economic consulting firm, estimated the sugar program has cost over 120,000 jobs
since 1997.

Because the U.S. mainland does not have a natural climate for sugar production,
farmers have to compensate by dousing the land with fertilizer. As nearly
500,000 acres of the Everglades have been converted from swampland to sugar
fields, phosphorous from the fertilizer has ravaged the region's ecosystem.
Politicians have launched hugely expensive efforts to curb the environmental
harm but, as a New York Times 2010 exposé proved, the sugar industry benefited,
not the Everglades.

The sugar program offers perennial confirmation of H.L. Mencken's adage that
every election is an "advance auction of stolen goods." Congress shafts
consumers because the sugar industry has directed millions to politicians,
including almost $50 million in campaign contributions and lobbying between 2008
and 2013 alone. The economic arguments offered in defense of the program are
merely camouflage for political plunder.

Food manufacturers, environmental groups and free-market activists are leading
another assault on the program, and lawmakers are pushing a bill to limit the
disruption the sugar program inflicts. That's a first step, not a solution.

James Bovard is the author of Public Policy Hooligan and a member of USA TODAY's
Board of Contributors.

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2015 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              237 of 272 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             August 31, 2015 Monday
                                 FIRST EDITION

May be perfect time for Murdoch to sue over content

BYLINE: Michael Wolff

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 984 words


From the early days of the commercial Internet, Rupert Murdoch has expressed his
frustration and anger over the disingenuousness that has allowed, under the
guise of freedom and innovation, a widespread appropriation of otherwise
protected content. Once, to no practical effect, he threatened to block Google's
crawlers from searching and indexing his newspapers. Later, he put up one of the
industry's most solid pay walls -- impeding his own traffic without raising
meaningful subscription income.

In a recent speech in Australia, as I noted in my last column, the CEO of
Murdoch's newspaper company, Robert Thomson, harshly castigated the major
digital platforms and labeled Google a "pirate" -- which, I suggested, sounded
like a prelude to a Murdoch lawsuit.

That prompted quite an outpouring from people in both the tech and media
businesses, asking, "Do you really think he will?"

The answer is, I have no idea. Except that when you, or your highest executives,
publicly accuse someone of massive copyright infringements, how can you not take
action? And, too, from Murdoch's perspective, there seems little to lose.

On the one hand, you have a traditional newspaper industry that has, in a few
year's time, lost more than half of its value, with the decline continuing. On
the other, you have a "digital first" movement that, at best, accepts the idea
of a defenestrated news business.

In this, Murdoch, at 84, has sometimes seemed like a Shakespearean, or
ridiculous, figure -- railing against what he cannot change.

And yet, this is a curious and maybe opportune moment. The digital upstarts that
have undermined the entrenched old-line incumbents are now themselves scarily
entrenched and hegemonic. In many parts of the world, the tide is turning
against them. Google, like Microsoft before it, is now squarely in the cross
hairs of European courts and regulators. Indeed, there are any number of
jurisdictions in the world where a copyright suit against Google and Facebook
might be a plausible and popular action.

There may not be a better moment -- or  this may be the last moment -- to
challenge the assumptions that have shifted power in the information business
and gutted the economics of many content creators.

It's a Murdoch sort of moment.

In 1986, after several decades in which British newspaper unions took power from
owners and management, flattening the industry, Murdoch, in the dead of night,
moved all of his papers from unionized Fleet Street in London to a protected
enclave up the river in Wapping. In one of the most bitter industrial disputes
of the era, he shut out the printers union. Although reviled then by the left
and the liberal media, he is now widely regarded as having saved British
newspapers for another generation.

This may, too, be a moment in which the Murdoch world view could be a bracing
tonic. The unsentimental Murdoch sees the world as a struggle among more and
less powerful entities. The technology community, in part through artful
myth-making, has made its rise and dominance seem, not unlike those of the
British labor unions of the 1970s, to be about the common good. Murdoch's
reduction of the world to wholly competitive forces calls reasonable phooey on
the virtuousness of engulf-and-devour tech platforms.

Google and Facebook, controlling 52% of the digital advertising market, profit
from other people's content and pay nothing for it, offering a perfect example
of the public policy reasons for copyright protection -- without it, copyright
holders can't economically exist. Under the guise of new cultural norms and
advancements in technology, the indexing and sharing platforms effectively
became radio stations playing recordings without having to pay ASCAP, the
100-year-old organization that collects royalties for content owners.

And yet, at the same time as Google and Facebook staunchly resist  paying
copyright holders, significant music and video licensing fees have been wrestled
out of YouTube (a Google subsidiary); this year, Netflix will pay Hollywood and
the TV industry $3billion in  fees; Spotify, the digital platform, pays 70% of
its revenue to music labels.

Why haven't newspapers been able to share in this increasingly lucrative game?

Partly because the horse has already bolted from the barn.

In this, Google and Facebook, demonstrating the age-old business truth that you
most reliably make money off of people who are dumber than you, are not so much
criminals as lucky beneficiaries of the incredible stupidity of a publishing
industry that willingly gave its property away. And, too, there is the
cat-that-ate-the-canary beauty of technology that provides a workaround to
intellectual property protections -- a little can be stolen from everybody that
adds up to a vast amount (the nature of a search engine) and everybody can
share, therefore nobody is guilty of stealing (a social network).

Google says, with seeming reasonableness, that if you don't like the system,
feel free to pull your content out of our index -- knowing that, however bleak
the new business reality, nobody is going to turn down traffic, the crumbs left
on the table. Likewise, Facebook could willingly forsake The New York Times and
its members' ability to share it, without a tremor, or much notice, from its
billion users.

There is just no leverage left.

Except perhaps Murdoch's willfulness. Is there one more battle here? The
ultimate one. News Corp. has more than a billion dollars in the bank. What
better investment might a newspaper company make than in a multi-jurisdictional,
tidal wave, 11-figure, treble damage lawsuit that -- eventually joined by all
the world's publishers -- might level the balance between creators and
distributors?

Digital technology has created a climate of invincibility and awe and a kind of
Stockholm Syndrome that has overwhelmed the publishing industry.

Likely there is only one old man who is immune to that.

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Pool

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2015 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              241 of 272 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          September 17, 2015 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Survey says most people see cars as a way of life

BYLINE: Kim Hjelmgaard, @khjelmgaard, USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 493 words


A majority of people around the world could not imagine living their lives
without a car, according to a study released Wednesday at the Frankfurt Motor
Show.

The findings by the International Organization of Motor Vehicle Manufacturers
(OICA), a group that defends the various interests of the car industry, revealed
that 57% of people globally would find life harder or more challenging without
access to four wheels.

OICA concluded  that 78% of people in Africa cannot imagine living  without a
car, 63% in the Americas, 56% in Europe and 48% in Asia. The Paris-based
organization surveyed 14,000 people in 18 countries.

"The conclusions are quite clear and positive, with the car seen as an object of
desire, providing many important advantages compared to any other transport
mode: globally, consumers view the car as comfortable, practical, fast, safe,
and future-oriented," said Matthias Wissmann, president of the German
Association of the Automotive Industry and an OICA vice-president, in a
statement.

"Also the industry itself scores extremely high and is largely considered as an
industry that can be trusted and is innovative."

The study concluded that global consumers generally believe the car industry is
doing its job when it comes to investing in technologies that reduce carbon
emissions and support renewable energy sources.

"There's been a lot of effort by different companies bringing different
technologies" to the emissions problem, Renault CEO Carlos Ghosn -- also
president of the European Automobile Manufacturers Association (ACEA) -- told
news reporters  Wednesday.

"We will we do what we can to get results at COP21."

COP21 is a United Nations-sponsored conference on climate change that will take
place in Paris in December. Reducing long-term carbon emissions from cars and
other major infrastructure is one of its goals.

Erik Jonnaert, ACEA's secretary-general, said Wednesday the car industry
currently is responsible for a 5% reduction in total global emissions. He said
that was ahead of other industries.

The OICA study found the car industry largely enjoys a positive reputation
despite a spate of highly publicized vehicle recalls involving nearly all major
manufacturers. That's in large part because today's cars are safer and more
reliable. In the U.S., road fatalities have dropped sharply and vehicle
dependability ratings are at all-time highs.

Nevertheless, the car's reign may still be under threat, as a growing number of
people live where car ownership is difficult, unnecessary and even dangerous.

According to the World Health Organization, 54% of the world's population lives
in urban centers -- and that number is expected to grow to 66% by 2050.

According to the WHO, car accidents are now the fifth-leading cause of death in
developing countries, and vehicle-related air pollution is an increasing threat
to human health.

Globally, demand for new passenger cars was up 1.4% to 36.1million in the first
half of this year.

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Kevork Djansezian, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2015 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              244 of 272 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          September 24, 2015 Thursday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Boehner long had pope on wish list;
A former altar boy, speaker's 20-year prayer answered

BYLINE: Deirdre Shesgreen, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 634 words


As a second-term congressman, John Boehner organized a petition urging
then-House speaker Tom Foley to invite the pope to address a joint session of
Congress, writing in 1994 that as a "world leader, ambassador of peace, and an
important catalyst in the fall of the Iron Curtain ... the pope is an important
figure in world politics."

Foley made the request, but that pope, and the next one, declined the Ohio
Republican's appeal. More than 20 years later, now speaker of the House himself,
Boehner is delighting in a dream come true as he prepares for the arrival of
Pope Francis to the U.S. Capitol for the first papal address to Congress.

"For a little Catholic boy like me, this is big stuff," Boehner said in an
interview Monday. In his childhood home in Reading, Boehner recalled, "there was
a picture of the pope and a picture of President Kennedy. ... And most every
day, we prayed for the pope as well as the archbishop."

Lawmakers of all faiths are jazzed about having a front-row seat for the pope's
historic address Thursday. But no one is more excited than Boehner, who first
extended the invitation to Pope Francis in March 2014, about a year after the
pontiff was chosen to succeed Pope Benedict XVI.

Months went by before  he received a call from Rome. On the line was the
Archbishop of Washington, Cardinal Donald Wuerl, who told Boehner the pope was
excited about the invitation.

Boehner's staff has spent nearly seven months preparing for the papal visit --
opening the Capitol's West Lawn so faithful fans can watch the pope's address
live on Jumbotrons and deploying about 100 congressional staffers to deal with
everything from logistics to etiquette. A crowd of about 40,000 is likely to
gather on the West Lawn for the address.

Washington is buzzing with speculation about what hot political issues this very
vocal pope will touch on.

"I could imagine him being very provocative and challenging people in the room,
but I also can imagine him being very diplomatic," said John Green, an expert on
religion and politics at the University of Akron. "You just never know with this
pope. ... He takes a certain delight in surprising people."

He could talk about abortion, making Democrats squirm as they defend federal
funding for Planned Parenthood. He could talk about the dangers of climate
change, putting Republicans on the spot as they fight President Obama's push to
curb carbon emissions. And he could talk about the excesses of capitalism and
income inequality, fueling divisions in the 2016 campaign.

"Of course the pope is going to talk about these things," said Thomas Reese, a
Jesuit priest and church observer for The National Catholic Reporter. "Political
issues are often moral issues," he said, and as a prophet, it's the pope's role
to "comfort the afflicted and afflict the comfortable."

For Boehner, the unflappable GOP leader who has been tested time and again by
firebrand conservatives in his caucus, said he won't be even a smidge
uncomfortable if the pope highlights issues that put his deep Catholic faith in
conflict with his strong Republican politics.

"No matter what the pope has to say, I'm looking forward to hearing it," Boehner
said.

Boehner said he has worked to make this moment happen because he believes it
will "help awaken the Congress and awaken the American people ... to our higher
callings."

Plus, he has dreamed of meeting a pope since he was an altar boy in Reading,
where he was one of 12 children and where he went to Mass nearly every morning
before heading off to school.

Before the pope's speech, Boehner will get to meet him one-on-one in his office.
"It'll be like meeting any other world leader, except he's the head of the
Catholic Church and he's a descendant of St. Peter," Boehner said. "I'm sure
that God will give me all the right words."

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: graphic Saul Loeb, AFP/Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2015 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              246 of 272 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          September 24, 2015 Thursday
                                 FIRST EDITION

THE RELIGION OF FREE ENTERPRISE;
Despite what pope says, capitalism is the answer, not the problem

BYLINE: Thomas J. Donohue

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 764 words


Now that Pope Francis has arrived, we're likely to hear him raise important
questions about how best to expand opportunity and improve the quality of life
for all Americans, especially those who have been left behind.  As citizens
engage in these debates, it is important to remember the positive role that
business and free enterprise play in solving society's greatest challenges.

Putting people to work, bridging the opportunity gap and maintaining a robust
social safety net all depend on one  thing -- greater economic growth. It won't
solve all our problems, but we can't solve any of them without it. The free
enterprise system is the best system to create that growth. In fact, free
enterprise has created more jobs, broadly shared wealth and opportunity than any
other system ever devised. The evidence is indisputable. The U.S. economy, built
on free enterprise principles, is the envy of the world.

China, India, Europe

Every command-and-control economy that has moved toward free markets has seen
significant reductions in poverty, rising wages and a growing middle class. For
example, the adoption of free market principles fuels massive increases in
wealth in China, India and Eastern Europe. The globalization of free enterprise
principles since 1950  has more than tripled annual average income in the world.
While socialist and communist governments have left millions impoverished and
dispirited, free enterprise has  lifted hundreds of millions of people out of
poverty and helped spread democracy, the rule of law and respect for human
rights.

A government-directed economic system that takes from the rich and gives to the
poor only makes everyone poorer. You could redistribute all the wealth from the
top 10% and it wouldn't begin to make a difference for those in need. Only
greater economic growth can provide new wealth and opportunities.

Free enterprise provides another benefit to society -- thriving businesses that
create jobs, spur growth, innovate and generate wealth to address difficult
challenges. When businesses do well, they do a lot of good.

Last year, U.S. private- and public-sector employers spent approximately $7.5
trillion on direct wages and salaries and $1.8 trillion on employee benefits,
such as health care, retirement, life insurance, paid vacation and tuition
reimbursement.

Capitalism is not perfect

On a daily basis, businesses large and small utilize their business expertise,
human capital and charitable donations to solve the greatest challenges we face.
Logistics companies, for instance, donate their system and models after natural
disasters to help communities coordinate immediate relief supplies and efforts.
Health companies develop and disperse fortified foods to end malnutrition around
the world. And some of the country's largest retail companies use their reach to
help entrepreneurs grow their businesses.

The American business community also contributes more than $25 billion to
charitable causes every year. These donations create science, technology,
engineering and math programs for students, feed disadvantaged families, and
protect the environment while creating jobs.

The wealth and innovations produced by healthy businesses also dramatically
improve the environment. In America, businesses have spent trillions on
environmental compliance since 1970. This helped bring about an enormous
reduction in major pollutants, solutions to environmental problems such as acid
rain, and the most efficient and cleanest industrial base in the world. It's
clear that all over the globe, stronger economies have cleaner environments.

We're the first to acknowledge that free enterprise is not perfect -- only the
best system we have. We're not advocating for unfettered capitalism. We believe
that government has a legitimate and important role to play in instituting
reasonable regulations, while providing a strong social safety net for those who
truly require it.

The business community believes in a few simple principles -- enlarging the
economic pie is preferable to divvying up a shrinking economic pie;
self-sufficiency and the dignity of work are better than dependency; technology
is useful in improving our standard of living and addressing complex challenges
such as climate change; business plays a positive role in our society; and free
enterprise makes it all possible.

What the United States has accomplished under a free enterprise system at home
and abroad proves that business is not part of the problem; rather, it is a big
part of the solution.

Thomas J. Donohue is president of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce .

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Drew Angerer, epa

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2015 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              247 of 272 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           September 25, 2015 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

'Christ was not a divine ecologist'

BYLINE: Steve Skojec

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 357 words


Early in his papacy, Pope Francis admonished that the Catholic Church is not a
"humanitarian agency, the church is not an NGO (non-governmental organization).
The church is sent to bring Christ and his Gospel to all."

As Thursday's congressional address emphasized, however, Francis' priorities are
climate change, economic justice, marginalization and the poor, while little
emphasis is placed on the deep moral and spiritual crisis that threatens our
eternal salvation or our subsequent need for authentic conversion.

This diversion from the church's traditional focus has won critical acclaim from
the secular world and raised expectations that at last there's a pope who will
force Catholicism to "get with the times."

At the core of our faith, however, is the belief that its doctrines -- founded
upon divinely revealed truths -- are unchangeable.

Yet under the auspices of "pastoral concern" or "mercy," we hear a commonly
expressed anticipation that Francis will reverse this or that long-held
teaching. This is pure wishful thinking, but it is indulged by many high-ranking
church prelates, and at times, it seems, by Francis himself.

Stewardship over creation is one of the first responsibilities God gave to Adam
and Eve. Care for the poor and the destitute was an important tenet of Jesus'
public ministry. But Christ was not a divine ecologist or social worker. Jesus
Christ fed the poor, but his principal concern was their spiritual nourishment.

Appropriate Christian concern for temporal matters is virtuous, but when
isolated from the salvific message of the Gospels, the church risks becoming the
very NGO Francis has condemned.

When true sanctity is replaced with ersatz religious materialism, we easily
forget our reason for existence: to know, love and serve God in this life, and
to be happy with him in the next.

Truly, "our common home" is not earth, but heaven. More than ever, our world
needs the pope to fix his eyes firmly there -- not here -- and to lead us to our
eternal destination.

Steve Skojec is the founding publisher and executive director of
OnePeterFive.com, a journal about Catholic theology, tradition and culture.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: OPINION

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2015 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              252 of 272 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             October 2, 2015 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

5 ways that Tesla's Model X innovates

BYLINE: Chris Woodyard

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 404 words


When it comes to designing a new SUV, most automakers would have designed in a
couple new nifty features and called it a day. Not Tesla.

Tesla's designers basically went crazy in trying to pour new ideas into the
Model X crossover.

Here are the five top innovative ideas that went into the Model X:

1. "Falcon wing" doors. Lamborghinis have upward opening doors, but they are a
novelty and there are painfully few Lambos in this world. Tesla takes the
upward-opening door to a new level. Not only do they open over the
rear-passengers -- all with power, no lifting required -- but they can sense how
close they are to another vehicle so they don't come in contact. Tesla CEO Elon
Musk says the sensors operate through the doors' aluminum skin -- another
innovation. The doors will cover you if you step out in the rain. And while they
take a few seconds longer to operate than a common door, it's worth the wait.

2. Blistering performance. Yes, BMW, Mercedes-Benz and others have built
performance SUVs, almost an oxymoron considering that these bulky vehicles are
aimed at hauling preschoolers, not ripping up pavement. Yet the Model X will
blow them all off the drag strip. At zero to 60 mph in as little as 3.2 seconds,
it not only comes close to matching the Model S for quickness, it will have a
boast no other SUV can match. The electric drivetrain is whisper quiet and has
250 miles of range.

3. "Medical grade" passenger air filter.  If you have allergies, you'll care
about this. And if you don't, well, it's nice to know: Musk says the car's HEPA
filtration is so huge and efficient that the cabin gets "medical grade" air.
There's a "bio-weapon defense mode" button on the climate control screen. Musk
says the Model X would be the safest place to be in an attack.

4. Pedestal seats. Car seats always sit on a couple of rails. You generally
can't put things under them, but they become collection points for loose change,
pens and other flotsam. The Tesla Model X second-row seats sit on a post. They
slide forward and back and make it easier to reach the third-row seats.

5. Electric car that tows. An electric car that tows a 5,000-pound trailer or
boat? Until now, electrics have come across as punks when it comes to doing
heavy work. Tesla says not only will they show they are fully capable of doing
the heavy lifting, but the low-end torque makes them especially good when it
comes to moving trailers from a stop.

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo David Paul Morris, Bloomberg

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2015 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              254 of 272 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            October 26, 2015 Monday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Millennials worry most about inequality, survey shows

BYLINE: Gregg Zoroya, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 300 words


Millennials around the world worry most about social and economic equality,
remain skeptical of government and the media, and count Tesla CEO Elon Musk as
one of their heroes, according to a World Economic Forum survey released Sunday.

More than 1,000 young people, ages 20 to 30, from 125 countries and who are all
active in the forum's Global Shapers Community, were  surveyed. The average age
was 28. The results were released at the beginning of a three-day World Economic
Forum conference in Abu Dhabi, capital of the United Arab Emirates.

The survey showed that 65% of  Millennials said one of their top three goals in
selecting a job was to make a difference in society, their city or country. They
also look for an opportunity to learn, followed by career advancement.

The annual survey "reveals that Millennials care about society in their
reflections and also in their own career," said Yemi Babington-Ashaye, head of
the Global Shapers Community.

Asked about the top three issues that face the world, 56% named social and
economic inequality, 42%  climate change and environmental preservation, and 33%
education. Half said their national government was neither fair nor honest. And
46% had the same view about the media, while 35% said they distrusted religious
leaders and armed forces.

The most admired figure among the Millennials was the late Nelson Mandela,
followed by Pope Francis. Musk, 44, the billionaire inventor, engineer and
creator of SpaceX, was third.

Other  findings include:

48%, said their laptop was their primary means of navigating the Internet,
followed  by their smartphone. Tablets were third.

The United States was the top location to work, followed by England and Germany.

These Millennials said the top emerging markets were the United Arab Emirates,
China and Brazil.

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2015 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved
