
                               1 of 119 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   October 30, 2003, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Chilling conclusion: Arctic is indeed warmer

BYLINE: Jack Williams

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 10D

LENGTH: 817 words

People who live around the Arctic and scientists who study it are seeing clear
signs that most of the top of Earth is getting warmer. Exactly why this is
happening, and what it means for the Arctic and the rest of the world, isn't as
clear.

Satellite temperature measurements of the area show that spring is arriving
earlier and fall is landing later, according to research presented last week by
NASA scientist Josefino Comiso.

People have been talking about Arctic warming for years, but the NASA study used
satellite data to read temperatures over the entire Arctic, not just from a few
scattered thermometers as past studies have done. Annual temperatures in parts
of the Arctic have warmed as much as 1.9 degrees since 1981, though some parts
have cooled by as much as 0.16 degrees.


In addition, Mark Serreze of the University of Colorado-Boulder reported that in
September 2002, less ice covered the Arctic Ocean at the end of summer than any
year since satellites began keeping track of it in 1979 and that last month was
probably as ice-free.

But it's not just satellites and weather instruments that are seeing the
changes.

Native hunters around the Arctic report that earlier spring melting and later
fall freezing of sea ice are upsetting centuries-old patterns of hunting and
fishing. The ice is no longer reliably in sync with the migrations of seals,
whales and fish, Caleb Pungowiyi of Kotzebue, Alaska, said Tuesday.

Pungowiyi, a Yup'ik Eskimo and an advocate for native concerns, spoke during a
news briefing at the Study of Environmental Arctic Change (SEARCH) conference in
Seattle, which ends today.

Though few people live in the Arctic, what happens there is important: The
Arctic is part of Earth's air-conditioning system, along with the Antarctic.
Warm air and ocean currents flow into the regions; cold air and currents flow
out. Polar changes could affect not only global temperatures but also things
such as rainfall, snow patterns and storm paths. The usual suspect is global
warming. But is that what's responsible?

Some experts think so. "The changes we are seeing are related to the burning of
fossil fuel," Jonathan Overpeck of the University of Arizona said Tuesday.
Burning fuels such as gasoline and coal add carbon dioxide to the air, which
climate scientists agree is increasing Earth's temperature.

Others, such as James Morison of the University of Washington, say it isn't that
simple. The biggest recent changes in the Arctic, including temperature
increases and shifts in winds and ocean currents, occurred in the early 1990s
and have since "relaxed," Morison said.

These big changes "are not related to (global) climate change" but seem to be
more like the El Nino pattern of changes in tropical Pacific Ocean temperatures,
which have global effects. Scientists have identified such a pattern, called the
Arctic Oscillation, which shifts back and forth naturally. That could explain
why parts of the Arctic can get cooler as others warm.

Still, Morison said, a general warming of Earth could be pushing the oscillation
toward a phase that warms the Arctic.

In fact, Morison said, the oscillation helps explain why summer sea ice is
thinner than in years past. Since the 1980s, wind changes associated with the
oscillation have shoved more ice from the Arctic into the Atlantic Ocean between
Greenland and Norway.

Ice reflects away most of the sunlight that hits it. When the ice opens up, the
exposed ocean water absorbs sunlight. The water and the air right above it grow
warmer, which tends to melt ice and expose even more water to the sun.

That is what scientists call a "positive feedback," with warming bringing more
warming. But with the ocean exposed, more water can evaporate into the air,
increasing cloud cover, which can block sunlight and mitigate warming -- a
negative feedback. Scientists are still trying to understand the Arctic's
feedbacks and how they might play out in the future.

A goal of the Seattle meeting is to bring together scientists, many of whom tend
to concentrate on their own research, and native people who live with Arctic
changes. They learn more about things such as the Arctic's complicated
feedbacks, then use the knowledge to better live with the changes. For example,
scientists might be able to predict a few months ahead of time what the spring
sea ice will be like, giving native whale hunters time to adjust hunting
schedules.

"Each scientist here has learned to play his or her part on their instrument,"
said Matthew Sturm of the U.S. Army's Cold Regions Lab in Fairbanks, Alaska.
"When finally all the parts are played together, a great chord emerges, and it
is more powerful and truthful than any individual part. Here, the collective
sound is of a region, the Arctic, undergoing profound changes that scientists
and society alike need to understand."

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Marcy E. Mullins, USA TODAY, Source: NASA (DIAGRAM)

TYPE: SCIENCE

                      Copyright 2003 Gannett Company, Inc.


                               4 of 119 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                  November 19, 2003, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Global-warming debate heats up all the way to Capitol Hill

BYLINE: Dan Vergano

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 11D

LENGTH: 623 words

A global-warming brouhaha has critics of a landmark climate report saying the
20th century was not as hot as it was cracked up to be.

Climate scientists, who have long been raising red flags on the impact modern
man is having on Earth's climate, are calling the critics half-baked.

The debate -- the subject of a briefing Tuesday on Capitol Hill -- highlights
the opposing arguments in the global-warming controversy. On one side are
researchers concerned about temperature-raising pollutants. On the other are
those concerned that this is an overblown argument that will stall economic
progress.


At issue is a 1998 study in the journal Nature that described the 20th century
as the hottest in centuries. That report echoed similar warnings from an
influential United Nations science panel.

Climate research has been an increasingly politicized issue since 2001, when
President Bush rejected a multination plan crafted in Kyoto, Japan, to combat
global warming. Bush cited the costs of capping emissions of greenhouse gases
produced by burning fossil fuels such as coal and petroleum.

In a paper published last month in Energy & Environment, a social science
journal known for reports critical of climate-change research, Canadian
businessman Stephen McIntyre and economist Ross McKitrick of Canada's University
of Guelph charge that the Nature report contains numerous errors regarding
temperatures from the past six centuries.

When corrected, the data suggest the 15th century was actually warmer than
today, they say.

They also criticize the U.N. panel for relying on the Nature study in its
warnings about global warming. In 2001, the U.N.'s Intergovernmental Panel on
Climate Change said the average surface temperature rose 1 degree during the
20th century and could rise 2.6 to 10.4 degrees this century, partly driven by
industrial activities that emit greenhouse gases.

"Unfortunately, a lot was made of the Nature paper, so ordinary debate about its
technical soundness takes on inordinate political overtones," says McKitrick.

The George C. Marshall Institute, one of a number of think tanks that question
the human role in global warming, sponsored a briefing Tuesday for congressional
staffers and others on the rebuttal report.

The authors of the Nature paper, led by climatologist Michael Mann of the
University of Virginia, respond that the critics botched their analysis,
selectively dropping records to invent a warm 15th century and making numerous
other statistical mistakes.

Climate researcher Tom Wigley of the National Center for Atmospheric Research in
Boulder, Colo., calls the critics' complaints "seriously flawed" and "silly."

In addition to the Nature paper, about a dozen independent studies suggest the
20th century was warmer than normal, Wigley points out.

From a statistical viewpoint, "I lean in favor of Mann," says statistician
George Shambaugh of Georgetown University. "There is an increase in the 20th
century that is greater than the cyclical patterns found by either group since
1550. And since the early 1900s, we have been hotter than any time since then."

Princeton geoscientist Michael Oppenheimer compares climate skeptics to tobacco
industry scientists who sought for decades to obscure the link between smoking
and lung cancer. Arguing over whether man-made global warming exists obscures a
more important debate over what steps are possible to moderate its effects, he
says.

But skeptics are providing a valuable public service in keeping the debate
alive, says William O'Keefe of the Marshall Institute. O'Keefe, formerly with
the American Petroleum Institute, says: "We have to encourage healthy debate."

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Julie Snider, USA TODAY, Source: Stephen McIntyre and
Ross McKitrick (LINE GRAPH)

TYPE: SCIENCE

                      Copyright 2003 Gannett Company, Inc.


                               5 of 119 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    January 31, 2003, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Study: Warming worsened drought

BYLINE: Patrick O'Driscoll

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 465 words

Global warming probably made the recent drought in the USA worse than it
otherwise would have been, say the authors of a study published today in the
journal Science. It also could increase the risk for future severe droughts.

The study is the latest in a number of reports linking severe weather problems
-- drought, monsoons and melting polar ice -- to global warming, the gradual
heating of Earth's atmosphere by the burning of fossil fuels. Federal climate
scientists Martin Hoerling and Arun Kumar wrote the study.


The report comes as the White House is due next week to unveil budget plans for
next year on global warming research. Thursday, the administration is expected
to unveil a list of voluntary pledges from American industries to cut the
emission of gases said to cause the phenomenon.

President Bush has called for an 18% drop in such pollution by 2012 as an
alternative to the stricter limits of the Kyoto Protocol, the international
climate treaty that the administration rejected in 2001. Global warming,
although accepted by many, provokes controversy among government, science and
industry about what effect it has on the planet.

The study compared drought in the USA, southern Europe and southwest Asia from
1998 through 2002 with unprecedented warming of seawater in the western Pacific
and Indian oceans. An existing "warm pool" in those oceans grew warmer during
that period. The study attributes that rise to global warming.

The warming, an increase of 2 degrees Fahrenheit, combined with the drying
effects of a La Nina weather pattern in the eastern Pacific during the same
time, Hoerling said.

The combination shifted tropical rainfall and caused the jet stream to move
north of its usual location, the study said. This meant many major winter storms
missed most of North America. As a result, many parts of the country grew drier,
including much of the West, parts of the South and the Eastern Seaboard. Some
areas received as little as 50% of normal rainfall.

"Absent this warm-pool warming, the likelihood is that the drought would not
have been as severe and prolonged," says Hoerling, a meteorologist in the
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration's Climate Diagnostics Center in
Boulder, Colo. Kumar is with NOAA's Climate Prediction Center in Camp Springs,
Md.

Drought, which persists in several Western states, could have occurred without
global warming or La Nina, a climate phenomenon in which cooler eastern Pacific
waters produces drier conditions. But it would not have been as bad or as
persistent, Hoerling says.

The study "should make a number of people sit up and take note," says Kevin
Trenberth, the head of climate analysis for the National Center for Atmospheric
Research.

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2003 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              10 of 119 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     March 17, 2003, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Pay the same, get less as package volume falls

BYLINE: Theresa Howard

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 1672 words

DATELINE: HOBOKEN, N.J.

HOBOKEN, N.J. -- A recent shopping trip to an A&P supermarket here revealed that
consumers aren't the only ones pruning costs to help their budgets.

Some of the biggest supermarket brands are quietly nipping product package
counts and weights in ways that often leave shoppers paying more for an equal or
lesser amount of the product. The tactic -- known in the industry as a "weight
out" -- is a balancing act that packaged-goods marketers play when slow economic
conditions and tightened consumer spending make more overt price increases
difficult.

Most covert is a change in package content structured to lower the retail
package cost -- creating the illusion of being cheaper than rivals on the shelf
-- while actually increasing the unit cost, and profit for the maker.

The game is not without risk for marketers. Consumers can feel duped if they
figure out the price cut doesn't match the smaller portions. And shoppers might
quickly reach for a rival brand if the rival sticks with the old standard
package -- and unit price.


"Marketers know how to slice the bologna very thin to shave just a small amount
of cost off without changing the perception of what you're selling," says Carl
Steidtmann, chief economist for Deloitte Research. "But in the long run, they
undermine the trust you have with consumers."

A survey for USA TODAY of 2,000 consumers by food trend and consumer behavior
firm Supermarket Guru, confirmed shoppers don't like being toyed with. Given a
choice, 69% of respondents would prefer a price increase vs. 31% who'd prefer a
reduction in package quantity.

But consumer preference hasn't stopped marketers from eating away ounces or
count from packages, or from switching pound or half-gallon packages to
hard-to-convert metric measures, shaving contents in the process. (See
accompanying examples from a Hoboken shopping trip.)

What manufacturers and supermarkets are trying to do is keep or lower package
price points to protect their margins and sell more higher-profit branded items.
In the current economy, price-conscious shoppers have been ever more prone to
reach for cheaper off-brands or generics -- or even head for a warehouse store.

"Everyone has to manage prices so consumers feel like they are getting a good
value, but companies have to manage margins so they can compensate
shareholders," says John Porter, a managing vice president who heads up
ACNielsen's price and promotion division.

In addition to risking consumer backlash, there is also danger that rival brands
will see an opening to gain share and take their weight-out competitors to task
in advertising -- as Colombo Yogurt is doing right now with Dannon. In a Colombo
ad, spokesman Bob Colombosian pokes fun at Dannon for cutting its portion size
25% to 6 ounces (see accompanying story). He shows how difficult it would be to
get through a door frame that is shortened by 25%.

"The ad speaks for itself," is all a spokesman would say at General Mills, which
markets Colombo. But Dannon spokeswoman Anna Moses questions General Mills'
willingness to run the ad, because the company sells its market leading Yoplait
brand packaged in 6-ounce containers.

Tactics in the battle for share can get even messier, as it did last fall in the
hard-fought $ 4 billion disposable diaper category.

The visit to the Hoboken store found unit prices for market leader
Kimberly-Clark's top-selling Huggies brand that run from $ 4 to $ 14, depending
on the various package sizes for All-Around Stretch, Ultra Trim or Supreme
varieties. The bewildering range of choices leaves marketers a lot of room to
manage price and packaging.

But Kimberly-Clark is still trying to clean up from a fourth-quarter misstep.
The company cut diaper package count by 5% in October -- without cutting the
package price.

Rival Procter & Gamble not only did not follow, it offered $ 5 coupons for
packages of its Pampers and Luvs disposable diapers.

Kimberly-Clark says the packaging count reduction was necessitated by changes to
new diaper styles. "When we make count change reductions to increase prices, it
is generally associated with improvements or innovations in a product," company
spokesman Dave Dickson says. "The changes do not necessarily have anything to do
with the economy or consumer spending."

Now, however, the company is working on selected price cuts to maintain its lead
in market share.

Even in the current economic climate, not every consumer marketer is playing the
weight-out game to bring in more revenue.

Kellogg went against the grain recently by maintaining its package weights and
simply announcing an average 2% price increase across the board for its cereal
brands, such as Frosted Flakes and Special K.

The move was a risk in that competitive product category, but rival cereal
companies Kraft, Hershey and General Mills followed with increases.

At least one supermarket expert supports such honesty as the best policy.

Phil Lempert, president of Supermarket Guru, says, "From all the consumer
surveys we do, people say, 'Raise the price and be honest with us.' "


Culture clash

Dannon recently shrank its 8-ounce cup of yogurt by 25% to 6 ounces -- but cut
its suggested retail price by only 20% from 89 cents to 71 cents, which would
raise the unit price a penny an ounce -- 9% -- to 12 cents. At the Hoboken
store, which charges more than Dannon's suggested prices, the unit price went
from 12 cents to 13 cents with the size change.

The company says consumers deem the new package "just the right size" for a
snack and says ingredient and material costs created the price gap. "It's not
just less yogurt," says Anna Moses, spokeswoman for Dannon. "There are other
things that go into the cost of a product."

Dannon hopes retailers absorb the price change. "We really want the price to
match," Moses says. "Sometimes there's a little bit of an adjustment period
where retailers need to get the change into the system."

It's a wash, almost

Unilever recently cut the size of its popular midsize jug of Wisk liquid
detergent by 20% from the category-standard 100 ounces (3.12 quarts) to 80
ounces (2.5 quarts). It also lowered the price of a package, but by just 18%.
According to Unilever, the average result nationally should be a 3% rise in unit
price to $ 2.30 per quart nationally. That may be small change for consumers,
but it's significant for Unilever, where Wisk brings in 15% of the cleaning
division's revenue.

Retailers don't always follow manufacturer's suggestions, however. In the
Hoboken A&P, the price remained $ 6.99. The "weight-out" resulted in a 25% rise
in the unit price per quart to $ 2.80.

A Unilever executive says the downsized Wisk line has new formulations with
costlier ingredients. Rather than raise jug prices, Unilever cut the size, he
says. Unilever also cut prices 3% to 7% on some other cleaning products, and the
result has been a 6% sales increase overall for its laundry business in the past
90 days.

"One of the things we're doing is growing market volume," says Bob Shipley,
general manager of the North America laundry unit. "Other categories don't see
this kind of price pressure. It's something you live with day in and day out.
Consumers want to save money on laundry."

Price/packaging master

Procter & Gamble may be the pre-eminent player in package and price tweaking.
Refusing to follow rival Wisk's lead, it continues to sell 100-ounce liquid
Tide.

But in July, it revamped its lower-priced Cheer liquid detergent with "color
protection" and shrank the 100-ounce jug to 80 ounces, the same new size as
Wisk.

The shelf price dropped 16% to $ 5.49, but the unit price per quart rose 4% from
$ 2.10 to $ 2.20.

The change was made because the company thought Cheer retail prices were
creeping too near to what it charges for its premium Tide.

A P&G spokeswoman says the price on Cheer was too high for what the value was.
But in order to keep the brand's margins, the package size had to decline with
price.

Brew ha-ha

Starbucks Breakfast Blend coffee beans are now available in the Hoboken
supermarket in a 12-ounce bag for $ 7.59. But at Starbucks' own store nearby,
the same blend sells in a 16-ounce bag for $ 9.95 -- and comes with a free $
1.40 tall coffee. The supermarket price is about a penny an ounce -- 1.6% --
higher and doesn't include a free coffee. The disparity was even wider for
French Roast in McLean, Va. The Safeway supermarket there charges $ 8.99 for a
12-ounce bag (75 cents per ounce) vs. $ 9.95 for a pound bag (62 cents per
ounce) at a Starbucks store 100 yards away.

Reason: Starbucks wants to capture supermarket customers who want one-stop
convenience, but it doesn't want to lose sales at company stores.

When Starbucks decided to go to supermarkets, it wanted to offer something that
wasn't available at its retail stores, says a spokeswoman for Kraft, which
distributes Starbucks coffee to supermarkets.

The real scoop

Half-gallons of ice cream are melting away. Sister brands Dreyer's Grand and
Edy's Grand have cut package size 12% to 1.66 liters from a half-gallon (equal
to 2 quarts or 1.89 liters) without cutting the package price. Careful shoppers
will note the new unit price is $ 3.14 per quart, a 14% premium over the
half-gallon's unit price of $ 2.75 per quart.

The company says the change was spurred by a $ 30 million jump in its annual
cost for the major ingredient, cream.

But many of its rivals have held the line on package size and price. Turkey Hill
says it has no plans to change package size. Unilever's Breyers brand also is
maintaining the status quo -- after considering a change because of rising
costs. "We definitely had to take a look at it," says Breyers spokeswoman Lisa
Piasecki.

But both rivals now stand a chance to gain market share if sharp-eyed shoppers
balk at Dreyer's change.

:

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHICS, B/W, Sources: IRI, USA TODAY research (CHART) (5); PHOTOS,
B/W (6)

                      Copyright 2003 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              11 of 119 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   November 5, 2003, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

No dino bones about it: Debate alive and kicking

BYLINE: Dan Vergano

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 10D

LENGTH: 1151 words

The killer asteroid that may have doomed the dinosaurs 65 million years ago is
still making a lot of noise, at least among scientists.

The reason: renewed debate about evidence that widespread volcanic activity
helped bring down the curtain on the age of dinosaurs through long-term climate
change. This theory holds that any asteroid impacts were a secondary occurrence.


The question matters to more than just scientists. The demise of the dinosaur
draws special interest because of the public's fascination with the vanished
giant creatures. Meanwhile, the world looks for lessons from the past about the
effects of global climate change or asteroids striking Earth.


The normally polite academic debates over such matters have turned as messy as a
prehistoric bog. In a yearlong verbal brawl, now featured in an online debate
sponsored by the Geological Society of London, Princeton researcher Gerta Keller
has charged another scientist with sabotaging her efforts to prove the
overriding importance of volcanoes in the demise of dinosaurs.

Clues from a crater

Mass extinction events appear in the fossil record repeatedly. At least five
such widespread kill-offs of entire species have occurred over the last 550
million years.

The current dispute revolves around core samples from the Gulf of Mexico's
Chicxulub (CHICK zuloob) crater, off the Yucatan Peninsula. A comet or asteroid
impact there 65 million years ago is widely thought to have triggered tidal
waves and a brief ice age that killed off about 50% of all species. Scientists
call this point in time between the age of the dinosaurs and the current age of
mammals the "K-T boundary."

It was only last year, after a decade of wrangling, that a core sample from the
crater became available to scientists. In April 2002, the 3-inch-wide drilling
core was given to micropaleontologist Jan Smit of Holland's Vrije Universiteit,
an expert on microscopic fossils left by tiny sea creatures over hundreds of
millions of years. Smit was to divvy up slices of the sample to about two dozen
researchers.

Keller suggests that Smit, a supporter of the impact-extinction theory,
purposely delayed getting core samples to other scientists. To present analyses
at the American Geophysical Union meeting in France in April, researchers needed
to send in findings by mid-January.

But Smit didn't deliver the core samples until November, leaving little time for
analysis by other researchers. Keller says Smit would have been alone at the
podium, presenting his results ahead of everyone else with no one to challenge
him.

The Sept. 7 Nature magazine report that first aired her charges included
complaints from two other researchers about the samples they received. Smit says
no one complained about the delivery schedule when he first proposed it.

Keller says she hustled to do her analysis. Contradicting Smit's results, she
reported that Chicxulub couldn't be the K-T boundary because microfossils from
the site show now-extinct sea creatures lived for 300,000 years after the
crater's formation.

Volcanoes are the true cause of the mass extinction, she suggests. As the Indian
subcontinent headed for its collision with Asia 55 million years ago, the crunch
that created the Himalayas, an era of intense volcanic activity occurred in the
region, causing worldwide climate change leading to mass extinction. The
Chicxulub impact, followed by another asteroid strike several hundred thousand
years later, simply added to the mass extinction woes of the times, she says.
"It's a more complex story than we've been told."

Smit calls the sabotage suggestion "ridiculous." In an e-mail to USA TODAY, he
said, "I was the organizer and convener of the (meeting) symposium about the
crater drilling, and I would be really stupid to delay her findings, if I were
to have a successful symposium!"

The post-impact microfossil layer that Keller describes is simply the remnants
of mud thrown up by the tidal waves after the strike, he says.

Each team's analysis will be published in coming months.

K-T boundary issues gained steam in 1980 when Nobel-prize-winning University of
California physicist Luis Alvarez and colleagues first proposed in a Science
magazine report that an asteroid impact led to a fallout cloud blanketing the
Earth, blocking sunlight, which with tidal waves, global forest fires and a host
of other apocalyptic events caused mass extinction.

Until then, the cause of the K-T boundary had been the subject of more
speculation than evidence. In the fossil record, microscopic sea creatures
appear to flourish right up to the boundary, but dinosaur species started
dwindling millions of years earlier, a discrepancy that still stymies many
experts. Geologists noted that oceans had been shrinking, volcanoes had been
active and the climate likely changing 65 million years ago. But geologists say
no one had put together all those factors into a rigorous explanation that made
more sense than the asteroid-impact theory.

Less likely theories about nearby exploding stars blanketing the Earth with
deadly radiation or early mammals eating all the dinosaurs' eggs also were
proposed. Most scientists hoped for more evidence.

Alvarez's team analyzed a layer of iridium-laced clay in 65-million-year-old
Italian soil. Iridium is rare on Earth but common in space; the researchers
calculated a comet or asteroid 6 miles wide likely laid down the layer
worldwide. By 1990, two years after Alvarez's death, the 186-mile-wide Chicxulub
crater had emerged as the likely impact site, and the theory had gained wide
acceptance among geologists and many paleontologists. They expected to see
conclusive traces of iridium and microscopic fossil deaths in a Chicxulub
sample.

'A double whammy'

Current thinking is that although volcanoes were very active 65 million years
ago, most researchers, except for dinosaur experts, believe the impact theory
explains K-T boundary extinction, says Peter Ward of the University of
Washington in Seattle, a paleontologist and geologist who has looked at the
extinction of sea creatures at the K-T boundary. Keller's explanation seems
unlikely, he says, given that intense volcanism had been occurring for millions
of years before the impact with no apparent effect on fossils or geologic
records.

Keller plans to continue looking for evidence of a second asteroid impact crater
in the Indian Ocean. Her research suggests that volcanoes did trigger intense
climate change, showing that temperatures zoomed up and then down over the
300,000 years before the Chicxulub impact. That was followed, she believes, by
another impact several hundred thousand years later that led to the mass
extinction. "A double whammy knocked them out," she insists. "If we could have
watched the planet from somewhere else, it surely must have been an amazing
time."

LOAD-DATE: November 05, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Sam Ward, USA TODAY, Source: The Penguin Dictionary of
Biology, NASA (CHART, ILLUSTRATION); PHOTO, B/W, Sandra J. Milburn, AP;
Eruptions among scientists: One researcher says volcanoes should get more credit
for their roles in the extinction of dinosaurs, such as the T. rex.

                      Copyright 2003 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              14 of 119 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   January 8, 2003, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Winter events on thin ice

BYLINE: Patrick O'Driscoll

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 1001 words

Record warmth in the North. Uncommon cold in the South. Wind and wildfire in the
West. Yet more snow in the Northeast. Not yet a month into winter, this week's
weather contrasts have forecasters puzzling -- and outdoor enthusiasts searching
for ice.

The young winter's weird ways are most jarring in the upper Midwest and Great
Plains. Minneapolis hit 51 degrees Tuesday, nearly 30 degrees above normal and
melting the old record of 45 set in 1949. Omaha and Lincoln, Neb., both hit a
record 65 for the date. At least a dozen more cities from Des Moines to
Cheyenne, Wyo., also reached record Jan. 7 highs.


Yet it was barely into the 50s and 60s Tuesday in Florida. It was an
unseasonably cool 40s in Georgia and Alabama.

Warm temperatures threaten to cancel some events at outdoor festivals and winter
carnivals. In Minnesota, which has nearly 200,000 licensed snowmobiles, the thin
ice has become dangerous.

Tim Smalley, ice safety officer for the Minnesota Department of Natural
Resources, says eight people have drowned in ice-related accidents already this
season. Last year, three died. The annual average during the past 10 years is
six. At least 60 snowmobiles, ATVs, cars and ice-fishing huts have fallen
through the ice on various Minnesota lakes and rivers since Dec. 25.

"We have a saying around here: Ice is never 100% safe. This year, that's more
true than ever," Smalley says.

Forecasters blame El Nino

An expected blast of cold air from Canada later in the week promises to return
more normal temperatures to the region. But forecasters caution that El Nino, a
global phenomenon that usually makes winter wetter across the South and warmer
and drier in the North, isn't going away.

"If there were a big storm today, we'd be talking about El Nino," says Paul
Kocin, winter weather expert for The Weather Channel. "But it's really quiet.
That's also El Nino."

El Nino distorts the jet stream, a river of fast-flowing air high above North
America. El Nino is caused when tropical west winds over the Pacific Ocean
weaken or reverse direction to the east. This sends a giant pool of warm water
toward South America.

The increase in the water temperature this year is evident but not extreme. As a
result, the weather patterns that the El Nino produces can be less predictable.

"The reality is, we've been having these very mild winters that are part of this
global warming phenomenon, which is just as big, if not bigger," Kocin says.

In Southern California, meanwhile, seasonal winds roaring in from the desert
have caused wildfires in coastal Malibu and power outages for several hundred
thousand homes.

The fierce winds that lashed the area for a second day Tuesday are an occasional
but familiar winter visitor. Gusting to 60 mph, the Santa Ana winds fueled a
2,200-acre wildfire that has damaged three homes and threatens hundreds more.
The warm winds are named for one of the mountain canyons where they typically
blast in from the east. They begin when high atmospheric pressure over the Great
Basin of Nevada and Utah pushes dry air south and west.

'We're doing snow dances'

By contrast, Arctic air retreating north set up the Midwest warm spell. The thaw
has jeopardized numerous cold-weather activities. "We're doing snow dances right
here in the office," Curt Johnson of the Minnesota Office of Tourism says. "But
most of the state does have safe ice. Good ice fishing, but no snow."

In St. Cloud, lack of snow and city budget cuts have canceled this month's
annual Winterfest.

St. Paul's annual Winter Carnival, a 10-day festival of snow and ice activities
beginning Jan. 24, is making contingency plans. Sports car racing on the city's
Lake Phalen, canceled because of unsafe ice on last year's 50th anniversary, is
again in doubt. So are the traditional giant snow slide and ice maze.

"The weather is one committee's nightmare and another committee's blessing,"
says carnival director Theresa Fetsch, noting a higher turnout for the parades.

Elsewhere:

 * In Rockford, Ill., officials are likely to postpone next week's 17th annual
Illinois Snow Sculpting Competition until later this month. It's so mild that
one of the city's five public golf courses, normally closed all winter, will
open today. "The goofy thing is, southern and central Illinois have more snow
than we have," says Vance Barrie of the Rockford Park District.

 * Organizers of next week's 13th annual Wisconsin Dells Flake Out Festival will
borrow snowmaking gear from a nearby ski mountain to make enough for their
annual snow-carving competition. "The only positive thing about not having the
snow is, the milder weather makes it more bearable for visitors," spokeswoman
Bonnie Sierkecki says.

 * At the northern tip of Wisconsin, Bayfield's annual Run-On-Water 5-mile foot
race Feb. 2 on Lake Superior is in jeopardy. The 21/2-mile gap from shore to
Madeline Island, usually ice-bound this month, is open water.



Thaw sweeps through Midwest

Tuesday's record highs in selected cities, the old records and the normal highs
in those cities for Jan. 7: (More records, 14A)

Tuesday


Old record


Normal high

Iowa

Spencer

56

51 in 1990

23

Des Moines

59

51 in 1948

29

Mason City

57

49 in 1990

22

Waterloo

59

50 in 1990

26

Webster City

60

52 in 1990

26

Minnesota

St. Cloud

51

42 in 1990

18

Duluth

46

43 in 1990

17

South Dakota

Sioux Falls

56

50 in 1916

25

Mitchell

60

54 in 1963

25

Nebraska

Omaha

65

56 in 1902

31

Lincoln

65

60 in 1902

33

Norfolk

66

56 in 1990

30

Wisconsin

Oshkosh

45

44 in 1949

24

Eau Claire

49

45 in 1949

21

Source: National Weather Service

LOAD-DATE: January 08, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Lloyd B. Cunningham, (Sioux Falls, S.D.) Argus Leader;
PHOTO, B/W, Laura May, Oshkosh (Wis.) Northwestern; Just enough ice for fishing:
Kelly Nelson, 10, pulls up a small perch while ice fishing Dec. 28 with her
father, Dave Nelson, and friend Dana Schroeder, 4, on Lake Madison in South
Dakota. <>Unusually dangerous: Rescuers search Lake Poygan in Wisconsin after
snowmobiler Joseph Goffard broke through the ice Sunday.

                      Copyright 2003 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              16 of 119 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    June 11, 2003, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Great news for cows and Earth: Food additive can squelch the belch

BYLINE: Dan Vergano

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 7D

LENGTH: 432 words

Fans of science may be relieved to learn that researchers are diligently working
to defuse the global atmospheric menace posed by cow burps.

Mostly by belching, livestock generate significant amounts of methane, perhaps
the most potent of greenhouse gases.

Greenhouse gases from both natural and industrial sources play a key role in
global climate change. They are expected to raise average temperatures worldwide
a few degrees in this century, according to estimates from a United Nations
science panel.


And because there are a lot of cows, more than 1 billion worldwide, and a single
cow can produce more than 14 cubic feet of methane a day, cows contribute to
climate change.

They account for more than 20% of all methane emissions caused by human
activities. (Animal husbandry is categorized as a human activity.)

For farmers, this poses another problem: All that gas represents a waste of
cattle feed caused by inefficient digestion.

Seeking to lasso both problems, scientists at the University of Nebraska-Lincoln
are designing a food additive that can reduce cow-generated methane.

A kind of "Beano" for cows, the advance is a compound that blocks methane
production, turning the microbes involved in the digestive process in one of the
cow's four stomachs toward the production of nutrients rather than gas.

Test-tube studies suggest that adding the compound would cut the consumption of
cattle feed by at least 10% as less digestive energy goes into making gas.

"What at first glance might seem humorous or silly is actually very important
research," says microbiologist John Breznak of Michigan State University in East
Lansing. Nonetheless, biochemist Steve Ragsdale, who heads the effort, says:
"We've had a lot of fun talking to livestock producers about this. The focus has
been not only on the potential (economic) payback, but on doing something
positive for everyone."

Other scientists are tackling cow methane in creative ways. As humorist Dave
Barry noted last year while puzzling wryly over the merits of mixing species,
Australian researchers have proposed feeding methane-reducing kangaroo stomach
microbes to cows.

Federal grants support other studies on ways to adjust feed to reduce methane.
And New Zealand researchers have looked at feeding methane-reducing prairie
grass to sheep, which also produce the gas.

Ragsdale's team is well known for past microbe studies, adds Breznak, and if his
research pays off, the result will be more nutritious feedings and "less
greenhouse gas emission to boot."

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Quin Tian, USA TODAY, Source: 2001 Environmental
Protection Agency analysis of 1999 data (PIE CHART); PHOTO, B/W, Adrian Wyld,
AP; Eat here, get gas: A billion belching cows on Earth equals a lot of methane.

                      Copyright 2003 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              17 of 119 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                      July 25, 2003, Friday, FINAL EDITION

USA TODAY Roundtable: States eye innovation in management

BYLINE: Patrick McMahon and Dennis Cauchon

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 1968 words

Taxing and spending

USA TODAY: What does the public want from state government?

Texas House Speaker Tom Craddick: Go out and poll in the street -- everybody
wants more money for education and less taxes.

California State Sen. Denise Ducheny: Nobody wants to pay. They actually did (a)
poll this year in California. We don't want to cut health care, we don't want to
cut education, in fact we want to increase education, we want highways, we want
infrastructure, but we don't want to pay. The biggest issue that California's
facing is not so much balancing this year's budget revenues. It's the leftover
debt we have from last year, and it's next year's deficit that we see (for) a
couple of years. Our revenues are just not running parallel with our natural
growth expenditures.


Craddick: But in reality, if you don't get these programs under control, they're
just going to continue to go like that.

USA TODAY: What are the trends this year for state governments?

William Pound, executive director of the NCSL: One thing you see is a continued
rise in Medicaid costs in every state. That's one of the most dramatic upward
forces on spending, and that increased about 4% last year across the states.
That's likely to occur at at least that level in the coming year. The other
pattern that is emerging (is) significant tax increases in this past year to
meet shortfalls.

Oklahoma State Sen. Angela Monson: This year in particular, we seem to be
confronted with some of the most difficult decisions that we've been faced with
in 30 years. (Most) states have responded appropriately and have passed budgets
for fiscal year 2004. They've been able to address a substantial revenue
shortfall with a mixture of some revenue enhancement (and) some program
reductions.

USA TODAY: In addition to all of the spending cuts and tax increases, there's
been a large increase in borrowing by states. Does borrowing postpone the pain
or make it easier to cope with financial problems ?

Illinois State Sen. Steve Rauschenberger: The (downward) movement in the state
revenues was far more dramatic than anyone predicted. What people missed in the
'90s was a layering on of the stock boom, bonuses and options (which meant more
tax revenue). When those collapsed at the end of the dot-com boom, you saw more
movement in those revenue sources than states had ever seen before. So if states
are engaging in some borrowing to level out that movement, waiting for wages and
salaries to grow back into the same size and scope, I don't think that's
unreasonable.

Vermont House Speaker Walter Freed: Historically there are unprecedented low
interest rates. Money is so cheap right now, if you can lock in 20- or 30-year
(rates), maybe you're foolish not to do it.

Health care costs

USA TODAY: Can the states afford what needs to be done in health care?

Freed: We're going to have to bend the curve on the growth rates (of health care
costs). We cannot have them growing at three or four times the rate of
inflation, or they're going to bankrupt the state.

Rauschenberger: There's an effort going on in the states that the federal
government has missed completely, where states are aggressively forcing drug
companies to bid (on prices), to take on the biggest single and fastest rising
cost in all of our state programs, and that's pharmaceutical costs.

Pound: To the credit of the Bush administration, they have been very open to
that, to giving states flexibility.

Monson: We'll see states innovating and attempting to reduce the actual cost of
health services, particularly in the pharmaceutical area. States will manage the
cost, and we will ultimately deliver the needed services.

Ducheny: In California we have a huge population of uninsured. What's the cost
of having an uninsured population? Shifting people out of (Medicaid), does that
in the long run really save us money? They're going to cost you more the day
they show up at the emergency room.

USA TODAY: Is there a need for more federal involvement on health care costs?

Rauschenberger: More federal involvement probably isn't going to solve the
problem. In fact, it may exacerbate it. The fundamental question is whether
America can afford the investment that we're putting into the medical system.
We're maintaining a structure that was really built for a different medical
climate. Medicare and Medicaid rates still tend to pay more generously for
inpatient procedures than outpatient procedures. These are things Congress
hasn't been able to wrestle with. So simply pouring more federal dollars on top
of the structure of our Medicaid and Medicare programs isn't going to
fundamentally change the dynamic.

Freed: If you look at Medicare and Medicaid, it's facilities-based, it's about
jobs. If you go to New York City, (you'll) see how many hospitals are still
located in Manhattan alone, at 50% occupancy. Why don't you consolidate? The CEO
of one of the major (New York) hospitals said to me, "It's about jobs. My job!"
How many CEOs, how many executive officers, chief financial officers, budget
people, marketing people? We've got a structure that's a hundred years old.
Nobody's saying, "We could get rid of half these hospitals!"

Rauschenberger: (The hospital system) was built for 14-day maternity stays. But
nothing in the federal reimbursement model, either the Medicare or the Medicaid
side, helps us (change) the system so that we spend the money smarter.

Overhauling the tax system

USA TODAY: What's the long-term view on paying for state government?

Ducheny: One of the things you said about health care is true about the tax
system. You know, it's a post-World War II tax economy. Can we do those Internet
sales taxes, tax those things that we're producing, which nowadays are more
service-oriented or Internet-oriented? Do we have an outdated tax system that
doesn't go with our revenues? Maybe it isn't about raising the rates if we were
taxing appropriate things. If you broaden the tax base, can you lower the tax
rate?

One of our discussions is (whether to) give up the notion that schools are going
to be property tax-based and local. Because the truth is, while they have local
boards, they are going to be state-funded. Who ought to be paying for what, at
the local level and the state level? What are the services that counties and
cities and states provide, and what revenue sources ought to go with those? If
cities had more property tax than sales tax, would they build more houses than
Wal-Marts? How do you set up incentives that create the kind of economy you
want, that encourage job growth, that encourage housing production?

Pound: You're seeing states now beginning to really look at this, whether it's
looking at your school funding formula, or whether it's places like New Mexico
and Virginia, where they've got a blue-ribbon commission between the governor
and the legislature, where they're trying to look at a revenue system.

Education

USA TODAY: Will property taxes go up in most states because of programs such as
smaller classrooms or more computers?

Rauschenberger: Some states are looking hard at the fact that the American
education system has been the most resistant to change, worse than the medical
system in many ways. Their costs, both at the higher education and the K-12
level, are growing at two to 21/2 times the rate of inflation. When Harry Truman
reformed education and went to a 180-day school year, it gave us the longest
school year in the world. We're now No. 19 out of the top 20 industrialized
nations. The definition of insanity is doing the same thing over and over again,
and expecting different results!

Freed: Our cost in education since we implemented the statewide property tax has
gone up almost four times the rate of inflation a year. We've got to get a
handle on how we deliver the product.

Monson: Restructuring the education system -- just like the health care system
-- (is important). The lack of technology in the classroom, for instance. My
8-year-old jumps up, and the first thing she wants to do every morning is get on
the computer. She wants to sign on to the Internet. This learning process that
we used when I was in elementary school -- it's so different now for kids
because they're exposed to so many different things. Our education process has
not kept up, and therein lies an opportunity for states.

Gay rights

USA TODAY: After the Supreme Court decision overturning Texas' law against
sodomy, do you anticipate changes in your states in gay rights?

Monson: Not in my state (Oklahoma).

Craddick: Not in ours (Texas).

Rauschenberger: I think states will take a deep breath and look at it, but I
don't expect any cascade of legislation in Illinois.

Freed (Vermont in 2000 became the first state to legalize civil unions for gay
couples, a step short of legalized marriages): It's a very contentious battle to
go through. After all the dust settles, I don't think it's had any effect that
you would notice on the state itself.

Monson: We've updated our state law in many cases to protect the privacy of
individuals and attempt not to move the government into bedrooms. In a state
like Oklahoma, that's kind of unusual. It's fairly conservative -- people say
it's the Bible Belt.

Sprawl and congestion

USA TODAY: Will there be more money for roads and dealing with congestion?

Monson: You'll probably, for a period of time, see less and less. I hope that we
will see more federal involvement.

Ducheny: Part of our challenge is what we've come to call the jobs-housing
balance. It has to do with trying to change the incentives so that we don't have
everybody living an hour away from work, where they're congesting the freeways
trying to get to work. How much agricultural land do you give up for housing,
because it's more affordable, for somebody who's working in the city an hour or
two hours away? Yes we need the roads, but let's look at mass transit.

Monson: Or building houses near where people work.

Ducheny: Let's build, you know, jobs near where people live, instead of just
building communities that have no jobs, and expect somebody to drive an hour and
a half. So part of the challenge is really to look at those growth policies, and
how do we get the housing that we need? And certainly folks like us that are
growing rapidly, how do you get the housing and still preserve the ag land,
preserve the open space, protect the quality of life that everybody wants?

State, federal roles

USA TODAY: How are states working with the federal government?

Rauschenberger: Contrast the states' behavior -- most states already having
passed their budget -- with the fact the federal government's been how long
without an on-time budget? You hear clearly, I think, a real effort by states to
approach different management solutions. The real beauty of the state system is
that we learn from Texas, Texas learns from Vermont, Oklahoma does something
that California copies. There's a real plurality to the whole process. You
really engage people at the front line, where Congress has kind of got this
detached view. States have adjusted, I think, much more quickly to the
structural revenue problems the United States is facing with recession than the
federal government.

Pound: I think most of the innovation in our government today comes at a state
level. Congress can only pick things up after the states have experimented and
sort of found what works and what doesn't.

Monson: (It's important to) create that kind of discussion and dialogue between
states and the federal government, so that this nation of representative
democracy works for all of us.

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS, B/W, Jessica Brandi Lifland for USA TODAY (6); Texas House
Speaker Tom Craddick. A Republican from Midland, Craddick, 59, was first elected
in 1968. In 2003, he became Texas' first Republican speaker since
Reconstruction.<>Oklahoma State Sen. Angela Monson. A Democrat from Oklahoma
City, Monson, 47, was first elected to the Senate in 1993. She is president of
the National Conference of State Legislatures.<>Vermont House Speaker Walter
Freed. A Republican from Dorset, Freed, 51, was first elected to the House in
1993 and elected speaker in 2001.<>Illinois State Sen. Steve Rauschenberger. A
Republican from Elgin, Rauschenberger, 46, was first elected to the Senate in
1992. He is assistant minority leader and was chairman of the Senate
Appropriations Committee from 1995 to 2002.<>William Pound, executive director
of the National Conference of State Legislatures. Pound, 63, has held the
position since 1987.<>California State Sen. Denise Ducheny. A Democrat from San
Diego, Ducheny, 51, was first elected to the Senate in 2002. Previously, she was
chairman of the state Assembly's Budget Committee. Recently, she was named to
the Senate Select Committee on Fiscal Restructuring.

                      Copyright 2003 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              23 of 119 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     March 31, 2003, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Special report: Bubble hasn't burst yet on CEO salaries despite the times

BYLINE: Gary Strauss and Barbara Hansen

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 2099 words

The glory days are long gone for most stockholders, but the good times still
roll for many CEOs.

Corporate America has been tarnished by high-profile scandals, fraud and
executive chicanery. The sputtering economy and sagging corporate profits
pounded stocks for a third-consecutive year. But when it came to pain and
suffering -- at least pay-wise -- most CEOs barely felt the downdraft last year.


CEOs running 100 of the USA's biggest companies pulled in median 2002
compensation of $ 33.4 million, essentially unchanged from 2001, based on an
exclusive database analysis by USA TODAY and the Investor Responsibility
Research Center, a corporate-governance watchdog. The analysis includes
salaries, bonuses, incentive pay, stock awards, gains from exercising stock
options and the potential value of stock-option grants. The tally:


* CEO salaries and bonuses surged 15% in a year salaries for rank-and-file
workers averaged 3.2% gains.

 * Instead of stock options, many companies gave CEOs large blocks of restricted
shares, less risky equity stakes. Among 36% of CEOs receiving them, the median
value was $ 2.9 million.

 * More than 90% received fresh stock-option grants, with a median potential
value of $ 23.2 million.

 * Nearly one-third pulled in compensation valued at $ 50 million or more. Even
at companies where pay fell, pay packages remained large. PepsiCo CEO Steve
Reinemund's pay package fell 62%, but was a still-impressive $ 76.5 million.

USA TODAY's pay survey included companies filing annual statements through
Wednesday. It's likely that more large paydays will surface in the weeks ahead.
Late Friday, for example, credit card giant MBNA reported that Alfred Lerner had
pulled in compensation valued at more than $ 250 million last year, including $
168.9 million exercising options before his death from cancer in October.

Critics say the eye-popping pay packages so far reflect a boardroom culture
largely mired in the faded '90s boom, when surging stock prices spawned pay
bonanzas. "The environment has changed dramatically, so now's the time you'd
expect CEOs to lie low. Yet they still have the audacity to ask for more pay and
large stock-option grants," says John Nofsinger, co-author of Infectious Greed:
Restoring Confidence in America's Companies.

Clearly, the gravy train slowed to where corporate boards couldn't justify big
bonuses and options grants for CEOs failing to meet performance targets or
enhancing shareholder value. Plummeting stock prices also prevented stock-option
gains like the $ 706 million Oracle's Larry Ellison reaped in 2001. Yet Tenet
Healthcare's Jeff Barbakow pulled in nearly $ 190 million: $ 111 million from
exercising stock options. Dwight Schar of home builder NVR had a pay package of
$ 219 million: $ 87.3 million from exercising options.

Tenet's stock price climbed 64% during its fiscal year, and NVR's surged 60%. So
investors profited, too. But stockholders at most companies where CEOs exercised
options enjoyed no such bounty. Sun Microsystems' stock sank 68%. While the
value of Scott McNealy's stock holdings fell, too, he realized a $ 25 million
gain exercising options. Wireless communications marketer Qualcomm's stock
slumped nearly 40%, but Irwin Jacobs gained $ 61.4 million exercising options.
Directors also boosted his bonus 33% to $ 800,000 and doled out options worth up
to $ 36 million "in consideration of his leadership."

Whether such big payouts will dramatically shrink as Wall Street extends losses
into 2003 remains unclear. Curbing CEO compensation is at the heart of some 900
proxy fights surfacing at annual meetings. But any proposals gaining investors'
approval will have little impact this year. And with most boards setting pay
targets during the January-March quarter, any substantive changes in CEO pay
won't be evident until companies file annual reports in 2004.

Pearl Meyer of compensation consultant Pearl Meyer & Partners had been
forecasting a sharp drop in executive pay. "Now, I'm not so sure," she says.
"Boards are issuing large equity grants because so many CEOs are holding
(worthless) options." Moreover, she says, big option grants are likely to remain
in vogue until regulators require companies to expense them, which would trim
corporate profits.

Stock options are rights to purchase shares at pre-established prices for a set
time, usually 10 years. They are more valuable as stock prices rise. Say an
option is granted at $ 10. If the underlying share rises to $ 50 and the holder
exercises the option, there's a $ 40 gain. If the stock price falls below the
option price, the option is worthless. Such options are said to be "under
water."

Absent major changes in sentiment among corporate directors, "Most CEOs will
continue to be way overpaid," says Richard Trumka, treasurer of the AFL-CIO,
sponsor of 380 shareholder resolutions -- most to curb CEO pay. "It's unfair and
discouraging at companies freezing workers' salaries, cutting pensions and
reducing benefits."

Pay for performance?

Many corporate boards rewarded CEOs in 2002 simply for managing during a tough
economic climate, ignoring pay-for-perform-ance guidelines and pre-established
growth targets. Compuware's Peter Karmanos wasn't eligible for a bonus based on
the software maker's financial targets. But directors gave him a "special" $
700,000 bonus and stock options -- some to replace previously granted
"underwater" options -- potentially worth $ 50 million. Meanwhile, SPX shares
lost 45%, but the industrial products maker's board gave John Blystone
restricted stock worth $ 48.9 million. Blystone also got a $ 4.1 million bonus
and options worth up to $ 22.1 million.

Nowhere was the disconnect between pay and performance more evident than among
long-tenured managers:

 * Walt Disney shares lost 19% in fiscal 2002 and are off 60% since 2000. Yet
Michael Eisner received a $ 5 million bonus, based, according to the
entertainment giant's board, on "the effectiveness and quality of leadership in
a difficult economic environment that challenged all of the company's major
businesses."

 * Semiconductor maker Texas Instruments shares have slumped 80% since early
2000, about 40% in 2002 alone. Yet the past three years, its board has granted
CEO Tom Engibous stock options potentially worth $ 142 million, including a 2002
grant valued at $ 44 million. Engibous' combined 2002 salary and bonus jumped
60% to $ 1.3 million.

The board's compensation committee "followed no specific formula," according to
the company's proxy. Instead, it "exercised its discretion and made a judgment
after considering the factors it deemed relative," such as pay at rival tech
companies.

Although most of Engibous' options are currently worthless, he has realized
gains of almost $ 43 million since 2001. That's part of the reason the Central
Laborers' Pension Fund based in Jacksonville, Ill., wants shareholders to
approve its measure to tie any future option grants to specific performance
measures.

"This is a prime example of what's wrong with corporate governance," says
pension fund director Barry McAnarney. "They have to pay this to retain and
recruit key employees? Give me a break."

 * Apple Computer shares plunged over 80% during its fiscal year. Yet Apple
directors agreed to swap Steven Jobs' 27.5 million worthless options for 5
million restricted shares, valued at about $ 75 million. Until the award, Jobs
held just two shares of company stock. The restricted shares come under a new
board-approved "retention and incentive program."

New CEOs, old pay practices

Even at companies where longtime directors had little allegiance to new CEOs,
hefty compensation packages ruled.

 * Sam Palmisano oversaw 15,000 layoffs and a sharp drop in earnings after
taking over for IBM's Lou Gerstner last March. IBM shares lost 36%. Yet
directors gave Palmisano a $ 4.5 million bonus and stock options potentially
worth nearly $ 47 million, citing his management "through extraordinarily
difficult times."

 * Jeffrey Immelt, who became GE's CEO in September 2001, received $ 6.9 million
in pay and stock options potentially worth $ 43 million in 2002, when GE shares
fell 39%. GE directors say Immelt's salary and bonus were appropriate for his
"role in leading us to solid financial results in an extremely challenging
economic environment." The board also cited Immelt's commitment to integrity,
corporate governance and enhancing long-term "investor value."

 * Patrick Stokes, who became CEO at Anheuser-Busch on July 1, received options
valued at up to $ 107.7 million. Anheuser-Busch says stock options are awarded
largely at directors' discretion. "The size of awards is subjectively determined
based on position, responsibilities and individual performance," according to
the beer giant's proxy.

 * Mergers enriched other CEOs. Financial-services giant Household International
shares fell 50%. Under a merger with HSBC, CEO William Aldinger gets a payout
worth more than $ 45 million, including a $ 20.3 million change-of-control
payment, $ 21 million in stock and cash for joining HSBC and $ 5 million in 2003
pay and bonus.

 Cutting back

Mindful of troubled times, some CEOs cut their own salaries or rejected equity
awards.

 * John Chambers of network equipment maker Cisco Systems cut his annual pay to
$ 1 and waived rights to 2 million stock options valued at $ 44 million.

 * Coca-Cola's Douglas Daft asked directors to defer any stock award and
requested no raise on his $ 1.5 million salary.

 * Citigroup's Sanford Weill told directors not to give him a bonus.

 * Alcoa's Alain Belda asked the board to cut his salary 20%

Their actions, however egalitarian, were largely ceremonial, critics say. Weill
received options worth up to $ 48.7 million and cashed in options for $ 11.8
million. Forbes ranks him 185th among wealthy Americans, worth $ 1.1 billion.
Belda received options valued at up to $ 66.7 million and gained $ 3.5 million
exercising options. Chambers still received 4 million options valued at up to $
99.2 million.

Daft's 2002 bonus jumped 14% to $ 4 million. And in 2001, he received $ 48
million in restricted stock and options worth up to $ 153 million.

Moreover, given how most companies characterized the pay and equity cuts -- with
the CEO informing the boards of their decisions on their compensation --
governance experts say executives continue to wield undue influence on their own
pay.

"Where's the board oversight? Boards are there to monitor management --
management isn't there to instruct the board," says Charles Elson, head of the
John L. Weinberg Corporate Governance Center at the University of Delaware.

Comparing notes

Imperial CEOs aren't the only influence on pay. Virtually all companies rely on
outside consultants to gauge how others compensate. Known as benchmarking, it's
long been used to set pay under the premise that compensation must be
competitive to attract and retain talent.

Most companies set CEO pay levels at the midrange of comparable companies; many
aim higher. SBC Communications, for example, targets CEO Edward Whitacre's pay
at the 75th percentile.

"The assumption is that if you don't pay what someone else is paying, they'll
leave," Elson says. "One of these days, they'll figure out that most aren't
going to walk. There's a limited market for talent."

Directors are coming under more regulatory scrutiny and more heat over rising
CEO pay from increasingly outspoken shareholders such as Berkshire Hathaway's
legendary Warren Buffett. In a recent letter to Berkshire shareholders, Buffett
confessed he'd often been silent on management proposals contrary to shareholder
interests while serving on 19 boards since the 1960s. Most had an atmosphere
where "collegiality trumped independence," Buffett said.

Yet while new regulatory guidelines could eventually lead to more
independent-minded directors, active CEOs continue to dominate most
board-compensation committees. And they have a vested interest in maintaining
high CEO pay packages, Elson says.

Meantime, old notions regarding CEO pay die hard. "There's more wariness on the
part of some compensation committees and not as much rubber-stamping as you
might think," says Blair Jones of compensation adviser Sibson Consulting. "But
boards are still in somewhat of a pickle, because no one wants to be on the
leading edge of change."

LOAD-DATE: April 01, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, Color, Jim Sergent, USA TODAY, Sources: Investor
Responsibility Research Center, Bureau of Labor Statistics, The World Almanac,
USA TODAY research (BAR GRAPH); PHOTOS, Color (2); PHOTO, Color, Getty Images

TYPE: COVER STORY

                      Copyright 2003 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              27 of 119 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    January 21, 2003, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Bush garners voluntary pledges by industry groups to cut emissions

BYLINE: Traci Watson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 413 words

Industry groups representing hundreds of companies have agreed to a Bush
administration appeal to voluntarily cut production of global-warming gases.

The approach is the administration's alternative to agreements that require
mandatory cuts in those gases. Administration officials say their success
getting companies to cooperate is proof that voluntary efforts to address
environmental problems can work.


President Bush's plan would rely on voluntary measures only and allow gas
emissions to continue to rise, with the goal of slowing the rate of growth.
There would be no punishment for polluters who failed to cut emissions.

Critics say such voluntary efforts have had mixed success.

Shortly after taking office, Bush announced that the United States would not
participate in the Kyoto Protocol. That 1997 treaty required nations to reduce
their emissions of global-warming gases below 1990 levels.

Nearly every sector of the U.S. economy is participating in the voluntary
program, administration officials say. The White House could announce the names
of participants as early as next week. Companies include computer-chip makers
and oil producers, according to The New York Times, which first reported on the
agreements.

Some industries have promised to slash their output of global-warming gases,
such as perfluorocarbons, to levels surpassed a decade ago. Other industries are
pledging only to limit the growth in their production of such gases.

White House officials say they're not trying to reach the President Bush's
global-warming goals by relying solely on the companies' efforts. They also
expect to achieve cuts by requiring cars to get better gas mileage and by
providing tax incentives for buying energy-efficient technologies.

Some experts on environmental policy cite successful voluntary programs:

 * A 1920s effort to encourage landowners to build nest boxes on their property
saved the wood duck. The bird, once scarce, is now one of the USA's most common.


 * The federal Energy Star program highlights energy-efficient electronic
products. Sales of the equipment have led to huge savings in energy.

Others say the cuts would make only a tiny dent in the problem.

"This is the last big attempt to show voluntary commitments will get you
something," says Eileen Claussen of the Pew Center on Global Climate Change. "I
guess the real issue is, where does it get you? Not very far."

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2003 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              28 of 119 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    January 27, 2003, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Water shortages could leave world in dire straits

BYLINE: Dan Vergano

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 9D

LENGTH: 571 words

More than half of humanity will be living with water shortages, depleted
fisheries and polluted coastlines within 50 years because of a worldwide water
crisis, a United Nations report warns today.

Waste and inadequate management of water are the main culprits behind the
problems, particularly in poverty-ridden regions, the study says. It is the most
comprehensive of its kind. The United Nations Environment Programme, working
with more than 200 water resource experts worldwide, produced the report.


"Tens of millions of people don't have access to safe water. It is indeed a
crisis," says Halifa Drammeh, who coordinates the U.N. program's water policies.
The wide-ranging report, part of the United Nations' designation of 2003 as the
International Year of Freshwater, also documents problems such as steep drops in
the size of Asia's Aral Sea, Africa's Lake Chad and Iraq's marshlands; the
deterioration of coral reefs; and the rise of coastal waters because of climate
changes.

Developing nations could face water shortages, crop failures and conflict over
shrinking lakes and rivers if drinking-water systems are not fixed and nothing
is done to prevent wasteful irrigation and slow evaporation from reservoirs,

Based on data from NASA, the World Health Organization and other agencies, the
report finds:

 * Severe water shortages affecting at least 400 million people today will
affect 4 billion people by 2050. Southwestern states such as Arizona will face
other severe freshwater shortages by 2025.

 * Sanitation facilities are lacking for 2.4 billion people, about 40% of the
world's population.

 * Half of all coastal regions, where 1 billion people live, have degraded
through overdevelopment or pollution.

"The basic problem is poverty, not water," says water resources economist Chuck
Howe of the University of Colorado-Boulder. About 90% of the severe problems are
in developing nations, he says, where solutions to wasting water lie in better
irrigation and water supply practices.

In developed nations such as Japan, the USA and in Europe, most shortfalls arise
from politically popular but inefficient subsidies and protections of
agriculture, which accounts for 85% of freshwater consumption worldwide.

Along with drinking-water concerns, the report looks at global problems of
oceans and seas:

 * Coral reefs, mangrove forests and sea grass beds, important grounds for young
fish and for environmental needs, face threats from overfishing, development and
pollution.

 * Oxygen-depleted seas, caused by industrial and agricultural runoff, could
lead to fishery collapses and "dead zones" in such places as the Gulf of Mexico.


 * Fish catches are leveling off worldwide. With 75% of fish stocks fully
exploited, fleets have turned to fish lower on ocean food chains. Ecologists
worry that entire fisheries will collapse as these "junk fish" are used up.
Increased demand for fish is being made up through aquaculture, which brings
other environmental concerns.

Drammeh hopes the report helps mobilize support for international organizations
brokering water and fishery agreements that encourage better water management
among nations. Developing regions don't need more dam-building projects, he
says, but more people trained to manage water systems.

---

To read the report, go to www.unep.org/vitalwater/index.htm.

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Frank Pompa, USA TODAY, Source: The State of World
Fisheries and Aquaculture 2000, Food and Agriculture Organization of the United
Nations (LINE GRAPH); GRAPHIC, B/W, Frank Pompa, USA TODAY, Source: United
Nations Environment Programme (BAR GRAPH)

                      Copyright 2003 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              34 of 119 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   December 11, 2003, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

For book lovers, it's a science

BYLINE: Dan Vergano

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 10D

LENGTH: 574 words

For the science enthusiasts on your gift list, the sky's the limit. USA TODAY
science writer Dan Vergano looks at some of the best books for serious scholars
as well as weekend stargazers:

The Universe: 365 Days

By Robert Nemiroff and Jerry Bonell

(Harry Abrams, $ 29.95)

A beautiful book stuffed with a year's worth of stunning photographs, taken from
the popular Astronomy Picture of the Day Web site. The authors, both
astronomers, picked these pictures from six years of daily cosmological wonder.
From the massive Whirlpool Galaxy to a tiny glass bubble collected on the moon,
the authors explain the wonder behind each image in concise and informative
fashion.


Snowball Earth

By Gabrielle Walker

(Crown Publishing, $ 24.95)

Walker, a contributing editor at New Scientist magazine, examines one
scientist's intriguing theory of why life on Earth became so complex more than
600 million years ago. Walker profiles Harvard scientist Paul Hoffman, who
believes a global ice age triggered today's profusion of complex life forms, to
show how sometimes-difficult personalities drive science.

 * Read excerpts from these titles and browse gift ideas at books.usatoday.com

The Discovery of Global Warming

By Spencer Weart

(Harvard University Press, $ 24.95)

Looking to Earth's future, Weart traces how scientific questions about Ice Age
origins have led to the conclusion that human activities are adding to climate
change. This short, well-written book by a science historian at the American
Institute of Physics adds a serious voice to the overheated debate about global
warming and would serve as a great starting point for anyone who wants to better
understand the issue.A Century of Innovation: Twenty Engineering Achievements
That Transformed Our Lives

By George Constable and Bob Somerville

(Joseph Henry Press, $ 45)

A celebration of human achievement. A big, Life-magazine-style book, it includes
perspectives from the likes of Bill Gates, Neil Armstrong and Arthur C. Clarke
on such inventions as the airplane, computer and highways from a top-20 list
selected by the National Academy of Engineering. A gift to make the technophile
in your life feel appreciated.

Return to Treasure Island and the Search for Captain Kidd

 By Barry Clifford with Paul Perry

(William Morrow, $ 24.95)

Not a scientist but an undersea explorer with a yen for documenting pirate
wrecks, Clifford switches chapters between Captain Kidd's disastrous last voyage
and the expedition to find the legendary pirate's sunken ship off Madagascar.
The expedition met with almost as many mishaps as the voyage that ended with
Kidd's hanging. Both tales are told in an engaging manner sure to please any
pirate fan.

Science in the Public Interest: Has the Lure of Profits Corrupted Biomedical
Research?

By Sheldon Krimsky

(Rowan & Littlefield, $ 27.95)

Despite the alarmist title, Krimsky soberly looks at the culture of scientific
entrepreneurship, overrun with industry links and flourishing in biomedical
academia. Conflict of interest is a growth business in the medical sciences,
with journals such as Nature and the New England Journal of Medicine caught up
in mini-scandals in recent years. A Tufts University expert in scientific
integrity, Krimsky dissects how the profit motive is firing broadsides on
academic independence. A must-read for anyone interested in the future of
science.

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS, B/W (6)

TYPE: BOOKS

                      Copyright 2003 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              37 of 119 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                      June 27, 2003, Friday, FIRST EDITION

Cadets march into new academy

BYLINE: Patrick O'Driscoll and Tom Kenworthy

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 962 words

DATELINE: AIR FORCE ACADEMY, Colo.

AIR FORCE ACADEMY, Colo. -- Marching single file up the paved "Warrior Ramp,"
1,297 new Air Force Academy cadets entered a changing campus Thursday.

Four months after a rape scandal threw the academy into turmoil, that high
entryway is no longer called the "Bring Me Men" ramp. Those words, from an
inspirational 19th-century poem, once hung in 2-foot-tall letters over the
threshold, but they were removed this spring.


The slogan had become an embarrassing symbol of gender insensitivity after
dozens of current and former female cadets claimed they were pressured not to
report sexual assaults. Those who did said they were punished or blamed.

A resulting shake-up removed the academy's four top leaders. It has led to four
official investigations on campus, at the Pentagon and in Congress.

The upheaval also turned Thursday's traditional first-day ordeal for the nervous
newcomers into a less intimidating welcome. Under an "Agenda for Change" ordered
by the academy's new commandant, the first four days of the cadets' six-week
summer boot camp will include briefings on military law, gender sensitivity and
sexual assault. The idea is to allow them to focus better on lessons meant to
prevent a repeat of the scandal.

That means less physical training at first for the "doolies" (from doulous, the
Greek word for "slave" or "servant"). It also means less in-your-face hounding
and yelling from cadet upperclassmen, drill sergeant style, for every misstep or
fumble.

"You're not going to see Full Metal Jacket," academy senior Felix Cole said,
referring to brutal scenes of Marine boot camp in the 1987 feature film.

"We've been told to be professional -- and forceful," added Cole, a cadet
colonel and commander of Basic Cadet Training. Abbreviated to BCT and pronounced
"Beast," it is the grueling field training that academy newcomers will undergo
this summer before their freshman year of study here.

About 30% of the arrivals came with parents and family. After sometimes tearful
goodbyes, the cadets boarded buses for the main campus. There, they went through
batteries of forms, medical tests and shots, haircuts and the official "Oath of
Allegiance" taken by every member of the USA's armed forces. After awakening
today at 4:30 a.m., they'll attend a ceremonial retaking of the oath,
administered by Brig. Gen. Johnny Weida, the school's commandant.

Many of their parents lingered for an afternoon briefing by Weida, who also is
acting academy superintendent until Lt. Gen. John Rosa, just approved by the
Senate this week, arrives next month.

Although Weida's talk emphasized details of "Beast" and the rest of the cadets'
summer, the fallout of the sex scandal also was on parents' minds.

Some believe the scandal was overblown in the news and aren't worried about the
welfare of their sons and daughters. (224 of the new cadets are female.) Others
say they still need convincing.

"We've done more than think it over," said Teresa Schwisow, of Melba, Idaho,
mother of cadet Anna Schwisow. She's skeptical about the academy's commitment to
change. "Our society's come a long way. But I felt like until the academy
started working on this, they hadn't caught up."

"It's a wait-and-see thing," said Teresa's husband, Gary Schwisow. "The
recommendations sound good. Let's see if they follow them."

Anna's boyfriend, John Jaszkowiak, also is an incoming cadet. His parents, Dave
and Faye Jaszkowiak, of Middleton, Idaho, believe the academy is far safer than
other campuses.

"In any regular university anywhere in the U.S., the chances of guys and girls
getting into trouble is a lot worse than at any of the academies," Dave
Jaszkowiak said.

Faye Jaszkowiak said she was concerned that the new climate might make it harder
on the boys: "I hope it's not so tight on the guys that they can't have a life."


Her son confessed to feeling "a little awkward" because his girlfriend will now
be a fellow cadet. He wondered about "the rules for us," too, but he professed
confidence that Anna "will watch out for herself."

Margot Swartz, 17, of Virginia Beach, whose father is an Air Force officer,
admitted to being concerned, but after talking to female cadets at orientation
this spring, she "felt a lot better about it. They said the guys are like
brothers. They reassured me." She said her father told her that with all the
attention, the academy will be "safer than ever before."

Lindsay Milkert, of Troy, Ill., said the academy, even with its troubles, "gives
me the chance to accomplish my dream" to be a test pilot and astronaut. Her
mother, Adele Milkert, said news of the scandal "scared me a lot." But the
family received pledges from the Illinois congressman and senator who nominated
Lindsay that they would help if anything happened to her at the academy.

"I have a lot of people behind me," Lindsay said. Asked if she's now reassured,
Lindsay's mother replied, "Somewhat."

Barbara Myers, 17, of Yreka, Calif., who dreams of piloting the Air Force's next
generation of fighters, the F-22 Raptor, also said she is convinced the academy
has "taken care of" its sexual assault problem. She said the clearest sign to
her was the replacement of several senior commanders at the academy in the
scandal's wake.

Although the atmosphere Thursday was slightly less intimidating, the
upperclassmen who will train the new cadets were still stern and gruff as they
led them away.

"Everyone take a good look at your parents and family," Cadet Technical Sgt.
Justin Alberico ordered 40 newcomers as their bus left the welcome center for
the 2-mile trip up to the main campus. "This will be the last time you see any
of them for a while."

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Tom Kimmell for USA TODAY; Off to school: Jan Kuhn hugs her
son Mark as she says goodbye at the U.S. Air Force Academy near Colorado
Springs. Some parents of cadets are skeptical that the school is serious about
change.

                      Copyright 2003 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              39 of 119 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     October 3, 2003, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Sweet new BMW was well able to weather Isabel

BYLINE: James R. Healey

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 9D

LENGTH: 1669 words

DATELINE: PITTSTON, Pa.

PITTSTON, Pa. -- Right about here, in the state's northeastern corner, Hurricane
Isabel first showed herself on the drive home from New York.

Fine day going into the burger joint. Rain driven by sign-shaking gusts on the
way out. Darkness draped the landscape hours ahead of schedule.

Suddenly the anxieties piled up. Will the fancy, automatic windshield wipers on
this 2004 BMW 530i sedan cope with the blasting rain? Won't this high-tech
active steering system be too twitchy in 60 mph blows? Will the fat tires
hydroplane all over the road? Are the stiff seats ever going to make the
transition to simply supportive? Is BMW's new approach to air conditioning,
failing to take the dampness out of pre-Isabel air, going to get unbearable in
the storm?


Nearly. No. No. Almost. Yes.

Thus the radically re-made midlevel BMW -- the one many experts consider the
best sedan on the road -- got its stormy initiation. Its foibles, faults and
flaws all registered as forgivably minor -- except that (insert your favorite
cuss word) air conditioning. Germany literally doesn't believe in air
conditioning, yet presumes to improve it. Leave in more of the humidity; good
for the nasal membranes.

Probably OK in the desert Southwest. But ineffective and uncomfortable in the
Northeast, even before Isabel took over.

Except for that, the 400-mile, five-state ramble from north of Poughkeepsie,
N.Y., to Northern Virginia was surprisingly benign, especially considering
conditions. A silver lining: Few folks drive in a hurricane, so the roads were
delectably empty.

The 530i six-cylinder models like the test-drive car went on sale Sept. 26 and
will be about half the total 5-series sales. The tester had a six-speed manual
transmission.

A 525i with smaller six-cylinder and 545 with 4.4-liter V-8 go on sale late this
month. Neither was available for testing.

The 2004 5-series pulls back from the extremes of styling and technology that
mark the flagship 7-series, introduced in January 2002. The 5 seems to benefit
from that moderation and a few inches more size. At the same time, it introduces
irritants of its own.

Impressions from the long drive and from a few more days in post-Isabel suburban
duty:

 * Styling. The look is much more appealing on the 5 than on the 7, especially
in darker colors. The 5 eschews the rump hump that's so hurtful to the 7's
aesthetics. But the 5's taillight styling gives the impression that there is, in
fact, a trunk hump. Great move; simulate the ugly part.

 * Size. The new one (E60 in BMW-speak) is roughly 2 inches bigger in each
direction than the previous (E39) 5-series sedan. Inside, it feels much bigger,
especially in back.

The 5 is now a useful, comfortable size instead of an occupant vise.

 * iDrive. That's a joystick control on the console that eliminates intuitive,
simple operation of most features and functions, supposedly to avoid cluttering
the dashboard with buttons and knobs. The 5's iDrive is much simpler than the
7's.

It doesn't, for example, force you to stir the bowels of iDrive to set the
climate control. Real knobs mounted on the dashboard handle that. You can make
the same adjustments using iDrive if you're incurably inclined.

A menu button on the console lets you bail out and try again -- a welcome rescue
maneuver.

If you want the 5's iDrive control to work as the radio tuning knob, the screen
gives you a picture of a horizontal radio display -- 88 on the far left, 107 on
the right in FM. Nice. All that technology to duplicate the look of a $ 10 clock
radio. Let's pretend that it's a campy joke by those jolly German engineers.

 * Active steering. It's a marquee feature, one that some experts think will
quickly show up in other premium brands.

The idea is to keep the driver's hands within the ideal (according to BMW)
60-degree arc, regardless of the turning maneuver, avoiding the need to cross
hands or shuffle them around the wheel rim in demanding turns.

To start, the 5 gets rack-and-pinion steering, considered more precise than the
previous type. Though most sporty cars have used rack-and-pinion for years, BMW
says it was waiting for a system that didn't jerk the driver's hands on bumpy
roads.

Active steering is a type of variable-ratio power steering. Instead of just
increasing or decreasing the amount of power assistance, it mainly changes the
steering-gear ratio to speed or slow steering response. It's only available as
part of a $ 3,300 sport option package.

The system adjusts a set of gears on the lower end of the steering column to
create the proper steering ratio by evaluating -- keep up, now -- the steering
assistance provided by an electric power-steering motor plus the amount that the
driver turns the steering wheel.

In low-speed maneuvers, the ratio is a quick 10-to-1; parking is a snap. The
ratio slows progressively to 18-to-1 in more-or-less normal conditions, and a
bit more -- 20-to-1 -- at high speed so that a twitch won't put you into the
ditch. The ratio in 5-series cars without active steering is 14.1-to-1.

Active steering is tied into the anti-skid control and will turn the front
wheels slightly in the direction of a skid or potential skid to counteract it.
BMW insists the system is well-tested and won't fail, despite the complexity.
Bottom line: Works fine. It's refreshing to avoid hand-tangling swings of the
wheel. It was easy to hold the car steady in Isabel's gusts, and the steering
effort felt normal.

Stubby, fat tires and stiff suspension that comprise the sport option package
required to get active steering were a pleasant surprise. They provided serious
car control without a harsh ride. And the wide tires resisted floating on rainy
roads, seeming to maintain adequate contact with the asphalt. Nice work.

 * Drivetrain. The six-speed manual shifted easily, smoothly, quickly. The
clutch acted likewise.

Only light spring tension keeps the shift lever out of reverse, which is left
and forward on the pattern. That could be bad. You look up from an attempt to
use iDrive to see that the light's gone green, a Hummer's bearing down from
behind and you're still stopped. Yelling something like "golly," you slam the
gearshift to the left and forward -- into reverse instead of first. What a mess
if you let out the clutch and goose the gas in reverse when forward is what you
meant.

The 3-liter six-cylinder engine is a sweetheart. It's torquey at low speed for
easy driving in traffic or nearly blinding rain. It scoots briskly to the
redline when you need to pass, must avoid an obstacle or just want to grin.

The 530i was a better storm car than expected. Almost in spite of its
complicating technology, the made-over 5 proved it has retained the bedrock
power, handling and general responsiveness -- in a hurricane or otherwise --
that are BMW hallmarks. Something has to be done about that climate control,
though.



Test drive

* What is it? Redesign of midsize, rear-wheel-drive, four-door sedan to increase
its size, add new technology.

* How soon? 530i went on sale Sept. 26; 525i and 545i go on sale late this
month.

* How much? 525i starts at $ 39,995, including $ 695 destination charge. 530i
starts at $ 44,995. 545i is $ 54,995.

Edmunds.com says a typical model would be a 530i with automatic transmission,
navigation system and other options, priced $ 52,270 (dealer invoice cost: $
47,485), selling for an average $ 52,248.

CarsDirect.com predicts full sticker price most places, higher than sticker in
the San Francisco area.

* What's the drivetrain? 525i has 2.5-liter six-cylinder engine rated 184
horsepower at 6,000 rpm, 175 pounds-feet of torque at 3,500. 530 has 3-liter
six-cylinder rated 225 hp at 5,900, 214 lbs.-ft. at 3,500. 545i has 4.4-liter
V-8 rated 325 hp at 6,100, 330 lbs.-ft. at 3,600.

Six-speed automatic transmission is standard on six-cylinder models and V-8
model. Traction control is standard.

* What's the safety gear? Normal belts and bags plus side-impact bags for
front-seat occupants and head-protection bags for front and rear occupants in
outboard seating positions; anti-skid control; anti-lock brakes; tire-pressure
monitor; post-crash door unlocking, emergency flasher activation and interior
illumination.

* What's the rest? Standard features on six-cylinder models include AM/FM/CD
stereo; automatic climate control; power steering, brakes, windows, locks,
mirrors, seats, adjustable steering column; rain-sensing wipers; rear-window and
outside mirror defrosters; remote-control locks; cruise control; memory settings
for power accessories; fog lights.

545i V-8 adds or substitutes leather upholstery; sunroof; bigger wheels and
tires.

* Who'll buy? Varies by model. 525i will be 50% men; 530, 70% men; 545i, 90%
men. Typical age: 47. Typical household income: $ 150,000. Just 37% will have
kids; 35% will have post-graduate degrees.

* How big? Still classed a compact by the government; another cubic foot of
interior space would bump it to midsize. 5-series sedans are 190.6 inches long,
72.7 inches wide, 58 inches tall on a 113.7-9inch wheelbase. Passenger space is
listed as 99.1 cubic feet; trunk as 14 cubic feet. Weights range from 3,428 to
3,814 pounds.

* How thirsty? 530i, most common model, is rated 20 miles per gallon in town, 30
on the highway with manual transmission, 19/28 mpg with sequential manual
gearbox (SMG), 18/28 with automatic. Trip computer in 530i, manual transmission
test car recorded 31.7 mpg in 400 miles split among interstates, two-lanes and
suburban boulevards; 19.7 mpg in strictly suburban driving.

Premium fuel is specified.

* Overall: A sweet-driving sedan with vexing features.

---

More online

* Go to cars.usa today.com for more photos, previous Test Drive columns and
information on pricing, incentives and more.

* Chat with James R. Healey at talk.usatoday.com at 2 p.m. ET today.

* E-mail testdrive@usatoday.com.

LOAD-DATE: October 06, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS, B/W, BMW (3)

                      Copyright 2003 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              41 of 119 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                  December 17, 2003, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

2003 was among warmest years, according to climate data reviews

BYLINE: Patrick O'Driscoll

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 592 words

DATELINE: DENVER

DENVER -- Persistent warmth and dryness in the West and cooler, wetter weather
in the East made 2003 a year of sharp contrasts, according to a preliminary
review Tuesday.

Despite a cooler East Coast, this year will rank as one of the 20 warmest since
consistent record-keeping began in 1895, the National Climatic Data Center said
Tuesday.

Near-record warmth and steadfast drought from Colorado to the Pacific mean much
of the West will enter 2004 with a great moisture deficit to overcome.


Also Tuesday, the World Meteorological Organization, a Geneva-based arm of the
United Nations, said 2003 will be the third-warmest year worldwide in nearly a
century and a half. All three of the warmest years since 1861, when scientists
began to keep accurate global records, have been in the past six years: 1998
(the hottest), 2002 and this year. The 10 warmest have occurred since 1990.

The organization says it cannot pinpoint a single cause for the warmer weather.
But it said the higher temperatures are a trend probably prolonged by global
warming -- the heating of Earth's atmosphere. Most scientists say that burning
fossil fuels contributes to global warming.

With two weeks left in 2003, 70% of the Western USA remains in moderate to
severe drought. Seventeen states along or west of the Mississippi River were
significantly drier than normal this year.

Getting out of that rut will require extended normal to above-normal rain and
snow, says Jay Lawrimore, climate monitoring chief for the National Climatic
Data Center in North Carolina.

"It's not something they are going to recover from in a single month," Lawrimore
says. "All the reservoirs out there are below average. A very, very good snow
pack could go a long way. What really matters is long term (precipitation)."

But fortunes can turn quickly. Lawrimore notes that three years ago, much of the
East suffered severe drought, too. Now, several Eastern states and cities are at
or near record rainfall levels for the year.

Virginia has set a new annual mark. North Carolina and Maryland are expected to
do so by year's end. Twelve other states were much wetter than average this
year. Richmond, Va., Baltimore and Washington also are close to rainfall
records.

The findings are part of the climatic data center's annual climate review.

Although the results are preliminary, the last two weeks of the year aren't
likely to change the statistics.

The report also marks major weather "events" of 2003, including the Presidents
Day blizzard on the East Coast, May's record-setting 516 tornadoes in one month,
California's record wildfires and another above-average year for Atlantic
hurricanes.

TEXT WITHIN GRAPHIC BEGINS HERE

Weather in 2003

The USA was hit by dramatic temperature shifts and flooding. A record 516
tornadoes touched down in May. How some regions fared:

Northwest: Rain and flooding in October. October 21 was the wettest day in
Seattle history.

Great Lakes: Three great lakes were more than 90% frozen in March; greatest
winter ice coverage since 1996.

Northeast: Cooler than average temperatures much of the year; major snow storms
in February and December.

Virginia: Record rainfall.

Front range of Rockies: Snowstorms in March.

Mid-Atlantic: Parts had record rainfall; major snow storms in February and
December.

North Carolina: Hurrican Isabel in September; snowstorm in January.

Gulf Coast: Five tropical systems along or near the coast.

Alaska: Above average warmth for all four seasons.

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Adrienne Lewis, USA TODAY, Source: NOAA (MAP)

                      Copyright 2003 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              43 of 119 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    February 4, 2003, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Not knowing leaves us resentful, uneasy, on edge

BYLINE: Bruce Horovitz and John Waggoner

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 1551 words

"When something like Columbia fails so tragically, it evokes our sensibility
that absolutely nothing is guaranteed," says Steven Berglas, business professor
of entrepreneurial psychology at the University of Southern California. "The
world is in a hyper, hyper state of insecurity. And this has just added to it
exponentially."

Nowhere are the reverberations of not knowing felt more deeply than within the
shaky orbit of American business. Columbia is lost. Is Corporate America lost,
too? And what about the nation's investors?

There was, perhaps, one good sign Monday: The stock market weathered the
weekend's devastating news to send the Dow Jones industrial average up 56.01 to
close at 8,109.82. The Nasdaq composite index rose 2.88 to 1,323.79.


But key stocks linked to the shuttle program did not fare so well. Shares of
Alliant, which makes the shuttle's solid rocket boosters, fell $ 6.34, or 11.7%,
to close at $ 48.02. Among prime contractors, Boeing dropped 48 cents, or 1.5%,
to $ 31.11, and Lockheed fell $ 1.50, or 2.9%, to $ 49.55.

This comes as consumer confidence fell in January to barely above the nine-year
low hit in October. The Dow is off 2.8% for the year, even as the Nasdaq is down
just under 1%.

Monday added uncertainties.

President Bush presented Congress with a $ 2.23 trillion budget proposal that
would expand military spending and rack up record deficits, even without a war
with Iraq, which experts estimate could cost $ 50 billion to $ 150 billion.

It was also a day when war seemed closer, with Secretary of State Colin Powell
pledging to give the United Nations "compelling proof" that Iraq is hiding
weapons and Britain's prime minister saying Iraq's time is running out.

This skittish world on the brink of war is where Columbia was headed when it
disintegrated Saturday, killing all seven astronauts. The tragedy seemed
hauntingly symbolic of the disintegration of Corporate America in recent years.
One moment, it's streaking across the heavens with hope, then -- poof -- all
hope seems lost.

Overnight, it seems, the American dollar is now worth less than the euro. How
could that happen? Overnight, Enron and MCI disintegrated from streaking stars
into space dust, taking confidence in our corporate leaders with them.
Overnight, America Online Time Warner, the sure-bet stock, is worth less than $
12 per share. Overnight, McDonald's forgot how to feed the comfort-seeking
psychic needs of Americans. Overnight, or so it seems, the Dow fell from 11,000
to less than 8,000.

This has a real effect on real people in their daily lives. Uneasy people don't
like to shop. They don't like to buy stocks. They don't make confident workers.
And they don't like to grow businesses.

"We're in uncharted territory as a country," says Barbara Brooks, president of
the Strategy Group, a management-consulting specialist. "We're redefining
normal."

The Columbia crash was the latest -- and, perhaps, most emotionally troubling --
jolt to a nation in search of stability.

"America feels something like the boxer who gets walloped just as he's trying to
hold on to the ropes and stand up," says Brooks.

The unsteady nation is most disquieted by its still-shaky economy. That might
account for why Wall Street held up surprisingly well Monday.

"Clearly, this is another tragedy for the country, following what seems like a
neverending series," laments Erik Gustafson, portfolio manager at Stein Roe &
Farnham. "We're all mourning the heroes, but it is not affecting the
marketplace."

The deepest fear in the economy: unemployment. Joblessness usually peaks after
the economy has bottomed out. The unemployment rate has risen to 6% from 4% in
September 2000.

"The job market hasn't turned around," says Sophia Koropeckyj, senior economist
for Economy.com. She says one big reason is the war worry. "It's put a pall on
hiring and investment spending."

The job outlook isn't getting better. The Conference Board's Help Wanted Index,
which measures the number of help wanted ads in 51 major newspapers, is at a
multidecade low.

'Awfully depressing'

For the nearly 80 million baby boomers -- born between 1946 and 1964 -- that's
terrible news. Many boomers are in what should be their peak earning years. A
layoff now could mean that they will never reach their peak earnings again. "A
lot of the jobs that disappeared won't come back," Koropeckyj says. "It's
awfully depressing. "

Not only are jobs scarce and getting scarcer, but many boomers have seen their
savings evaporate. The average stock fund has lost 4% the past five years and
36% since the bear market began in March 2000. Fear builds on fear: Even if they
find jobs now, they might never be able save enough for retirement.

If you really want to measure worry, look at the price of gold, the currency of
choice in troubled times. Gold has soared from a low of $ 256 an ounce in April
2001 to $ 371 an ounce today.

Gold has a patina of value to the terrified. Even if the government is in
shambles and civilization is falling apart, you can buy something with gold. You
can hide it. You can flee with it.

"It's a fear thing," says Ron Simpson, senior currency analyst at MMS
International.

Fear for the nation's stability is being felt far from American shores.

The dollar has been falling on the international currency markets for nearly a
year, but the pace of its decline speeded up this year. The euro, which traded
as low as 93 cents in 2000, has rocketed from 99 cents in December to $ 1.08
this week.

"It's due to geopolitical concerns -- i.e., Iraq," says Simpson.

Economists worry about the dollar's long-term fundamentals. Investors buy
dollars when they have faith in the U.S. economy.

Now? "The jury's still out," Simpson says. Investors worry about the enormous
U.S. trade deficit. They worry about the growing federal budget deficit. And
they worry about the anemic economic recovery. All of those will keep the dollar
weak. Simpson thinks the dollar will end 2003 at $ 1.05 to $ 1.11 to the euro --
about where it is.

Local concerns loom

Ken Noakes' worry is closer to home. He's simply trying to keep his business
alive.

As president of International Technology, an industrial cleaning-products maker,
he's been scaling back for the past two years -- closing two plants and laying
off 60% of staff.

"This is the worst economic outlook I've seen in 40 years," says Noakes, whose
company in Palm Harbor, Fla., is down to one operating plant with eight
employees.

Noakes says his company needs $ 30,000 in capital equipment, but he won't
purchase any until the market improves.

Likewise, Ford keeps asking him about new vehicle leases for his sales force,
but Noakes is delaying that, too. "I guess you'd call it an across-the-board
postponement of everything," he says.

Some things can't be postponed. But neither are they affordable, and now they
seem shaky.

Noakes has a business associate -- unemployed for six months -- who recently was
diagnosed with cancer. The friend underwent surgery followed by 35 sessions of
radiation treatments. In an effort to preserve his salivary glands, the
associate was injected with medication that costs $ 475 per injection. Total
cost for just the medication: $ 16,624.

Because of stories like that, Noakes says, most business owners he knows are
reducing -- some are even eliminating -- health insurance as a benefit.

A brighter outlook

Even then, there are optimists, perhaps none more so than Carol Kuc. She's CEO
of Complete Conference Coordinators, a company in Naperville, Ill., that books
conferences for businesses.

Even in a climate of corporate cutbacks, her 19-year-old business saw its
revenue jump 37% last year and 50% the year before. She just hired two new
employees this week, making it a 10-person operation.

"Things always change in this country and always will," says Kuc. "I hate this
Chicken Little sky-is-falling stuff."

How did she manage to grow her business in the current climate? "It's all about
the energy you create," she says. "Energy is magnetic. It brings business to
you."

Similarly, investment adviser Jeffrey Camarda looks at the economy and sees
great hope for his 500 clients.

"Even if this isn't the bottom," he says, "in the future, we may look back and
view this as a remarkably opportune time to buy."

But some families aren't buying stocks right now. They're buying photos.

Business at Sears Portrait Studios is up almost 15% as families with military
members heading for the Middle East are stopping in for family portraits.

Each knows it could be their last.

"That crosses the minds of us all," says Steve Glickman, executive vice
president of marketing at CPI Corp., which owns and operates 900 of the photo
studios in the U.S. "But I don't know if the families are all thinking that
way."

Some soldiers heading to the Middle East simply want a new family photo to hold
close, he says.

And in a world of so many things they don't know, the family photo might be the
needed reminder of one thing they do know.

---

Contributing: Matt Krantz, Adam Shell

LOAD-DATE: February 04, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Adrienne Lewis, USA TODAY, Source: The Conference Board
(LINE GRAPH)

TYPE: COVER STORY

                      Copyright 2003 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              45 of 119 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     March 21, 2003, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Super Sienna motors to minivan mountaintop

BYLINE: James R. Healey

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 7D

LENGTH: 1679 words

Toyota has overhauled its Sienna minivan, finally making it big enough for the
American market.

Japanese automakers generally have trouble grasping that Americans are big
people in a big country with big needs that require really big cars and trucks.

At Toyota, "The message has gotten through: This is the size we need. Past
models did not always meet the size need," says Yuji Yokoya, Sienna chief
engineer. He learned for himself as part of the development process for the '04
Sienna by taking the unusual step of driving a previous-design Sienna 53,000
miles across North America. Sienna, he decided, had to be:


* Bigger.

 * More powerful.

 * More cleverly executed.

 * Outfitted with a really neat third-row seat.

 * Available with optional all-wheel drive (AWD) -- an epiphany from Alaska's
gravel roads.

And so it is. So much so, in fact, that Sienna seems the new champ of minivans.

To say that, though, it's necessary to assume that flaws in the early production
test vans aren't typical.

Power steering seemed to quit on both test models in a simulated emergency
swerve hard right, then hard left. The vans could be steered but required much
greater effort during the swerves. There were no problems during gentler swerves
and turns.

Also, a $ 37,000 all-wheel-drive XLE had a balky third-row seat. The left
portion stuck in place in the storage well. Freed and erected, the seat back
would not latch.

As long as we've started out hanging crepe:

 * The automatic transmission pauses on some downshifts, then shifts down
abruptly.

 * The van doesn't properly control torque steer from the eager 3.3-liter V-6.
The front end jukes sideways if you floor the gas.

 * Brakes, even with the electronic assist and force-distribution features, feel
lackadaisical in light-duty stops, though hard stops seem fine. Hey, Toyota, buy
a Mazda 6 sedan and copy those sure-feeling brakes.

 * Prices are higher than you'd like, even though they generally are lower than
for last year's smaller, weaker Sienna. An XLE Limited AWD with everything is
about $ 40,000. So's a Chrysler Town & Country Limited. The difference: The
Sienna is likely to sell at or near sticker price, while the T&C is discounted.
A Honda Odyssey with all factory hardware is $ 31,000, though less refined than
the high-end Sienna and likely to carry an array of dealer-installed options.

A few of the many places where Sienna shines:

The 3.3-liter, 230-horsepower V-6 engine from the Lexus RX 330 sport-utility
vehicle gives the Sienna a sporty character generally missing from vans.

The optional all-wheel drive, from the same source, works well in slick
conditions. The AWD leaves no room underneath for a spare tire, so AWD models
come with run-flat tires. On many vehicles, run-flats' stiff sidewalls cause a
harsh ride. On Sienna, they add a bit of firmness, enhancing sportiness. Yokoya
says the suspension was specially tuned to achieve that.

The interior's well laid out (with no fewer than 10 cup holders), and some
models have extra storage bins. The XLE test van had two 115-volt plugs plus
hookups near the third-row seat so the kids could power up a Game Boy or other
household-voltage amusement consoles and run the action through the screen of
the optional DVD player.

The so-called Split & Stow third-row seat lets you fold the left two-thirds and
the right one-third separately. A deep well in the floor accepts the seat,
leaving a flat cargo floor. No need to remove the seats as in the Chrysler
minivans. And thanks to hidden springs, there's no need to fight with the dead
weight of the whole thing as in the Odyssey.

The exterior is elegant, maybe not beautiful, but spare and void of stupid
plastic junk. It makes other minivans seem foolish looking. The tracks for the
sliding side doors are camouflaged along the edge of the windows, an esthetic
plus vs. Odyssey.

Sienna's side doors have roll-down windows. You don't realize how cloistered you
are in the back of a van until you see how nice it feels to drop the windows.
Yes, parents, you can disable the function so kids don't make pests of
themselves putting the windows up and down for fun.

In seven-passenger models with two bucket seats instead of a bench in the second
row, the right bucket will unhook and reattach tightly against the left one for
a pseudo-bench that leaves an aisle on the right, rather than between the two
seats. In the eight-passenger, bench-seat model, the center section of the
second-row bench slides separately, so you can tug the baby far forward. That's
copied from Ford Motor vehicles.

Also from Ford, Sienna has a so-called conversation mirror, a small convex disc
that folds down from a ceiling console. It allows the driver to quickly see
who's drawing blood in back without turning around or twisting the rearview
mirror.

Grocery-bag hooks are all over to keep your eggs from scrambling prematurely.
The radio's simple and straightforward.

Beyond the tangible features, Sienna feels remarkably pleasant to drive.

Toyota, good as it's reputation is, isn't perfect. The first-year Highlander
sport-utility vehicle needed a recall for bad brakes. Thousands of Lexus and
Toyota engines were fixed free because of an oiling problem. Perhaps the
steering's bad behavior in hard swerves will be another of those issues. Or
maybe changes since the test models were built have fixed it.

If the steering's an enduring problem, Sienna gets a qualified thumbs up. If
it's been fixed, Sienna gets a standing ovation. It is the new sheriff in
minivan-ville.



2004 Toyota Sienna

* What is it? Full redesign to increase size, power, roominess and features,
turning the Sienna into a full-fledged, U.S.-specification minivan. Configured
to seat seven or eight passengers, available with front-wheel drive (FWD) or
all-wheel drive (AWD). Manufactured in Indiana.

* How soon? On sale since March 7.

* How much? CE seven-passenger base model starts at $ 23,465 including $ 510
destination charge. LE starts at $ 24,770 for FWD, $ 28,385 for AWD.

XLE starts at $ 28,770 for FWD, $ 31,975 for AWD. XLE Limited starts at $ 34,990
for FWD, $ 37,440 for AWD.

Expect to pay full sticker price, according to Edmunds.com.

* What's the drivetrain? 3.3-liter V-6 rated 230 horsepower at 5,600 rpm, 242
pounds-feet of torque at 3,600 rpm; five-speed automatic transmission.

AWD models use system from the Lexus RX 330 sport-utility vehicle. Toyota says
it splits power evenly between front and rear under all road conditions.
Traction control and anti-skid systems manage side-to-side power distribution,
favoring wheels with the most traction.

* What's the safety gear? Usual array of belts and bags, plus anti-lock brakes
with electronic brake-force distribution and brake assist. Additional airbags
are optional.

* What's the rest? CE comes with climate control with separate rear controls;
AM/FM/CD/cassette stereo; power steering, brakes, mirrors, windows, locks;
remote-control locks; tilting and telescoping steering column; split-folding
third-row seat; rear-window defroster; 10 cup holders, 11 grocery bag hooks and
three 12-volt outlets; rear-window defroster; P215/65R-16 all-season tires on
steel wheels.

LE adds or substitutes cruise control, mirror defrosters, roof rack, privacy
glass, passenger compartment air filter, adjustable driver's seat lumbar
support, additional storage compartments, fold-flat front passenger's seat back.


XLE adds or substitutes power-operated sliding side doors and tailgate, power
driver's seat, three-zone climate controls, leather-covered steering wheel and
shift knob, fake wood trim, trip computer, high-power JBL stereo, fog lights,
auto on-off headlights, rear-seat audio system with remote control, removable
center console, alloy wheels.

XLE Limited adds or substitutes leather upholstery, anti-skid and traction
controls, front-seat-mounted side-impact airbags, three-row side-curtain
head-protection airbags, heated front seats, front and rear park-assist alarms,
high-intensity discharge headlights, auto-dimming mirrors, sunroof, second- and
third-row sun shades, P225/60R-17 all-season tires on alloy wheels.

All AWD models have anti-skid and traction controls and 17-inch run-flat tires
on alloy wheels.

* Who'll buy? Most sales will be to two dissimilar groups: 50-plus empty
nesters, usually retired; parents ages 30-49 with kids younger than 12.

* How many? 150,000 a year, an 85% increase over last year's Sienna sales.

* How big? About as close to Honda Odyssey and Chrysler Town & Country as you
can get without copying. Sienna's 200 inches long, 77.4 inches wide, 68.9 inches
tall on a 119.3-inch wheelbase. Cargo space behind the third row is listed as
43.6 cubic feet. Behind the second row, 94.5 cubic feet. Maximum, 148.9 cubic
feet.

Rated to carry 1,325 to 1,570 pounds of people and cargo, depending on model.
Rated to tow 3,500 pounds.

Weighs 4,120 to 4365 pounds, depending on model.

* How thirsty? FWD is rated 19 miles per gallon in town, 27 on the highway. AWD
is 18/24. Premium fuel is specified. Toyota says regular can be used with
slight, unspecified, losses in power and fuel economy.

Test Drive AWD XLE's trip computer showed 17.6 for nearly 500 miles that
included a 337-mile highway trip, most of that on interstates.

* Overall: The champ.

---

More online

* Chat online with James R. Healey at 2 p.m. ET today at talk.usatoday.com.

* To ride along for part of the Test Drive, and to read current and past columns
online, go to usatoday.com. Click the green Money button, then Autos, then Test
Drive. Or use this address: www.usatoday.com/money/columns/healey/index.htm

* E-mail testdrive@usatoday.com

* Check for crash-test scores at www.nhtsa.dot.gov and www.iihs.org. Find out
about incentives at www.nadaguides.com and www.edmunds.com.

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS, B/W, Toyota (2); Fold-away: A deep well in the floor accepts
the third-row seat, leaving a flat cargo floor.

                      Copyright 2003 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              46 of 119 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     April 29, 2003, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Military may lighten its 'footprint' in Europe

BYLINE: Dave Moniz

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 686 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

WASHINGTON -- The U.S. military's top commander in Europe said Monday that the
Pentagon is considering reductions of troops and bases there in some of the most
dramatic changes in the military presence in Europe since World War II.

The Pentagon is considering closing or shrinking bases -- now chiefly in Germany
-- while opening smaller bases in Eastern European countries such as Hungary,
Romania, Poland and Bulgaria.

Gen. James Jones, who commands U.S. forces in Europe, cautioned that the plan is
still a work in progress but said the Pentagon could move away from big bases
with large concentrations of troops and focus on Europe as a kind of staging
ground for global hotspots. Among the ideas being looked at are "bare bones"
bases in Eastern Europe that the Pentagon could use to move troops quickly to
the Middle East, Africa and Asia.


Although the changes might seem intended to punish Germany, which opposed the
U.S.-led invasion of Iraq, while rewarding some who supported the war, officials
say the moves have more to do with post-Cold War realities and Defense Secretary
Donald Rumsfeld's efforts to make the military more flexible. "At every turn, we
have sought to make sure the work is militarily unconnected to any political
discussions," Jones said.

The Army, which has about 60,000 troops in Germany, could see dramatic
reductions.

"We are reanalyzing our footprint (jargon for military presence)," said Jones,
who will meet with the Joint Chiefs of Staff at the Pentagon this week to
discuss the issue.

The United States has 112,000 troops and 499 installations in Europe, including
68,000 troops in Germany, 12,000 in Italy and 10,000 in Great Britain.

Jones declined to say how many troops or bases could be involved in any cuts.
The former Marine Corps commandant did say that the United States is likely to
keep some of its larger installations. Jones said a select number of "enduring"
bases such as Ramstein Air Base in Germany would likely remain open. Ramstein is
a hub for U.S. military aircraft.

The restructuring of U.S. forces in Europe will almost certainly have a major
impact on the Army. One senior Pentagon official said that among the proposals
that Rumsfeld has considered is a plan to replace the two Army divisions in
Germany, the 1st Armored and 1st Infantry, with as few as two brigades of
soldiers. A division typically has 15,000 soldiers; a brigade has 3,000 to
5,000.

The desire to reshape the military in Europe is part of Rumsfeld's plan to make
U.S. forces overseas easier to move to war zones. Among the options for the Army
is replacing large tank units in Germany with smaller, faster units that are
equipped with lighter armored vehicles.

Another major consideration for U.S. basing is the political climate in
countries where the population is uneasy with the presence of U.S. troops. For
that reason, the Pentagon is considering a move to transfer a high-tech Air
Force command center from Prince Sultan Air Base, Saudi Arabia, to Qatar, a tiny
Persian Gulf country less likely to impose restrictions on U.S. military forces
in wartime. Saudi officials have repeatedly barred U.S. warplanes from launching
offensive strikes from Saudi soil.

Unlike closing military bases in the USA, shutting down overseas installations
does not require congressional approval. Nevertheless, getting money to set up
new bases in Europe is not guaranteed, said Rep. John Spratt, D-S.C., a member
of the House of Representatives' Armed Services Committee.

"If this requires big money, it could be a problem in Congress," Spratt said.

Dan Christman, a retired Army lieutenant general with close ties to Europe, said
the restructuring of U.S. forces will "have a huge impact" on political and
economic relations, especially in Germany.

Even so, Christman said, it's probably long overdue after the demise of the
Soviet Union and reduced threats to Western Europe.

"Given where future military missions are, I would say it's probably time to
look at" reducing the U.S. presence in Europe, he said.

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Brendan McDermid, Reuters; Jones: U.S.. general says
proposals to reduce troops in Germany are not intended as punishment.

                      Copyright 2003 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              47 of 119 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                      May 8, 2003, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

U.S., Canada clash on pot laws

BYLINE: Donna Leinwand

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 1343 words

The Bush administration is hinting that it could make it more difficult for
Canadian goods to get into this country if Canada's Parliament moves ahead with
a proposal to drop criminal penalties for possession of small amounts of
marijuana.

The proposal, part of an effort to overhaul Canada's anti-drug policies,
essentially would treat most marijuana smokers there the same as people who get
misdemeanor traffic tickets. Violators would be ticketed and would have to pay a
small fine, but they no longer would face jail time.

Canada's plan isn't that unusual: 12 U.S. states and most of the 15 nations in
the European Union have eased penalties on first-time offenders in recent years.
That's a reflection of how many governments have grown weary of pursuing
individual marijuana users.


But U.S. officials, while stressing that they aren't trying to interfere in
Canada's affairs, are urging Canadians to resist decriminalizing marijuana.

In a lobbying campaign that has seemed heavy-handed to some Canadians, U.S.
officials have said that such a change in Canada's laws would undermine tougher
anti-drug statutes in the USA, lead to more smuggling and create opportunities
for organized crime. Bush administration aides note that marijuana is an
increasing problem along the Canadian border, where U.S. inspectors seized more
than 19,000 pounds of the leaf in 2002, compared with less than 2,000 pounds
four years earlier.

In December, U.S. anti-drug czar John Walters stumped across Canada, criticizing
the decriminalization plan. He told business groups in Vancouver, where police
allow public pot-smoking in some areas, that they would face tighter security at
the U.S. border if Canada eased its marijuana laws.

The backlash was immediate across Canada, where surveys have shown that nearly
70% of the country believes that possessing a small amount of marijuana should
be punishable only by a small fine. Canadian newspapers accused the USA of being
arrogant and called Walters paranoid.

For years, the USA and Canada have squabbled over border issues like longtime
friends with a few habits that annoy each other. U.S. officials dislike Canada's
looser immigration laws and limited regulation of prescription drugs,
particularly pseudoephedrine, used to make methamphetamine.

Canadian officials complain that Colombian cocaine and Mexican heroin often
enter Canada via the USA. Canadians argue that the USA should do more to curb
Americans' demand for illegal drugs, because restricting the supply only
increases prices.

Canada's full Parliament is likely to consider a decriminalization proposal
soon.

Committees in the House of Commons and the Senate have issued reports that say
police should not arrest people for smoking marijuana, adding momentum to the
decriminalization effort. Early versions of the proposal say those caught with
no more than 30 grams -- about an ounce -- of marijuana for personal use would
be ticketed and fined an undetermined amount.

'Drug tourist' penalties

Marijuana possession in Canada now is a criminal offense that can carry jail
time. Although people convicted of such an offense rarely are sent to jail, they
do end up with a criminal record. In the USA, states generally prosecute
marijuana-possession offenses, and sentences vary from mandatory jail time to
fines. Under federal sentencing guidelines, a person conviction of possession
could be sentenced to a year in jail.

Canada would keep criminal penalties for marijuana offenses that pose a
significant danger to others, such as illegal trafficking, selling to minors or
driving while under the influence of the drug. To prevent "drug tourists,"
Canadian officials say they would consider special penalties for sales to
non-Canadians.

Walters and other U.S. officials said they are worried that such a policy change
would make marijuana more available in Canada, leading to more smuggling. They
say drug gangs, sensing a more tolerant climate, probably would move their
operations near the Canadian-U.S. border, and more American teens would cross
the border to smoke pot.

Looser marijuana laws in Canada would make it "probable we will have to do more
restrictive things at the border," Walters said.

For Canadians who have been slowed by security checks imposed by the USA since
the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, that would mean more delays in crossing
the border, he said. That could damage Canadian business; trade with the USA
accounts for 70% of Canada's exports.

Canadian Sen. Pierre-Claude Nolin, head of the panel that released the Senate
report and a supporter of eased penalties, doubts that a new marijuana policy in
Canada would lead U.S. officials to hinder trade.

Walters "should have respect for our courts and our public," Nolin says. "He
cannot stop 8,000 semitrailers at the Windsor (Detroit) border every day. He's
saying that, but he will not do that."

Marijuana use in the USA has risen during the past decade. A 2001 study by U.S.
government and university researchers indicated that 49% of high school seniors
had smoked pot, up from 32.6% in 1992.

In Canada, authorities say their studies indicate that about 30% of Canadians
ages 12 to 64 have used marijuana at least once. Although drug use generally is
presumed to be rising, Canadian officials say they do not have accurate data
they could use to plot a trend.

Canadians say America's rising demand for marijuana makes smuggling appealing to
criminal organizations. They also cite the dozen U.S. states that have cut
penalties for marijuana possession in recent years -- Alaska, California,
Colorado, Maine, Minnesota, Mississippi, Nebraska, Nevada, New York, North
Carolina, Ohio and Oregon -- and say the U.S. government should focus more
attention on them.

"It is up to each country to get its own house in order before criticizing its
neighbor," a Canadian Senate report said. In the USA, state and local
prosecutors handle most marijuana cases. Federal prosecutors usually handle
cases that involve large amounts of the leaf or that involve suspects who cross
state or national borders.

Asa Hutchinson, a former head of the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration who
now is a top official at the Department of Homeland Security, said last year
that "we have to accept responsibility, and we're trying to reduce demand. But
without being critical of Canada, we're simply stating a reality: The decision
of the Canadian government will have a consequence in this country."

More from Mexico

U.S. Customs agents say the amount of marijuana entering the USA from Canada is
dwarfed by that from Mexico. The Royal Canadian Mounted Police says 800 tons of
marijuana circulates in Canada each year. It's grown mostly in British Columbia,
Ontario and Quebec -- all of which border the USA. Canadian and U.S. officials
say they do not know how much Canadian pot reaches the USA.

"B.C. Bud," the potent, hydroponically grown marijuana from British Columbia,
and its eastern counterpart, "Quebec Gold," sell for as much as $ 4,500 a pound,
the DEA says.

If Canada decriminalizes marijuana, U.S. Customs officials expect to see more
marijuana coming over the northern border, Customs spokesman Dean Boyd says. "It
doesn't take a rocket scientist to come to that conclusion."

Canadian Justice Minister Martin Cauchon, who soon will present the government's
plan for decriminalization, says he wants to bring Canadian law in line with
public opinion and with judicial rulings favoring lighter penalties for
marijuana possession. "We're not talking about being weak. We want to have
tougher law enforcement. Our policy toward trafficking will remain the same."

TEXT WITHIN GRAPHIC BEGINS HERE

Marijuana seized on U.S.-Canadian border

Pounds:

1998: 1,868

1999: 3,729

2000: 4,032

2001: 4,836

2002: 19,405

Seizures:

1998: 1,904

1999: 1,863

2000: 1,712

2001: 1,606

2002: 2,074

LOAD-DATE: May 08, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Darren Stone, Canadian Press, via AP; PHOTO, B/W, Jim
Young, Reuters; GRAPHIC, B/W, Julie Snider, USA TODAY, Source: U.S. Customs
Service (BAR GRAPH); Licensed medical marijuana: Wendy Little and her husband,
Eric Nash, check the progress of cannabis plants at Island Harvest Farms in
British Columbia. <>Wants law to reflect public opinion: Justice Minister Martin
Cauchon with schoolchildren touring Parliament Hill in Ottawa. Cauchon will
present the decriminalization plan to Parliament.

                      Copyright 2003 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              52 of 119 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     July 10, 2003, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Sunny skies brutalize Southwest

BYLINE: Patrick O'Driscoll

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 752 words

DATELINE: ALBUQUERQUE

ALBUQUERQUE -- As thunderstorms continue to flood the Midwest and Tropical Storm
Claudette churns in the Caribbean, the desert Southwest looks to cloudless skies
and wonders: Where is the summer monsoon?

The Southwest's monsoon, a shift in the usual wind pattern, generally brings
cooling afternoon thundershowers in July and August in New Mexico, Arizona and
parts of neighboring states. But this year's monsoon is a week overdue -- and at
least another week away, if not longer.

"They keep saying it's coming, but it hasn't happened yet," says Steve
Hernandez, a crew leader for an Albuquerque landscaping company.

He and his team started laying grass at a home subdivision at 6 a.m. Wednesday
to beat the worst of the heat. They scrambled to shade and shelter when it
peaked at midafternoon. High temperatures here this week prompted his bosses to
give field supervisors an extra safety briefing Wednesday so they'll know what
to do if a worker is overcome.


Across the Southwest, dozens of communities from Douglas, Ariz., to Pueblo,
Colo. are baking in triple-digit heat. By the weekend, 90-degree readings are
expected to spread border to border, from Texas to Montana. High-temperature
records across Arizona are expected to melt.

Albuquerque hit 100 degrees Wednesday and could do so again today. It's so hot
in Phoenix, no stranger to blast-furnace temperatures, that authorities issued a
heat advisory Wednesday. The temperature there reached 113 by late afternoon,
and 114 is expected today. Farther north, Salt Lake City may reach 101 Friday
and Saturday. Elko, Nev.; Boise; and Grand Junction, Colo., could see the same
today.

Denver, which didn't have a single 90-degree day in June, has had only one day
under 90 since then. Pueblo has set daily records above 100 at least four times
in the past week.

A ridge of atmospheric high pressure is blocking the tropical storms that in a
normal year would bring moisture north from Mexico's Baja coast and the Gulf of
Mexico. Those storms deliver as much as 45% of New Mexico's annual
precipitation, and they make hot afternoons bearable.

"The high is holding there," says Keith Hayes, an Albuquerque meteorologist for
the National Weather Service. "It looks like another eight to 10 days before it
begins to weaken significantly. It's also extending our high-fire-danger
season."

And the lack of showers has exacerbated a withering drought that already is
drying stretches of the Rio Grande south of Albuquerque.

Natives here pride themselves on withstanding desert extremes. Albuquerque is
one of the USA's 10 sunniest cities -- its airfield is called "Albuquerque
International Sunport," not airport -- and one of its driest. This week,
flirting with 100-degree readings, it is now one of the hottest.

"I'm born and raised here, and it's so hot, it's even irritating me," says Phil
Rivera, 46, of Albuquerque. "It's like walking in front of a furnace."

Convenience store operator Nina Brackeen stocks extra bottled water and watches
for telltale signs of heat stress in her customers.

"They can't count their change right. They're dizzy in the head," Brackeen says.
"I'm from India, so I'm used to the heat. I feel sorry for the outdoor workers."


It's just another occupational hazard to roofer Raul Borroel, 54. "Muy caliente
-- very hot. But somebody's got to do it," he says with a shrug as he finishes
tarring seams on the roof of an adobe-style building near Albuquerque's Old
Town.

Besides making the drought worse and increasing the threat of wildfire, this
heat wave kills. In the Arizona desert, the death toll among illegal immigrants
trying to cross the border on foot from Mexico is three ahead of 2002's
record-setting pace -- 79 dead since the start of the federal fiscal year last
October. Three succumbed last weekend to temperatures over 100.

At North Valley Equestrian Center here, horseback lessons for summer campers
include frequent water breaks under a canopy in the riding arena.

"Once it got to 100 degrees, I saw the kids wilting," says Melanie Omer, who
bought a portable swimming pool to help them cool off. She puts wet scarves in
the freezer, then wears them as her personal cooling device.

But Omer's campers happily continued to walk, trot and canter Wednesday beneath
the blazing sun. And, lacking the effect of those tardy showers, the only clouds
in their sky were plumes of dust, kicked up with every hoofbeat.

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS, B/W, Photos by Drew McDaniel for USA TODAY (2); Scorched: Mario
Hernandez of Heads Up Landscape Contractors braves withering heat Wednesday on a
project in Albuquerque. He and co-workers made sure to drink water every 15
minutes. <>Feeling the heat: Mayolo Jaramillo of National Roofing mops his brow
during a rooftop job.

                      Copyright 2003 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              53 of 119 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                      July 11, 2003, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Ford boldly raises prices on new F-150

BYLINE: James R. Healey

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 680 words

Ford Motor is boosting prices a few hundred dollars on its redesigned F-150
pickup, while keeping the current F-150 in production another year at the same
price for work-truck and fleet customers.

The 2004 F-150, made over literally from top to bottom and front to back, goes
on sale about Aug. 1. The F-Series is a perennial best seller and major source
of earnings for the automaker.

It is bold to raise prices even a small amount in today's climate of big
discounts, where low price is a bigger selling point than ever. But the '04
truck is a big improvement and justifies an even bigger increase, asserts Jerry
Reynolds, head of Prestige Ford in Garland, Texas, the country's biggest Ford
truck seller.


"I expected the increase to be much greater" than the $ 245-to-$ 635 range Ford
announced Thursday, he says. "We look at the effect on the (monthly) payment.
This truck will be $ 50 more than the current truck, and that's a pretty easy
sale when you walk a customer around and show him all the changes," Reynolds
says.

Ford spent relatively lavishly developing and equipping the '04 F-150, so it
costs Ford at least $ 1,200 more to manufacture it than to build its
predecessor. The true number could be as high as $ 2,100 more per truck, says
analyst Gary Lapidus at Goldman Sachs.

Wall Street is jumpy about that because it means Ford has less room to discount
and still make substantial profit if it has misjudged on pricing. General
Motors, lowest-cost truck producer, could try to wreck the Ford launch by
offering unusually aggressive discounts on Chevrolet and GMC pickups to steal
buyers. That could crowd Ford into bigger discounts on the new truck sooner than
planned.

That fight would be good for buyers, but not for Ford, which doesn't expect to
earn much this year.

"The launch of the 2004 Ford F-150 pickup is easily the most important launch
Ford has undertaken since the model's last redo in 1996," says John Casesa, auto
industry analyst at Merrill Lynch.

The cheapest redesigned '04 model will be the XL with regular cab, two-wheel
drive and 4.6-liter V-8 engine, priced $ 22,010 including $ 795 destination
charge. That's up $ 245 from the similar '03 model.

Typical model -- midgrade XLT with extended cab, four-wheel drive and 4.6-liter
V-8 -- will be $ 30,880, or $ 535 more than the '03.

"The increase looks pretty small compared to the improvements they made. A few
hundred dollars doesn't make much difference on a monthly payment," says Jeff
Brodoski, analyst at industry consultant J.D. Power and Associates. "As a
forecaster, I wouldn't go out and start lowering my (sales) volume estimates
based on those prices," he says.

Ford forecasts that the new F-150 typically will sell for 6% less than full
window-sticker price, in line with the 7% discount predicted by Edmunds.com.

Dealer Reynolds expects discounts to grow after the first year, when supplies
are plentiful.

"We're going to continue to be very aggressive in terms of incentives" -- both
cash and low-interest loans -- confirms Doug Scott, Ford truck marketing
manager.

Keeping the current-design F-150 in production could help inoculate Ford against
ruinous, immediate discounts on the redesigned version. The current model will
be left unchanged in price and specifications, rebadged an '04 model and
marketed as the F-150 Heritage. It will be the only version offering a V-6
engine or manual transmission.

Bargain hunters can be steered to the Heritage, Ford figures, eliminating some
of the need to give back thousands of dollars in rebates to sell the redesigned
model.

Heritage prices range from $ 19,920 for an XL with regular cab, two-wheel drive,
V-6 and manual transmission, to $ 29,250 for XLT with extended cab, V-8 and
four-wheel drive. Those prices are unchanged from '03 models.

The F-Series is the best-selling vehicle of any kind in the USA, and --
including F-250/350 heavy-duty models -- could account for 1 million sales next
year. The 150 is about two-thirds that total.

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS, B/W, Ford Motor (2); Redone: The 2004 F-150's upright,
less-curvy styling resembles Ford's heavy-duty models. FX4 off-road model costs
$32,900, $430 more than the '03, left.

                      Copyright 2003 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              54 of 119 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                      July 18, 2003, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Tiny signs of life bloom in Silicon Valley

BYLINE: Jon Swartz and Jim Hopkins

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 1654 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO

SAN FRANCISCO -- Dave Holmes-Kinsella is rushed -- and relieved.

Laid off twice in the past two years, the 38-year-old Silicon Valley software
marketer has been our of work since March.

But in recent weeks, he's landed six job interviews. Last year, during a
three-month layoff, he had just two. "There is a glimmer of hope," he says.


Glimmer. Hope. Those were two words rarely uttered in Silicon Valley in the past
three years as it suffered its worst downturn ever. But a sign of life in
Holmes-Kinsella's world is just one of several anecdotal indications that the
Valley may be emerging from its deep slump.

Year-over-year job losses in Santa Clara County -- the heart of the Valley --
are easing. Median home prices, among the highest in the nation, have climbed
since April, easing fears of a housing bubble. Stocks of Valley linchpins eBay,
Cisco Systems and Yahoo, which took a beating during the Internet bust, are
surging again, enriching employees with stock options. Intel, No. 1 chipmaker
and Silicon Valley stalwart, Tuesday posted an 8% year-over-year quarterly
increase in revenue, its biggest in three years. In California, tech job
listings online are up 11% this year, says recruitment site HotJobs. Venerable
stomping grounds of the tech sect, quiet while patrons licked their wounds, are
bustling again.

Every quarter, legendary Valley venture capitalist Sandy Robertson and a group
of financial types break bread at a local restaurant and gauge the business
climate. Until their last get-together in June, it has been a solemn affair. But
lately, "There has been some pickup," Robertson says.

A Valley rebound could have major implications for the nation's economy. Despite
the dot-com bust and tech meltdown, the Valley is still home to the biggest
concentration of venture capitalists and tech start-ups. That makes it ground
zero for tech innovations that then rumble through the economy in terms of
productivity and lifestyle changes, says Scott Anderson, senior economist for
Wells Fargo. Last year, VCs pumped a third of their $ 21.2 billion into the
Valley -- more than in any other region.

No one expects a repeat of the tech boom of the late 1990s, when the Internet
frenzy lifted the U.S. economy and stock markets worldwide, making the Valley
synonymous with overnight riches and dizzying promise. "Silicon Valley will
probably never reach those heights again," Robertson says.

And discouraging signs persist. The June jobless rate in Santa Clara County was
8.5%, far above the national rate of 6.4%. Hearts are leaving San Francisco, the
favored nearby haunt of many a dot-commer. It lost residents faster than any
other big city between July 2001 and July 2002, the Census Bureau says. And
executives of Valley titans have been loath to predict a recovery.

Cisco Systems CEO John Chambers, one of the most bullish tech executives during
the slump's earliest days, now repeatedly reminds that increased tech spending
will follow the economy rather than lead it.

Despite the numbers, both good and bad, something perhaps more important has
taken hold, say Valley executives, venture capitalists and workers.

"The momentum and mood are back," says Tony Perkins, founder of tech's Red
Herring magazine. It soared along with the tech boom only to shutter in March, a
victim of the tech freeze.

Mood lifters include:

 * Better business conditions.  The latest economic figures suggest business
spending has stopped sagging and is rising. High-tech hardware sales -- which
underpin demand for software, services and other tech goods -- have increased
three consecutive quarters, the Commerce Department says. "Conditions are
showing gradual improvement," says Goldman Sachs analyst Laura Conigliaro. She
expects a pickup in tech spending next year for the first time since late 2001.

In a recent Goldman survey called "At Last the Bleeding Stops," tech officers
from major companies indicated their 2004 spending budgets will grow 3.5% after
declines in 2001 and 2002.

Such spending plans have made Valley executives and managers more bullish about
business prospects than at any time in the previous 12 months, says the Santa
Clara University Business Index, released last month. "All the pain of
restructuring is behind everyone," says Valley-based Agile Software CEO Bryan
Stolle. "Now, it's a matter of reducing costs through smarter investments and
increasing sales. It's a more positive approach."

Jeremys, a popular surplus clothing store in South Park, the San Francisco
neighborhood where Wired magazine and other dot-com upstarts were founded in the
1990s, just had its best quarter in 17 years. Among the reasons: "A lot of
techies are working, and shopping here again," owner Jeremy Kidson says.

Residents, too, are more optimistic, says the Silicon Valley Consumer Confidence
Survey. Nearly half of 912 people polled in late June by San Jose State
University say financial conditions will improve in a year, compared with 35% in
March.

There are even fewer signs of the unemployed during the day at Trader Joe's,
where many shopped for bargains, and at Starbucks, where they networked and
interviewed for jobs. "There's less idle time," says Kayla Block, 41, a software
designer in Oakland laid off last year. She endured six months of "no
interviews, nothing" before landing contract work from February to May.

 * Surging tech stocks. Stocks on the tech-heavy Nasdaq, up 27% this year, have
inflated the value of millions of previously worthless stock options. Charles
Schwab says trading nationwide soared 50% in late June, contributing to what one
prominent banker called the hottest market for stock options in years. As many
as one-fourth of households in Silicon Valley have stock options -- triple the
national rate, according to a Gallup Poll commissioned last year by the San Jose
Mercury-News.

One Valley benefactor, Paul Godowski , 46, recently sold some options in biotech
firm Genentech after the shares more than doubled to about $ 75. The scientist,
who then used the proceeds on goodies and bills, says his level of enthusiasm
about the economy is "extremely high."

Even the long-dormant market for initial public offerings -- crucial to the
Valley's ability to raise money that is then often poured into other start-ups
-- is stirring. The first U.S. tech IPO this year -- that of FormFactor, a
Valley-based maker of chip-testing equipment -- was successful in June. Another
local company, iPass, which provides networking services, is moving closer to a
public offering, it said in a recent Securities and Exchange Commission filing.
It withdrew its IPO in 2000 because of poor market conditions.

 * A "back-to-the-lab" movement. The glimmers of hope have lured back
entrepreneurs like Joe Kraus, who co-founded Internet portal Excite in 1994.
After "going dark" for more than a year following the dot-com meltdown, Kraus,
32, has plunged back into tech with two start-ups and investments in another
pair.

"It was nuclear winter," Kraus says, recounting tech's prolonged slump at a
sidewalk cafe in Palo Alto, home of Stanford University. "Now, there's a spark
in the air."

Kraus and others say they have jumped "back in the lab" because the landscape
for new companies is as "fertile" as it was in the early 1990s, when rents were
low, skilled workers were plentiful and financial backers were anxious to fund
good ideas. So far this year, Charles River Ventures, a venture capital firm,
has invested in twice as many tech companies as it did a year ago. "We're
returning to a normal environment that isn't as dire as it was the past few
years or as out-of-control as the Internet bubble," says Diaz Nesamoney, 38,
founder of business software maker Celequest.

Nesamoney intended to retire last year when he left Informatica, the business
software company he co-founded. But a blossoming tech market and restlessness
prompted his next venture, which launched June 30. He quickly raised $ 6.5
million.

Still, Valley VCs aren't doling out dollars like candy as they did during the
boom. Charles River Ventures, for example, is funding more companies but
spending less on each.

"This Valley seems to function in 15-year waves -- and we're at the beginning of
the next cycle," says Bill Tai, general manager.

Proceed with caution

Despite positive signs, the watchword is caution. Valley granddaddy
Hewlett-Packard, still in the throes of merging with Compaq Computer, is hiring
on a limited basis in key areas. Though it intends to add 4,000 jobs in the
second half of 2003, it will cut 3,500 others.

Cisco's Chambers this month told reporters the network company will maintain its
research and development spending at about 17.5% of sales in 2004 and 2005. It
expects the recovery will come first from small to midsize businesses, he said.

Even Intel, fresh off a strong quarter, is putting a lid on its 79,200-person
workforce for the rest of 2003, CFO Andy Bryant says.

Again, it's that old bugaboo: Tech spending will be modest. The 3.5% projected
growth for next year is a fraction of the double-digit annual increases during
the late '90s. That means more companies are likely to fight even harder for
sales, increasing pressure on already weakened businesses.

"For surviving companies, there is an upturn," Oracle CEO Larry Ellison recently
told analysts. "But there are a number of Silicon Valley companies that need to
go out of business."

Still, it's hard to dampen the enthusiasm of tech workers who have had little to
celebrate.

"Because everyone talks to each other in the Valley, this could be massive self
delusion," Kraus says. "But I think there's a healthy humility driving this
market. The enthusiasm and optimism we're feeling is grounded in reality."

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, Color, Sam Ward, USA TODAY (ILLUSTRATION); GRAPHIC, Color,
Quin Tian, USA TODAY, Source: CSI (BAR GRAPH); PHOTO, B/W, Fred Mertz for USA
TODAY; GRAPHIC, B/W, Quin Tian, USA TODAY, Source: California Employment
Development Department; Source: Santa Clara University survey of MBA graduates
in Silicon Valley. June 2003 results based on 221 responses; Sources:
PricewaterhouseCoopers, Venture Economics, National Venture Capital Association
(LINE GRAPH); Forget retirement: Software engineer Ben Byon, left, talks with
Diaz Nesamoney, founder of Celequest. Nesamoney, 38, meant to retire last year
when he left Informatica. But the tech market's comeback prompted his next
venture, which launched June 30. He quickly raised $6.5 million.

TYPE: COVER STORY

                      Copyright 2003 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              55 of 119 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                      July 25, 2003, Friday, FINAL EDITION

2004 Forester: It's still ugly, but power it up

BYLINE: James R. Healey

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 7D

LENGTH: 1133 words

Most Subarus need better looks and more power.

The iconoclastic automaker -- not recognizing the first as an issue -- has
addressed the latter on the 2004 Forester XT.

The Forester line was redesigned for '03, and the turbocharged '04 XT has been
added as the top model.

The XT's turbo requires premium fuel, which sells for an average 15 to 20 cents
a gallon more than regular. But it hasn't the uneven personality of some turbo
engines.


The XT's 27% boost in horsepower over the X and XS models (to 210 hp) and 42%
jolt in torque (to 235 pounds-feet) sets you back $ 1,825 more than you'd pay
for a similar XS, which had been the top model. XT starts at $ 25,520 and tops $
29,000 loaded.

"We're not exactly the inexpensive choice, as we used to be," spokesman Rob
Moran says. "The Forester does very well, and we don't plan to change" the
premium-pricing strategy, he says.

The turbocharged engine is based on the robust 2.5-liter four-cylinder in the
WRX Subie rally car, rather than the standard-duty 2.5-liter engine in other
Foresters and Legacys. XT also gets:

 * A functional hood scoop that feeds cool air to the heat-making turbo. Never
mind that the scoop's big and ugly and strikes some bystanders as a joke.

 * Cosmetic differences involving wheels, seat bolsters, interior trim and roof
rails.

Time in a test car in ho-hum daily use and a little sporting surge now and then
showed that the XT starts and runs smoothly, sounds slightly better than other
Subaru four-cylinder engines (which run with a hackity-cackle sound as if a
spark plug wire were loose), works reasonably well in burble-about traffic and
excels in more-demanding situations.

Moran: "More power -- that's a criticism we've had across the lineup. This is a
way to address it."

Forester -- a small station wagon to anybody with eyes and common sense -- is
considered a small sport-utility vehicle, in a class with Honda CR-V, Toyota
RAV4, Jeep Liberty and the like. "There really isn't a sporty alternative among
the small SUV category, so we think people will gravitate to the XT. The engine
has more torque than a WRX. The performance will shock some people," Moran says.


There was, though, considerable turbo lag in the test car at low engine speed.
It took a long moment for the turbo to add power after the gas was booted. It
was perhaps worse than the lag typical of turbocharged engines, which won't
produce much extra punch until revved fast.

The four-speed automatic transmission delivered a mild jerk when changing gears
up or down. A heavy throttle foot amplified the problem. A moderate driver
wouldn't notice much, but an enthusiast would.

The test car had a premium package that included leather upholstery and an
enormous sunroof.

The leather seats were oh-so-comfy. Plus, it was easy to find a just-right
driving position, despite a lack of power-everything adjustments.

The sunroof, big enough to cover both rows of seats, made the interior airy and
expansive. Open, the roof made the XT as much like a convertible as possible
without using a low bridge to peel the entire steel top right off.

Subaru's excellent all-wheel drive is standard. It is authentic AWD, driving all
wheels all the time. The system in the automatic transmission model normally
sends 70% of the power to the front wheels. The manual transmission system (not
tested) normally sends 50% to each end. Both setups reapportion front-rear power
as traction changes. Standard limited-slip differential controls side-to-side
power flow in back.

In addition to the somewhat unrefined powertrain behavior, the radio is
foolishly awkward. Instead of a simple tuning knob, a push-button lets you into
the tuning mode, after a couple of tries. The only knob is for volume and
doesn't protrude far enough.

The flaws are disappointing but not enough to undermine the XT's considerable
appeal.


2004 Subaru Forester XT

* What is it? Up-level, high-power version of the small Subaru sport-utility
wagon, positioned atop a three-model line that also includes Forester X and XS.

* How soon? On sale since late June.

* How much? Manual transmission model starts at $ 25,520, including $ 550
destination charge. Automatic is $ 26,320. Premium (including automatic
transmission) is $ 28,070. Loaded Premium is $ 29,206, costs the dealer $
26,330, sells for an average $ 27,389, Edmunds.com says.

* How many? 9,000 a year, 15% of Forester sales.

* Who'll buy? Smart women. Subaru won't discuss specifics but says that 60% of
Forester buyers, including XT, are females, typically college-educated, and have
the most schooling of any Subaru buyers.

* What's the powertrain? 2.5-liter, turbocharged, intercooled four-cylinder with
variable valve timing, derived from the Subaru WRX, rated 210 horsepower at
5,600 rpm, 235 pounds-feet of torque at 3,600. Five-speed manual transmission is
standard; four-speed automatic is optional.

All-wheel drive (AWD) and rear limited-slip differential are standard. AWD
normally sends 70% of power to front wheels on automatic transmission models,
50% on manual transmission models. Both systems can shift power to either end,
depending on traction conditions.

* What's the safety gear? Usual bags and belts, plus head and chest side-impact
air bags for front-seat occupants; anti-lock brakes with brake-force
distribution.

* What's the rest? Key standard features: automatic climate control;
AM/FM/six-CD stereo; power steering, brakes, windows, locks, mirrors; heated
front seats; mirror defrosters; remote-control locks; cruise control;
rear-window wiper and defroster; 215/60R-16 all-season tires.

* How big? Nine inches longer than Toyota RAV4, otherwise similar. Forester XT
is 175.2 inches long, 68.1 inches wide, 65 inches tall, on a 99.4-inch
wheelbase. Cargo space behind rear seats is listed as 32 cubic feet (29.6 on
Premium), 64.1 with seat folded (62.7 on Premium).

* How thirsty? Manual transmission is rated 18 miles per gallon in town, 23 on
the highway, 21 in combined city and highway driving. Automatic is rated
19/23/21. Premium fuel is required.

* Overall: The added power is welcome, though imperfectly delivered.

---

More online

* Chat online with James R. Healey at 2 p.m. ET today at talk.usatoday.com.

* To read current and past columns online, go to usatoday.com. Click the green
Money button, then Cars, then Test Drive. Or use this address:
www.usatoday.com/money/columns/ healey/index.htm.

* E-mail testdrive@usatoday.com.

* To check: Crash-test scores, www.nhtsa.dot.gov and www.iihs.org; incentives,
www.nada guides.com and www.edmunds.com; fuel economy, www.fuel economy.gov/feg.


LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Subaru

                      Copyright 2003 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              56 of 119 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     August 1, 2003, Friday, FINAL EDITION

SUV's got style, grace and growl

BYLINE: James R. Healey

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 7D

LENGTH: 1310 words

Volkswagen and Porsche jointly developed midsize sport-utility vehicles. Porsche
took a wrong turn and wound up with the Cayenne. VW trod the right path and has
the Touareg to show for it.

Touareg is a beauty behind the wheel. It's also better-looking outside than
Cayenne to most eyes. It even feels roomier inside, although dimensions are
nearly identical.

Seats in the two preproduction test vehicles -- a loaded V-6 and V-8 -- were
among the most comfortable ever tested. Power is wonderful in the V-8, adequate
and well-emphasized aurally in the V-6.


The automatic transmission offers six speeds, two automatic modes -- regular and
grrrr -- and a manual-shift mode. Upshifts are silken but downshifts more like
corduroy.

Brakes are prompt to the point of touchy. Steering stays where it's pointed.

Interior lighting is gorgeous, gauges are handsome, trim is classy.

The unusual all-wheel drive, called 4XMotion and unlike the 4Motion setup on VW
cars, is a standout. It splits power evenly to all four wheels normally,
adjusting as traction changes.

Off-road, you first choose the low-range gears for slogging. Then you twist the
knob to lock the center differential, so power goes fore and aft equally, no
matter what. An option lets you also lock the rear diff, so each rear wheel gets
half the power going to the back.

The optional air suspension allows about 5 inches of height adjustment, giving
Touareg 11.8 inches of ground clearance vs. about 8 inches on a typical midsize
SUV.

With all those height and gearing advantages, it will take some trying to get
stuck.

Touareg truly gives you the feeling you're high, wide and handsome and running
with ease and aplomb.

And, oh, if only we could stop there, what a wholehearted endorsement Touareg
would get. But perversity abounds. While VW took pains to get many attributes
just right, others that should have been no-brainers are bollixed up. It seems
best to wait until VW can remedy them -- as surely it must, for they are so
stupid. For instance:

 * No back-seat DVD entertainment system is offered, VW says. Even the
yeoman-duty Chevrolet Malibu will have a rear-rider DVD for '04. There's
precisely zero excuse for VW not to have it as an option in an expensive SUV.
Dealers will fill the breach, no doubt.

 * The navigation system is especially evil. Most navis are Beelzebub's
handiwork for starters. But VW takes you deeper into Hades using a CD-based
system. You need to carry nine different discs to have maps for the whole USA.
The DVD-based systems popular today put all that on a single disc. The CD maps
in Touareg have few street names or other fine detail. A DVD navi gives you
remarkable resolution and detail.

And the navigation CD uses the music-CD slot, so you can't listen and navigate
simultaneously unless you buy the CD changer. And that's in the cargo area,
where it can't be reached easily. A DVD-based navi is about two years off.

 * The trip computer -- perhaps the auto industry's only useful foray into
electronic information display -- can't be customized. You can scroll through
different info pages, but you can't pick which one pops up each time you start
the vehicle, VW says.

 * The roof rack is a total bother. Unusually robust, it holds a meaty 220
pounds and looks great, like a tasteful roof air spoiler when the two crossbars
are tight together at the rear.

But to move the crossbars for a load, you have to pull down a plastic cover on
each side; use a small auxiliary key on the fob to operate a lock under the
cover on each side; pull down on the gizmo you just unlocked on each side; voila
-- you now can slide the crossbar from either side, one-handed. The Lexus RX 330
SUV, by contrast, lets you do all that with the push of a button on only one
side -- no key, no walking around the vehicle; just push and slide.

 * Temperature-control knobs clacked among settings with a sound and feel much
like breaking the wishbone on the Thanksgiving turkey. You expect the knobs to
snap loose any moment.

 * There's no third-row seat. Never meant to have one, so VW has eliminated
buyers who require such accommodations.

It's enough to make you pound the table in frustration. Such a wonderfully
turned out machine, felled by such absurd mistakes.

If you simply must have one now -- and it would be hard to argue a person out of
that rush, so inviting is the Touareg as an overall package -- you can minimize
the aggravations by skipping the navigation system, using the climate control as
a truly automatic system on which you never touch the adjustment knobs, and
flooring the gas as often as possible to let the wonderful engine sounds get
your mind off how mad you'll be when an improved Touareg comes out, with the
flubs fixed.


2004 Volkswagen Touareg

* What is it? Midsize, four-door, five-passenger, four-wheel-drive sport-utility
vehicle, developed with Porsche Cayenne but very unlike that SUV. Manufactured
at a Bratislava, Slovakia, factory that also makes European-market VW cars and
transmissions.

* What's up with that name? Pronounced TOUR-regg, VW says it's a tribe of
Saharan nomads and translates as "free folk."

* How soon? On sale since June 20.

* How much? V-6 starts at $ 35,515, including $ 615 destination charge. V-8
starts at $ 41,315. Expect to pay close to full sticker price, Edmunds.com says.


* Who'll buy? 45-year-old married college grads.

* How many? 24,000 this year, then 40,000 annually.

* What's the powertrain? 3.2-liter, VW narrow-angle V-6 is rated 220 horsepower
at 5,400 rpm, 225 pounds-feet of torque at 3,200 rpm. 4.2-liter Audi V-8 is
rated 310 hp at 6,200 rpm, 302 lbs.-ft. at 3,000. Both engines have a six-speed
automatic transmission with Tiptronic manual-shift mode; 4XMotion all-wheel
drive with electronic center-differential lock.

* What's the safety gear? Normal bags and belts, plus side-impact bags for
driver and front passenger, side-curtain head-protection bags, antilock brakes
with electronic brake-force distribution, anti-skid control.

* What's the rest? Key standard features on the V-6 model include dual-zone
automatic climate control; sunroof; AM/FM/CD stereo; power steering, brakes,
windows, locks and mirrors; heated seats; cruise control; remote-control locks;
tilt-adjustable and telescoping steering column; automatic rain-sensing
windshield wipers with washer-nozzle defrosters; rear window wiper and
defroster; outside-mirror defrosters; auto-on/off headlights; tire pressure
monitor; adjustable roof rack; 255/60-17 all-season tires with a temporary
spare.

V-8 model has leather upholstery; power seats; auto-dimming exterior mirrors;
255/55-18 all-season tires.

* How big? Slightly longer, wider and taller than Lexus RX 330 SUV; Touareg is
187.2 inches long, 75.9 inches wide and 68 inches tall on a 112.4-inch
wheelbase. V-6 is rated to carry 1,400 pounds; V-8 is rated to carry 1,250
pounds. Both are rated to tow 7,716 pounds.

* How thirsty? V-6 is rated 15 miles per gallon in town, 20 on the highway. Test
vehicle's trip computer showed 13.5 mpg in boringly normal suburban driving. V-8
is rated 14/18 mpg. Trip computer showed 10.5 mpg in suburban use punctuated by
moments of enthusiasm. Premium is recommended, not required.

* Overall: Sweet and sour; almost delicious.

---

More online

* Chat online with James R. Healey at 2 p.m. ET today at talk.usatoday.com.

* To read current and past columns online, go to usatoday.com. Click the green
Money button, then Cars, then Test Drive. Or use this address:
www.usatoday.com/money/columns/ healey/index.htm.

* E-mail testdrive@usatoday.com.

* To check: Crash-test scores, www.nhtsa.dot.gov and www.iihs.org; incentives,
www.nadaguides.com and www.edmunds.com; fuel economy, www.fueleconomy.gov/feg.

LOAD-DATE: August 01, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS, B/W, Volkswagen of America (2); 2004 VW Touareg: Smooth,
unadorned styling turns heads. V-8 model gets bigger tires befitting its 310 hp.
<>Classy cabin: Walnut and aluminum (real, not faux) highlight trim.

                      Copyright 2003 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              59 of 119 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    November 28, 2003, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Economic growth rolls merrily along, report shows

BYLINE: Sue Kirchhoff and Stephanie Armour

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 1907 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

WASHINGTON -- The economy revved up to a steady, broad-based expansion in
October and early November, the Federal Reserve said Wednesday, in its most
encouraging assessment of business conditions in months.

The Fed's "beige book," an anecdotal report on the economy, found manufacturing,
which has been mired in a three-year recession, recovering in most areas of the
nation. The job market "generally improved or remained stable" across the 12 Fed
regions covered by the report, with a slower pace of layoffs and rising demand
for temporary workers. Full-time, permanent jobs still remained somewhat
elusive, however.

Consumer spending, which makes up about 70% of the economy, was generally
strong, with retailers predicting a healthy, though not gangbusters, holiday
season. There was little increase in either wages or prices of finished goods,
though there were reports of higher commodity prices. The tourism and travel
industry continued its long recovery.


The beige book, named for the color of its cover, provides additional evidence
that a recent acceleration in business activity -- the economy grew at a 8.2%
annual rate in the third quarter, the fastest in two decades -- was not just a
short-term blip. Many economists expect growth to settle at a 4% or higher pace.


But the report also points to some areas of continued stress, including a weak
commercial real estate market and few signs that manufacturers are ready to hire
in significant numbers. The beige book also notes widespread concern about
medical costs. Several Fed regions said businesses were shifting more health
costs to workers, with the Kansas City Fed noting some small firms were
eliminating health insurance. Sue Kirchhoff and Stephanie Armour looked at the
report.

First District: The outlook for software and technology firms has moved from
cautious to optimistic, with demand on the upswing. One software firm reported a
35% rise in its capital budget. While keeping lean inventories for the holidays,
many retailers expect sales to rise moderately in the next six months.
Semiconductor makers indicate a solid upward trend in sales, as do some other
manufacturers, notably makers of military goods, for which orders are increasing
by double digits. However, some equipment makers say prices are still falling,
and paper and commercial aircraft production is hurting. Factory employment is
expected to stay flat. Temporary jobs are up. The Boston commercial real estate
market has yet to show any signs of improvement, with high vacancy and low
rental rates.

Second District: Retailers report mixed business and say selling prices are
steady to down 3% from a year ago. Sales of household furnishings and jewelry
have remained strong. The housing market was strong, with median prices up more
than 10% from a year ago in New York and New Jersey. Commercial real estate held
steady, with Manhattan's office market mixed. A major New York City employment
agency said hiring was generally brisk, while a securities industry official
expects hiring to improve and bonuses to rise nearly 20% from a year ago.
Manufacturing output and employment are improving. Small to midsize banks said
household lending was declining, while commercial mortgages and industrial
lending held steady.

Third District: Manufacturers said orders and shipments were rising in early
November; one out of five said order backlogs were growing. Demand for
electrical machinery and metal products was on the upswing, while conditions
were weaker for factories making lumber products, plastics and transportation
equipment. Retailers and auto dealers said sales slipped in October. Retailers
blamed warm weather, which brought sales of coats and other winter items to a
standstill, but those were rising in November. Banks reported higher demand for
commercial and industrial loans, many to middle-market firms in a range of
industries that are beginning to expand. Some banks said they were limiting
residential lending to prevent mortgages from becoming too large a portion of
loan portfolios.

Fourth District: Auto and steel producers said production was increasing, but
most other durable goods makers reported flat conditions. Factories producing
goods designed to last a limited time said production was up from a year ago.
Inventories were lean across the board. Hiring has yet to take off. Trucking and
shipping firms saw a significant rise in activity in September and October
because of higher demand from retailers and manufacturers. Retailers generally
reported increased sales in October and September, though growth was uneven and
many stores said recent sales were still below a year ago. Bankers said deposit
growth slowed, and some actually reported a slight decline in the past six
weeks. Loan demand is mixed, and mortgage refinancing is down from record
levels. Retailers generally said business was improving, though department
stores continued to suffer.

Fifth District: Growth picked up a notch as retailers reported an uptick in
sales, including some stores in towns hard hit by recent textile plant closures.
One big-box retailer, however, said more people appeared to be living paycheck
to paycheck now that federal income tax rebates are lessening. Service firms
reported higher sales, including health care and professional and scientific and
technical companies near Washington, D.C. Manufacturing expanded at a brisk
pace, with a Virginia lumber mill saying business was bouncing back, though
textile and furniture makers still had the blues. Commercial real estate
activity was strong, while tourism was mixed following September's Hurricane
Isabel. Bankers said loan demand was flat, with higher commercial demand offset
by falling home mortgage business. But one banker said his clients appeared
ready to "pull the trigger" and invest in business expansion.

Sixth District: Conditions were stable, with retailers generally upbeat about
prospects for the holiday season. Auto sales were down, however, and firms
remained reluctant to add full-time permanent employees. Commercial construction
was subdued, though some retailers are starting to move on expansion plans.
Manufacturing showed spot improvement, but few firms built inventories or added
workers. The lumber business was "booming." Tourism improved as promotional
deals pulled more travelers into Florida theme parks. Miami's convention
industry improved, and the cruise industry is "going strong." Bankers said the
number of past-due mortgages increased, and mortgage refinancing declined
significantly, but problem loans remained manageable. Agriculture was in good
shape, especially cotton, peanut and citrus growers.

Seventh District: The district saw economic improvement, including a boost in
business spending and signs of hiring by temporary staffing firms. Consumer
spending was mixed, as was the outlook for spending over the holiday season.
Some auto dealers noted that light vehicle sales had softened. While capital
spending by businesses remained little changed, business contacts suggested they
were considering -- but not yet adding -- permanent hires. Residential real
estate markets continued to be brisk, fueled by low interest rates on mortgages.
Manufacturing rose in October and early November.

Eighth District: Business activity improved, with retail sales up slightly and
service sector firms planning for hiring. On the retail front, furnishings and
electronics sold briskly, and contacts are very optimistic about the next two
months, with about 80% expecting sales to increase from 2002. Car dealers
reported that sales in September and October were slightly down. Signs of
improvement in the manufacturing sector include reports of plant openings,
product line expansions and new jobs. Residential real estate markets remained
strong: September year-to-date housing sales in the Memphis area increased 9.3%
from September last year. . Recent weather has been favorable for harvesting
crops.

 Ninth District: Increased economic activity boosted consumer spending and
tourism, although some price increases were noted. Retailers reported optimism
about holiday sales. One major Minneapolis-based department store and discount
retailer reported same-store sales in October up almost 2% from a year ago. For
the first time since 2001, commercial real estate brokers in the Twin Cities
expected more office space will be filled than vacated in the upcoming year. A
drop in manufacturer incentives led to softer auto sales in October.
Manufacturing increased, and companies projected a rise in sales, hiring and
capital expenditures in 2004. Overall employment activity was stable, with a mix
of expansions and layoff announcements. Price increases were noted for plywood,
natural gas, and beef and veal.

 Tenth District: Business owners were upbeat about signs of economic expansion.
Consumer spending showed improvement, with retail sales above year-ago levels in
most stores, especially in home furnishings. Store managers expect strong
holiday sales and are planning more seasonal hiring than in recent years.
Tourism was mixed in October and early November, but advance bookings for winter
travel were above year-ago levels in most locations. Strong manufacturing
activity was due to longer workweeks and increased productivity, and one
chemical products maker will continue operating several plants previously slated
to close. Residential real estate activity remained strong. While wage increases
were modest, employers noted a continued rise in employee benefit costs.

 Eleventh District: Economic activity showed improvement, with business contacts
expressing more optimism even though many remain reluctant to hire. Contacts
noted they were also hesitant to make investments until they are more certain
about the economic recovery. Price pressures were mixed. The cost of health
insurance is such a concern that some contacts indicated those increases may be
behind the reluctance to add new workers. On the manufacturing front, gains in
productivity and outsourcing slowed job growth, although orders for technology
products grew. Overall in the labor market, layoffs have slowed. In
transportation, the airline industry is picking up, but truckers are less
optimistic. That's because new safety rules that go into effect in January are
expected to raise prices and make it more difficult to hire drivers. Demand for
temporary staffing continues to be slow and steady.

 Twelfth District: The economy posted solid economic growth. There was scant
upward price pressure, and employers noted they are passing on the cost of
increasing health benefits to their workers. Slack labor markets damped wage
increases in most sectors. Retailers noted solid consumer spending spurred by
pre-holiday discounts. While there has been little change in consumer prices,
the cost of lumber and other building materials was up. The travel and tourism
sector experienced a pickup in demand, in part due to early snow and cold
weather. Manufacturing activity was up, with a rise in orders and sales of
semiconductors. In real estate, sales of new and existing homes remained strong,
and home prices rose. Mortgage lenders report that they have mostly worked off
the significant backlog of mortgage applications built up during the refinancing
boom. However, origination of new mortgages for home purchases remained strong.

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, USA TODAY (MAP)

                      Copyright 2003 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              63 of 119 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   January 30, 2003, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Tax-funded campaigning spirals toward irrelevance

BYLINE: Jim Drinkard

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1821 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

WASHINGTON -- The nation's system of public financing for presidential campaigns
is in the worst financial shape in its 28-year history and is beset with other
problems that are tempting the leading candidates to ignore it in the 2004
elections.

Advocates of public financing fear that could lead to the system's unraveling
and bring back the influence of wealthy contributors that it was designed to
eliminate when it was created after the Watergate scandal in the 1970s.

"When I look at 2004, I really worry if the system won't just break down," says
John Green, a political scientist at the University of Akron. Green co-chairs a
task force that's looking into problems with the system, which uses tax dollars
to pay much of the cost of running for president.

When candidates in the Democratic primaries apply for federal matching funds a
year from now, they are likely to receive only pennies on the dollar initially
because of shortfalls in the special fund used to finance presidential
campaigns. The fund is fueled by a $ 3-per-person checkoff on federal income tax
returns. But only about 11% of Americans check that box, down from 28% two
decades ago.


Other forces are eroding the system as well. The amount of the federal match --
up to $ 250 for each individual contribution to a primary campaign -- hasn't
been adjusted since it was set in 1974. Candidates who accept the match agree to
abide by state and overall spending limits, which haven't kept up with the rise
in the cost of campaigning. And the system wasn't designed for today's
front-loaded primary schedule, which favors candidates who can raise lots of
money in the year before the election.

By the time matching funds become available in the election year, it's almost
too late for them to do any good.

At a University of Virginia forum last month at which five top Democratic
candidates were represented by advisers, only one -- former Vermont governor
Howard Dean -- committed to participate in the public financing system next
year.

Public financing was in large measure a reaction to Watergate, when big campaign
contributors bankrolled campaigns in return for later access to the president.
It was meant to lessen the influence of those donors and level the playing field
for candidates without access to the wealthy.

"It would be a disaster for the country to lose the system," says Fred
Wertheimer of the reform group Democracy 21. "It would put the presidency right
back on the auction block."

Green and task force co-chairman Tony Corrado, a political scientist at Colby
College in Maine, will convene a forum here Friday to look at what ails the
system and how to rescue it.

Untenable financing

With campaign costs mounting and fewer taxpayers checking the box on their tax
returns, the fund that pays for presidential campaigns is falling further
behind.

The law requires that the fund first set aside money to pay for the fall 2004
general election -- about $ 74 million each for the Democratic and Republican
nominees -- as well as about $ 14 million for each of the two major-party
conventions. What's left is used to make matching-fund payments to primary
candidates.

President Bush is expected to opt out of the system for the primary, as he did
in 2000, in order to be able to raise and spend unlimited amounts. But there
could be six or more Democrats applying for matching funds. The Federal Election
Commission has estimated a need of up to $ 36 million, far more than the $ 4.6
million projected to be available.

Although the lack of immediate matching money is a problem, campaign managers
say it is not crucial. Banks will lend campaigns money to bridge the time until
the government can make good its match, which it always has. More serious is
what the lack of funds implies: eroding public awareness and support for the
public financing system.

There has been no public-information campaign to promote the checkoff since the
amount was raised from $ 1 to $ 3 in 1994. An increase in the number of tax
filers who don't have to pay federal taxes has diminished the pool of eligible
donors. Some filers erroneously believe checking the box will reduce their tax
refund. In fact, the money comes from the federal treasury. And many tax
preparers don't offer their clients the opportunity to participate.

If Bush opts out for the 2004 primaries, the non-partisan fund could be in even
more trouble: It could come to be seen mostly as support for his Democratic
challengers. "If you are a Republican, will you be willing to give to that
fund?" asks Michael Malbin, head of the Campaign Finance Institute at George
Washington University.

A system out of sync

The system also has become outdated in other ways. It was designed for a
campaign timetable that no longer exists: Candidates would begin to air their
ideas in early contest states like Iowa and New Hampshire, then move on to other
states over the ensuing months, raising money and following the primary
calendar. But in an effort to attract attention, states have moved their
elections earlier. A nomination process that once took until June now is
virtually over by March.

"Candidates now face what amounts to a national primary, and it's hard to be
ready for a national primary on a New Hampshire budget," Malbin says. With no
time to raise money in the election year, candidates must do virtually all their
fundraising in the year before. That favors mainstream, establishment candidates
who already have well-honed donor lists.

It also means a far faster pace of campaign spending. The top candidates are
forced to put ads on television in several states at once. As a result, the
primary spending ceiling of about $ 45 million for those who accept matching
funds will be hit by mid-March, at the latest.

For top contenders for the Democratic nomination, that is a huge incentive to
follow Bush's lead and opt out of the system. Otherwise, the winning Democratic
candidate could face a long financial drought, from March until the party
nominating convention in August, while Bush raises and spends freely.

In the past, the political parties have helped bridge that gap by using
unregulated funds to buy television "issue ads" indirectly supporting their
candidates. But a new campaign-finance law bars the raising of such funds, known
as "soft money." Soft money contributions were supposed to be used only for
party-building activities, such as get-out-the-vote drives.

The new law has also inflicted another unintended whammy on the public financing
system. It doubled the limit on individual contributions from $ 1,000 to $
2,000. That diluted the impact of the $ 250 federal match. A candidate who could
raise about $ 40 million mostly in $ 2,000 contributions would get only about $
5 million to $ 6 million in matching funds. It would be a relatively easy
decision to forgo that federal money and escape the spending limits that go with
it. By opting out of the matching-funds system in 2000, Bush was able to raise
and spend $ 100 million for his primary campaign. That dwarfed the fundraising
of his nearest GOP rival, John McCain, and was more than double the amount
available in the primaries to his leading Democratic opponent, Al Gore, both of
whom accepted matching funds.

As an incumbent president without Republican opposition, Bush is expected to
raise $ 150 million or more for the primaries in 2004. Some believe he might
become the first candidate since the system was created to forgo public funds in
the general election.

That is driving front-runners to rely more on deep-pocketed donors for their
campaign money. Green found that in 1980, Ronald Reagan took in 19% of his
primary campaign funds from those who gave between $ 750 and $ 1,000. In 2000,
Bush got 74% of his money from people in that category.

"One real prospect is that we will have a two-tier system," Green says. "The
established candidates . . .  will opt out, while the challengers, those who are
less well-funded, will be dependent on public funds. Then the public financing
system essentially becomes irrelevant, because the real action will be outside
the system."

After passing a new campaign-finance law last year, Congress is in no hurry to
address the issue. Republicans, who are cool toward any government role in
politics, control both the House of Representatives and the Senate. "In the
current climate, (significant change in the system) is not going anywhere," says
Micah Sifry of Public Campaign, which has successfully pushed for public
financing of elections at the state level in Maine, Massachusetts, Vermont and
Arizona. He predicts "2004 is going to be an object lesson to the American
people of how bad the money-driven system has gotten."

A few potential repairs

Still, some are beginning to talk about rescue moves that could save the system
for the 2008 elections. Among them:

 * Increasing the flow of money through a public awareness campaign to boost
participation, and bumping the checkoff amount from $ 3 to, say, $ 10.
Alternatively, a new method could be found for financing the elections. One
idea: a national lottery.

 * Raising the amount of the federal match in the primaries to bring it more
into line with the new contribution limits. At the same time, state-by-state
spending limits would be eliminated and the overall spending limit increased in
keeping with the costs of a more national campaign.

 * Making funds available earlier. Now, candidates must wait until Jan. 1 of the
election year for primary matching funds, and until the party conventions in
late summer for the general election. Those dates could be moved up by several
months.

 * Raising the amount given to the parties' nominees for the general election to
about $ 120 million, to make it more realistically reflect the cost of
campaigning.

 * Eliminating federal funding for party conventions, which now is about $ 14
million per party, and saving that money for candidates.

"There are problems, but they can be fixed," Wertheimer says. "There is going to
be a major effort made to repair the presidential public financing system."



Taxpayers' contributions dropping off

The $ 3 tax checkoff for presidential elections isn't raising enough money,
adding financial pressure to the other problems afflicting the system. (In 1994,
the checkoff amount was increased from $ 1 to $ 3.)

Disbursements

1976: $ 69.5 million

1980: $ 101.4 million

1984: $ 120.1 million

1988: $ 158.6 million

1992: $ 153.2 million

1996: $ 210.4 million

2000:$ 210 million

Taxpayer participation

1976: 27.5%

1980: 28.7%

1984: 23%

1988: 20.1%

1992: 18.9%

1996: 12.6%

2000: 11% (estimate)

Source: Federal Election Commission

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, Color, Suzy Parker, USA TODAY (ILLUSTRATION); PHOTO, B/W, Eric
Draper, AP; During 2000 campaign: George W. Bush confers with campaign finance
director Don Evans and press secretary Karen Hughes at a stop in Hilton Head,
S.C. Bush chose to forgo public funds in his primary campaign.

TYPE: COVER STORY

                      Copyright 2003 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              65 of 119 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    February 3, 2003, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Past disasters show NASA can learn and endure

BYLINE: James Oberg and Alcestis Cooky" Oberg

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 23A

LENGTH: 1010 words

Only last week, historians and space workers had observed the grim anniversaries
of the two worst spaceflight disasters in U.S. history. Three Apollo 1
crewmembers perished Jan. 27, 1967 in a fire during a spacecraft test, and seven
astronauts were killed Jan. 28, 1986, when the Challenger broke apart during
launch and fell back into the Atlantic Ocean.

Now that pair of disasters has become a triplet with the loss Saturday of the
space shuttle Columbia and its crew of seven astronauts. Just as the returning
spaceship was being subjected to maximum heat from re-entry into Earth's
atmosphere, some flaw apparently caused it to suddenly turn sideways and be torn
apart.


The lesson of the first two tragedies is that America and its space program can
endure. Our space engineers can find the causes of the most horrible failures,
fix them and fly again. But just what is it about those earlier disasters that
can aid us now?

The first step is to stop calling Apollo 1 and Challenger "accidents." In
hindsight, there was an inevitability about the chain of human misjudgments that
created the hazards and let these disasters occur. There were measurable causes
-- human, managerial and equipment-related -- not random and unpredictable
chaotic events beyond human control.

We learned after the Apollo 1 fire, for instance, never again to use a highly
flammable pure oxygen atmosphere in a spacecraft, but rather to use gas mixtures
closer to normal air. After Challenger, NASA redesigned the unsafe "O-rings"
that were supposed to seal the gaps between the rocket segments, preventing
flames from escaping out the side.

Will this third human spaceflight disaster follow that same pattern? The cause
of the loss of Columbia and her crew will take weeks, even months to determine.
An equal or longer period will be needed to develop and implement fixes to allow
space shuttles to fly again. But even at this early date, intuition tells us
that the catastrophe may not be due to a fundamental shuttle design flaw, such
as the Challenger's O-rings, since shuttles have landed more than a hundred
times without problems.

However, we have to take a hard look at the servicing of the spacecraft on the
ground between missions and especially the manufacture of the orange throwaway
fuel tanks. A large piece of insulation from one of those tanks tore off during
launch and smashed into the Columbia's left wing. That wing was the site of a
sequence of troubling indications in the minutes leading up to the vehicle's
disintegration. This suggests a possible cause and effect for the catastrophe.
Investigators must determine whether the insulation blanket detached from the
tank and whether Columbia's thermal protection tiles were securely attached.

Also, there is suspicion surrounding the condition of the left landing-gear
door, which might have been weakened. Investigators realize that disasters of
this magnitude are rarely attributable to one single stupid error. So, they will
look for other unusual situations that might -- in combination with what would
normally be minor tile damage -- add up to the "really bad day" that NASA
officials ruefully described on Saturday.

These lines of inquiry cannot avoid safety issues that have been raised in
recent years about the cutbacks in trained staff to service shuttle hardware. We
certainly expect to see NASA's entire shuttle processing system be rigorously
evaluated. Determining the true cause of this disaster may or may not validate
these earlier warnings.

The fundamental uncertainty is whether we can be confident that NASA will be
honest with itself and with the American public about these frightening
possibilities.

Throughout the 1980s and 1990s, dangers posed by mismanagement were often
glossed over with "happy talk" and "spinmeistering," not true reform. For
instance, the Challenger-disaster investigation pointed to NASA's own "flawed
decision-making process" as one of the fundamental causes of the catastrophe.
Many questioned whether NASA had the institutional courage to fix itself: to
really look at hard facts -- whatever the political or budget climate might be
-- and to do what was really necessary to safeguard a sound space program.
Instead, NASA maintained a "circle the wagons" mentality and resisted genuinely
independent oversight.

After Saturday's accident, however, the current leadership made a good first
impression when Ron Dittemore, manager of NASA's space shuttle program, laid out
detailed facts to the media with unprecedented candor: no posturing, no "putting
the best face on it," no stonewalling and no spinning tactics that had been so
much a feature of NASA's public relations machinery for the past 20 years. One
hopes this level of new public honesty is maintained and strengthened in the
coming weeks and months of the investigation.

It remains to be seen whether this was a true, unavoidable accident or the
consequence of human errors that NASA should have known how to avoid. If, as
with the two earlier tragedies, this was not an accident, and if handled right,
then we can get the space program back on track.

Every space disaster raises questions and forces changes. But the Columbia
catastrophe must also look beyond insulation blankets and tiles, or whatever the
technical causes of the disaster were.

NASA and the nation must face the larger questions, too: Is the budget
decision-making process within NASA and Congress really endangering our
astronauts? Shouldn't we retire these fragile old vehicles soon and replace them
or supplement them with more robust spacecraft? What are our goals for a
national space program five, 10, 20 years down the road -- not just through the
next launch, the next fiscal year, the next election . . .  or the next
catastrophe?

***

James E. Oberg is a former shuttle engineer, and Alcestis "Cooky" Oberg is a
freelance space and science writer living in Houston. She is also a member of
USA TODAY's board of contributors.

LOAD-DATE: February 03, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Luis Alvarez, AP; Promising start: Space shuttle Columbia
clears launch pad at Kennedy Space Center in Cape Canaveral, Fla., on Jan. 16.

                      Copyright 2003 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              67 of 119 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    February 14, 2003, Friday, FINAL EDITION

French see Bush as the Ugly American

BYLINE: Vivienne Walt

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 1235 words

DATELINE: PARIS

PARIS -- In France's popular television satire, Les Guignols d'Info (The News
Puppets), a Sylvester Stallone puppet struts on screen nightly, threatening to
shoot 'em up against the Iraqis. French viewers clutching their sides in
laughter understand who the show is lampooning: George W. Bush.

The disdain for Bush among many French people -- exacerbated by the U.S.
administration's aggressive push for a war in Iraq -- is just one of several
factors tearing the two allies apart. But it is the most visible. The view here
and across parts of Europe is that the U.S. president's style and policies
embody all that is brash, crass and impolitic about America. One reason the
level of frustration may have reached a new high is many here feel there is
little they or their leaders can do against America's overwhelming power.


The shift in attitude is dramatic since the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, when
French people regularly stopped Americans in Paris to express their solidarity.
France's Liberation newspaper published a poll 10 days later showing 73% of the
French public believed their country should participate in any military action
by U.S. forces in response to the attacks. On Sept. 12, 2001, the front page of
France's largest newspaper, Le Monde, declared, "We are all Americans."

But they will be all French on Saturday, when thousands are expected to gather
here as part of worldwide protests against a war in Iraq. A poll last week by
the firm IFOP found that 77% of French adults oppose a war in Iraq, even if the
U.N. Security Council gives its endorsement. And 81% said they didn't believe
U.S. arguments that Saddam Hussein has been developing weapons of mass
destruction in defiance of U.N. resolutions. Polls in Germany and several other
European countries have shown similar opposition to the U.S. push to disarm Iraq
by force.

But Iraq is only the latest in a series of irritants here. Among them:

 * The environment. The United States has refused to ratify the Kyoto Protocol
on global warming, which France supports.

 * The death penalty. Bush was first known here as the governor of Texas, a
state noted for its use of the death penalty. France outlawed capital punishment
in the 1970s.

 * The International Criminal Court. The Bush administration has criticized
plans for the new body and demanded that U.S. military forces have immunity from
prosecution.

 * The increasing U.S. cultural invasion of Europe. "The U.S. is everywhere
here," says Philippe Moreau Defarges of the Institute of International Relations
in Paris. "We watch American movies. We eat at McDonald's. We've got
EuroDisney."

Bush is seen as an ill-informed bully who is indifferent to history. The U.S.
president's regular-guy Texan style grates on French nerves. "He comes off to
the French as narrow-minded and a cowboy," says Jacques Bille, managing director
of France's Association of Advertising Agencies.

Bush's statements about Iraq have deepened the alienation, says Guillaume
Parmentier, director of the French Center on the United States at the Institute
of International Relations in Paris. "Bush's language is simplistic, his ideas
are unsophisticated." French observers say the rift is worsened by the different
styles of two headstrong men: Bush and President Jacques Chirac. The first leads
the world's sole superpower. The second wields diminishing influence over major
world decisions, as France is increasingly absorbed into Europe.

"To French people, it seems like Bush is just imposing the law of the richest
and most powerful," says Stephane Rozes, director of the Paris-based polling
organization CSA TMO, which tracks French opinion about the USA.

The French president is leading Europe in the battle against any immediate
military action against Iraq. France, with Germany and Russia, prefers to
increase the number of U.N. weapons inspectors in Iraq and give them more time
to work. France also joined Germany and Belgium this week in an effort to block
NATO military protection for Turkey in advance of a possible war. Chirac has
said he believes offering protection to a fellow NATO member would be tantamount
to conceding there will be be a war in Iraq.

At 70, Chirac is Europe's elder statesman. He's a generation older than British
Prime Minister Tony Blair, German Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder and Russian
President Vladimir Putin. Esconsed in the 300-year-old Elysee Palace, the French
leader reminds Europeans of their old values.

The political stands he has taken over Iraq reflect the French desire for
independence, if not dominance, in Europe. That could be lost as borders blur
within the European Union and U.S. culture permeates the continent. A high
school teacher voiced a common French opinion this week.

"I don't like Chirac," said Patrick Marzin, 30, who was eating lunch at a cafe
in Paris, "but he's behaving in this way because France has beautiful and
honorable ideals. The U.S. acts only for money."

Ironically, Chirac is perhaps the most pro-American president in French history.
Almost every biography mentions Chirac's youthful summer adventures in the USA,
where he had an American girlfriend and worked at a soda fountain. The French
president was the first foreign leader to visit New York City after the Sept. 11
attacks.

In contrast, "Bush barely ever visited France," says Bille, head of the
advertising association. "His administration doesn't know about Europe. The
ambassador to Paris doesn't even speak French," he says, referring to Howard
Leach, whom Bush appointed in 2001.

Recasting his image now will be tough, Bille says. He says the U.S. president
could have capitalized on the sympathy after Sept. 11 by paying closer attention
to European sensibilities.

"Bush could have changed his image before," Bille says. "Now he'll have to wait
a very long time before he can do it again."



Many Europeans oppose war in Iraq

A Gallup Poll asked people in several European Union countries about a possible
war with Iraq. While Americans generally are supportive of going to war, many
Europeans are opposed:

Are you in favor of military action against Iraq?

Country


No


Only if sanctioned by the U.N.


Unilaterally by America and its allies

Spain

74%

13%

4%

France

60%

27%

7%

Luxembourg

59%

34%

5%

Portugal

53%

29%

10%

Germany

50%

39%

9%

Denmark

45%

38%

10%

Finland

44%

37%

6%

United Kingdom[+1]

41%

39%

10%

Ireland

39%

50%

8%

Netherlands

38%

51%

7%

If military action goes ahead against Iraq, should your country support this
action?

Country


Yes


No

Finland

5%

79%

Spain

16%

73%

Germany

24%

71%

Ireland

26%

69%

Luxembourg

32%

62%

France

29%

61%

Portugal

37%

55%

Netherlands

35%

52%

Denmark

42%

51%

United Kingdom[+1]

44%

41%

1 -- Excluding Northern Ireland

Source: Gallup International Iraq Poll 2003

Totals may not equal 100% because some responses have been excluded.

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Laurent Rebours, AP; Tete-a-tete in Paris: French President
Jacques Chirac, right, greets his Russian counterpart, Vladimir Putin, on Monday
at the Elysee Palace.

                      Copyright 2003 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              68 of 119 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    March 5, 2003, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Can Venice be saved?

BYLINE: Ellen Hale

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 1354 words

VENICE -- "Sometimes it comes up to here," says Giovanna Franzoi, pointing to
her knees. "Sometimes we don't hear the (flood) siren early enough and must rush
back in the middle of the night." Inside Speziaria de Venezia, Franzoi's small
store, everything of value sits on shelves knee-level or higher. Outside,
hammers chinking, workers busily raise cobblestone foot-paths and shore up the
banks of Fondamenta Gaffaro, the canal that has overflowed a dozen times already
this year. "Something must be done," says Franzoi, whose shop produces
delicately fragranced soaps from the waters of the Venetian lagoon that now
regularly flood it.

Something is about to be done.

This month, media magnate and Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi cuts the ribbon
on a titanic project the Italian government promises will solve the worst
problems of acqua alta -- the increasingly frequent floods at high tide that
roll in and out of this jeweled city built on water. Biblically named MOSE (its
Italian acronym), and nearly as ambitious in scope as the prophet's parting of
the Red Sea, the venture involves constructing a system of gargantuan gates to
keep the high tides of the Adriatic from swamping the city. Cost is estimated
(most say conservatively) at $ 4 billion, and construction time is put (most say
optimistically) at seven years.


But the sheer audaciousness of the project has many here, even shopkeepers such
as Franzoi, questioning whom MOSE will benefit. Environmentalists have opposed
it since it was proposed nearly a decade ago, saying it will stagnate and kill
the lagoon that is the lifeblood of Venice. Architects and engineers argue that
easier, safer and less grandiose solutions are available. Cynical Venetians see
it as a scheme for the companies involved to get rich.

"Yes, well, that's the point," says Paolo Canestrelli, head of the city's Tidal
Forecasting and Early Warning Center, with one eyebrow cocked. "These other
solutions are too cheap."

Throughout La Serenissima -- "The Most Serene," as Venice has been lovingly
called for the 1,500 years of its existence -- homes, hotels, businesses and
offices already have set up their own defenses against acqua alta. Merchandise
in shops and electric outlets in offices and businesses are set above high-water
levels. Watertight barriers have been installed in vulnerable doorways and
windows.

In the piazzas and narrow calli, or streets, nearly 10 miles of passerelle --
wood-plank walkways -- are stacked at the ready. At the sound of Canestrelli's
sirens, a team of 100 workers rushes out and sets them up so tourists and
residents can mince their way around town above water.

Even so, the high tides still bring life to a halt. Some days, children can't
get to school, and parents can't get to work. Businesses close. The five-star
Hotel Luna Baglioni, near tourist-laden Piazza San Marco, had to shut down for
several days in November when its marbled grand lobby was flooded with more than
a foot of water. Not infrequently, tourists get trapped in their hotels by the
tides, which usually recede in a few hours.

The problem of acqua alta is not new. But until the mid-1900s, it was uncommon.
Since then, the high-tide floods have grown steadily more frequent and deeper,
especially in winter. Last year saw the worst flooding Venice has known: 108
times -- sometimes twice in one day -- tides crested above 32 inches, a level
that floods the lowest-lying parts of the city, including Piazza San Marco. In
November alone, acqua alta struck 29 times, once reaching levels so high (58
inches) that the elevated passerelle floated away.

A number of factors have converged to cause the flooding, scientists say. Two
decades of pumping water for industrial use from aquifers in the nearby port
town of Maghera, from about 1950 to 1970, caused the city to sink by 5 inches.
Meanwhile, sea levels have risen nearly 4 inches because of regular climatic
forces or global warming. (They are predicted to continue rising because of
climate change.)

But the greatest fault, MOSE opponents say, are the jetties and shipping
channels created during the British occupation in the 19th century. The shallow
lagoon was carved out so that ships could pass through on their way to port.
Result: Currents have been dramatically altered, and high tides barrel in
unimpeded, sucking out millions of tons of sediment that forms the foundation of
the city.

"The lagoon is no longer a lagoon," says Paolo Cacciari, chief environmental
officer for Venice. "It has become part of the sea."

Cacciari, environmentalists, engineers and others say that restoring the lagoon
to its natural state could stop three-fourths of the acqua alta and
significantly lower levels of the highest floods. That would require raising the
bottom of the lagoon to its original depth and building a shipping channel.

Combined with other fairly easy and affordable adjustments, the plan could deter
damage from high tides for the next several decades, until scientists can solve
the problems of global warming and rising sea levels.

"I wouldn't have to wear these nearly as much," says Cacciari, holding up a pair
of shin-high green rubber Wellingtons he keeps by his desk.

But the government-financed Consorzio Venezia Nuova, charged with finding a
solution for acqua alta, instead came up with a series of 79 mobile floodgates
to be stationed at the three mouths of the lagoon, where the tides rush in. The
hinged barriers would lie invisible under water most of the time but rise to
keep the Adriatic Sea at bay when extremely high tides were predicted. They
would be used only a few times each year to prevent the worst floods, says Maria
Teresa Brotto, MOSE project engineer.

"It's completely innovative and very flexible," says Brotto, who has given up on
the small garden at her house because the plants have died from so much
flooding. "With the mobile barriers and the other systems of defense, Venice
could be the only dry city along the Italian coast."

Teams of workers already are repairing canal walls and raising sidewalks and
curbs -- among the less costly flood-prevention efforts that complement MOSE.
Eventually, 5 miles of paving will have been raised.

Although the auxiliary works are worthy, opponents say MOSE itself will do
little to solve the problem of flooding and could actually destroy the health of
the lagoon. The barriers won't prevent the medium-level acqua alta that is
increasing most in frequency, experts say.

Furthermore, they say, rising sea levels from global warming mean the barriers
eventually would be kept up most of the time, rendering the ecologically diverse
lagoon a cesspool. Nor will the gates solve the threat Venice faces from
erosion.

MOSE, they say, is "un buon affare": a good deal. The Consorzio, an
agglomeration of engineering companies set up in 1986, is charged with building
the solution it devised. "It is an immense conflict of interest," says Giorgio
Sarto, an architect and former senator from Venice. "The people doing the work
shouldn't be the ones planning it."

Opponents threaten lawsuits to stall the gates, but many acknowledge that they
are whistling into the wind. Berlusconi has made MOSE a national priority. (He
is fond of monumental public projects. He also has thrown his weight behind a $
5 billion plan to build the world's longest suspension bridge, linking the toe
of Italy to Sicily.) In December, he authorized the first installment -- about $
700 million -- for construction.

But if Berlusconi sees MOSE as a high-tech silver bullet, others fear that it
will be seen as a fix-all and drain money from the work that Venice needs most:
renaturalizing the lagoon. Even the city's popular mayor, Paolo Costa, has
tempered his support of MOSE.

"The government doesn't understand that this is only a solution for the very
high water, only for extreme flooding," Costa says. "It is just a solution.
Unfortunately, it is seen as the solution."

LOAD-DATE: March 05, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, Color, Karl Gelles, Frank Pompa, USA TODAY, Source: Centro
Previsioni e Segnalazioni Maree; the BBC; PBS (DIAGRAM); EAR PHOTO, Color, Space
Imaging; PHOTO, Color, Space Imaging; PHOTO, Color, Francesco Poletti, AP;
PHOTO, B/W, AP; PHOTO, Color, Andrea Merola, AFP; Water everywhere: Venice as
seen via satellite from 423 miles in space. <>Acqua alta: Last year was the
worst for flooding in Venice. In September, after heavy rains, visitors had to
navigate the floodwaters to visit Piazza San Marco.

TYPE: COVER STORY

                      Copyright 2003 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              69 of 119 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    March 12, 2003, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

AMR, unions try to dodge Chapter 11

BYLINE: Dan Reed

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 468 words

Some American Airlines' union officials are growing worried that the company
will file for bankruptcy protection in a few weeks because worsening business
conditions could overwhelm their efforts to keep the airline out of Chapter 11.

Management of the world's largest airline is working feverishly with all three
of its unions to reach deals cutting annual labor costs by $ 1.8 billion, or
roughly 20%, by March 31, people close to the negotiations say.

But there's growing concern among labor officials that concessions might not
arrive in time to offset the pressures of rising fuel prices and a possible
plunge in travel demand if there's a war.


With American's parent, AMR, acknowledging that it's lining up potential
bankruptcy financing, some union leaders have sought assurances from American
that any concessions negotiated now would be honored if the company files for
bankruptcy protection. "They've asked . . .  and we've told them that we can't
give them absolute assurance of that because bankruptcy is too unpredictable an
environment," says Jeff Brundage, American's vice president for labor relations.


The company is "100% committed" to avoiding Chapter 11 and believes it can do so
if it gets the labor cost cuts it seeks, Brundage says.

The pacts would likely include a combination of pay and benefits cuts and
work-rule changes leading to the elimination of thousands more jobs. AMR has
eliminated about 14,700 jobs since the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. A 20%
reduction in labor costs implies an additional 19,000 of AMR's 95,000 employees
could be furloughed.

American's talks with all three of its unions are moving rapidly. On Tuesday,
the Association of Professional Flight Attendants announced they would begin
formal negotiations immediately. Top American officials met Tuesday with the
Transport Workers Union, representing mechanics, baggage handlers and other
ground workers.

American spokesman Bruce Hicks says the company can't promise it won't need
additional labor cuts if it goes into Chapter 11.

"The best thing to come out of these last few months is much improved labor
relations, and we would seek to honor that in any case," he says.

A quick bankruptcy filing, union sources and industry consultants say, could
give AMR an advantage over its rivals in the event that most or even all
airlines are forced by the deteriorating market conditions to file bankruptcy
petitions.

One former industry executive with bankruptcy experience says it's important for
still-solvent airlines to recognize that it could be dangerous to be the last
competitor into bankruptcy court. There's a limited amount of financing
available to help airlines operate in Chapter 11, and the last airline that
files might find nothing left.

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2003 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              74 of 119 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     May 14, 2003, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Like retail discounts, tax cuts will encourage more spending

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 658 words

One of the greatest economic myths is that tax cuts cause higher deficits and
are harmful to the economy. The reason this myth is so widely accepted is that
it is counterintuitive that a tax cut would actually bring in more revenue, and
yet that is exactly what happens ("Bush calls on Nebraskans, Dem senator to get
behind tax-cut plan," News, Tuesday).

Consider Wal-Mart: The discount-retail giant is one of the most profitable store
chains in the world -- and the retailer's success, in great part, rides on price
cuts. Wal-Mart may make only a dime off the sale of a watch, but millions of
watches will be purchased because of the price reduction. On the other hand,
higher-end stores may sell the same watch for a much higher price, but consumers
will make fewer purchases -- thus affecting overall profits.


I have yet to hear an acceptable explanation as to why it hurts the U.S. economy
if Americans are able to keep more of their own money.

Robert M. Wagner

Columbus, Ohio

Tax cuts cause casualties

When the president and fellow Republicans propose tax cuts and smaller
government, they are also asking for:

 * Fewer firefighters and cops.

 * More crumbling schools without up-to-date books.

 * More Americans who live without medical care.

 * Fewer public libraries.

 * A less-clean environment.

 * More potholes and poorly maintained highways and bridges.

Who among us with incomes below the top 1% wants a measly $ 300 to $ 500 yearly
tax break to the great detriment of our communities?

And how many of those in the top 1% need further tax relief to the detriment of
our country?

Gary J. Moss

New Haven, Conn.

Bush is on 'landslide' track

It is clear to me that President Bush will win a landslide victory in the next
election. This is mainly because most Americans trust the president and the
Republican Party to provide leadership under the changed strategic and security
environment after 9/11.

Public support for tax cuts to stimulate the economy is also increasing, as
Congress prepares to act on a reduced version of Bush's most important domestic
policy goal ("Support for Bush tax cuts growing," News, Friday).

Former president Bill Clinton may be the last Democratic U.S. leader for many
years to come.

Mahmood Elahi

Ottawa, Ontario

Canada

Wake up to reality

USA TODAY's front-page story about growing support for President Bush's tax cuts
tells more about the effectiveness of the administration's propaganda than the
harsh economic realities facing every state in the country.

Bush's previous tax cuts have enriched millionaires and impoverished the rest of
us.

Education, health care, housing, local security and medical research are being
cut or eliminated. Soothing falsehoods are all we get.

When will this country's citizens notice the harsh realities of today's social
climate in the United States?

Laurie Wilson

New York

Keep taxes at current level

I would rather see my federal taxes kept at the current level than watch
necessary government services to the poor and needy be cut even further.
Unfortunately, while ballyhooing tax cuts and reaping the political benefits of
"lower taxes," the Bush administration and tax-cut advocates are mute on what
happens down the line when taxes are cut.

While a tax cut might save the rich huge amounts, any idea that the rest of us
will save much money, in my opinion, is a sham. This is because though everyone
likes the idea of lower federal taxes, they don't always realize the
consequences.

When one adds to this the tragedy of shuttered libraries or reduced hours, cuts
in programs that help the needy and educational programs chopped or eliminated
because of reduced tax revenues, cutting federal taxes suddenly does not appear
to be such a good idea after all.

Claude M. Gruener

Austin

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Stephen Jaffe, AFP; Domestic agenda: President Bush speaks
to employees at MCI Industries on Monday in Albuquerque. He is pushing his
economic package.

TYPE: DEBATE

                      Copyright 2003 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              76 of 119 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     June 4, 2003, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Stewart company faces bumpy road

BYLINE: Greg Farrell and Theresa Howard

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 1613 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK

NEW YORK -- Martha Stewart didn't show up at the annual meeting of her company's
shareholders here Tuesday, saying in a videotaped message she didn't want to
"distract" from the proceedings.

But the CEO of Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia seemed omnipresent at the
gathering anyway, especially after the company early Tuesday issued a statement
that it expected her to be indicted "in the near future."

The announcement, coming almost a year to the day after Stewart's controversial
sale of ImClone stock was first publicly disclosed, brings to an end the first
act of something best described as The Legal Trials of Martha Stewart.

The second act, which now begins, is full of questions:

 * Will Stewart be accused of inside trading, a felony that would likely result
in jail time? Or will prosecutors go after her on an obstruction charge, which
in her case would probably not lead to a jail sentence?

According to an attorney familiar with the case, criminal charges could be filed
as early as today. This attorney believes the U.S. Attorney in Manhattan will
probably focus on the less serious obstruction charge.


The company said that in concert with the Justice Department's action, it
expects the Securities and Exchange Commission to file civil charges against
Stewart. If so, it is more likely that the SEC will accuse her of inside
trading.

 * Will Stewart keep her job as CEO of Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia? Board
member Arthur Martinez answered that question after Tuesday's annual meeting,
which was closed to the press. "Martha remains the chairman and chief executive
of Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia," he told reporters camped outside the
Midtown Manhattan office building where the meeting was held.

"We expressed our confidence as a group, both the board and the management team,
in moving this company forward. We have assets and resources to continue to
deploy. We've got lots of marketplace opportunities. We as a board and as a team
are committed to moving forward," Martinez said

Despite the board's current confidence in Stewart's stewardship, it is
monitoring the situation closely. In the statement Tuesday morning the company
also said, "MSO and its board of directors have been planning for a number of
possible contingencies, are evaluating the current situation and will take
action as appropriate."

According to the company's most recent proxy statement, the board can fire
Stewart "for cause" in the event of "Ms. Stewart's conviction of a felony or
willful gross misconduct."

 * Can the Martha Stewart brand survive a criminal indictment and possible court
trial?

Her supporters hope so. "She is the product," said Peter Sugleris of New
Brunswick, N.J., who bought MSO when it went public and attended Tuesday's
meeting with his fiancee. "Hopefully, the image is so big, it could succeed
without her."

"The company has to make the Stewart connection less prominent," says Kathy
Feakins of Lippincott Mercer, a brand consulting firm. "She still has evidence
of success with consumers out there. As long as they maintain the recognizable
Martha approach that is still attractive to the consumer, they may have consumer
success. The question is, does the image get in the way of retail partnerships?
The company really has to prove they have a loyal following."

Shareholders who fought their way through a line of journalists and TV cameras
into Tuesday's meeting exuded support.

"She's a remarkable woman, and people should give her a break," said Helen Metz
of New York City. "The company would lose a lot if she was not heading it."

"I think they are crucifying her," said Cecile Singer, also of New York. "She
may or may not have made a mistake. I don't think she'll step down. She's got
great people who can carry on."

After the meeting, MSO President and COO Sharon Patrick told USA TODAY there
were no plans for a leadership change. "We're on the same plan we started on day
one. We have expert personnel and brand quality. We all understand the values of
Martha Stewart and know what they stand for."

Even before the company went public four years ago, Stewart and Patrick assured
investors that the company's goal was to separate Martha Stewart the brand from
Martha Stewart the woman. In the past 18 months, the company has taken steps in
that direction. Stewart no longer appears on magazine covers, and in April, the
company announced the latest TV show under the MSO umbrella: Petkeeping with
Marc Morrone, which will have pet care expert Morrone as host rather than
Stewart.

Battered investors

Attendees at the meeting found a surprise in their gift bags: a stainless steel
whisk adorned with a mint green ribbon. The Martha Stewart Everyday product was
more than appropriate given the beating the company's stock has taken since
company founder Stewart has been the subject of an SEC investigation.

In Tuesday trading, Stewart's stock dropped 15%. MSO shares finished the day at
$ 9.52, a far cry from the $ 20 plateau the stock reached a year ago, before
Stewart's involvement in the ImClone scandal became known.

Until June of last year, Stewart was riding high. Despite the recession, her
media empire was growing at a respectable rate. But when a congressional
committee investigation revealed that she had sold nearly 4,000 shares of
ImClone stock on Dec. 27, 2001, a day before a negative government ruling sent
the stock plummeting, Stewart was dragged into the spotlight.

Stewart sold the same day that her friend Samuel Waksal, then ImClone's CEO,
tried to sell his shares. Waksal family members also sold shares that day.

The sales came 24 hours before the Food and Drug Administration denied ImClone's
application for approval to market Erbitux, the company's cancer-fighting drug.
The FDA announcement sent the share price of ImClone into a downward spiral. A
month after Stewart sold her stock for roughly $ 230,000, ImClone stock had lost
70% of its value and that same sale would have netted her $ 160,000 less. But
since the scandal erupted, the value of her holdings in her own company has
dropped by about $ 1 billion.

Waksal pleaded guilty last summer to charges stemming from his attempted stock
sales. He is scheduled to be sentenced next week. (Story, below.)

The $ 60 question

A few months after her stock sale, Stewart told the SEC that she sold the stock
because she had an agreement with her Merrill Lynch broker, Peter Bacanovic, to
sell ImClone stock if the price ever dropped below $ 60 per share, which it did
on Dec. 27. Bacanovic and his assistant Douglas Faneuil backed the story.

But neither Stewart nor her broker was able to produce a paper trail proving
such an agreement. Faneuil eventually recanted and told investigators there was
no $ 60 agreement. He pleaded guilty to a misdemeanor charge in October and
agreed to cooperate with the government's investigation.

He has told prosecutors that on Dec. 27, he informed Stewart that members of the
Waksal family were unloading their positions in ImClone and that she ought to,
as well. "Since last October, Doug Faneuil has and continues to cooperate fully
with the SEC and the U.S. Attorney's office in this investigation," says
Faneuil's lawyer, Marc Powers of Reed Smith.

If the government goes after Stewart on an inside trading charge, it faces a
difficult path, says Jack Coffee, an expert in securities law at Columbia
University. "This is not plain vanilla insider trading," he says. "Here, you
would be prosecuting the person receiving the information. That's pushing the
envelope further than the government has in the past."

Defense lawyer Richard Ben-Veniste says an unknown business person would not
likely be charged under the same circumstances. "The current climate is
exquisitely bad for high-profile individuals who are alleged to have violated
the securities laws," says Ben-Veniste of Mayer Brown Rowe & Maw.

Stewart's attorney, Robert Morvillo, vowed that his client would plead her
innocence and mount a vigorous defense against any charges.

Jerry Oppenheimer, author of an unauthorized biography of Stewart, Just Desserts
, says Stewart has a track record for defending herself vigorously against any
and all charges. In 1995, Stewart's ex-gardener filed a lawsuit against her,
claiming she owed him more than $ 56,000 in overtime wages. Stewart fought the
case, testified in court and eventually won.

"Martha has an immigrant mentality," Oppenheimer says. "She grew up in a poor
Polish-American family in Nutley, N.J., but never gave up that immigrant
mentality. Friends would tell her, 'You can't pinch every penny and every
dollar,' but she still does."

---

Contributing: Jayne O'Donnell



Her fashionable empire

Publishing

* Martha Stewart Living, Martha Stewart Weddings, Martha Stewart Kids, Everyday
Food

* 27 how-to books

* "Ask Martha" syndicated newspaper column

TV/radio

* Daytime Emmy Award-winning Martha Stewart Living TV program, an hourlong show
that airs daily in the USA, Canada, Brazil and Japan

* Martha's Kitchen, a half-hour show that airs on the Food Network daily

* Ask Martha syndicated radio show

Cyberspace

* www.marthastewart.com

* Online Martha by Mail store (www.marthabymail.com)

Merchandising

* Retail partnerships with firms such as Kmart in the USA, Sears in Canada and
Seiyu Ltd. in Japan

* Martha Stewart Signature, paints, fabric and furniture for high-end consumers

Source: Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia

LOAD-DATE: June 04, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Quin Tian, USA TODAY, Sources: MSO proxy statements, CSI,
AP (LINE GRAPH); PHOTO, B/W, Jeff Christensen, Reuters; PHOTO, B/W, Amy
Conn-Gutierrez, AP; Heavy coverage: Arthur Martinez, a company board member,
speaks to the press after a shareholders meeting Tuesday in New York. Martha
remains the chairman and chief executive of Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia," he
said.

TYPE: COVER STORY

                      Copyright 2003 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              78 of 119 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     July 3, 2003, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Forest-thinning initiative debated

BYLINE: Tom Kenworthy

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 1189 words

DATELINE: SEELEY LAKE, Mont.

SEELEY LAKE, Mont. -- When members of the Western Governors Association and
federal officials toured a series of federal forest projects near this western
Montana community in mid-June, they said they found ample justification to
accelerate forest thinning to prevent wildfires.

In their tour, the officials saw "thinned" areas: projects where excess trees
and brush have been removed from overcrowded patches of forest. The thinning is
supposed to lessen the danger of fire by removing the most flammable wood.


The Bush administration and Congress, pressing to enact a "Healthy Forests
Initiative" that calls for thinning 20 million acres of forest, are "on the
right track," said Dirk Kempthorne, Idaho's Republican governor, reflecting the
opinion of most on the tour.

But if the governors had gone instead to the scene of Colorado's worst wildfire,
the Hayman fire of 2002, they might have had a bit more skepticism about the
beneficial effects of forest thinning.

"Thinning," concludes Greg Aplet, a forest ecologist with The Wilderness
Society, "can change fire behavior under certain conditions, but it's a mistake
to say it can control or eliminate fire," a statement supported by a
comprehensive U.S. Forest Service study of the Hayman fire.

The Hayman fire rampaged through dry pine forests southwest of Denver, consuming
137,000 acres. It was one of the worst blazes in a summer of devastating fire
across the West that blackened 6.9 million acres. With explosive conditions --
high winds and low humidity -- the Hayman fire burned 60,000 acres on a single
day in June 2002.

The Hayman fire also tested theories about how thinning can affect fire
behavior. The blaze slammed into areas that had been altered by commercial
timber harvests or earlier natural fires. Some areas had also been thinned by
chain saws and fires that were purposely set to clear underbrush and small
trees.

With some exceptions, according to a study by the Forest Service's Rocky
Mountain Research Station, the modifications had "little apparent effect on fire
severity."

The accepted wisdom underlying the Healthy Forests Initiative is that poor
management has left forests overcrowded, resulting in severe fire seasons in
recent years.

An aggressive thinning program is needed, according to this analysis, to reduce
the number and severity of Western wildfires. Interior Secretary Gale Norton and
other senior officials say about 190 million acres of federal land are at severe
risk of fire and must be treated.

But the Hayman fire offers several caveats to that way of thinking:

 * The impact of forest thinning projects on fire -- what works and what doesn't
under differing conditions -- is not well understood. The research record is
spotty at best.

 * The amount of acres that need thinning to protect homes may be far less than
commonly thought. Much of it is in private, not federal hands.

 * The critical factor in keeping homes safe, according to a Forest Service
researcher, is reducing flammable vegetation within 150 feet of homes and using
fire-resistant building materials.

 * Climate cycles, including global warming, may play as important a role in the
recent increase in catastrophic fires as how people manage forests.

Forests ripe for catastrophe

There is little doubt that man has had an impact on the frequency and severity
of fires. That is particularly true in the dry forests dominated by Ponderosa
pine trees that are common at low and medium elevation areas of the West,
reaching as high as 8,500 feet.

Under conditions that existed before white settlement, those forests experienced
frequent, mild fires every two to 35 years or so. Because those fires cleared
out underbrush and smaller trees, blazes were less severe and older trees
survived. Natural Ponderosa pine forests resembled parks, with widely spaced
mature trees and the forest floor covered in native grasses.

Poor grazing and forestry practices, combined with nearly a century of
firefighting efforts, have converted many of those forests to dense stands ripe
for catastrophic fires that are difficult to stop.

But for a subject of such interest, there is little research on the
effectiveness of thinning. "There's been a lot of anecdotal observation, but in
terms of empirical studies, it's a very small body of research," says Erik
Martinson, a researcher at the Western Forest Fire Research Center at Colorado
State University who took part in the study of the Hayman fire.

In other types of forest, thinning may make little sense. Forests dominated by
firs and lodgepole pines at higher elevations and more northern latitudes, for
example, burn differently under normal conditions. These forests receive more
moisture and are shade tolerant. So these forests are naturally far more crowded
and have infrequent, severe fires.

Furthermore, there is some evidence that only a small fraction of the acreage
cited by Norton and others may need to be thinned in order to achieve the
program's most important goal -- protecting homes and communities on the forests
edge.

A little-noticed Forest Service study last year, for example, said there were
only about 1.9 million acres of private and federal forestland -- 1% of Norton's
estimate -- that are both at high risk of fire and close enough to communities
to ignite homes.

Environmentalists' concerns

Many experts insist that a well-designed thinning program can make a difference.


"If it's done the right way, it can reduce fire hazards," says Jim Agee, a
professor of forest ecology at the University of Washington.

Keys to success, he says, are focusing on dry forest types, reducing surface
fuels and vegetation that carry fire to the crowns of large trees, and leaving
widely spaced, large trees that are more fire resistant.

A thinning program, adds Forest Service Chief Dale Bosworth, should be viewed as
one tool, a critical one, in a kit that also includes actions by homeowners and
reintroducing natural fire.

But environmentalists say the Healthy Forests Initiative -- approved by the
House of Representatives and awaiting action in the Senate -- will be an
invitation to conduct large-scale logging in forests far removed from homes and
communities at risk.

The criticism extends beyond environmental groups. Jerry Taylor, director of
natural resource studies for the libertarian Cato Institute, calls the Healthy
Forest Initiative a "nice symbolic gesture with a big price tag." To thin all
forests at risk, he says, would be prohibitively expensive because thinning can
cost more than $ 1,000 an acre under some conditions.

It would be far better, says Taylor, to treat the 1.9 million acres close to
communities and follow the prescription of Forest Service researcher Jack Cohen.
His research finds that homeowners can fireproof homes by reducing vegetation
within 150 feet of houses and eliminating flammable materials such as wooden
roofs.

"Those steps promise a great deal of success, and they're not that costly,"
Taylor says.

LOAD-DATE: July 03, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Roberto E. Rosales, Albuquerque Journal, via AP; PHOTO,
B/W, Jason Reed, Reuters; After the flames: Edward Baca walks through a burned
section of trees in Albuquerque on Saturday looking for hot spots during the
cleanup of two wildfires along the Rio Grande. <>Policy protest:
Environmentalists conduct a 21-chainsaw salute in a protest Wednesday at Forest
Service offices in Washington.

                      Copyright 2003 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              79 of 119 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                      July 7, 2003, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Drug bill a well-financed victory for industry

BYLINE: Jim Drinkard

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 873 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

WASHINGTON -- An emerging prescription-drug benefit for retirees represents a
victory for drug companies and their lobbyists, who have spent heavily to keep
Republicans in control of Congress.

Final work on the new Medicare drug benefit -- the biggest change since the
health care program was created 38 years ago -- faces Congress as it returns
this week from its Fourth of July break.

Pharmaceutical companies have averted what they feared most: a single new bloc
of 40 million consumers with the market power to dramatically drive down
prescription prices -- and industry profits. Both the House and Senate versions
of the bill bar the government from getting involved in price negotiations.


Instead, both bills break the nation into 10 or more regions where private
insurance companies would offer coverage for prescriptions. Rather than
negotiating with the government, the pharmaceutical industry would deal with an
array of insurers, each with thousands of clients, rather than millions. The
extra costs would be paid by taxpayers and consumers.

"It's manageable for them," says Scott Kay, an industry analyst for Banc of
America Securities. "It's not government-run, and that's a home run for them."

The emerging legislation helps the drug industry in other ways, according to
political analysts:

 * A new drug benefit would pump about $ 400 billion in tax dollars into the
health care system over 10 years. Political analysts say insurance coverage
would lead to increased use of prescription drugs by seniors, particularly those
with lower incomes for whom cost is now a barrier.

 * The political pressure on the drug industry for price controls would be
eased. Politicians and policymakers would wait to see how the benefit works, and
the uncertainty that has been a weight on the industry's financial outlook would
be removed.

"We believe there should be prescription-drug coverage in Medicare," says Mark
Grayson, a spokesman for the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers
Association, the main trade group for brand-name drugmakers. "We want to have a
bill passed." Even so, he said, the industry has been wary of finding itself
squeezed financially in the way hospitals and doctors have been under Medicare.

In 2002, drug companies spent more than $ 20 million on congressional races,
four-fifths of it to help Republicans. That doesn't count a $ 17 million
television ad campaign that the industry funded to boost Republican members of
Congress in close races. Those ads featured Art Linkletter defending Republicans
who favored a private model for providing drug benefits. They helped the GOP
solidify its grip on Congress.

In addition, the pharmaceutical industry is among the heaviest spenders on
Washington lobbying. Last year, it reported paying a record $ 91.4 million -- a
12% increase over 2001 -- for 675 lobbyists, including 26 former members of
Congress, Public Citizen's Congress Watch says. The figure does not include
millions more spent on ads and support of patients groups and academics who take
the industry's side in policy debates.

"The drug companies will always make out," says Rep. Charles Rangel of New York,
the senior Democrat on the Ways and Means Committee, which wrote the House of
Representatives' drug-benefit bill. "I don't see how the industry could come up
with anything better."

For years, the drug industry fought an effort, mostly by Democrats, to create
drug coverage for Medicare beneficiaries. Drug companies said it would resemble
a huge buying cartel that could demand and receive rock-bottom prices.
Government buyers such as the Department of Veterans Affairs and state-federal
Medicaid programs get discounts of up to 40% from average wholesale prices.

In 1999, the industry fought to kill a Democratic plan that would have given the
government a central role in providing drug coverage for seniors. It sponsored
TV ads featuring a character named Flo, who admonished fellow retirees not to
allow "big government into your medicine cabinet."

But the political climate changed this year after President Bush adopted the
idea of Medicare coverage for prescriptions and made it part of his re-election
strategy. Faced with that reality, the drugmakers channeled their efforts into
making sure any plan did not overly depress prices.

"They didn't get out front and say this is going to wreck our industry," says
Andy Bressler, a Bank of America health industry analyst. "They said if this is
going to happen, let's make sure it's the best we can get. It was a good
investment."



Political contributions

The prescription-drug industry has donated far more money to Republicans since
they won control of Congress in 1994. (Dollars in millions):

Election year

Republicans

Democrats

Total[+1]

2002

$ 16.3

$ 4.3

$ 20.6

2000

15.0

4.5

19.6

1998

6.3

2.9

9.1

1996

6.6

2.7

9.3

1994

3.2

2.1

5.3

1992

2.5

2.4

4.9

1-Some totals do not add up because of rounding and contributions to minor-party
candidates.

Source: Center for Responsive Politics

LOAD-DATE: July 07, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2003 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              80 of 119 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     July 15, 2003, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Crucial small-business hiring looks up

BYLINE: Jim Hopkins

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 445 words

Small companies are pulling their hiring plans out of the deep freeze.

Ten percent of small companies plan to add workers in the next three months, a
June survey out today shows. That's up from 1% in March, says the National
Federation of Independent Business trade group.


Moreover, 48% of owners say they expect business conditions to be better in six
months -- the highest such NFIB figure since March 2002. That optimism gauge has
anticipated every U.S. growth period in the past 30 years, says NFIB chief
economist William Dunkelberg. "It is certainly sending a strong signal now."

Small-business hiring is crucial to the economy. The USA's 5.8 million small
firms employ about half of all workers and create the most jobs. Their plans to
boost hiring come as the U.S. jobless rate stands at 6.4% -- the highest in nine
years.

Their hiring plans and rising optimism add to other recent hopeful economic
signs, including a jump in stock prices and a spate of good corporate earnings.

Many small firms plan to add workers because of:

 * Growing consumer confidence. Bob Lubell, a professional photographer near
Toledo, Ohio, says consumers are bored with bad economic times. Indeed,
consumers' outlook for the next six months rose in June, says the Conference
Board research group.

"People really want to get back out and spend a few bucks," Lubell says.

His evidence: Newlyweds are springing for picture frames and extra photos.
Receptions now feature pricey oysters and crab. "A year ago, it was, 'How can we
get by?' "Lubell says.

He has five employees and will end the year with one or two more than a year
ago.

 * More corporate tech spending. Tech consulting firm Signum Group says
customers are boosting spending for its services. "I think a lot of people are
gearing up for the end of this year (and) for 2004," owner Susan Hrib says.

Signum's customers are spending up to $ 5 million. While that's down from the $
50 million projects more common during the tech boom, Hrib says, that's a sharp
change from March, when such spending was "dead."

Hrib's view mirrors a recent Goldman Sachs tech spending survey that found tech
budgets will be up 3.5% next year after three years of cuts. "At last, the
bleeding stops," the firm said.

Although small-firm owners are more optimistic about the economy, they're not
planning to buy more computers and other capital goods, the NFIB says. Just 28%
of companies plan such purchases in the next six months -- unchanged from May,
and among the lowest figures found by the NFIB. Dunkelberg says owners likely
won't spend more until revenue improves.

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, Color, Suzy Parker, USA TODAY, Source: National Federation of
Independent Business, June survey of 530 firms (LINE GRAPH)

                      Copyright 2003 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              82 of 119 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     August 11, 2003, Monday, FINAL EDITION

California just can't win

BYLINE: Edward Iwata

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 1284 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO

SAN FRANCISCO -- California's powerhouse economy, the world's fifth largest if
the state were a nation, remains mired in one of its deepest financial funks
ever.

Since the U.S. recession struck two years ago, the Golden State's $ 1.3 trillion
economy has lost much of its luster.

Half a million Californians are out of work. Business costs -- from energy bills
to workers' compensation insurance -- have skyrocketed. Foreign competition is
fierce. The high-tech industry in Silicon Valley is jammed in low gear.


San Francisco's downtown financial district, once known as "Wall Street West,"
has lost cachet in recent years, as Bank of America -- the city's most famed
corporation -- and other major financial firms were taken over by out-of-state
buyers.

The fight over California's $ 38 billion state budget deficit and a recall drive
to unseat Gov. Gray Davis is further tarnishing the state's political and
business image.

"The California dream has turned into a nightmare," says Jack Stewart, president
of the California Manufacturers and Technology Association trade group. "People
who used to come here for the good life are coming now and finding the cupboards
bare."

Even as the U.S. economy strengthens, California will continue to struggle,
creating only 94,000 new jobs this year, predict economists at the Los Angeles
County Economic Development Corp., which earlier had forecast 260,000 new jobs.

California suffered similar hard times in the early 1990s, when the demise of
the defense and timber industries, and the bursting of the real estate bubble,
led to a brutal recession and hundreds of thousands of lost jobs.

Some warn that today's economic woes may be worse, reflecting deep and permanent
shifts in the state's economic landscape.

Offshore competition, for instance, will hammer California for decades. Many
thousands of jobs have been lost in recent years to cheaper high-tech
manufacturing and services companies in China, India and elsewhere, as
California businesses cut costs by shipping work offshore.

"This is a long-term trend unlikely to change," says senior economist Sung Won
Sohn at Wells Fargo Bank.

Moreover, California is unlikely to enjoy anytime soon a windfall of tax revenue
close to the huge gains from the dot-com boom. California reaped an "economic
gift" of $ 80 billion in tax income from stock options and bonuses in 2000,
according to Scott Anderson, a senior economist at Wells Fargo. The tax revenue
tumbled to $ 20 billion last year.

Economists also caution that California's underground economy will continue to
grow and sap the state of at least $ 1 billion annually in sales, personal
income and business taxes.

The underground economy includes 600,000 independent contractors and illegal
workers in the high tech, agriculture, construction, apparel and trade
industries, estimates Jack Kyser, an economist at the Los Angeles County
Economic Development Corp.

"There's a lot of lost tax revenue," Kyser says.

California had long brought good business fortune to the Hestehaves, a family of
Danish immigrants that founded bottle manufacturer Bomatic in Ontario in 1969.
The family eventually built a multimillion-dollar business.

But in recent years, Bomatic has gotten smacked by the recession, higher
business costs and global competition. Its energy bill rose to $ 100,000 a month
from $ 30,000. Its annual workers' comp premium leaped to $ 300,000 from $
30,000. Canadian bottle makers grabbed market share. And Bomatic's workforce of
200 has fallen to 80.

The troubles are forcing President Kjeld Hestehave to move his factory next year
to St. George, Utah, where land and labor are cheaper. His energy and workers'
comp bills will be 10% of what they are in California.

"California has always been a land of opportunity, but now we feel like we're
being kicked out of the state," Hestehave says. "We either move or go broke."

His pessimism may be justified. Economic danger signs include:

 * Lost jobs and slow rebound

The 500,000-plus Californians who received unemployment checks in June could
populate Las Vegas, El Paso or Washington. Unemployment hovers at 6.7% -- above
the 6.4% national average.

"Will there be a turnaround? Yes. Will there be strong economic growth? No,"
says Stephen Levy of the Center for the Continuing Study of the California
Economy in Palo Alto, Calif.

 * Political warfare

The recall election of Davis this fall will hurt the state's financial
reputation, economists say. While lawmakers agreed recently on a budget plan to
cover much of the state's $ 38 billion debt, their fighting has scared companies
and investors already wary of California's economic climate.

"We're sending out a signal that we are a paralyzed and gridlocked state, and
that can't be good for business," Levy says.

 * Energy, workers' comp costs

Since the California power crisis three years ago, manufacturers have helplessly
watched their energy costs soar from 10% to 20% of their operating costs,
according to the California Manufacturers and Technology Association.

Businesses also pony up $ 5.25 of every $ 100 in an employee's wages for
workers' comp premiums, compared with a U.S. average of $ 2.50, reports the
California Chamber of Commerce.

 * Exodus of companies

Industry leaders warn that more companies are threatening to flee California for
rival states.

It's uncertain how many have left in recent months. But a few are giving
California the heave-ho, including Buck Knives, a longtime knife-maker in El
Cajon that is moving to Idaho, and Countrywide Financial, a Los Angeles mortgage
firm that is expanding in Texas while shrinking its California operation.

"California is a great place to live, but it's getting to the point where the
costs of doing business outweigh the benefits," says Allan Zaremberg, head of
the California Chamber of Commerce.

 * Bond downgrade

The problems here recently led credit-rating firm Standard & Poor's to downgrade
California's bonds to near junk-bond status.

The downgrade will make it harder for California to sell bonds to investors, and
may cost the state hundreds of millions of dollars in higher interest over the
next decade, estimates Steve Westly, the state's controller. "This is a calamity
for California," he says. "It will send shock waves through the fiscal markets."


California officials remain bullish. While many U.S. regions lean on one or two
industries, California boasts a dozen, including agriculture in the Central
Valley, entertainment in Hollywood and strong international trade with Asia,
Canada and Mexico.

If California's older manufacturers are getting creaky, entrepreneurs in the
high-tech and biotechnology industries -- with their lean, so-called gazelle
firms -- will create jobs and products for decades to come.

"I tell the financial markets to bet on California," Westly says. "We will claw
our way back."

That's little comfort to Monique Rogers, co-owner of ARRC Technology in
Bakersfield, a sunbaked region of oil wells and cotton fields northeast of Los
Angeles.

Eleven years ago, her husband, Alex Rogers, sold his horse Trooper for $ 300 to
start their computer and telephone services firm. It grew into a $ 5 million
company with 30 employees.

But in the wake of the recession, sales have slipped 20% this year. And their
electricity and workers' comp costs have more than doubled. The firm hasn't
jettisoned workers yet, but all pay raises have been frozen for now.

"Everybody's feeling the crunch," says Monique Rogers, a California native who
doesn't want to leave the state. "We're busting our butts to survive."

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Dan MacMedan, USA TODAY; GRAPHIC, B/W, Robert W. Ahrens,
USA TODAY, Sources: Wells Fargo, Economy.com (BAR GRAPH); PHOTO, B/W, Steve
Yeater, AP; Getting out: Kjeld Hestehave, president of Bomatic, looks over a
pallet of water bottles at his Ontario, Calif., factory. He's moving his company
to Utah.  California has always been a land of opportunity, but now we feel like
we're being kicked out of the state. We either move or go broke." <>On the line:
Gov. Gray Davis faces a vote of confidence Oct. 7 that will decide if he's out.

                      Copyright 2003 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              83 of 119 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    August 12, 2003, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Music festivals have a video game plan

BYLINE: Mike Snider

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 3D

LENGTH: 1073 words

DATELINE: BRISTOW, Va.

BRISTOW, Va. -- At this summer's music festivals, video games are helping pump
up the volume.

The mixture of music and multimedia is most prevalent at the Lollapalooza
Festival, which runs through Aug. 24. More than a dozen bands, including
Audio-slave and Incubus, are performing. And concertgoers can stroll through a
meandering midway of diversions -- a Major League Baseball pitching and hitting
cage, a tattoo and piercing truck, clothing booths hawking puka-shell necklaces
and Bob Marley T-shirts, and a Save the Seals counter.


Amid the clamor looms an inflatable dome stuffed with nearly 100 Microsoft Xbox
game machines, laptop PCs and giant flat-panel displays. Microsoft is the tour's
top sponsor, and an arcade of the company's games awaits in the air-conditioned
interior.

The venue, called the GameRiot tent, makes the scene "more festive. It brings
different entertainment aspects to the show," says J.R. Lockwood, 18, of Boyce,
Va. He and Jenni Morgan, 18, of Berryville, Va., were playing Outlaw Volleyball
at a recent show at the Nissan Pavilion, about 30 miles west of Washington, D.C.
"It was really cool," says Morgan, who rarely plays video games.

It's not just Microsoft, which introduced Xbox in late 2001. And it's not just
at Lollapalooza, which founder Perry Farrell has resurrected for the first tour
since 1997. Game makers are sponsoring most of this summer's major music
festivals:

 * Market leader Sony is bringing its PlayStation 2 18-wheeler -- with room for
50 players at a time -- to many of the stops on Ozzy Osbourne's Ozzfest tour,
which includes Korn and Marilyn Manson and runs through Aug. 28. Sony also
sponsored the just-finished Vans Warped tour, as the company has done since
1995.

 * Nintendo has started its own festival, the Nintendo Fusion tour, with
Evanescence and several other emerging bands, including Cold, through Sept. 18.

In the past, a solid lineup of musical acts alone could draw a large crowd. But
in the current economic climate -- with tight radio airplay, choosier ticket
buyers and declining CD sales -- the music industry sees teaming with video game
companies as a way to hedge its bets. The game industry, meanwhile, is on target
for another record-setting year, one that could match the size of the $
12-billion-a-year music industry for the first time.

And game companies are fueled by the support of teens and young adults, the
exact target market the music industry courts. Nearly four out of 10 of the most
dedicated game players are less than 18 years old; another 40% are 18 to 35.

"They like to play games, listen to music and hang out," Nintendo's Perrin
Kaplan says.

Music and video games have been partners for years. Nine Inch Nails' Trent
Reznor, who played in the first Lollapalooza in 1991, began creating music for
games such as Quake in 1996. He's working on the soundtrack for the highly
anticipated Doom III.

There's so much music in top-selling game Grand Theft Auto: Vice City --
including songs such as Ozzy Osbourne's Bark at the Moon and Iron Maiden's 2
Minutes to Midnight -- that Sony Music released seven separate CDs of music from
the game. And Fusion tour headliner Evanescence has a song (Going Under) in
Atari's Enter the Matrix game.

As for festivals, much of the synergy can be attributed to Jane's Addiction
frontman Farrell, who founded Lollapalooza. "We wanted to create a brand-new
ethos in festivals," he says. "The idea of just a concert was last millennium.
This millennium is about technology and interactivity."

Says Brandon Lowers, 17, of Leesburg, Va.: "It just changes the scenery. It's so
bright outside. You come in here and it's completely opposite." As the winner of
five head-to-head fighting matches in Soul Calibur II, he earned a chance to
stand onstage between bands.

And not just concertgoers are getting their game on. "All the guys are gaming,"
say Farrell, who took time at a recent stop to teach a security guard how to
play the space battle game Halo, Xbox's top title.

Incubus has six Xboxes on the band's tour bus for multiplayer Halo matches. And
backstage, where in the past "there were only drapes and tapestries and drinks,
now we have Xbox stations," Farrell says.

"There's a renaissance in artistry in video games," he says. "We've tried to
make being on the grounds of Lollapalooza as if you are in a reality-based video
game."

Other tech companies are joining in. New sponsor Verizon helps add a wireless
game aspect to the tour. Before the show, attendees can sign up to get text
messages on their cellphones to alert them to trivia contests and event news.
Winners get ticket upgrades and backstage passes.

"We wanted to develop the idea of computing and interacting so you are not
hunched over your chair by yourself," Farrell says. "We are taking it out of the
house so that you are out and about, and doing it with people."


Ozzfest

www.ozzfest.com

Boston . . . . . . . . Thursday, Friday

New York . . . . . . . . Aug. 18-19

Washington . . . . . . . . Aug. 22

Charlotte . . . . . . . . Aug. 24

Atlanta . . . . . . . . Aug. 26

West Palm Beach . . . . . . . . Aug. 28

Lollapalooza

www.lollapalooza.com

Albuquerque . . . . . . . . Today

Denver . . . . . . . . Wednesday

Phoenix . . . . . . . . Friday

Los Angeles . . . . . . . . Saturday

San Diego . . . . . . . . Sunday

San Francisco . . . . . . . . Aug. 19

Salt Lake City . . . . . . . . Aug. 21

Seattle . . . . . . . . Aug. 23

Portland . . . . . . . . Aug. 24

Nintendo Fusion Tour

www.nintendofusiontour.com

Chicago . . . . . . . . Today

Detroit . . . . . . . . Wednesday

Cleveland . . . . . . . . Friday

Indianapolis . . . . . . . . Sunday

Pittsburgh . . . . . . . . Aug. 19

Philadelphia . . . . . . . . Aug. 20

Columbus, Ohio . . . . . . . . Aug. 21

St. Louis . . . . . . . . Aug. 23

Kansas City, Mo. . . . . . . . . Aug. 29

Morrison, Colo. . . . . . . . . Aug. 30

Portland, Ore. . . . . . . . . Sept. 3

Salt Lake City . . . . . . . . Sept. 4

Tulsa . . . . . . . . Sept. 7

Dallas . . . . . . . . Sept. 9

San Antonio . . . . . . . . Sept. 10

Atlanta . . . . . . . . Sept. 12

Washington . . . . . . . . Sept. 13

Boston . . . . . . . . Sept. 14

New York . . . . . . . . Sept. 16

Milwaukee . . . . . . . . Sept. 18

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS, B/W, H. Darr Beiser, USA TODAY (2); PHOTO, B/W, Ray Mickshaw,
Nintendo via WireImage; It was really cool": Jenni Morgan and J.R. Lockwood,
both 18, try out an Xbox video game system at the Lollapalooza Festival near
Washington, D.C. Farrell: Jane's Addiction singer and Lollapalooza founder is
big on the multimedia aspect of the festival. Added value: The Nintendo Fusion
Tour, featuring the popular band Evanescence, has plenty of gaming kiosks for
concertgoers to enjoy.

                      Copyright 2003 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              84 of 119 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     August 15, 2003, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Volvo finally meshes power, handling

BYLINE: James R. Healey

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 11D

LENGTH: 1295 words

Volvo has made powerful cars, and it has made smooth cars. But the twain haven't
often met.

The 2004 R cars change that.

R is Volvo's designation for high-performance models. For '04, there are two:
S60 R compact sedan and V70 R station wagon.

They are outfitted almost identically: turbocharged five-cylinder engine rated
300 horsepower and 295 pounds-feet of torque (258 lbs.-ft. with automatic
transmission), big Brembo-brand disc brakes, suspension that firms as the road
requires and is tunable by the driver, four-wheel drive, fat tires with stubby
sidewalls and big-bolstered seats.


The R cars have more power than, for example, the Nissan 350Z sports car. Their
other hardware is as credible as found on sports cars and respected sports
sedans -- quite remarkable for family cars.

What makes S60 R and V70 R better than a collection of impressive-sounding
components is that the engine spins out its power in usable, tractable fashion.
No matter how well-behaved the rest of a car is, if the engine's a buffoon, the
car's a dud.

Unlike other high-power Volvos, the R cars' powerplant is not restricted to two
modes -- slump and lurch. Instead, power builds smoothly if somewhat slowly
until the turbo kicks in. Despite that lag, the engine has enough very-low-speed
torque that driving the manual transmission models is easy at low speed.

Even starting uphill -- which can be tricky with a manual -- is easy in the Rs.

Though Volvo trumpets the suspension as the marquee feature, Volvo veterans --
literally jerked around by previous hopped-up Volvos -- will see the engine as
the bigger deal. The R powertrain would be a very good improvement to the Volvo
XC 90 sport-utility vehicle.

The R suspension is quite the attraction. Dashboard buttons let the driver
choose comfort, sport or advanced. Advanced could as well be called
slam-bang-whack. No concession is made to ride comfort; in return, the Rs have
race-car handling. Volvo must expect R owners to stop off at race tracks en
route home from eco-rallies.

Whichever setting is chosen, the automatic suspension processes a boggling array
of data 500 times a second to fine-tune the chassis.

Sensors measure how fast each wheel is turning and how much each one is moving
up and down; how far the driver has the steering wheel turned and how fast it's
being turned; how much the angle of the car is changing in response to the
steering; how much power the engine is delivering; whether the brakes or
anti-skid control are in use.

Volvo claims the system even predicts what's coming because it takes note of the
steering wheel being turned before the car has begun to respond and notices that
the brake pedal has been pushed before the brake pads themselves contact the
discs to slow the car.

Volvo's six-speed manual features short throws between gears and a somewhat
notchy feel instead of the slick snick-snick movement. The optional five-speed
automatic was not available for testing.

Gripes:

 * The passenger's power seat won't work unless the ignition is on, inconvenient
when you need extra maneuvering space to install an infant seat in the back.

 * Mirrors are too small. You can't adjust them to eliminate blind spots.

 * The radio -- ah, the Volvo radio. Surely it is a joke. No pushbuttons, just a
rotary knob. It's hard to store stations and hard to find them once you do.
Also, the tone control is a single bass-treble knob. You can't turn both up or
down.

 * Lethargy overtakes the engine when the driver tries to blip up the revs
during double-clutching on downshifts. The technique is an attempt to get the
engine spinning just right so that when the clutch is let out to engage the
lower gear, there is no jerkiness, no over-revving. The R engine impedes that
artful shifting.

 * Tires, tailored to get the most from the high-performance chassis, wear out
fast. Volvo warns that tread life could be less than 20,000 miles, instead of
the typical 40,000 or more. Too, they're no good in winter, despite the
four-wheel drive.

 * A wide turning circle of 43.3 feet makes the cars as clumsy as full-size
pickups in tight spots.

Complaints aside, S60 R and V70 R are cars that could serve as your sole
transportation, satisfying both the putt-putt and the yippee driving needs in
the family. Nice machines.


2004 Volvo S60 R and V70 R

* What is it? High-performance, all-wheel-drive versions of the family sedan and
station wagon, manufactured in Gent, Belgium.

* How soon? On sale since May.

* How much? S60 R sedan starts at $ 37,510, including $ 685 destination charge.
V70 R wagon starts at $ 39,010. Automatic transmission is $ 1,250 option.
Edmunds.com and Kelley Blue Book (kbb.com) say R cars are selling for full
window-sticker price.

* Who'll buy? College-educated married men ages 35 to 45 with no kids at home or
small children, and annual household incomes averaging $ 130,000-plus.

* How many? Volvo forecasts 3,863 this year -- 3,088 S60 R sedans and 775 V70 R
wagons -- then 6,000 to 7,000 a year afterward. Volvo says the cars' complexity
requires low-volume production to ensure quality.

* What's the powertrain? 2.5-liter, five-cylinder engine rated 300 horsepower at
5,250 rpm, 295 pounds-feet of torque at 1,950 rpm; six-speed manual
transmission; Haldex system that shifts from front-wheel drive to all-wheel
drive in less than one-tenth of a second when front wheels slip; electronic
traction control.

With five-speed automatic transmission, torque rating drops to 258 lbs.-ft. at
1,850 rpm.

* What's the safety gear? Normal bags and belts plus side-impact air bags for
driver and front passenger, side curtain head protection for both rows of seats,
anti-lock brakes with electronic brake-force distribution.

* What's the rest? Key features include electronically controlled suspension
with manual settings for comfort, sport and advanced; dual-zone climate control;
leather upholstery; AM/FM/CD/cassette stereo; power steering, brakes, seats,
windows, locks, mirrors; tilt-adjustable and telescoping steering column;
remote-control locks; auto-dimming insider rearview mirror; outside mirror
defrosters; high-intensity discharge headlights; PremAir-treated radiator to
convert ground smog into oxygen while driving; Brembo brand high-performance
brakes; 235/45-17 tires on alloy wheels.

* How big? S60 R is smaller than a Honda Accord, bigger than a Civic. S60 R is
181.3 inches long, 71 inches wide, 55 inches tall on a 107-inch wheelbase.
Weight is listed as 3,571 pounds, towing capacity as 3,300 pounds, trunk space
as 13.9 cubic feet.

V70 R is 185.4 inches long, 71 inches wide, 57 inches tall on a 108.5-inch
wheelbase. Weight is listed as 3,757 pounds. Towing capacity is listed as 3,300
pounds. Cargo space is listed as 37.5 cubic feet behind the rear seat, 71.5
cubic feet with that seat folded.

* How thirsty? S60 R is rated 18 miles per gallon in town, 25 on the highway
with manual or automatic transmission. V70 R is rated 18/24 mpg. Manual
transmission S60 R test car's trip computer showed 18.5 mpg in suburban driving.
Premium fuel is specified.

* How fast? Volvo says S60 R jumps 0-60 mph in 5.4 seconds with manual, 7.2 with
automatic. V70 R goes to 60 in 5.6 seconds with manual, 7.4 with automatic. Top
speed of both is electronically limited at 155 mph.

* Overall: Beautifully fast, technically advanced, easy to drive.

---

More online

* Go to cars.usatoday.com to see more photos, read previous Test Drive columns
and find information on pricing, incentives and more.

* Go to Edmunds.com or kbb.com for additional pricing and incentive information.


* Chat with James R. Healey at talk.usatoday.com at 2 p.m. ET today.

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS, B/W, Ford Motor (3); More power to them: The 2004 Volvo S60 R,
top, and 2004 Volvo V70 R, bottom left and right, offer engines with an upgrade.

                      Copyright 2003 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              89 of 119 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    September 5, 2003, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Say aloha to wellness at Hawaii's healing spas

BYLINE: Gene Sloan

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 494 words

DATELINE: MAUI, Hawaii

MAUI, Hawaii -- Feel like your life is a bit out of whack? The tourism industry
in Hawaii says it has the answer -- a "wellness vacation" on one of the state's
sunny isles.

"Too many people have a perception of Hawaii as sun, surf and sand -- beautiful
but a bit frivolous," says Laura Crites, who oversees the 7-month-old Hawaii
Wellness Tourism Association, formed to promote the concept. "But there's
something much deeper here."


Long a major spa destination, Hawaii is becoming a magnet for spiritual healers
and alternative medicine specialists. That, combined with a lovely climate,
natural beauty and the Hawaiian culture, make the islands an ideal place to come
for healing the mind, heart, body and spirit, says Crites.

"It goes much deeper than a mud bath," says Crites, who also co-authored a
guidebook on the topic published earlier this year, The Call to Hawaii: A
Wellness Vacation Guidebook (Aloha Wellness Publishers, $ 15). Hawaii's wellness
vacation offerings are "based on the premise that people recognize their lives
are out of balance" and want to make permanent changes.

While wellness has become a buzzword at destinations worldwide, perhaps nowhere
is it getting as much play as in Hawaii, where resorts are racing to unveil
packages for travelers that go beyond traditional spa treatments and offer
everything from meditation and spiritual retreats to "lifestyle modification"
programs such as smoking-cessation and nutrition classes. Even volunteer
opportunities are in the mix. Examples:

 * Wailea Marriott, Maui. The Maui Wellness Institute opened at the resort in
July and is teaming with the resort's Mandara Spa to offer guests a wellness
experience, with classes in nutrition and weight management, health assessments
and Reiki stress relief. Information: 808-891-1131.

 * The Ritz-Carlton, Kapalua. The resort phased out standard massage and wrap
treatments at its spa over the past two years in favor of more traditional
Hawaiian healing techniques. Highlights include a hot stone therapy, using rocks
from Hawaiian riverbeds. Information: 808-669-6200.

 * The Four Seasons, Maui. An overhaul of the spa this summer brought a series
of "lifestyle" classes that cover topics ranging from Taoist longevity breathing
to journal writing. "It's meant to give our guests tools to handle the little
bumps in their lives," says the spa's Jeremy McCarthy. The resort also offers an
experience called Hawaiian Temple Bodywork, using a combination of lomi-lomi
massage and traditional hula dancing. Information: 808-874-8000.

In a sign of Hawaii's growing reputation as a healing destination, the island of
Maui is hosting the first annual LifeFest wellness convention, which starts
Sept. 12. More than 30 health, wellness and fitness authorities, including
author Deepak Chopra and macrobiotic guru Michio Kushi, will offer talks and
panels on healing. Information: 808-875-8411 or lifefestmaui.com.

LOAD-DATE: September 05, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Color, Four Seasons Resort Maui; Melt away stress: The Cocoon
Suite at Four Season Resort Maui offers total relaxation.

                      Copyright 2003 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              91 of 119 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   September 12, 2003, Friday, FINAL EDITION

New Malibu adds flair to Chevy sensibility

BYLINE: James R. Healey

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 10D

LENGTH: 1221 words

Chevrolet has overhauled the Malibu midsize sedan to make it more distinctive
and a better rival to Toyota Camry and Honda Accord, kings of midsize sedans.

Chevy started with General Motors' Epsilon chassis, also used for Saab 9-3 and
GM of Europe's Opel Vectra. But don't expect a Euro-mobile in Detroit cloak.
Chevy has tailored the underpinnings into a very American 2004 Malibu.


Time in several models on a variety of Virginia roads showed the new Malibu to
be generally smooth and satisfying. It seems unlikely a Camry or Accord fan
would rush to trade for a Malibu, but that'd be more because of personal taste
than apparent quality.

Malibu looks very Chevrolet. It gets extra visual robustness from a character
line that starts in front of the rear wheel, rises over the wheel arch and
peters out toward the end of the rear fender. Nothing pretty, but it adds
significant eye allure for a fairly simple crease.

The result is that Malibu looks more like a big car than a little one you bought
because you couldn't afford the big one.

Inside, the space theme continues. Legroom is a bit better than usual in front,
and quite a bit better in back -- 38.5 inches, minimum. Real adults fit in back
-- though as always in today's cars, the middle rear spot isn't for big folks.

Worst feature is the over-boosted feel of the electric power steering at low
speed. It's a parking aid, so some might find it a boon. But it seems a step
back to the days when U.S. cars felt sloppy all over.

The steering firms as the car goes faster, and that's good. But firm or not, the
steering is afflicted with an artificiality that plagues GM's electric steering.
It never feels as if you're getting true feedback from the road.

The base four-cylinder has too little power. The optional V-6 is strong and
pleasing. The only drawback is that it will yank the front of the car sideways
slightly when the gas is floored at moderate speeds. That's the torque steer
inherent in front-drive cars but masked in low-power models.

Brakes feel firm at the pedal, prompt at the pavement. That's a big, positive
change for GM.

Seats go beyond firm to stiff. Not all physiques will like that. Take a long
test drive to see if yours does.

The array of clever standard and optional features helps mark Malibu as one
aimed at U.S. drivers and their challenges and foibles, and elevates the car
above its midprice status. For instance:

 * Adjustable steering column and driver's seat height are standard, and
adjustable pedals are available, adding up to a good chance you can find the
just-right driving position sometimes denied you in the best Japanese brands.

 * Most power accessories are standard because that's what most U.S. buyers
want.

 * A remote starter is available for those in the federal witness-protection
program or living where it's wise to warm up the car before driving. Press a
button on the remote-control key fob, and the engine starts from as far away as
200 feet. When you hop in, you merely stick the key into the ignition slot and
drive off. Nobody else has that as a factory-installed item.

 * A flat-folding front passenger's seat combines with the fold-down rear seat
to provide a long, clear space for hauling rolled rugs, lumber, lamps and the
like.

 * A manual-shift button is tucked onto the side of the gearshift lever. To
downshift manually, pull the lever back from D into L (just as in GM's two-speed
Powerglide transmissions of the 1950s). That shifts down into third gear. Push
the button on the side of the shifter one way to keep downshifting, the other
way to upshift. Not as sexy as moving a lever, but it eats no room on the
console. The choice was a clever, if imperfect, manual-shift mode, or none, says
chief engineer Greg Bellopatrick.

 * The instrument panel is lovely in its simplicity. Three big circles house the
gauges. How refreshing.

 * Controls feel good to operate, except the fan-speed knob, which rotates
roughly between notches.

 * A standard driver information system includes settings to tailor features as
you wish. You can, for instance, have all the doors unlock when you stop or just
the driver's. You can have the horn honk when you hit the remote locks or give
everybody a break and just have the lights flash. The system is fairly easy to
operate, too. It adds a note of luxury to a mainstream car.

 * Storage on and near the console is almost perfect for typical American-driver
detritus, a minute but meaningful detail.

 * Long rear doors make it easier than usual to get into the back.

Malibu, it seems, has matured into quite a fetching sedan.


2004 Chevrolet Malibu

* What is it? Redesign of front-wheel-drive, midsize sedan.

Current-design Malibu is renamed Chevy Classic, stays at least through '04, for
deep-discount business such as rental fleets.

* How soon? Arriving at dealers now. Hatchback version called Malibu Maxx is due
in late December.

* How much? Base model starts at $ 18,995 including $ 635 destination fee. LS
starts at $ 20,995. LT starts at $ 23,495. LT with all factory options is $
25,575. Malibu Maxx prices have not been set.

Typical: LS priced $ 22,175, selling for an average $ 21,058, according to
Edmunds.com.

* How many? About 200,000 a year, 35% of them Maxxes.

* Who'll buy? Married, 25 to 49 years old, $ 65,000 to $ 80,000 yearly household
income; probably college-educated.

* What's the powertrain? Base model: 2.2-liter, four-cylinder rated 145
horsepower at 5,600 rpm, 155 pounds-feet of torque at 4,000 rpm. LS and LT:
3.5-liter V-6 rated 200 hp at 5,400 rpm, 220 lbs.-ft. at 3,200. All use
four-speed automatic transmission.

* What's the rest? Manual air conditioning; power steering, brakes, windows,
locks, mirrors; driver-seat height adjuster; telescoping and tilt-adjustable
steering column; AM/FM/CD stereo; driver information center with programmable
vehicle functions; P205/60R-15 tires on steel wheels.

LS adds or substitutes anti-lock brakes; traction control; power-adjustable
pedals; cruise control; remote-control locks; driver's lumbar adjustment; alloy
wheels.

LT adds or substitutes head-curtain and side-impact air bags; automatic climate
control; carpeted floor mats; remote-control engine starter; leather upholstery;
heated front seats; power driver's seat; leather-wrapped steering wheel with
built-in audio controls; fog lights; power mirrors with defrosters;
trunk-mounted air spoiler; P215/60R-16 tires.

* How big? An inch shy of a Toyota Camry every which way. Malibu is 188.3 inches
long, 69.9 inches wide, 57.5 inches tall on a 106.3-inch wheelbase, weighing
3,174 to 3,315 pounds, depending on model. Passenger space is listed as 101.4
cubic feet; trunk, 15.4 cubic feet. Tows 1,000 pounds.

* How thirsty? Four-cylinder is rated 24 miles per gallon in town, 34 mpg on the
highway. V-6 is rated 23/32. Trip computer in V-6 test car registered 19.1 mpg
in suburban driving. Regular fuel is specified.

* Overall: Business-class motoring for coach fare.

---

More online

* Go to cars.usa today.com to see previous Test Drive columns and find
information on pricing, incentives and more.

* Chat with James R. Healey at talk.usatoday.com at 2 p.m. ET today.

* E-mail testdrive@usatoday.com.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS, B/W, Wieck (2); 2004 Chevrolet Malibu: European chassis,
American muscle, roomy interior vie with over-boosted steering, stiff seats and
torque steer. Chevy says this Malibu is too cool for rental fleets, which get
only the old model.

                      Copyright 2003 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              92 of 119 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                  September 24, 2003, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Excerpts of speeches Tuesday at the United Nations by President Bush, French
President Jacques Chirac and U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16A

LENGTH: 1376 words

President Bush

Events during the past two years have set before us the clearest of divides.  .
. .  All governments that support terror are complicit in a war against
civilization.  . . .  And all nations that fight terror as if the lives of their
own people depend on it will earn the favorable judgment of history.

The regime of Saddam Hussein cultivated ties to terror while it built weapons of
mass destruction. It used those weapons in acts of mass murder and refused to
account for them when confronted by the world.  . . .  The Security Council was
right to vow serious consequences if Iraq refused to comply. And because there
were consequences, because a coalition of nations acted to defend the peace and
the credibility of the United Nations, Iraq is free. And today we are joined by
representatives of a liberated country.

I also recognize that some of the sovereign nations of this assembly disagreed
with our actions. Yet there was and there remains unity among us on the
fundamental principles and objectives of the United Nations.


We are dedicated to the defense of our collective security and to the advance of
human rights. These permanent commitments call us to great work in the world;
work we must do together. So let us move forward.

Our international coalition in Iraq is meeting its responsibilities.  . . .  The
United Nations can contribute greatly to the cause of Iraq self-government.
America is working with friends and allies on a new Security Council resolution,
which will expand the U.N.'s role in Iraq. As in the aftermath of other
conflicts, the United Nations should assist in developing a constitution, in
training civil servants, and conducting free and fair elections.

The advance of democratic institutions in Iraq is setting an example that
others, including the Palestinian people, would be wise to follow. The
Palestinian cause is betrayed by leaders who cling to power by feeding old
hatreds and destroying the good work of others. The Palestinian people deserve
their own state, and they will gain that state by embracing new leaders
committed to reform, to fighting terror and to building peace.

A second challenge we must confront together is the proliferation of weapons of
mass destruction.  . . .  The deadly combination of outlaw regimes and terror
networks and weapons of mass murder is a peril that cannot be ignored or wished
away.  . . .  We are determined to keep the world's most destructive weapons
away from all our shores and out of the hands of our common enemies.

A third challenge we share is a challenge to our conscience. We must act
decisively to meet the humanitarian crises of our time.  . . .

The United States has begun to carry out the Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief.  .
. .  My country is acting to save lives from famine as well, providing more than
$ 1.4 billion in global emergency food aid.

There's a special evil in the abuse and exploitation of the most innocent and
vulnerable. The victims of sex trade see little of life before they see the very
worst of life: an underground of brutality and lonely fear. Those who create
these victims and profit from their suffering must be severely punished.

All the challenges I have spoken of this morning require urgent attention and
moral clarity. Helping Afghanistan and Iraq to succeed as free nations in a
transformed region, cutting off the avenues of proliferation, abolishing modern
forms of slavery, these are the kinds of great tasks for which the United
Nations was founded. In each case, careful discussion is needed and also
decisive action.

Our good intentions will be credited only if we achieve good outcomes.

As an original signer of the U.N. Charter, the United States of America is
committed to the United Nations. And we show that commitment by working to
fulfill the U.N.'s stated purposes and giving meaning to its ideals.

French President Jacques Chirac

The United Nations has just weathered one of its most serious trials in its
history: Respect for the Charter, the use of force, were at the heart of the
debate. The war, which was started without the authorization of the Security
Council, has shaken the multilateral system. Having taken stock of this crisis,
our organization is now resuming its onward march.

In Iraq, the transfer of sovereignty to the Iraqis, who must have sole
responsibility for their destiny, is essential for stability and reconstruction.
It is up the United Nations to lend its legitimacy to that process.

It is also up to the United Nations to assist with the gradual transfer of
administrative and economic responsibilities to the Iraqi institutions,
according to a realistic timetable and to help the Iraqis draft a constitution
and to hold general elections.

Finally, it is up to the United Nations to give a mandate to an international
force, naturally commanded by the main troop contributor -- that is the United
States -- in order to ensure the security of Iraq and of all those that are
helping to rebuild that country.

The primary responsibility for the maintenance of peace and security lies with
the Security Council. It is therefore essential to its legitimacy that its
composition reflect the state of the world. It must be expanded to include new
permanent members because the presence of major countries is necessary.

France naturally is thinking of Germany and of Japan, but also of some leading
countries of Asia, Africa and Latin America.

This reform must be accompanied by a strengthening of the authority of the
council. It is the council that should set the bounds to the use of force.

No one can claim the right to use force unilaterally or preventively.
Conversely, in the face of mounting threats, states must be assured that the
council has the appropriate means of evaluation and of collective action, and
that it has the will to act.

U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan

The last 12 months have been very painful for those of us who believe in
collective answers to our common problems and challenges. In many countries,
terrorism has once again brought death and suffering to innocent people.  . . .
Whatever view each of us may take of the events of recent months, it is vital to
all of us that the outcome is a stable, democratic Iraq, at peace with itself
and with its neighbors and contributing to the stability in the region.  . . .
If it takes extra time and patience to forge that policy, a policy that is
collective, coherent and workable, then I, for one, would regard that time as
well spent. Indeed, this is how we must approach all the many pressing crises.

All of us know there are new threats that must be faced or perhaps old threats
in new and dangerous combinations: new forms of terrorism and the proliferation
of weapons of mass destruction.

But while some consider these threats as self-evidently the main challenge to
world peace and security, others feel more immediately menaced by small arms
employed in civil conflict or by so-called soft threats, such as persistence of
extreme poverty, the disparity of income between and within societies, and the
spread of infectious diseases, or climate change and environmental degradation.

In truth, we do not have to choose. The United Nations must confront all these
threats and challenges.  . . .  We now see with chilling clarity that a world
where many millions of people endure brutal oppression and extreme misery will
never be fully secure even for its most privileged inhabitants.

Where we disagree it seems is on how to respond to these threats. Since this
organization was founded, states have generally sought to deal with threats to
the peace through containment and deterrence by a system based on collective
security and the United Nations Charter.

The United Nations is by no means a perfect instrument, but it is a precious
one. I urge you to seek agreement on ways to improving it, but above all of
using it as its founders intended: to save succeeding generations from the
scourge of war, to reaffirm faith in fundamental human rights, to re-establish
the basic conditions for justice and the rule of law, and to promote social
progress and better standards of life in larger freedom.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Jim Bourg, Reuters; PHOTO, B/W, Chip East, Reuters; PHOTO,
B/W, Ray Stubblebine, Reuters; We are determined to keep the world's most
destructive weapons away from all our shores and out of the hands of our common
enemies." (Bush)<>"No one can claim the right to use force unilaterally or
preventively." (Chirac)<>"It is vital to all of us that the outcome is a stable,
democratic Iraq, at peace with itself." (Annan)

                      Copyright 2003 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              95 of 119 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    October 17, 2003, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Cheese, glorious cheese, and it's all-American

BYLINE: Jerry Shriver

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 5D

LENGTH: 792 words

DATELINE: POINT REYES STATION, Calif.

POINT REYES STATION, Calif. -- To find the palace of the reigning king of
American specialty cheeses, you must wind your way past orderly vineyards,
knobby hills and lush pastures until you reach this windswept coastal village an
hour north of San Francisco.

Here, in the rear of a converted hay barn bearing a Cowgirl Creamery sign, is a
chilly, humid steel locker where rounds of Red Hawk triple-cream washed-rind
cheese age in all their stinky, moldy, creamy glory.

Thanks to the serendipitous presence in this chamber of a bacteria called b.
linens, which gave the cheese a sticky, smelly orange-red rind and an earthy,
mellow interior, Red Hawk came into being four years ago and gradually was
groomed for greatness. In August, it bested 615 other cheeses from 28 states and
four countries to win Best of Show honors at the American Cheese Society's 20th
annual conference in San Francisco.


One judge called Red Hawk "a breakthrough in American cheese-making," no doubt
because it employed the seldom-used technique of "washing" the rounds with brine
to inhibit certain molds and promote the growth of b. linens during its six
weeks of aging.

"It was a shock for a soft cheese to win best of show -- usually the dramatic
aged cheeses win," says Sue Conley, who with Peggy Smith opened Cowgirl Creamery
inside the Tomales Bay Foods Store in 1997.

Less of a shock was that the top cheese came from Northern California, a region
already famous for its wines and olive oils. As the number of artisan
cheesemakers has grown from a handful to more than 200 during the past decade,
California, along with Wisconsin and New England, has emerged as a hotbed. About
15 of California's 60-plus specialty cheese operations are clustered here in the
San Francisco Bay area, including the state's oldest, Marin French in Petaluma,
dating to 1865, and its best-known, Laura Chenel's Chevre, in Sonoma.

"There is a good amount of land (in Northern California), and that allows people
to have cows or goats or even sheep," says Laura Werlin, author of the new The
All American Cheese and Wine Book (Stewart, Tabori & Chang, $ 37.50). "And they
have such excellent milk because the land on which they roam is rich."

"The atmosphere of the place -- cool climate, high humidity, salt in the air and
on the grass -- makes for perfect aging conditions," Conley adds. "In Sonoma and
Marin counties, grasses produce for eight to nine months, so the animals can
graze. They aren't stressed by temperature extremes, and that affects the
quality of the milk."

All of Cowgirl's milk is certified organic and comes from a herd of about 70
cows at Straus Family Creamery nearby. It goes into the making of both fresh
products -- cottage cheese, creme fraiche, fromage blanc -- and soft-ripened
cheeses such as Red Hawk and the buttery triple-cream Mt. Tam.

"Every batch is different -- milk is alive and different every day," says
production manager Maureen Cunnie. "You can't rush the cheese."

Conley, Smith and Cunnie all trained as chefs and bring a unique sensibility to
their work. "We borrow from Europe, but in America we're allowed to stray from
traditional formulas," Conley says. "We work with texture, taste and feel and
make adjustments as we go."

The result is something that is "distinctively Californian," says Lynne
Devereux, cheese educator for the California Milk Advisory Board. "Their
technique is ages old, but their milk makes it unique."

Visitors to the creamery also will find an open-door approach that mirrors that
of the Chez Panisse restaurant in Berkeley, where Smith worked for 17 years.

"We wanted an operation where people could see how the cheese was made -- the
grass, the cow, the farm," Conley says. "People can wander in and watch the
cheesemaking through a window, and that lends a certain integrity to things,
like the open kitchen at Chez Panisse, where watching the cooking was part of
the experience."

Conley says that in the wake of Red Hawk's win, orders have been pouring in from
far and wide for the $ 18-a-pound cheese, and she has added four employees. But
because of the mercurial nature of small-batch cheesemaking, she is reluctant to
expand the operation too much.

A more important goal, she says, is to promote small-scale creameries like
Cowgirl "in every town, in every region, so people wouldn't need to send for my
cheese."

Such a scenario is not far off, says Werlin, who notes that the South, which has
lacked a cheese tradition, is emerging as a leader.

"America is on the precipice of tremendous change and development of our own
cheese identity that is separate from Europe's," she says. "Soon, we'll refer to
Red Hawk rather than Camembert."

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, USA TODAY (MAP); PHOTOS, B/W, Vance Jacobs for USA TODAY
(4); All in a day's work: Maureen Cunnie, right, and Eric Patterson pour fresh
cream into a pasteurizer, above. At left, Cunnie totes a milk container at the
Cowgirl Creamery in Point Reyes, Calif. <>The finished product: Sue Conley
displays Cowgirl's handiwork.

                      Copyright 2003 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              103 of 119 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     March 14, 2003, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Sandblasted troops dig in

BYLINE: Elliot Blair Smith

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 1011 words

DATELINE: CAMP COYOTE, KUWAIT

CAMP COYOTE, KUWAIT -- A man is missing. It's just past 10 on Wednesday night,
and heavy winds are blowing waves of dust and sand across the dark desert. U.S.
Marines camped here stumble and lurch for familiar moorings in what suddenly has
become a sand haze.

Inside the Marine officers' tent, most men already are bundled in their sleeping
bags on the plywood flooring. The wind blew out the officers' electrical supply
a half-hour earlier. The storm leaves a half-inch of dust on every surface.


Electrical power is eventually restored. As light floods back into the tent, it
reveals a scene that now resembles the inside of a car wash -- except that dirt
is flying instead of water. At the same time, word arrives that Gunnery Sgt.
Alvin Harewood, 40, of Queens, N.Y., is missing.

In preparing for war with Iraq, the Marines camped among the desert dunes at
Kuwait's northern border have met the first line of resistance: tent-rattling
winds that gust up to 40 miles an hour. In February, four American soldiers were
killed nearby when their Black Hawk helicopter crashed in a severe wind and dust
storm.

One consequence of the delay in the beginning of any conflict with Iraq is that
50 days of winds known as the kaus have begun.

In Kuwait and Iraq, heavy spring winds produce blinding dust storms that can
strip paint from a car and obliterate the sun at midday. The storms heighten the
danger that soldiers could become lost and disoriented during combat.

Blowing sand can even distort global positioning satellite systems used to
navigate. It ruins electrical equipment -- the Marines' lone working printer
here is stored in a trash bag -- and chokes the giant air filters in Marine
tanks with up to 40 pounds of dirt.

"It's hard to keep your weapons clean. It's hard to keep yourself clean," says
Lance Cpl. Aaron Finley of Yakima Wash.

The kaus' arrival also means the direction of the wind will shift from cool
southerly breezes that originate in the Persian Gulf to furnace-like blasts from
the north. These northerly winds are called shamals and bring with them heavy
dust and sand storms.

From now to July, the average daily temperature in the desert will rise about 10
degrees a month to a peak of 113 degrees -- in the shade. Rising temperatures
stoke the winds as air moves from high-pressure areas in the north to low
pressure in the south.

"This time of year is probably the worst for winds," says Stephen Davenport, a
Weather News International meteorologist in Dubai, United Arab Emirates.

More than 50 miles from land, Navy sailors on the aircraft carrier USS
Constellation in the Persian Gulf get a taste of the sand.

"I've never seen a sandstorm, certainly not in the middle of the ocean," says
Seaman Ozie Madlock, standing watch on the observation deck. Madlock, 20, of
Marietta, Texas, clutches a pair of binoculars and strains to see through the
brown cloud that has enveloped the Constellation. "What the heck? How am I
supposed to do my job?"

The shroud rolled in just after 3 a.m. U.S. Navy jets on their way to patrol
southern Iraq were forced back. By the time they returned, visibility at the
carrier was near zero. Seven jets were forced to land in Bahrain to wait it out.


The effects of sandstorms on radar and laser-guided missiles could hinder war
plans, says Capt. Mike Fox, commander of the Constellation's 72-plane air wing.
He returned from a mission just before the storm hit. "I think we would choose a
day that would be more advantageous to us than a zero-zero-sandstorm."

At Camp Coyote, Wednesday's gale came up so suddenly that many soldiers lost
their way amid routine nightly tasks such as shaving, showering or visiting
friends.

"The winds were just ferocious," says Master Sgt. Randy Stevens of Tacoma, Wash.


"The Marines fought as hard as they could to keep the tents up."

In the officers' tent after 10 p.m., Capt. Scott McDonald orders an
"accountability check" of the several hundred soldiers under his command. Tent
by tent, reports come back. Initially, three men are missing, but two are found
hunkered down in a Humvee.

The missing man, Sgt. Harewood, is a Marine veteran who has been through
sandstorms before. He was shaving when the dust at his ankles rose to envelop
him in clouds of suffocating sand.

He lost his way in the quarter-mile trek between the Marines' makeshift showers
at one end of Camp Coyote and their billowing tents at the other.

Two hours later, the search for Harewood is suspended for the rest of the night.
"It was futile," McDonald says.

But Harewood is safe. He has crawled inside another Humvee to wait out the
storm. At 1:20 a.m., more than four hours after he was last seen, Harewood
gropes his way back to his own tent, still half-blinded by sand that swelled his
eyes nearly shut.

"I took a couple of steps and the wind hit me," Harewood says on his return. "It
blinded me a little bit. As I got further I bumped into some 5-ton trucks and
walked around them. That took me off my path. I couldn't see the camp, so I shot
past it to another camp right below us."

***

Contributing: Cesar G. Soriano aboard the Constellation

TEXT WITHIN GRAPHIC BEGINS HERE

Three causes of sandstorms in the Middle East

Sand and dust from desert storms can penetrate canteens, contaminate water and
even seep through cinderblock buildings. Storms can last of hours or days at a
time, particularly at this time of year. What causes the winds that lead to
these storms:

Cold fronts sweep through, creating strong surface winds.

Warm air rises.

Dust and sand lift ahead of the front.

Ground is dry.

In summer, storms are worse because of even higher temperatures.

Two fronts converge, causing strong surface winds.

Stalled storm systems can intensify winds.

Problem: Visibility is at its worst within 20 feet of the surface.

Timing: Dust storms generally subside after sunset as the air cools.

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Color, Jack Gruber, USA TODAY; GRAPHIC, Color, Sam Ward, USA
TODAY, Source: Melody Higdon, Air Force Combat Climatology Center
(ILLUSTRATION); PHOTO, Color, Jack Gruber, USA TODAY (page 1A); Desert danger: A
soldier with the Army's 3rd Battalion, 69th Armor Regiment slogs to his tent
Wednesday in a near-blinding sandstorm in northern Kuwait, where thousands of
U.S. troops are poised to invade Iraq.<>Winds of war seem unrelenting: Season of
debillitating desert winds of dust and sand has arrived in Kuwait, hampering was
preparations. Above, Army Cpl. Corey Kime of Houston toughs it out to write a
letter to a friend back home. 11A.

                      Copyright 2003 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              106 of 119 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                  September 17, 2003, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

China cautious about World Cup chances

BYLINE: David Lynch

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 1589 words

DATELINE: DALIAN, China

DALIAN, China -- The scrimmage ends and the young women, winded and sweaty, jog
off to find a cool drink. As their coach follows, an eager television cameraman
intrudes.

Without breaking stride or glancing back, the coach dismisses his pursuer with a
curt:

"I don't take pictures when I'm training."

Ma Liangxing has more important things to do. Like whip an aging unit into shape
for a run at the 2003 Women's World Cup, which begins Saturday in the USA.


China, ranked fourth in the world, would like to avenge a heartbreaking loss in
the 1999 final to the Americans. But first Ma's squad must battle doubts about
its potential and overcome the sting of losing the right to host this year's
Cup.

Though soccer fans on two continents are pining for a rematch of the 1999
classic, China's new coach sounds less than certain about his club's prospects.
"The Chinese team and the American team aren't as strong as they were four years
ago," he says in an interview with USA TODAY.

Germany, Norway, Brazil, North Korea and Ghana worry Ma, whose team is heavily
dependent upon a veteran core that is getting old by international standards. He
has 10 returnees from the '99 lineup, but his younger newcomers lack experience
in high-pressure showdowns.

"I hope the young players on the team can follow up and take our place soon,"
veteran defender Fan Yunjie told the state news agency Xinhua earlier this year.


China opens Sunday against Ghana in Carson, Calif. Barring unexpected mishaps,
Beijing's best appears a lock for the quarterfinals in the 16-team tournament.

But even ardent fans here aren't betting on much more. They remember China's
exhibition loss at home to Nigeria last month, a 2-1 overtime loss to North
Korea in June's Asian World Cup qualifying tournament and their team's failure
to advance beyond the first round of the 2000 Olympics in Sydney.

"Of course, I hope the team can be the champion," says Chen Zhengting, head of
the Beijing Chengjian Women's Soccer Fan Club. "But I think that's almost
impossible."

Until May, the Chinese club, even if somewhat shaky, at least expected a boost
from hosting the World Cup. But then the fatal SARS outbreak prompted soccer's
world governing body, FIFA, to shift the event to the USA. The team fled to a
one-month exile on Hainan Island in the South China Sea, where players waited
out the virus.

Ma says the decision to relocate the Cup was a "disappointment" as it strips his
players of home-field advantage and forces them to travel halfway around the
world and survive for weeks on unfamiliar food. (As a consolation, China has
been awarded the 2007 Women's World Cup.) Says Ma: "A coach always wants to show
his team in front of his own people."

Launching pad

Early in the 20th century, when outside powers carved off pieces of a prostrate
Chinese empire, Dalian was occupied by Russia and called Port Arthur. Today it's
a self-confident emblem of contemporary China's economic might; the team trained
amid a development zone that boasts investment from 36 countries.

With its reminders of past national weakness and future promise, this seaside
town was an apt launching pad for a team that will represent China to the world.


Indeed, China embarks upon its World Cup quest basking in the global spotlight.
Beijing's diplomats hosted talks last month aimed at defusing the bubbling
crisis over neighboring North Korea's nuclear program. And its world-beating
factories have made it the focus of American concern over the loss of
manufacturing jobs.

Now it's looking to add world sports achievement to its political and economic
prowess. But before penciling in an appearance in the World Cup final Oct. 12,
China must surmount a first-round group that includes meetings against Russia
and Australia.

Still, compared to the U.S. team, the Chinese have an easier road. The
Americans' first-round opponents are Sweden (ranked No. 5 in the world), North
Korea (No. 7) and Nigeria. If the USA advances to the final, the team would play
once at each of the six tournament sites. China would play two games in Carson,
three in Portland, Ore., then return to Carson for the final.

Still, Ma is keeping expectations in check, saying the squad -- which has been
together since December -- lacks either notable strong points or glaring
weaknesses. "Our team is very passionate," he finally allows. "They have a
spirit that keeps advancing."

One of his biggest worries is the health of star forward Sun Wen, well known in
U.S. soccer circles. Two years ago, the WUSA's Atlanta Beat made her the first
pick in the league's first global draft. (The first four players selected in
that draft, and five of the first six, were Chinese. Altogether, nine Chinese
players saw action in the WUSA in 2001 or '02. None participated this season, as
the national team trained and played qualifying matches for the World Cup.)

In a telephone interview, Atlanta coach Tom Stone, 37, raves about Sun, likening
her to a Michael Jordan or Joe Montana. "When healthy, she was the most
incredible player I've ever been on the field with," says Stone, who coached Sun
in 2001 and '02.

But almost two decades of near-constant soccer have taken a physical toll. And
heading into the World Cup, Sun again is hobbled by nagging injuries. "She's a
30-year-old with 50-year old knees and ankles," Stone says.

Young Ma consults older Ma

Ma, making his first appearance as a World Cup head coach, also must guard
against rookie jitters.

In February 2002, China dumped then-coach Ma Yuan'an, 58, in favor of the
younger Ma, coach of a Shanghai men's professional team. Under the older Ma,
China had come as close as possible to winning a World Cup without doing so, but
it wasn't enough to save his job. In front of 90,185 rabid fans at the Rose
Bowl, the USA and China battled to a scoreless tie through 90 minutes of
regulation and 30 minutes of overtime before the Americans won a penalty-kick
shootout 5-4.

Although toppled as head coach, the older Ma has been kept around as a full-time
adviser to his successor. It's almost impossible to imagine such an arrangement
working -- or even being attempted -- in any American sport. The Chinese,
however, are more concerned with group success than individual egos; there is a
deep veneration here for the wisdom that comes only with age.

So if "Lao Ma" (old Ma) can impart to the new coach some of his hard-earned
savvy -- 12 contests in two Cups -- both men will profit from the unusual
alliance.

In their final days of practice before flying to the USA, the Chinese women
appeared relaxed and confident. They scrimmaged in the late afternoon sun on a
field borrowed from the Dalian Shide men's professional team. An assistant
coach, cellphone pressed to his ear, jogged around the perimeter of the field.

On the practice field, Ma Liangxing, clad in a red warm-up jacket and blue
knee-length shorts, is in full command. The former midfielder prowls the
sideline, ordering, encouraging, and occasionally chastising in a rough,
guttural Mandarin. "You have to think!  . . .  Open your eyes.  . . .  Yes!" he
says, as a player sends a line drive past the goalkeeper.

Away from the field, he's a bundle of barely suppressed energy. His black brush
cut is combed unceremoniously forward. As he fields questions, he tilts forward
as if about to explode from his chair.

Everything about his bearing suggests a single-minded intensity upon the job at
hand. This is about as close as he gets to introspection: "I like to do what I
like to do."

Public interest in the team during the run up to the World Cup has been muted.
Beijing Chengjian Women's Soccer Fan Club says membership has dropped from about
2,000 right after the 1999 tournament to 300 today.

Here at the four-star Aerbin Hotel, where the team stayed, a giant blue and
white welcome banner was draped across the lobby. But it was for the visiting
South African team; there was no indication anywhere in Dalian that China's
national team trained here.

"The soccer team most people know is the team from four years ago.  . . .  A lot
of people don't know the current Chinese team that well," says Hu Songqing,
editor of the weekly newspaper Zuqiu or Soccer.

That might yet change. Superstar Sun thinks the Chinese might benefit from the
World Cup's relocation to the USA. Without the pressure of bearing the country's
hopes in front of the home crowd, the Chinese women will be more relaxed, she
told Stone recently.

This summer, she told the state news agency: "We will prove to the world how
strong China is."


China 'will be a force'

What: 2003 Women's World Cup.

When: Saturday-Oct. 12.

Where: Washington, D.C.; Carson, Calif.; Philadelphia; Portland, Ore.; Columbus,
Ohio; Foxboro, Mass.

China's first-round games: Sunday, vs. Ghana (ESPN2, 11 p.m.); Sept. 25 vs.
Australia (ESPN2, 9:55); Sept. 28 vs. Russia (ESPN2, 10:55).

China's achievements: Second place, 1999 World Cup; fourth place, '95 World Cup;
silver, '96 Olympics; seven Asian Championships from 1986-99.

Quote: "China is always a bit of a paradox. They will be incredibly technical.
They will be surgeons with their passes. If they come with the mentality that
they had in '99, which is as good as our mentality, they can beat anyone. They
can win it. . . . They are training their butts off now and will be incredibly
fit. They will be a force to reckon with." -- Tony DiCicco, former U.S. coach

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Color, Ng Han Guan, AP; PHOTO, B/W, Ng Han Guan, AP; Tough
going: China's Han Duan, right, and Norway's Monica Knudsen tangle. China is No.
4 in the world. Not a lot of room to maneuver: China's Pu Wei gets sandwiched
between German players during a tournament in January. Coach Ma Liangxing says
his team has no notable strong points or glaring weaknesses.

TYPE: COVER STORY

                      Copyright 2003 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              108 of 119 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   January 23, 2003, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Yao Ming's super deals

BYLINE: Theresa Howard

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 563 words

Yao Ming, basketball's biggest man, is about to cast his 7-foot-5-inch shadow
onto the world's biggest marketing showcase: the Super Bowl.

The Houston Rockets center will star in a Visa commercial, making its debut
during the big game, in which he somehow goes unrecognized while trying to cash
a check. It is Yao's third major product endorsement win -- the others being
Apple Computer and Got Milk? -- since bolting from China to the National
Basketball League last year.


But the question remains: Can Yao stand tall over the long haul as a product
pitchman -- in the mold of a Michael Jordan or Shaquille O'Neal?

Clearly, the 22-year-old has got some catching up to do. His poor
English-language skills mean he usually needs a translator. His awesome height
-- a turnoff for some consumers -- prevents him from standing up straight in a
dressing-room trailer. And even though his team recently beat the Los Angeles
Lakers in overtime, Yao has no championship ring.

"He has the potential to be one of the top spokespersons," says Bill Sanders,
director of marketing, BDA Sports Management and one of four handlers who help
Yao pick endorsements. "But he's not there yet."

Industry estimates peg Yao's 2003 global endorsements at $ 10 million. That's
far from the $ 40 million earned by Michael Jordan or Tiger Woods, but some say
Yao will amass endorsement fortunes fast.

He needs to. Part of his exit deal from the Shanghai Sharks, a team in the
Chinese Basketball Association, requires a payback to the team that groomed him.
Yao will pay more than $ 8 million to his hometown team if he plays in the NBA
for as long as 12 years. And the government-run CBA will get about 5% of Yao's
earnings.

Until he scores a ring, Yao will use the Visa Super Bowl ad and his "talent,
charisma and integrity" to start him down the court toward becoming a "marketing
icon," Sanders says. But don't expect him to hawk just anything. Yao's handlers
insist he'll do ads only for products he likes or uses. And he won't appear in
ads that make him a novelty. He already turned down a company that wanted him to
wear a cowboy hat.

But Visa lets Yao be Yao in its Super Bowl spot.

In the ad for Visa Check Cards, Yao plays a New York tourist shopping in a
souvenir shop. Store clerks apt at saying "Yo, man" refuse to let him pay by
check. Yao repeatedly tries to correct them by saying "Yao Ming" but finally
gives up on the purchase and walks out.

The ad was created by Super Bowl veteran agency BBDO and directed by Allen
Coulter, who has been behind the camera for The Sopranos for several years.

"I'm rarely tempted to interfere," says Liz Silver, Visa's senior vice
president, advertising. "Working with these guys, you just don't have that kind
of pressure."

In the commercial shoot, attended by a USA TODAY reporter, Yao wore a
custom-made sweat suit modeled after his Houston Rockets warm-up. The ad was
shot on location inside a store on Broadway.

Yao kept his composure as 40 people with microphones, ladders and equipment
crowded into a 200-square-foot space to get a shot over his shoulder.

Exhausted after 70 takes over eight hours, Yao maintained a sense of humor as he
compared shooting ads to shooting baskets.

"In basketball," Yao says, "you don't have a chance to go back and do it again."


LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS, B/W (3); PHOTO, B/W, AP; Coming down: Yao Ming, 22, pulls down
a rebound in front of New Orleans Hornets center Jamaal Magloire last month in
Houston. <>No sale: Yao has a frustrating souvenir-shopping experience in an ad
for Visa Check Cards that will air Sunday. <>Face time: A clerk won't let Yao
pay by check in a Visa ad, left. Right, Yao and Vern Troyer team up for Apple
ad.

                      Copyright 2003 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              110 of 119 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     April 28, 2003, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Vanilla: Wear it, eat it, drink it, love it

BYLINE: Theresa Howard

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 424 words

Suddenly, there's a thrilla in vanilla.

Bland and boring vanilla has emerged as the nation's hot flavor. Sales of new
vanilla-based products exceeded $ 1 billion last year. For some sweet-tooth
perspective: That's slightly more than sales of Oreo cookies last year.


These days just about everything is getting a shot of vanilla -- soft drinks,
coffee, toothpaste, air fresheners, perfumes and even vodka. Pepsi is the latest
to turn to vanilla with its Pepsi Vanilla soft drink, hitting supermarkets in
August.

In stressful times, marketing experts say, consumers want products that bring
feelings of comfort. What tastes and smells safer than vanilla? "And it's a
scent, so it can go across food and non-food lines," says Lynn Dornblaser,
editorial director for Mintel's Global New Products Database, which tracks new
products.

The U.S. consumes 2.5 million pounds of vanilla beans, more than half the
world's vanilla production.

Through mid-April, marketers introduced 565 vanilla-infused products this year,
a 50% increase over a year ago. Among them:

 * Aromatherapy. S.C. Johnson says vanilla is the top seller for its Glade
PlugIns Scented Oil. Last year Warm Vanilla Sugar became the top-selling
personal care fragrance at Limited Brands' 1,600-store Bath & Body Works stores.


 * Lip-icious. Teen favorite Bonne Bell recently added Smooth Vanilla Splash &
Shine and Liquid Lip Smacker Vanilla to already popular Va Va Vanilla Roll-On
Shiner, Vanilla Frosting Lip Sparklers and Vanilla Lip Smacker. Neutrogena just
launched Vanilla Replenish as one flavor in Lip Nutrition, deep-conditioning
balms that sell for $ 7.99 each.

 * Brush it on. Crest Rejuvenating Effects toothpaste uses vanilla and cinnamon.


 * Drink it down. Six months ago Kraft-owned Maxwell House and Procter &
Gamble's Folgers added the flavor to its ground coffees. Pepsi will look to
Pepsi Vanilla to rival Coke's big Vanilla Coke success. "Vanilla is going to be
a source of growth for the industry for the next few years," says John Sicher,
editor of industry newsletter Beverage Digest.

 * Mix it up. Last year vanilla vodkas grew 177%, outpacing flavored vodkas, up
33%, and the industry, up just 2.8%. New entries this year are Skyy Vanilla and
Absolut Vanilia. "We're air freighting it over here 10 containers at a time just
to meet demand," says Jim Goodwin, vice president of Absolut.

Rum maker Bacardi has Bacardi Vanila. "It's where consumers are headed," says
Vice President Celio Romanach.

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Color; Booze it up: Bacardi has joined the vanilla flavor craze.

                      Copyright 2003 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              111 of 119 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                      May 8, 2003, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Fascination with Everest is high 50 years later

BYLINE: Tim Friend

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 10C

LENGTH: 1242 words

Not far from where Mount Everest's base camp is located at 17,400 feet, Sherpa
Tenzing Norgay lifted his 6-year-old son onto his shoulders and pointed to the
peak he climbed May 29, 1953, with a New Zealander named Edmund Hillary.

"It was 1968 on my (sixth) birthday, and my dad had taken us to base camp to
play soccer," says Norbu Tenzing Norgay, 41. "Sitting on his shoulders and
seeing him pointing to the mountain was my most impressionable moment.

"But Dad never made a big deal of it. Even at the moment when he reached the
summit he had said, 'The happiness will come later.' "


This month the world celebrates the 50th anniversary of the climbing of Mount
Everest by Tenzing Norgay, who died in 1986, and Sir Edmund Hillary. Much has
changed in the 50 years since these men first stepped onto the Earth's sacred
rooftop, known by the Sherpas as "Chomolungma" or Goddess Mother.

Since the 1970s, when access to base camp was improved with the building of an
airport at the tiny village of Lukla, climbing Everest has transformed into an
extreme sport aided by space-age equipment, corporate sponsorship and
mountain-sized egos.

Everest is no longer the most remote place on Earth, nor is it regarded outside
of Nepal and Tibet as the home of the Goddess Mother. It has become, by some
accounts, including Norbu's brother, Jamling, a tourist stop of the rich or
successfully sponsored.

Hundreds of curious trekkers also come each year to gaze at the rock-strewn
moonscape of base camp and photograph the slow-moving frozen waterfall known as
the Khumbu Glacier.

This year, at least 22 expeditions are registered with the Nepal government on
the south side. Even more expeditions will attempt to reach the summit from the
north side in Tibet.

"It is wicked crowded here at base camp," climber Sean Burch, from Centreville,
Va., said Wednesday by satellite phone. "There are 500 to 600 climbers planning
to make a go for the summit. That's not good."

Burch, who plans to leave today for the summit and is attempting to reach it
without oxygen, said no one had made it to the top yet. He said high winds and
blizzards have kept climbers in their tents and at base camp. Normally, no more
than 200 people, including porters and Sherpas, populate base camp.

At night, the several hundred tents at base camp resemble a harbor of lighted
ships. Larger numbers of trekking groups, seen as outsiders by climbers, have
been arriving since mid-April to gander and return quickly to the warm, thick
air and beer at the village of Phereche's comfortable teahouse at 14,000 feet.

Base camp looked nothing like this in Hillary's and Tenzing's day. Until the
1970s, climbing expeditions had to make a two-week walk from Katmandu to Lukla,
a village at 10,000 feet.

Thanks to the airport, which Hillary built to bring in supplies to build schools
and medical clinics for the local Sherpa people, climbers and trekkers today can
fly directly to Lukla in a couple of hours from Katmandu and reach base camp in
a week.

Recording history

Since 1953, more than 1,200 people have summited Everest. It has become a place
for setting records of firsts and extremes:

 * The first solo summit, by Reinhold Messner on Aug. 20, 1980.

 * The first American summiteer, James Whittaker, on May 1, 1963.

 * The oldest to summit, Sherman Bull, 64, on May 23, 2001.

 * The youngest to summit, Temba Tseri Sherpa, 15, on May 22, 2001.

 * The first blind person to summit, Erik Weihenmayer, on May 24, 2001.

Even Everest is setting records for itself as measurements become more accurate
over time.

The first taken of Everest, 29,002 feet, was made in 1847. Everest's previous
height of 29,028 feet was determined in 1954.

The current stated height of 29,035 feet was measured May 5, 1999, by climbers
Pete Athans of Boulder, Colo., and Bill Crouse of Carbondale, Colo., using
global positioning satellite receivers.

"The whole thing is miraculous," cartographer Brad Washburn said at the time as
he headed the project. Washburn, founder and honorary director of the Boston
Museum of Science, made the first large-scale maps of Everest in the 1980s.

Everest grows in height a few millimeters a year. The mountain is being pushed
northeast toward China 21/2 inches a year, about as fast as fingernails grow.

Unforgiving 'death zone'

As Everest grows, however slowly, so does its reputation. "Everest" has become
synonymous with personal achievement and overcoming adversity.

But despite 50 years of technological advances, more than 200 people have died
attempting to set their personal records. Most of the bodies remain there as
frozen memorials to the mountain's harshness, which is constant.

The most famous of the dead is George Mallory, who disappeared in 1924 near the
top of Mount Everest. Mallory is famous for quipping "Because it is there" when
asked by a tourist in India why he wanted to climb the world's tallest mountain.


He was last seen June 8, 1924, 900 feet below the summit on the mountain's North
Ridge, which is approached from Tibet. Mallory's frozen, porcelain-white body
was found at 27,200 feet on May 22, 1999, by an expedition led by veteran
climber Eric Simonson of Ashford, Wash.

The mystery of whether Mallory had reached the summit, and thus superceded
Hillary and Tenzing, has not been solved.

But responding to controversy at the time, Hillary said, "The point of climbing
Everest should not be just to reach the summit. I'm rather inclined to think
that maybe it's quite important, the getting down."

Because of the harsh physical conditions in the "death zone" above 26,000 feet,
bodies of climbers are rarely taken down the mountain.

Most who die do so on the way down. The most public disaster in the last 50
years came in May 1996, when nine people lost their lives attempting to return
from the summit.

A bottleneck of climbers at the Hillary Step, which is a sheer rock face that
must be taken in turns, and a terrible storm combined to create the tragedy.

Ken Kamler, a doctor and board member of the Explorer's Club in New York, was
there in 1996. He treated survivors as they returned from the top. He has
abandoned his summit bids five times because of bad weather or to help others in
trouble.

Everest is not a particularly challenging mountain from a technical standpoint,
Kamler says. But it is a brutal endurance test, a test that never changes
despite advances in equipment.

"On summit days, climbers arrive at the highest camp exhausted after days of
relentless climbing," Kamler says. "Breathing at sea level requires only 5% of
oxygen used by the body. But here, two-thirds of the oxygen is consumed by
respiration.

"The climbers take only a few hours rest before setting out for the summit. If
things go well, they'll be out for 16 to 20 hours in temperatures as low as 40
degrees below zero and winds of 20 to 40 miles per hour or higher."

On summit day a climber will burn 12,000-15,000 calories.

Climbers say that Chomolungma this year appears to be an unforgiving host. No
amount of experience or technology will make her any more forgiving in another
50 years.

---

Tim Friend spent a month at Everest base camp in 1998 covering the Everest
Extreme Expedition and, as it turned out, he climbed the Khumbu Icefall.

LOAD-DATE: May 08, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Color, Binod Joshi, AP; PHOTO, B/W, Liesl Clark, National
Geographic via AP; Slow, careful ascent: Jamling Tenzing Norgay, son of original
summiteer Sherpa Tenzing Norgay, works his way up the face of Mount Everest in
June 2002.

                      Copyright 2003 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              112 of 119 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                      May 16, 2003, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Many Iraqi expats eager to go home and prosper

BYLINE: David Kiley and James R. Healey

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 1970 words

DATELINE: DEARBORN, Mich.

DEARBORN, Mich. -- Ali Al-baaj, who left Iraq for the USA in 1992, after Desert
Storm, is eager to go back and rebuild the country -- literally.

Al-baaj and his father, Hussein, want to reopen the family's three hardware
stores in Basra.

"The days are long in Iraq, and there is so much to do," says Al-baaj, a grocer
in this Detroit suburb, home to the largest U.S. concentration of Iraqi
expatriates, exiles and Arab-Americans. A hardware store could be perfect in a
rebuilding country. Al-baaj would "stock the stores with quality things,"
counting on growing wealth in a resuscitated Iraq to support sales of such
goods.


As the United States, U.K., United Nations and others contemplate the big
picture in postwar Iraq, expatriate entrepreneurs such as Al-baaj want to be
soldiers in the front lines of Iraqi capitalism. Even those unwilling to rush
home and set up shop seem interested in renewing ties.

In addition to a potential tide of repatriation, the inevitable result would be
a flow of information, money and expertise from some of the estimated 4 million
Iraqi expatriates worldwide back into a country that once was the business and
education jewel of the Arab world.

"Iraq is not Afghanistan. There is money there and waiting to go in," says Maha
Hussain, president of the political action group Iraqi Forum for Democracy and
an oncologist and teaching professor at the University of Michigan Medical
Center in Ann Arbor. She left Iraq in 1980, a year after Saddam Hussein seized
power, and has been in the USA since 1983.

"Private enterprise thrived when I was growing up," she recalls. And now,
without an oppressive dictator, "That part of Iraqi culture and commerce will
flourish again. There should be an instantaneous wealth effect for the people
when oil revenues start going to the people and the infrastructure," instead of
being hoarded by the government.

Iraq's business challenges are immense. There are at least three types of
currency. It has no new laws friendly to investors and business to replace the
old regime's rules. The oil industry is sputtering to get restarted. Commercial
flights into Iraq have not resumed.

There's no government yet to replace U.S. rule. And taking goods into Iraq, even
for stocking a store, could violate the U.S. embargo and U.N. sanctions.

And Iraqis who stayed and survived Saddam's tight rein might treat expatriate
entrepreneurs more as pariahs than prodigals.

"These people are traitors who have no right to cash in," says Huda al-Qadi, an
elementary school teacher in Baghdad. "They were the first to run while we
suffered through Saddam's brutal reign and endured days, even weeks, with little
or no food. May these traitors be damned. We don't want them," she says.

Pressure building in the USA

Even if all those issues were resolved, and a warm welcome somehow were assured,
eager entrepreneurs aren't at the top of the U.S. timetable.

The State Department, the Defense Department and U.S. military headquarters for
the region in Kuwait all say they know of no established procedures yet for
returning to Iraq and going into business -- even assuming embargoes and
sanctions are lifted.

While calling the return of business-oriented expats "a high priority," Defense
Department spokesman Chris Isleib acknowledges that "the timing is yet to be
worked out."

"I'm getting a lot of calls and e-mail from Iraqi businessmen who feel they've
been completely left out," says Rubar Sandi, founder of Washington-based
U.S.-Iraq Business Council and chairman and CEO of CorporateBank Business Group,
a private investment bank.

"Small construction companies, small telecom companies, they all want to work.
. . .  The small entrepreneur is the backbone of the economy," says Sandi, who
left Iraq in 1976, then returned temporarily in 1991 to fight Saddam in the Gulf
War.

His own company has a mobile water purification and wastewater treatment system
that he has pitched to U.S. officials as perfect for Iraq's needs. "Didn't even
get a response," he says.

Instead, the U.S. is pursuing a top-down approach. The Defense Department
airlifted 10 Iraqi expats into Baghdad April 26 to work in the rebuilding
agency. Group members are highly skilled specialists well-versed in the ways of
free societies, according to Deputy Defense Secretary Paul Wolfowitz.

Another 150 Iraqis in the USA with "weighty" resumes are under consideration,
Defense's Isleib says. But there's no specific plan for people such as Al-baaj
or Sandi, who simply want to do business in Iraq.

"Iraq is a consumer society. Whatever you can sell, you can sell in Iraq: cars,
consumer electronics, everything. There are rich, dirt poor and everything in
between in Iraq," says Mohammed Alomari, media director for a Michigan group
called Focus on American & Arab Interests & Relations.

There's significant, if only theoretical, Arab support for what the exiled Iraqi
entrepreneurs want to do. Private-sector development is critical for Arab
economies, according to the Arab Human Development Report 2002, written by Arab
intellectuals for the United Nations Development Program.

Even those who don't want to return "can play a huge role in helping businesses
get started in Iraq, serving as a bridge for businesses, lining up exports to
Iraq and eventually, imports back to the U.S.," Alomari says.

Hashim Alkazemi, a mechanical engineer at auto supplier Metaldyne in Michigan,
fits that template. "It would be hard for me to move to California, let alone
Iraq, given all our ties here now," says Alkazemi, who left Iraq in 1992. He and
his Iraqi wife, also an engineer, want to visit soon, but they won't stay. He
figures his best contribution is to encourage investment though his
participation in the Iraqi Forum for Democracy.

But Mohammed Ahmed is eager to go back and set up a store selling electronics,
especially computers. "One thing I know is that people will want to be
connected. Information is freedom. That much I have learned here."

He has been in the USA since 1996, living and working as a superintendent in a
building his cousin owns in Detroit. He's saved about $ 10,000 that he would use
to start the store.

Stability first

His task could be daunting. Or, viewed through the sunny optimism of an
entrepreneur, he could have a great opportunity. Specific figures on Iraq are
unreliable, but Ahmed would be setting up shop amid an Arab world where,
according to the Arab Human Development Report, just 0.6% of the population uses
the Internet and only 1.2% have computers.

Ahmad Miski, executive director of the Washington-based Arab American Chamber of
Commerce, wants to compile a list of people who want to invest in Iraq and put
it onto a Web site that could match suppliers of goods and services with people
cleared to go into Iraq. The State Department says anybody with a valid Iraqi
passport can enter, though travel is over land from surrounding nations such as
Jordan and Saudi Arabia until commercial flights resume.

Enthusiasm, though, might not turn into entrepreneurial reality.

"I can't see that they'll go pouring back into Iraq because Saddam's gone.
They'll have to see some stability and, very important, a sound and dependable
legal system," says Cyrus Tahmassebi, head of Energy Trends, a U.S. consultancy.
He's former chief economist at Ashland Oil and worked for the Iranian national
oil and natural gas companies before quitting Iran for the USA in the 1980s.

"You have to have a law that treats everybody the same way. Otherwise, what if
another group comes and starts pushing its weight around? And they have to make
sure that if it's going to be an Islamic country -- similar in some ways to Iran
-- that they would encourage overseas investment and would guarantee that the
investment would be safe" regardless of the regime, he says.

"The new government, that's the hitch in the giddyup," says Richard Powers of
Washington law office Dorsey & Whitney. He's head of a team that the law firm
has set up to deal with Iraq-related business. If transitional and eventual
regimes quickly make and strongly enforce laws encouraging investment and
protecting property, bootstrap capitalism could take hold fast, he says.

"I think it's fair to say there's a lot of interest in doing business in Iraq,"
Powers says. That's important, he says, because "The more you can develop that
country at all levels, the better off you'll be."

Even with a strong start, capitalism's foot soldiers could be routed without
"the intangibles, the education system, so people understand democracy and the
free-market system," says Barry Kramer, a lawyer at Fenwick & West in Mountain
View, Calif., who has worked with entrepreneurs and venture capitalists trying
to get footholds in China and Singapore. "Education is ultimately more important
to the entrepreneurial class than anything."

Whether fast-starters such as Al-baaj prosper or go broke paving the way for
others, capitalism and consumerism could be key to Iraq's development. Sellers
of goods and services could begin generating stable commerce and creating jobs
before the ailing oil industry gets well.

And once Iraq begins pumping oil for export again, broad scale retailing and
other enterprises could be the balance that keeps the country moving forward.

"Iraq has the oil resource curse," says Daniel Yergin, author and expert on oil
and petro-politics at Cambridge Energy Research Associates. "Oil can make an
economy lopsided, kind of draw people away from more entrepreneurial activities
and become so dominant that it acts as a magnet and overwhelms everything else."


---

Kiley reported from Dearborn; Healey from McLean, Va. Contributing: Jack Kelley
in McLean.


Iraqis in USA seem to find success

Iraqis in the USA appear to be better educated and wealthier than U.S. residents
generally, according to limited Census Bureau data. That supports the premise
that Iraqi expatriates are a good source of money and intellect to rebuild their
homeland.

The Census Bureau is developing in-depth demographic information for each state,
based on the 2000 census. The bureau so far has information for 12 states and
Puerto Rico. There are enough Iraqis for valid samples in three of those states
-- Missouri, New Jersey and New York.

This chart compares Iraqi income and education in those states with that of all
residents of those states.

The Census Bureau has not yet tallied data from Michigan -- home of the most
U.S. Iraqis.

Iraqis are those who claimed Iraqi ancestry on the Census form, regardless of
where they were born. The Census Bureau says data are not available to directly
identify Iraqi expatriates and link them to income and education information.

Complete nationwide statistics from the 1990 Census show that U.S. Iraqis'
annual household income then was about 10% more than the all-U.S. average, and
that 17% of U.S. Iraqis held advanced degrees vs. 7.2% of all U.S. residents.
The Detroit suburb Dearborn is home to the country's largest group of
Iraqi-Americans and Arab-Americans in general.

Auto industry jobs drew them in decades past, mainly via Canada where they had
found easier entry than directly into the USA. And once a contingent of Iraqis
and Arabs was in place, mosques, stores, restaurants and other amenities grew up
around them. That's continued to draw exiles from Mideast countries.

The Arab movement into Detroit and its environs began with immigrants from
present-day Lebanon after the U.S. Civil War. The 1900s brought more, supplying
cheap labor to Dearborn-based Ford Motor. Other waves have followed Mideast
wars.

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Adrienne Lewis, USA TODAY, Source: Census Bureau (BAR
GRAPH); PHOTO, Color, Santa Fabio for USA TODAY; PHOTO, Color, Pablo Martinez
Monsivais, AP; PHOTO, B/W, Santa Fabio for USA TODAY; Return, rebuild: Hussein
Al-baaj, 71, holds his ID card saying he's a hardware specialist. The Dearborn,
Mich., resident wants to return to Iraq to run a hardware store carrying quality
goods to help rebuild the nation. <>Hopeful: Private enterprise thrived when I
was growing up," says Maha Hussain, left, who left Iraq in 1980. She joined Adil
Awadh, center, and Zainab Al-Suwaij in meeting with President Bush in April. <>
Global entrepreneur: Hussein Al-baaj, in headdress, talks with customers in his
Dearborn, Mich, market. Sons Ali, left, and Faris, work with him. He ran three
hardware stores in Iraq before he left over a decade ago.

TYPE: COVER STORY

                      Copyright 2003 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              113 of 119 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     May 21, 2003, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Ex-GM, Pentagon official scoots into own start-up

BYLINE: Jim Hopkins

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 1316 words

Malcolm Currie is an unlikely entrepreneur.

By age 70, when he started his tiny electric bike and scooter maker, Currie had
already been a No. 3 official in the Pentagon and CEO of a General Motors
subsidiary with 85,000 employees.

At those much bigger enterprises, there were $ 30 million research budgets and
thousands of engineers to develop cool technologies. If Currie needed a $ 300
million line of credit, he just picked up the phone; other executives handled
the details.


"It was exhilarating," he says.

Now, Currie is leading his start-up in the growing but increasingly competitive
market for "green" vehicles. His Currie Technologies, begun five years ago in
the Los Angeles area, has 40 employees and about $ 10 million in annual revenue.


The company sold 50,000 bikes and scooters last year. But it expects volume to
as much as double this year as it expands to bigger retailers. This week, it is
shipping its first scooter order to Wal-Mart.

Currie's path to entrepreneurship is unusual. More often, executives who leave
big companies to be their own boss do so while in middle management after
deciding they'll never become CEO, entrepreneurship experts say.

Currie, having already pierced the executive suite, started a company because he
wanted to stay active, and to leverage technology he saw at GM.

"I always felt it would be fun in a small operation, doing everything and
building something from nothing," he says.

Still, he's learning that career downshifting has downsides. There's more
personal risk. He has to make sales calls and write contracts.

When foreign competitors push less expensive scooter knockoffs, it is Currie
sweating the details.

"Suddenly, you're it," says Ian MacMillan, a management professor at the
University of Pennsylvania's Wharton business school. "You don't have the
cushioning provided by big enterprises."

Growing competition

Currie Technologies began amid rising demand for electric transportation. That
growth is driven by aging baby boomers and the government's push for cleaner
air. Moreover, legislation signed by President Bush in November reduces
regulatory burdens on electric bikes, so it could spur sales.

But Currie's company also has growing competition, including that posed by
another, more famous former auto executive -- Lee Iacocca and his EV Global
Motors. It produces the E-Bike.

There's also ZAP, a maker of electric scooters and bikes. And then there are
Chinese manufacturers who in recent years flooded the market with less expensive
versions of electric scooters.

As an owner, Currie has seen things about business competition that he didn't
before. "You see people's greed and a kind of ruthless cost cutting -- doing
anything to stay alive," he says. "You have to resign yourself to that's how the
world works."

So long as Currie maintains such realistic expectations, his company stands a
better chance of survival, says Tom Kinnear, an entrepreneurship professor at
the University of Michigan.

Many investors might be leery of pumping money into a venture led by a
septuagenarian CEO who could treat a start-up more as a toy than a serious
enterprise. But SpaceVest, a venture-capital firm in Reston, Va., plowed $
500,000 into Currie Technologies because Currie has a strong management team,
says SpaceVest CEO John Higginbotham.

Moreover, Higginbotham says, Currie seems able to translate his big-company
experience to a smaller scale. Plus, SpaceVest sees growth in demand in the USA
and worldwide for electric vehicles.

Ambition grows amid poverty

Currie's start-up has already beaten long odds: Half of start-ups shut down
before their fifth anniversary.

Currie says part of his success goes back to lessons he learned growing up poor.


He traces his career to a chance meeting in 1939 with Ernest Lawrence, the Nobel
Prize-winning inventor of the atom-smashing cyclotron.

Currie was 12. For years afterward, Currie says, Lawrence inspired him to
believe that great inventions spring from research.

At the time, Currie had few male role models. His father suffered an
incapacitating stroke around the time Currie and his twin brother were born in
Spokane, Wash., in 1927.

The boys were raised by their mother, a concert pianist by training. She
supported her children mostly alone after her husband's stroke.

Currie recalls going to bed early to stay warm because the family couldn't
afford heat. As a adult, such deprivation pushed him forward. "It gives kids a
little more focus and ambition in their lives," he says.

His family settled in Berkeley, Calif., where Currie attended school, including
the University of California.

After World War II, in which Currie was a pilot, and inspired by Lawrence,
Currie decided to pursue an engineering career.

He worked at Hughes Aircraft, then a small company in the Los Angeles area owned
by Howard Hughes, the reclusive billionaire entrepreneur. It was there that
Currie started thinking of leading a start-up.

Hughes' sale to GM pushed Currie into the car industry. GM's resources allowed
Currie to plow millions into researching new technologies, including electric
transportation. He became convinced that such vehicles were the wave of the
future.

Finding the right recipe

Currie retired from GM in 1992 but had little interest in hitting golf balls.

He eventually met Richard Mayer, a high school auto mechanics teacher in the Los
Angeles area. Mayer moonlighted by converting conventional cars into electric
vehicles for Hollywood celebrities, including Tom Cruise.

Mayer and Currie worked together developing a propulsion system suitable for
electric-powered transportation. Their aim was to eventually build electric
cars. But they focused first on electric-powered bikes.

Since then, the company has expanded into an electric version of kick scooters
that became popular in the late 1990s. In a potential revenue boost, Currie
signed a deal last year to license the Schwinn brand name from major distributor
Pacific Cycle for a new line of electric scooters and accessories.

Pacific Cycle, which owns about 14% of Currie Technologies, got the company into
Wal-Mart, Sam's Club, Sports Authority and other big chains.

Last year, scooters were 75% of Currie's sales volume. While most scooters are
sold for leisure, some are being used in traffic-choked cities such as San
Francisco, where bankers in business suits ride them through the financial
district.

Electric bikes have been slower to catch on in the USA than in foreign markets.
In Southern California, recent immigrants who can't afford car insurance use
them for commuting, Currie says.

The market potential is greater abroad -- especially in China, where a million
electric bikes were sold last year. That means China, even as it poses
competition, also presents opportunity.

Currie has also co-founded another company that will produce electric
three-wheelers for consumers who are disabled or don't feel steady enough for a
conventional two-wheel bike.

Another start-up? Yes, says Currie, who like many entrepreneurs, is driven by a
passion to make something better than the next guy.

"I love our product," he says. "They're a lot of fun."

TEXT OF BIO BOX BEGINS HERE

About Malcolm Currie

Position: Founder and CEO, Currie Technologies.

Headquarters: Van Nuys, Calif.

Product: Electric bicycles and scooters.

Employees: 40.

2002 revenue: About $ 10 million.

Education: Engineering

physics, University of California-Berkeley.

Career: CEO, GM's Hughes Aircraft and Delco Electronics, 1977-93; undersecretary
of Defense, research and engineering, 1972-77.

Personal: Married, three children.

Drives: Nissan Infinity G35.

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS, B/W, Bob Riha Jr., USA TODAY (2); At work: Malcolm Currie,
right, checks out a burned-out fuse with assembly worker Jim Peterson.<>On the
go: Malcolm Currie, 75, gives an electric scooter a test run in Van Nuys, Calif.
Currie started Currie Technologies after hitting the top ranks at the Pentagon
and GM.

                      Copyright 2003 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              116 of 119 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                      June 16, 2003, Monday, FINAL EDITION

McDonald's salads lure women

BYLINE: Theresa Howard

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 664 words

Even with doughnut shops as the current top growth category in the restaurant
industry, healthy-for-you products are making inroads with consumers and
marketers.

Consumers, who've been bellying up to indulgent products for years, might be
finally looking to cut calories. According to the Centers for Disease Control
and Prevention, about 64% of Americans are overweight or obese.

Among signs of calorie consciousness:

 * Sugared soft drink sales were up less than 1% last year, but bottled water
grew 26%, and diet soft drinks were up 3.8%, according to beverage industry
newsletter Beverage Digest.


* Snack giant Frito-Lay in April introduced a "Natural" line of snacks featuring
Tostitos, Cheetos and Lay's chips with up to 60% less saturated fat than the
brands' regular varieties.

 * A new line of Premium Salads with Newman's Own salad dressings helped
McDonald's boost same-store sales 6.3% in May. It's the biggest gain in four
years.

McDonald's has been trying to sell salads for more than a decade. At first, they
were sold in containers displayed in countertop refrigerators. More recently,
the featured offering was McSalad Shakers -- a sort of a salad in a cup.

These are being replaced by the Premium Salads, which are finally getting salad
sales traction.

"I've always been disappointed with McDonald's salads," says Kay Napier, senior
vice president of marketing, who joined McDonald's seven months ago from Procter
& Gamble.

No more, says Napier, who says she's been "like a zealot" about the new salads
because "good product goes a long way."

The Premium Salads boast 300 calories or fewer, are made to order and blend
iceberg lettuce with more nutritional greens such as spinach, radicchio and
arugula. They can be topped with warm chicken -- grilled or crispy -- and offer
a choice of four Newman's Own dressing flavors.

The new salads and the ads that promote them have been designed to appeal to
health-conscious women, who had been avoiding McDonald's. With a goal to get
more women through the doors, TV buying for the ads has focused on shows
appealing to women.

"A lot of women were still coming to McDonald's and eating but weren't satisfied
with the food offerings, or they were coming and buying food for their kids and
not buying food for themselves," Napier says.

Now, they are anteing up $ 3.99 for salads, which are boosting sales of other
products, too, helping to revive the chain's growth. Happy Meals sales are the
strongest they've been in two years, and grilled chicken sandwiches are up 25%
since the salads launched, Napier says.

Results of Ad Track, USA TODAY's weekly consumer poll, show the salad ads are
getting through to their target.

One ad, by Leo Burnett, Chicago, shows a mom and kids in a van on a highway. The
kids ask to stop each time they pass a McDonald's billboard, but only when the
mom sees a billboard for the salads does she agree to stop. Two other ads, by
DDB, Chicago, show a cross section of women who are yoga enthusiasts, bikers,
stay-at-home moms and plumbers. The pitch: "New McDonald's Premium Salads.
They're surprising. Like you."

About 13% of women familiar with the campaign like the ads "a lot." Though the
figure is below the Ad Track average of 21% for the top rating, another 37% like
the ads "somewhat." Only 9% "dislike" the ads vs. the Ad Track average of 13%.

Not surprisingly, the ads, which are clearly not aimed at men, did not score
well with them. Just 4% of men like them "a lot."

"It's all about building the business," Napier says. "Likability is a factor,
but it's not a critical factor. We know the ads resonate with women, and the
sales are unbelievable."

The next round of salad ads will get tweaked to fit the company's just-announced
global ad strategy. On Wednesday, McDonald's unveiled "I'm lovin' it" as the
brand message around which all its marketing worldwide will be built.

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, USA TODAY, Source: USA TODAY research by Darryl Haralson
(BAR GRAPH); PHOTOS, B/W (2)

TYPE: AD TRACK

                      Copyright 2003 Gannett Company, Inc.
