
                               2 of 169 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           February 11, 2010 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Could chicken manure help curb climate change?;
'Biochar' is seen as cheap solution

BYLINE: Brian Winter

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1498 words


WARDENSVILLE, W.Va. -- Here's a low-cost solution to global warming: chicken
manure.

At Josh Frye's poultry farm in West Virginia, the chicken waste is fed into a
large, experimental incinerating machine. Out comes a charcoal-like substance
known as "biochar" -- which is not only an excellent fertilizer, but also helps
keep carbon in the soil instead of letting it escape into the atmosphere, where
it acts as a greenhouse gas.

Former vice president and environmental advocate Al Gore calls biochar "one of
the most exciting new strategies" available to stop climate change. For Frye, it
means that, before long, "the chicken poop could be worth more than the chickens
themselves."

"I thought it was crazy at first, and my wife still thinks it's nuts," admits
Frye, 44. Yet he has sold nearly $1,000 worth of biochar to farmers as far away
as New Jersey, and plans to sell much more as he refines production. Venture
capitalists, soil scientists and even members of Congress have all come to
Frye's farm to see whether his example can be repeated.

Techniques such as biochar may represent the best compromise between what's good
for the environment, and what's affordable during the recession, says Rep.
Shelley Moore Capito, R-W.Va., who visited Frye's farm in August. As political
support in Washington fades for more expensive pollution-fighting measures, such
relatively cheap green technology may represent the immediate future of the
environmental movement, analysts say.

The strategies range from the simple, such as putting carbon dioxide filters on
top of smokestacks, to the controversial, such as a recent United Nations
proposal to give out more free condoms -- which would in turn slow population
growth, leading to fewer greenhouse gas emissions that are causing the planet to
warm, the U.N. says.

Taken together, a "portfolio" of low-cost initiatives could have a meaningful,
positive impact on the environment, says Jae Edmonds, a prominent climate change
scientist at the University of Maryland.

More ambitious plans have stalled recently, including "cap and trade"
legislation in the Senate that would set a national limit on greenhouse gas
emissions and force companies to buy and sell permits to emit carbon dioxide.
December's 193-nation environmental summit in Copenhagen failed to produce a
binding treaty to cut global pollution.

"You have to make do with what you've got," Edmonds says. "If these other
proposals are being deferred, then in the years ahead, we need to embrace these
low-cost technologies that can get people excited ... because every little bit
helps."

Biochar is typical of the promise -- and potential pratfalls -- of such
technologies. Scientists are still trying to determine how much of an impact
biochar can really make in reducing pollution.

In recent years, some promising ideas have either fallen short of expectations
or had unintended negative consequences.

For example, the widespread use of corn ethanol as an additive to gasoline has
caused U.S. food prices to rise sharply while reducing greenhouse gas emissions
from vehicles by less than 1% a year, according to a report published last year
by the Congressional Budget Office.

Timothy LaSalle, CEO of the Rodale Institute, a Pennsylvania-based non-profit
group that advocates organic farming, says recent research indicates that a
widespread shift to organic farming and other changes in how rural land is
managed would trap such a large amount of carbon in the ground that they
essentially could cancel out all carbon emissions from man-made sources, such as
power plants.

LaSalle's predictions have bothered some scientists and environmental activists
who accuse him of being too optimistic. LaSalle says he recently received a
phone call from one of Gore's assistants challenging his findings. (Kalee
Kreider, a Gore spokeswoman, had no comment.)

"I understand that scientists need to be conservative, but what we need right
now are the outliers and extreme innovators to step forward and help solve this
problem," LaSalle says. "We've got to clean up this atmosphere as fast as we
can."

Seeing dollar signs

As with many new green initiatives, Frye's began with one main objective --
money.

"I always thought, 'Wouldn't it be nice to burn all this manure and use the heat
to warm the chicken houses?' " he recalls. Frye's farm produces up to 800,000
chickens a year, and hatchlings need to be kept at a steady temperature of about
90 degrees, resulting in about $30,000 a year in propane costs.

Research led Frye to an Illinois-based company, Coaltec Energy, which produces
gasifiers for agricultural use. To afford the machine's approximately $1 million
cost, Frye applied for grants and low-interest loans from the Natural Resources
Conservation Service, a federal agency that aids soil and water protection
efforts, plus the West Virginia Department of Agriculture and other state
agencies.

The machine looks like something out of a Dr. Seuss book. Ladders and tubes
stick out from seemingly everywhere, and Frye has spent the past three years
figuring out the best way to use it.

What makes the machine special is its ability to heat the manure in an extremely
low-oxygen environment -- a process that produces no smoke and no smell.

Some of the resulting heat is, in turn, funneled into one of Frye's chicken
houses, where it helps keep his hatchlings warm.

It's the byproduct of the process -- the biochar -- that has environmentalists
most excited, and has Frye seeing dollar signs.

Biochar can be produced from several sources including wood and switchgrass, and
it was first used in agriculture several centuries ago by Amazon Indians. Only
recently have scientists begun to fully appreciate its impact on the
environment, says Johannes Lehmann, a soil scientist at Cornell University.

Because biochar contains high levels of carbon, the element contained in all
living things, it often serves as a very effective organic fertilizer, Lehmann
says. That, in turn, produces healthier plants which, through photosynthesis,
suck more carbon dioxide out of the atmosphere.

Another aspect of biochar may be even more beneficial. Under normal
circumstances, the carbon in waste material -- a leaf that falls to the forest
floor, for example -- decays naturally, releasing carbon dioxide into the
atmosphere.

But Lehmann says the carbon in biochar is particularly resistant to that
conversion, so it stays "locked into" the soil much longer than other,
unprocessed substances -- as long as 1,000 years in some cases.

"That's the key," Lehmann says. "Through this process, you're taking carbon
dioxide out of the atmosphere." He says that even a relatively small-scale
effort using such methods "could make a significant dent in emissions on a
global level."

How much of a 'gamble'?

Lehmann says he and other researchers are still exploring which kinds of
material make the best biochar, and how effectively it works in certain soils.
He calls Frye a "front-runner" in poultry biochar, and says other producers may
follow his example.

Meanwhile, Frye is working on increasing the carbon content of his biochar,
which would make it more valuable. He frequently mails samples to scientists for
analysis. When he wants to gauge the quality right away, he admits with a smile
that he puts a little char in his mouth. ("If it's pasty and hard to swallow,
then it's impure," Frye says.)

When Frye's machine operates at full capacity, it churns out as much as 9,000
pounds of biochar per day.

Based on his contacts with businesses, Frye says he can sell high-quality
biochar for $1 a pound. "There's big-time people ... looking at this," he says.

That gold-rush mentality has given some people pause. LaSalle, the organic
farming advocate, fears biochar has become overhyped, cautioning "there is too
much venture capital involved."

Pat Mooney, director of ETC Group, a Canadian environmental organization,
describes biochar as a "gamble."

"It becomes an excuse for others to say: 'Hey, don't worry, we don't have to cut
back on greenhouse gas emissions.' And that's just not true," Mooney says.

Even Mike McGolden, president of the company that sold Frye his gasifier, is
cautious.

He says Frye's experimentation has paved the way for larger-scale producers,
including a dairy farm and chicken egg-laying operations in the Chesapeake Bay
area, to acquire similar technology. He says it's still unclear whether the
technology will prove viable for other small-scale farmers.

Still, Moore Capito, the congresswoman, says she was "very excited" by Frye's
operation during her recent tour of homegrown green initiatives in her home
state, which included solar and wind farms.

"In the long run, these things might take a little longer (than cap and trade)
to produce positive results, but then again they might not. We just don't know,"
Moore Capito says.

For Frye, it's a win-win.

"This started as a way for me to make savings," he says. "But if it's good for
me, and it's good for the planet too, hey, you sure can't beat that."

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Julie Snider, USA TODAY, Source: Frye Poultry
Cornell University
USA TODAY research (Diagram)
PHOTO, Color, Jack Gruber, USA TODAY
PHOTO, B/W, Jack Gruber, USA TODAY

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COVER STORY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              11 of 169 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            November 22, 2010 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Experts claim climate report plagiarized;
They cite instances of lifted passages in influential 2006 study

BYLINE: Dan Vergano

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 932 words


An influential 2006 congressional report that raised questions about the
validity of global warming research was partly based on material copied from
textbooks, Wikipedia and the writings of one of the scientists criticized in the
report, plagiarism experts say.

Review of the 91-page report by three experts contacted by USA TODAY found
repeated instances of passages lifted word for word and what appear to be thinly
disguised paraphrases.

The charges of plagiarism don't negate one of the basic premises of the report
-- that climate scientists used poor statistics in two widely noted papers.

But the allegations come as some in Congress call for more investigations of
climate scientists like the one that produced the Wegman report.

"It kind of undermines the credibility of your work criticizing others'
integrity when you don't conform to the basic rules of scholarship," Virginia
Tech plagiarism expert Skip Garner says.

Led by George Mason University statistician Edward Wegman, the 2006 report
criticized the statistics and scholarship of scientists who found the last
century the warmest in 1,000 years.

"The report was integral to congressional hearings about climate scientists,"
says Aaron Huertas of the Union of Concerned Scientists in Washington, D.C. "And
it preceded a lot of conspiratorial thinking polluting the public debate today
about climate scientists."

But in March, climate scientist Raymond Bradley of the University of
Massachusetts asked GMU, based in Fairfax, Va., to investigate "clear
plagiarism" of one of his textbooks.

Bradley says he learned of the copying from a year-long analysis of the Wegman
report made by retired computer scientist John Mashey of Portola Valley, Calif.
Mashey's analysis concludes that 35 of the report's 91 pages "are mostly
plagiarized text, but often injected with errors, bias and changes of meaning."
Copying others' text or ideas without crediting them violates universities'
standards, according to Liz Wager of the London-based Committee on Publication
Ethics.

Allegations under review

"The matter is under investigation," says GMU spokesman Dan Walsch by e-mail. In
a phone interview, Wegman said he could not comment at the university's request.
In an earlier e-mail Wegman sent to Joseph Kunc of the University of Southern
California, however, he called the plagiarism charges "wild conclusions that
have nothing to do with reality."

The plagiarism experts queried by USA TODAY disagree after viewing the Wegman
report:

* "Actually fairly shocking," says Cornell physicist Paul Ginsparg by e-mail.
"My own preliminary appraisal would be 'guilty as charged.' "

*"If I was a peer reviewer of this report and I was to observe the paragraphs
they have taken, then I would be obligated to report them," says Garner of
Virginia Tech, who heads a copying detection effort. "There are a lot of things
in the report that rise to the level of inappropriate."

*"The plagiarism is fairly obvious when you compare things side-by-side," says
Ohio State's Robert Coleman, who chairs OSU's misconduct committee.

The report was requested in 2005 by Rep. Joe Barton, R-Texas, then the head of
the House energy committee. Barton cited the report  in an October letter to The
Washington Post when he wrote that Penn State climate scientist Michael Mann's
work was "rooted in fundamental errors of methodology that had been cemented in
place as 'consensus' by a closed network of friends."

The Wegman report criticized 1998 and 1999 reports led by Mann (Bradley was a
co-author) that calculated global temperatures over the last dozen centuries. It
also contained an analysis of Mann's co-authors that appears partly cribbed from
Wikipedia, Garner says.

Lisa Miller, a spokeswoman for Barton, reiterated the congressman's support of
the Wegman report on Monday, saying it  "found significant statistical issues"
with climate studies.

A 2006 report by the National Research Council (NRC), which examines scientific
disputes under a congressional charter, largely validated Mann, Bradley and the
other climate scientists, according to Texas A&M's Gerald North, the panel's
head. The NRC report found the Wegman report's criticism of the type of
statistics used in 1998 and 1999 papers reasonable but beside the point, as many
subsequent studies had reproduced their finding that the 20th century was likely
the warmest one in centuries.

In a 2007 presentation at the university, report co-author Yasmin Said of GMU
said that a Barton committee staffer, Peter Spencer, provided the background
material for the report. "Although Dr. Said's presentation seemed to imply that
we were being coached by the Republicans by being given only their selected
materials to look at, this was not true," Wegman said in response to a USA TODAY
freedom-of-information act request.

Information not forthcoming

The Wegman report called for improved "sharing of research materials, data and
results" from scientists. But in response to a request for materials related to
the report, GMU  said it "does not have access to the information." Separately
in that response, Wegman said his "email was downloaded to my notebook computer
and was erased from the GMU mail server," and he would not disclose any report
communications or materials because the "work was done offsite," aside from one
meeting with Spencer.

Said did not reply to requests for comments on her role in the report.

"It's nothing personal. I don't want these guys fired or anything," Bradley
says. "They should just retract or withdraw the report as you would any
scientific publication that has these sort of problems."

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Pietro Terna
PHOTO, B/W, Ben Barnhart, UMass-Amherst

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              16 of 169 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             April 20, 2010 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

'Eaarth' author: Young people can save world

BYLINE: Wendy Koch

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 7D

LENGTH: 355 words


Bill McKibben lives near a burbling creek in the Green Mountains of Vermont. Yet
even there, he sees a telltale sign of climate change -- a deep gash in the
woods caused by a recent flood.

McKibben, longtime environmentalist and author of more than a dozen books, first
warned about global warming (then called the "greenhouse effect") in 1989 in The
End of Nature, which he says was largely philosophical.

In contrast, his new book, Eaarth: Making a Life on a Tough New Planet (Henry
Holt), is a dire, frightening call to action. It talks about the planet melting,
drying, acidifying, flooding and burning in heretofore unseen ways.

"The world hasn't ended, but the world as we know it has -- even if we don't
quite know it yet. It's a different place. A different planet. It needs a new
name." Since it's Earth-like, he says, let's call it "Eaarth."

McKibben, 50, sees a slight chance we could still save the planet.

"If we're very lucky and very committed," he writes, it may be possible in
several decades to bring carbon dioxide levels, now nearly 390 parts per
million, back to what climate scientist James Hansen says is the maximum safe
level -- 350 parts per million.

That's why McKibben and a handful of students at Middlebury College, where he's
a scholar in residence, started the grass-roots group 350.org last year to raise
awareness and press for political action. "We're not going to solve climate
change one household at a time," he says. "What we need is a law, national and
international, that puts a cap on carbon and raises its price."

Such a bill, pushed by President Obama, is now pending in the U.S. Senate.
McKibben says he understands why people don't want to believe in climate change:
They're addicted to fossil fuels. To maintain that addiction, the oil and coal
industries are spending a lot of money to spread "disinformation" about global
warming, he says.

What gives him optimism is young people's  intrinsic understanding of the
world's interconnectedness, fostered by Facebook and social networking.

"The Internet is the one wild card," he says, "that may work in our favor in
bringing international change."

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W
PHOTO, B/W

DOCUMENT-TYPE: A BETTER LIFE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              17 of 169 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            January 25, 2010 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Exelon CEO: Deal with emissions now;
Climate issues won't go away, Rowe says

BYLINE: Julie Schmit

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 1189 words


CHICAGO -- John Rowe has little to be down about.

He's CEO of one of the nation's largest and most profitable utilities, Exelon,
which runs the nation's largest fleet of nuclear power-generating plants.

He's the industry's longest-serving CEO and is so dialed in that the Obama
administration tapped him to lobby lawmakers on legislation aimed at reducing
greenhouse gas emissions. Rowe has amassed a personal fortune that has enabled
him to give millions, including donations to an inner-city school here that
bears his name and educates students that he references by name.

But ask Rowe whether Congress will pass legislation to cut carbon emissions of
big polluters, such as utilities, and he says, "I'm very depressed."

The legislation, in limbo while Congress tackles health care and financial
overhauls, has been "sandbagged by partisan rancor," Rowe says. He gives it a
much slimmer chance of passing this year than he had thought.

Yet Rowe says Exelon, the company created out of a merger a decade ago, will
ultimately prevail because its nuclear energy is far cleaner than coal, which
provides 56% of the USA's electricity.

The carbon legislation will come back,  Rowe says, because climate change
concerns won't end. Meanwhile, the Environmental Protection Agency is preparing
to regulate carbon emissions of power plants and others.

Either way, Rowe says, costs to run coal plants go up. That drives energy prices
higher, benefiting Exelon, since 92%  of its power comes from low
carbon-emitting nuclear plants that won't suffer the same higher costs as coal
plants.

"Exelon wins sooner or later," Rowe says. "It may just be after I retire," at
the end of 2012.

Rowe, 64, looks the part of the industry statesman that colleagues say he's
become. His gray hair is close clipped. He dresses in a suit and tie with French
cuffs. He keeps an Egyptian coffin, "not quite museum quality," he says, in his
office, which is lined with hundreds of books, many historical.

A History of Wales runs 1,700 pages. Has he read it? "I'm Welsh," he answers.

Rowe's father wanted one of his three sons to assume his Wisconsin farm. But
Rowe was clumsy and asthmatic as a child; his  parents knew he was college
bound, in part, because he was so bad at farm work, Rowe says.

Rowe's mother, a former teacher, checked out library books. Rowe read them all.
He still reads two or three at a time. Rowe plucks a favorite from his office
shelf, the Pulitzer Prize-winning Banks and Politics in America, written by Bray
Hammond a half-century ago. Last year, Rowe gave a copy to a legislator on the
House Committee on Financial Services. "I doubt they ever read it," he grumbles.

Such subtle power of suggestion has served Rowe well in the circles in which he
travels in the energy sector and on Capitol Hill, colleagues say.

Speaking out, finding listeners

At times, Rowe looks so disengaged in meetings that "you wonder if he's
listening," says Jason Grumet, an energy adviser to the Obama campaign and
president of the Bipartisan Policy Center, a Washington think tank. "He'll sit
back and not say anything for 45 minutes ... but when he does, everyone leans on
their elbows to hear what he has to say," Grumet says.

Rowe has been speaking a lot lately on carbon legislation.

Twice in the past year, he testified on it before congressional committees. In
September, Exelon created a stir by saying it would leave the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce because of what Rowe called the group's "stridency against carbon
legislation."

On climate change, "John's been the single most important figure in the utility
industry," says energy expert Ralph Cavanagh  of the Natural Resources Defense
Council advocacy group. "He's figured out that business interests and
environmental issues are inseparable."

In 2008, Exelon said it would reduce, offset or displace its entire carbon
footprint by 2020. So far, it's cut emissions equal to those from more than a
million cars, it says.

"Rowe isn't a Johnny-come-lately to the climate debate," says Howard Learner,
executive director of the advocacy Environmental Law & Policy Center. But
neither is Rowe an activist CEO, Learner says. "John is focused on the green,
namely, profitability for shareholders, as well as on the green for the
environment," Learner says.

Careful with money

On carbon emissions, Rowe fixates on the need to fix the problem now or pay more
later. "The longer we put it off, the more expensive it gets," Rowe says. While
some say the U.S. needs to expand its nuclear fleet to substantially cut carbon
emissions, Rowe says new nuclear plants are currently too expensive to build to
compete with cheap natural gas. Instead, Exelon is adding capacity to existing
plants.

"My dad felt about cows the way I feel about nuclear plants," Rowe says.
"They're a business, not a passion."

Rowe got a strong parental message about money, too: Be careful. He picked
mustard weeds from fields for pennies a weed. "You could buy a new baseball
glove ... but you'd better have put money in the bank, too," Rowe says.

Rowe's taken the same approach to Exelon's finances. Last year, he abandoned a
$7.5 billion bid to buy NRG Energy,  to create the nation's largest
power-generation company, after a sweetened bid failed. On acquisitions, he
compares Exelon to hyenas. "We're constantly looking for something dead in the
plains."

Exelon was made by the merger of Unicom, the owner of the electric company
serving Chicago, and Philadelphia-based Peco Energy.  As CEO of Unicom, Rowe
sold the company's coal plants and bet its future on nuclear, even though the
fleet was a "disgrace," at the time, Rowe says.

In 2008,  Exelon's 17 nuclear reactors, located in Illinois, Pennsylvania and
New Jersey, ran at 93.9% capacity, it says, vs. 91.5% for the industry average.
Hugh Wynne, analyst for Bernstein Research, says Exelon is one of the industry's
most profitable players. "They're just the best nuclear operators in the
business," Wynne says.

About John Rowe

Title: CEO and chairman of Exelon.

Career: Twenty-six years in the utility industry, including CEO stints at
Central Maine Power,  New England Electric, Unicom and Exelon.

Education: Undergraduate and law degrees from the University of Wisconsin.

Family: Wife Jeanne and son William.

Favorite vacation place: The eastern Mediterranean.

Home: Downtown Chicago.

Second home: Naples, Fla.

What history tells him: "Problems and issues change, but humans don't."

Leader he most admires: Abraham Lincoln. "Always practical while seeking a
better moral end."

---

About Exelon

Headquarters: Chicago.

2009 performance: On Friday, it reported fourth-quarter profit down 18% from a
year ago, to $581 million. For the year, earnings were flat at $2.7 billion.

Businesses: Power generation; providing electricity and gas to 5.4 million
customers.

Employees: 19,000.

Power output: 92% from nuclear, the rest from other sources.

History: Created out of a 2000 merger of Chicago's Unicom, parent of
Commonwealth Edison, with Philadelphia's Peco Energy.

Obama ties: Chief of Staff Rahm Emanuel was investment banker on merger that
created Exelon. Obama strategist David Axelrod has worked as Exelon consultant.


LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Brett T. Roseman for USA TODAY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              22 of 169 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             March 26, 2010 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

It'll be lights out for many on Saturday for Earth Hour

BYLINE: Wendy Koch

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 469 words


Millions of U.S. homes, 2,200 businesses such as Walgreens and 45 national
landmarks including Seattle's Space Needle will go dark for an hour Saturday
night to draw attention to global warming.

Despite debate over the science of climate change, a record number of U.S.
cities, states and businesses have pledged to participate in this year's Earth
Hour, in which non-essential lights go off at 8:30 p.m. local time, according to
organizers.

"It reflects the conviction of people around the world that climate change is
real and we need to do something about it," says Carter Roberts, chief executive
officer of the World Wildlife Fund, which started Earth Hour in Australia in
2007.

The annual event has taken off since then. Last year, the group says, 4,000
cities turned off lights in official buildings in 87 countries, including 318
U.S. cities. It estimates 80 million Americans participated.

This year, 30 states (up from eight last year) plan to flip the light switch in
governors' mansions and other public buildings. Among monuments and other
landmarks taking part: the Empire State Building, the Las Vegas Strip, Niagara
Falls and the Willis Tower, formerly the Sears Tower, in Chicago.

"As stewards of our national parks, we want to be visible leaders," says Navnit
Singh of South Dakota's Mount Rushmore National Memorial, participating for the
first time.

Beginning Saturday, he says, the memorial will illuminate the mountain, in which
the facial profiles of four presidents are carved, for only an hour a day in a
bid to reduce energy use 60%. He says climate change has severely affected South
Dakota's Black Hills by increasing the number of mountain pine beetles, which
have attacked 330,000 acres of ponderosa pine forest.

In Atlanta, where more than 650 public and private buildings will go dark, there
will be a daytime festival to teach kids about Earth Hour and an evening
dancing-in-the-dark party at the Savannah College of Art and Design, says Mandy
Mahoney, the city's director of sustainability.

Earth Hour has its critics.

"Environmental challenges will not be solved by turning off our lights and
symbolically hiding in the dark," says Michelle Minton of the Competitive
Enterprise Institute, a Washington-based non-profit organization that promotes
policies of free markets and limited government.

"We should be looking to technology and innovation to help solve environmental
problems," she says. She'll attend her group's "Human Achievement Hour" cocktail
party at 8:30 Saturday night to celebrate breakthrough products such as the
compact fluorescent light bulb.

Roberts says he and his family will have a "candlelight" dinner and discuss how
they can save energy. He's looking to insulate his house better and drive his
car less. "For me," he says, "it means biking far more than I do now."

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Brendon Thorne, Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              32 of 169 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            February 2, 2010 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Obama's budget draws rapid fire;
Lawmakers lament spending, want to lower deficit more

BYLINE: Richard Wolf

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 818 words


WASHINGTON -- President Obama's proposed $3.8 trillion budget ran into immediate
trouble in Congress on Monday among lawmakers who said it tries to do too much
while cutting the deficit too little.

The quick response came as Obama sought to juggle his twin goals of creating
jobs, which entails tax cuts and new spending, and cutting the deficit, which
involves the opposite.

Republicans who spent the past year criticizing Obama's $862 billion economic
stimulus package, said the president was being spendthrift by raising the
overall budget 3%. They lambasted his plan to let President George W. Bush's tax
cuts expire next year for families making more than $250,000.

Rep. Paul Ryan, R-Wis., top Republican on the House Budget Committee, called the
budget "a very aggressive agenda of more government spending, more taxes, more
deficits and more debt -- with just a few cosmetic budget maneuvers to give the
illusion of restraint."

Liberal budget experts agreed that the plan didn't go far enough to reduce the
deficit, despite $1.6 trillion in savings over 10 years. The $1.56 trillion
deficit would be cut in half by 2014 but grow back to $1 trillion by 2020. The
cumulative deficit over 10 years: $8.5 trillion.

"It falls well short of what will be needed to get deficits under control," said
Robert Greenstein of the liberal Center on Budget and Policy Priorities. "The
budget probably goes as far in that area as today's toxic political environment
will allow."

That's the problem facing Obama and Congress as the budget debate begins along
with congressional election campaigns. For years, lawmakers have rejected
presidents' budget proposals and reshaped them because they have the final power
to approve spending.

Cutting more out of the deficit would be left to a bipartisan commission
Republicans have yet to endorse. The panel's recommendations would come after
the election, and there's no guarantee Congress would adopt them.

Obama did not propose any major savings in Medicare, Medicaid and Social
Security, the three entitlement programs that consume nearly 40% of federal
spending. By 2020, they'll eat up 46%.

"I am disappointed that he himself failed to jump-start reform by making tough
choices on the real budget busters like Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid,"
said Sen. George Voinovich, R-Ohio, who is retiring.

Obama did not propose tax increases on families with incomes less than $250,000.
They could be hit with higher costs if Obama gets his stalled health care or
climate change bills through Congress.

This year's deficit is 10.6% of the nation's economy, more than three times the
level that is sustainable, administration officials said. Budget director Peter
Orszag said a continued economic recovery, along with tax increases on
upper-income people and a freeze on some domestic spending, should bring it down
to 4% by 2014.

That's not enough, Orszag admitted. He said getting it down to 3%, which
represents a balanced budget except for interest payments on the debt, would
require Republican cooperation. The debt is slated to rise from $14.3 trillion
to $25.8 trillion in 2020.

"In order to meet this challenge, I welcome any idea, from Democrats and
Republicans," Obama said Monday. "What I will not welcome -- what I reject -- is
the same old grandstanding when the cameras are on and the same irresponsible
budget policies when the cameras are off."

Democrats praised the president for devoting about $266 billion to tax cuts and
spending increases designed to continue recent economic growth and create jobs.
That would be exempt from Obama's rule requiring spending or tax cuts to be paid
for.

"I'm committed to working with President Obama ... to cut taxes for small
businesses and working families," said Senate Finance Committee Chairman Max
Baucus, D-Mont.

In addition to the proposal to raise taxes on high-income families, Obama would
impose a fee on banks, eliminate tax breaks for oil and gas companies and freeze
some domestic spending. Counting the levies contained in his health care and
climate change proposals, taxes could rise by more than $2.2 trillion, according
to Clint Stretch of Deloitte Tax.

The budget is built on these economic assumptions: an economy growing at a 4.3%
clip, unemployment dropping below 9% by the end of next year and inflation
holding below 2%. "The trajectory of the economy is greatly improved," said
Christina Romer, who chairs the president's Council of Economic Advisers.

Besides maintaining the health care and climate packages, the budget would raise
spending for education, clean energy, infrastructure projects and research and
development. It includes money for the war in Afghanistan, homeland security and
veterans.

About 120 programs would come in for $20 billion in cuts, led by NASA's moon
mission and the Pentagon's C-17 aircraft. The cuts represent one-half of 1% of
the budget -- but they face opposition in Congress.

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHICS, B/W, Julie Snider, USA TODAY, Source: Office of Management
and Budget (Bar graphs)
PHOTO, B/W, Joshua Roberts, Bloomberg

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              35 of 169 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            July 14, 2010 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Energy bill to debut -- a shadow of itself;
Proposed legislation retooled

BYLINE: Richard Wolf

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 864 words


WASHINGTON -- President Obama's attempt to use the Gulf of Mexico oil spill to
help propel comprehensive energy legislation has failed, but the Senate plans to
unveil a scaled-back measure as early as next week.

A month ago, Obama used his first Oval Office address to the nation to press for
congressional action on energy and climate change legislation -- the only major
piece of his domestic agenda that has languished in Congress.

Yet on Tuesday, the topic didn't even come up when the president met with the
Senate's Democratic leaders at the White House to discuss upcoming legislation.
Instead, the meeting focused on financial regulation, aid for the unemployed and
increasing loans to small businesses.

The energy bill likely to emerge in the Senate won't look like the one Obama has
sought since taking office. He wants to charge utilities and other companies for
a portion of their greenhouse gas emissions as a way to reduce pollution and pay
for clean energy alternatives.

"I'm not sure the votes are there to do that in this Congress," says Sen. Jeff
Bingaman, D-N.M., chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee.
"You need to do whatever you're able to do when you're able to do it."

Revising the bill

Instead, the Senate bill is likely to include renewable energy standards and tax
credits, tougher fuel-efficiency requirements, incentives for electric vehicles
and new oil drilling regulations. The House of Representatives passed a more
comprehensive bill, including a price on carbon pollution, last year.

White House spokesman Robert Gibbs said Tuesday that when the Senate takes up
the bill, "I expect that the president will be active in that debate."

Since April's Gulf oil spill highlighted the nation's dependence on foreign oil
and the dangers of domestic exploration, Obama has sought a deal on taxing
carbon pollution -- something environmentalists say is essential but most
industry officials oppose.

Obama told a bipartisan group of senators involved in energy policy late last
month to aim high -- but not so high that they don't hit something, according to
Democratic Sen. Tom Carper of Delaware, one of the participants.

The problem for Obama: victories on economic stimulus, financial regulation,
health care and education have eaten up much of his mandate, leaving him less
able to dictate terms. "There's only so much political capital to go around,"
says Jack Gerard, president of the American Petroleum Institute. "Every major
battle consumes a certain amount."

"There's a little bit of legislative fatigue with expansive, huge bills," says
Bruce Josten of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce.

Obama was able to do two things on energy last year: The $862 billion economic
stimulus law included about $80 billion for renewable energy programs, and
fuel-efficiency standards were raised for new cars and trucks.

At the same time, Obama has signaled he's willing to oppose environmentalists by
promoting loan guarantees for nuclear plants, more offshore oil drilling and
clean coal technology.

"The White House appears to be navigating the politics of climate and energy
through the theory of unilateral disarmament," says Erich Pica of Friends of the
Earth. "Who are they negotiating with?"

Navigating the opposition

White House senior adviser David Axelrod says the goal is to get a bill through
a Senate where nearly all Republicans and some Democrats from manufacturing
states -- such as Michigan's Carl Levin and Debbie Stabenow and Pennsylvania's
Bob Casey and Arlen Specter -- oppose raising costs on industry. "We will take
the steps that are possible and achievable," Axelrod says. "We're not going to
make the perfect be the enemy of the good, but we want to make progress."

Some propelling factors:

*The Deepwater Horizon oil spill presented a crisis in need of a solution. "The
tragedy unfolding on our coast is the most painful and powerful reminder yet
that the time to embrace a clean energy future is now," Obama said in the June
15 Oval Office speech.

*He pledged to foreign leaders at last December's climate change summit in
Copenhagen that the U.S. would reduce greenhouse gas emissions 17% by 2020,
compared with 2005 levels, and 83% by 2050. "The White House has a real interest
in getting this done for international reasons as well as for domestic ones,"
says Daniel Weiss of the Center for American Progress.

*Last year's 219-212 House vote left moderate Democrats hanging. They voted to
put a price on carbon pollution, dubbed a "national energy tax" by Sen. Lamar
Alexander, R-Tenn. The Senate hasn't acted. The National Republican
Congressional Committee is targeting more than 50 Democrats over the vote, such
as Reps. Baron Hill of Indiana, Patrick Murphy of Pennsylvania and Zack Space of
Ohio.

*This would be Obama's best chance to enact anything close to comprehensive
energy legislation if the midterm elections follow historical patterns and hand
the GOP major gains in Congress.  After President Clinton failed to pass a
health care bill in 1994, it took 16 years to get it done.

Says Tony Kreindler of the Environmental Defense Fund: "If we don't get it done
this year, we're not coming back to it for a long, long time."

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Mandel Ngan, AFP/Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              39 of 169 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              June 11, 2010 Friday
                                FA_CHASE EDITION

New alliances reshaping college sports;
Scramble for TV money may spell end of Big 12

BYLINE: Marlen Garcia

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1642 words


The first ripple in a money-driven, potentially seismic shift in college sports
came Thursday when the Pacific-10 Conference announced the University of
Colorado would become its 11th member, beginning with the 2012-13 school year.

The Big Ten Conference, which has had 11 members since Penn State joined in
1990, could be next with a major move. Regents at the University of Nebraska --
which like Colorado has been a member of the Big 12 -- could announce as early
as today that the school is joining the 114-year-old league.

The moves, aimed largely at increasing television revenue from the schools'
football programs, are a signal that the landscape of college sports could be
reshaped this summer by dramatic realignments that could jeopardize longstanding
regional rivalries and raise a range of questions. Among them: Where will the
University of Texas and Notre Dame -- considered the crown jewels of college
sports because of the huge revenue their programs generate -- end up? Will the
Big 12 Conference (which also includes Texas) survive? As Colorado and Nebraska
depart the league, its viability is in doubt. Will a domino effect -- driven
partly by expansion plans of the Pac-10 and Big Ten -- create chaos in any other
leagues, such as the Big East?

Those with a stake in college sports have been waiting for such events to unfold
since the Big Ten announced in December that it was studying expansion.

Conference expansion is largely about hooking up with brand-name football
programs with heavy followings that are the basis for lucrative TV deals. There
is little room for sentiment with millions of dollars on the line.

"This is now about the number of households; it's not about geographical
location, traditional rivalries or any of the other traditional reasons when you
think about conference alignment," said Karen Weaver, athletics director at Penn
State-Abington who recently wrote a doctoral thesis on the launch of the highly
successful Big Ten Network. "It's about who brings the most value to the table."

Said former Purdue football coach Joe Tiller: "Who are we kidding? It's all
about the money. It's not necessarily what's good for the sport; it's all about
the money."

Established in 2007, the Big Ten Network already is churning a profit for the
conference and its partner, Fox. Including guaranteed money from Fox, the Big
Ten received $72 million from the network for the fiscal year that ended in June
2009. The conference also has deals with ESPN/ABC and CBS.

Other leagues see similar potential for a financial boon. By moving into
Colorado, the Pac-10 will be able to offer the Denver market as it prepares to
negotiate a  TV deal and examines launching its own network.

That league could add more teams -- possibly up to five more members of the
current Big 12 besides Colorado, a move that would kill the league that began
play in 1996 as a merger of the Big Eight with four schools from the old
Southwest Conference.

"There are still several different scenarios that could play out," Pac-10
Commissioner Larry Scott said in a teleconference.

Ideally for the Pac-10, those scenarios would include Texas.

"I think what they really want out of this is Texas and the Texas schools that
go with it," said Barry Frank, executive vice president of IMG Media, which
recently negotiated a deal between the Atlantic Coast Conference and ESPN.

From other Big 12 members to the Pac-10 and Big Ten, it seems everyone wants the
Austin-based university. Texas is a football and financial behemoth with
enormous clout; its program raked in $138.5 million in 2009. Texas' TV drawing
power is so significant that its athletic department has floated the idea of
starting its own TV network to cover Longhorns sports -- and keeping all of the
money it makes.

If Texas were to bolt the Big 12 in light of the defections by Colorado and
Nebraska, it could take Texas A&M and Texas Tech with it. Those schools ride the
coattails of Texas, but there have been reports by OrangeBloods.com, a website
that covers the Longhorns, that Texas A&M could be considering a move to the
Southeastern Conference.

Texas officials appear to be cool to the idea of joining the SEC, so such a move
by Texas A&M could threaten a rivalry with the Longhorns that is more than a
century old and is ingrained in the state's culture.

SEC Commissioner Mike Slive, through a spokesman, declined to be interviewed.

The push for Texas

Meanwhile, the Big Ten has reached out to Texas, perhaps with a willingness to
also accept Texas A&M. But it apparently is reluctant to accept another Texas
school in the Big 12, Texas Tech, because of concerns about its quality of
academics.

The Columbus (Ohio) Dispatch recently obtained an e-mail exchange between Ohio
State President E. Gordon Gee and Big Ten Commissioner Jim Delany, in which Gee
mentioned a "Tech" problem. Texas Tech isn't viewed as a fit for the Big Ten
because it is not part of the Association of American Universities (AAU), a
group of 63 major research institutions that includes all Big Ten schools as
well as Nebraska. Texas and Texas A&M are AAU members.

For all its clout, Texas -- a publicly funded school -- likely would feel some
heat from the Texas Legislature if it changed leagues without taking Texas Tech
with it.

But Texas easily could find a home in the Pac-10, which also could welcome Texas
Tech, Texas A&M, Oklahoma and Oklahoma State to create the nation's first
16-team super-conference in football.

Another option would be for the Big 12 to remain intact after Colorado and
Nebraska leave and add two or more schools. It's unclear whether such an
arrangement would yield the type of massive revenue forecast for the Big Ten and
SEC for any school other than Texas. The Associated Press reported that Texas
and Texas A&M officials met Thursday and that the schools remaining in the Big
12 was still among the possibilities.

Significant realignment of college sports would have a broad impact. For
starters, fans would have to adjust.

"Whenever you expand the footprint of a conference, you are losing some
traditional rivalries," Wake Forest athletics director Ron Wellman said. "Under
most competitive models, you won't play those rivalries as much as you have in
the past. That's a rather significant change for the fans."

Another worry is that the rich conferences will get bigger, stronger and richer
while others will meet their demise.

Even a proud, tradition-rich school such as Kansas could be left scrambling for
a new home. The school has won three national championships in men's basketball
and boasts basketball founder James Naismith as its first coach, but its
football program isn't attractive on a national scale and the state's population
is too small to add value to a conference cable network.

That's the harsh reality of today's college sports.

"We have one of the top followings in the country, and I feel helpless," Kansas
men's basketball coach Bill Self said. "We're on the outside looking in. There
are so many components in conference expansion. Basketball is not one of them.

"This is not panic mode, but it's a big, big deal. It certainly can change the
whole climate for your university for the next 30 years."

On many levels, expansion and realignment are nothing new. The SEC took Arkansas
and South Carolina in 1990. The ACC grabbed Florida State in 1991 and Miami,
Boston College and Virginia Tech during the past decade.

But the number and scope of the potential shifts at one time seem unprecedented.
The Pac-10, for example, had not added a school since 1978.

And no one is sure where this is all headed.

"There is anxiety associated with any type of change," Wellman said. "It remains
to be seen if the changes that may or may not occur will be beneficial to
college athletics overall. I would say the changes made in the past have been
beneficial. I don't think we need to fear change. I think we need to make sure
the changes are appropriate."

Is it really about academics?

While acknowledging that the flourishing Big Ten Network is one reason to
expand, Big Ten Commissioner Delany has said expansion is one way the league's
schools can counter a general population shift to the South from the Midwest. He
also has said that academics are a top priority, emphasizing AAU membership as a
requirement for Big Ten membership.

An exception would be Notre Dame, not an AAU member but strong academically and
long coveted by the league. Notre Dame turned down the league for membership in
1999.

"Of course they're going to say that," Smith College economics professor Andrew
Zimbalist said of the Big Ten's repeated emphasis on academics. "What are they
going to say? 'We're going to prostitute ourselves?' "

If the Big Ten truly valued academics, it would not pick Nebraska, Zimbalist
said. He notes the school's academics aren't on par with those of Michigan,
Illinois and other Big Ten schools.

"What's happened over the decades, more so in the last two, commercial value has
trumped academic value, and that's decidedly wrong," he said.

Yet in a slumping economy, it stands to reason schools are looking to improve
their bottom lines.

"It's understandable there are certain financial pressures and they're trying to
sustain themselves," Zimbalist said. "It doesn't mean it's the right thing to do
to subject yourself to the needs of TV and media."

In the eastern half of the country, the SEC, ACC and Big East are cautiously
eyeing developments in the Big Ten, Pac-10 and Big 12.

Last week, the SEC's Slive, whose members include football powerhouses such as
Florida and Alabama, said he was comfortable with the league's lofty status but
could be strategic to counter a significant shift in conference paradigm.

For now, that depends on the Big Ten and Pac-10, and how large they grow.

Contributing: Steve Berkowitz, Jack Carey, Thomas O'Toole; Jeff Rabjohns of The
Indianapolis Star

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              43 of 169 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           November 16, 2010 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

With poor fixes in Congress, gridlock might be best thing

SECTION: EDIT; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 631 words


I hope there is gridlock on almost all of the issues mentioned in USA TODAY's
government inaction debate because, sadly, it seems far more likely that
Congress will do the wrong thing instead of the right thing in trying to solve
them ("Gridlock's just another word for lack of leadership," Our view,
Thursday).

The problems with most of the items  listed -- spending, taxes, climate change
and immigration -- are the result of failed government policies. The government
doesn't have a track record of success when it comes to domestic problems.  The
government usually creates 10 new problems for every one  it claims to solve.

I don't want climate change to be the next example. The proposed treatments are
likely worse than the disease. I don't deny that global warming exists. I just
think proposed fixes won't work and will do great economic harm.  Immigration
reform is easy. Congress should move forward with those aspects of reform that
everyone agrees on. Everybody agrees illegal immigration is bad for the nation.
President Obama should get serious about controlling the border in order to
reduce it. Once we have demonstrated that we don't need comprehensive
immigration reform, then we can legalize those who remain.

Edward Hoffman

Joliet, Ill.

Need less partisan leaders

Reading USA TODAY's editorial on gridlock, which stated that a "lack of
leadership" in Washington is causing it, and its opposing view by Michael
Tanner, which promoted a libertarian ideology, made me wonder if both weren't
wrong. The causes of the problems we face today have one thing in common, not
lack of leadership but poor leadership on both sides.

If we had elected less partisan, non-ideological leaders who were competent and
whose sole purpose was to do what was in the best interests of the electorate
(and not special interests), then we likely wouldn't have the problems we have
today. That would have allowed us to avoid gridlock.

Sam Huddleston

Surprise, Ariz.

Gridlock won't solve issue

When House Speaker Nancy Pelosi was elected, some liberal Democrats demanded
hearings on former president George W. Bush and former vice president Dick
Cheney. Many demanded impeachment proceedings. She quieted the noise.

Now Senate minority leader Mitch McConnell has said twice that the Republicans'
No. 1  priority will be ridding the country of President Obama.

Rep. John Boehner, the presumptive House speaker, had better be Pelosi-like.
Eight years of Bush tax cuts did not produce jobs. Maybe extending tax cuts
will. Maybe cutting spending will. Maybe repealing ObamaCare will. No one knows
for sure. What we do know is gridlock will not.

Larry D. Fowler

Brooklyn, N.Y.

Some solutions must be stopped

I must agree with Cato Institute senior fellow Michael Tanner and his opposing
view in the government inaction debate ("More gridlock, please").

With the prospect of a bill implementing the proposals put forth by Alan Simpson
and Erskine Bowles on deficit reduction, we will need much gridlock.  This bill
could be as bad as the health care  law, maybe worse, if that's possible. This
proposal would destroy many people's personal finances.

As a retiree, I carefully planned my retirement finances for years. The current
tax code is not good, but at least I know how much I need to pay.

Under the new plan, I may pay more, I may pay less -- I won't know until it's
too late. The mortgage interest deduction change alone will destroy any rebound
in the housing market.

As far as Social Security, I just want the money back I paid for 35 years. If
the Social Security trust fund hadn't been stolen for other uses, we wouldn't be
talking about cuts in benefits.

Major changes shouldn't be made during a recession. When the economy rebounds,
many of our financial problems will go away.

Mark Botkin

Rochester, Mich.

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              47 of 169 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             April 23, 2010 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

For Copeland, going 'Into the Cold' is a way of life;
Film follows North Pole trip; Greenland, Antarctica are next

BYLINE: Brian Truitt

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 8D

LENGTH: 625 words


To some, venturing out in 50-below temperatures and crossing rough Arctic
terrains may seem amazing, or even nutty. But for photographer and environmental
advocate Sebastian Copeland, it's another day at the office.

"I really think of myself as a normal guy. I don't necessarily think that what I
do is that extraordinary," says Copeland. With fellow adventurer Keith Heger and
200 pounds of gear in tow, Copeland took a two-month, 400-mile journey to the
North Pole last year, which he chronicles in the new movie Into the Cold: A
Journey of the Soul. The film will be screened several times starting Saturday
at the Tribeca Film Festival in New York.

Copeland won acclaim for his 2007 book, Antarctica: The Global Warning, which
featured photographs taken during trips to the Antarctic.

This new journey was undertaken to commemorate the centennial of Robert Peary's
1909 trip to the North Pole. And the movie shows the months before the trip,
when Copeland trained for the cold conditions in Minnesota and meticulously
calculated how much food and equipment he'd need on the trip.

Yet nothing can prepare a person enough for that moment when he's dropped on the
ice from a helicopter and there's nothing there but millions of square miles of
frozen silence.

"The combination of everything hits you at once: the heavy load, the complete
isolation, the cold and the realization that this is not an environment where
you can put your arm up in the air and ask for a timeout," Copeland, 46,
explains. "The first couple of days are tough. That's when you feel a little
miserable and sorry for yourself, and within some matter of time, you realize
there's no other option than to keep going."

The hazardous conditions were bad enough -- he developed frostbite on all his
fingers fairly quickly and had to find the balance of not sweating under full
exertion while walking ("Sweating can be deadly," he says) and fighting for
warmth when he stopped to film. However, his new camera equipment also proved to
be a hindrance.

The camera batteries didn't fare well in the cold. "I had to revive them by
basically keeping them under my armpit and warming them up so I could get some
of its life out of those batteries," he says. "It was hair-raising."

And because of other camera failures, he couldn't film for the last 2 1/2 weeks
of the trip. The only reason he has footage at the North Pole itself is because
an extra piece of gear was brought in on the helicopter that was supposed to
pick him up. "I got to refilm the arrival at the North Pole," Copeland says. "If
it were not for that equipment, I wouldn't have had a movie."

Raised in England and France before moving to the USA when he was 16, Copeland
calls himself an adrenaline junkie, and he has embarked on everything from
mountain-climbing expeditions to crossing deserts.

The past 10 years have been full of polar traveling and environmental activism
as a member of Global Green USA's board of directors.

Less than a week after Tribeca ends May 1, Copeland will leave for a 45-day
crossing of Greenland, which he hopes to turn into a multi-part TV series.

And next year, he plans to commemorate the centennial of Roald Amundsen's 1911
crossing of Antarctica with his own 85-day, 2,500-kilometer journey that he
wants to document in full IMAX.

While sometimes he misses the warm environments of his Los Angeles home while
out in the cold -- he graduated from UCLA with a film degree in 1987 -- Copeland
does at times yearn for the isolation it brings.

"Ultimately, it's about being in places that men have no business being in
that's attractive to me," Copeland says. "To me, the ice is the last frontier.
That's the one place where you still need the least amount of people because
it's the least welcoming."

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Color, Sebastian Copeland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              49 of 169 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            November 5, 2010 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Holidays look less Grinchy this year;
Fun, extravagance go back on shopping list

BYLINE: Jayne O'Donnell

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 1542 words


There are signs the chill on holiday spending is beginning to thaw.

Consumers may not be giving gifts like it's 2006 again (before the Great
Recession), but new surveys suggest some will spend a bit more and start giving
presents that people want rather than simply need this year.

Think jewelry, rather than slippers and sweaters.

"It's not all about being cheap this year," says Pam Goodfellow of BIGresearch,
which does consumer polling for the National Retail Federation.

The conclusions in various consumer surveys about holiday spending differ a bit,
though no one's predicting a big uptick in shopping late this year. But beyond
the predictions for unchanged or only slightly improved sales are other
indications of a rebound. The National Retail Federation predicts holiday
spending this year will be up 2.3%, but the percentage of people who said the
economy would affect their spending decreased from 65.3% last year to 61.7% this
year. Several of the companies conducting surveys also see evidence that gift
purchases will start to lean more toward discretionary than necessity. For
example, the percentage of those who will ask for jewelry this year is up 13%,
according to NRF, and the percentage who will buy at least one gift from a
discounter is down.

There will be "a bit of a return to normal or the 'new normal,' " NRF
spokeswoman Ellen Davis says.

There were echoes of the trend in the October sales reports out Thursday from
luxury and clothing retailers, whose bottom lines have taken a beating in the
past two holiday seasons. Sales results overall were mixed, with the
International Council of Shopping Centers reporting just a 1.6% increase over
October 2009. Unusually warm weather slowed outerwear sales and kept people out
of stores including J.C. Penney and Kohl's, which saw sales decline. But Macy's
had a sales increase of 2.5%, and sales were up 8.1% at high-end retailer Saks,
which analysts were expecting would only see a 2% uptick.

Saks spokeswoman Julia Bentley says the retailer is on track to maintain
"mid-single-digit growth" in sales from August through January 2011, despite
cutting the number of promotions since last year.

Handbag and accessory maker Coach, which has started offering lower-priced
options, said last week that its revenue was up 20% in the first quarter of
fiscal year 2011.

Much of the growth is coming from the wealthiest consumers, says Josh Chernoff,
leader of business consulting firm Bain and Co.'s North American retail
practice. Households earning more than $100,000 a year  make up just 21% of
households but are driving almost 40% of overall consumer spending, he says.
That's up from 34% of consumer spending in 2006. Retailers who cater to the
affluent -- higher-end department stores, luxury retailers and warehouse club
stores -- are doing the best "and we think we'll see that trend continue through
the end of the year," Chernoff says.

Mark Tapper, co-owner of Tapper's jewelers in the Detroit suburbs, has seen
double-digit sales growth this year and is predicting a 25% increase in sales
this holiday season at the two stores the company has had for several years.
Damning the economic naysayers, the Tappers opened a third location in Troy,
Mich., in September. The chain has increased its selection and promotions of
lower-priced items, including Pandora-brand jewelry that starts at $25 and a
$1,199 engagement ring, but it's still catering to customers looking for the
finest jewelry.

"Every day, people asked us if we were crazy," Tapper says of opening a new
jewelry store. "But we believe in this economy."

Other indicators:

*Global information company Nielsen says 36% of people it surveyed said they'd
be spending less this year, a decrease from last year when 42% reported plans to
cut back. Despite the loosened grips on wallets, Nielsen still expects sales
this holiday season to be unchanged from last year. But Nielsen agrees there are
bright spots for luxury retailers and others who sell more of the want-to-haves
than the must-haves.

"Some of where we see softening occurring is within the discretionary
categories," says James Russo, Nielsen's vice president of global insights.

Clothing, consumer electronics and jewelry sales have all shown an uptick in
recent months, says Russo, whose company tracks daily online sales transactions.
Online jewelry and watch sales, for example, have been increasing each month for
the last three months. September 2010 sales were up 29% over September of last
year. He acknowledges that a lot of this spending is being "driven by
high-income households." Tapper says sales of larger diamonds and high-end
watches are way up.

"Some consumers are still trading down -- we're selling more sterling silver and
diamond merchandise (rather than gold and diamond) than ever in the past,"
Tapper says. "But people are feeling tired of being in an economic glut and are
excited about gift giving again."

*Management consulting firm Accenture also predicts spending this season will be
flat, due in part to the fact that 83% of those it polled said they would spend
the same or less than last year. Still, Janet Hoffman, managing director of
Accenture's retail practice, says the company is "seeing a rebound in luxury"
and agrees with NRF that "want" buying is also making a comeback.

Mike McAvinue, general manager of The Mall at Short Hills in Short Hills, N.J.,
says stores are requesting far more storage space for inventory this year,
especially those that sell high-end merchandise. Luxury stores at the mall say
they've bought about 10% more this year over the 2009 holiday season.

Still, Hoffman says shoppers will still keep a close eye on value for the
dollar.

Sharon Honeywell of Flourtown, Pa., says she won't be changing how she shops
this season because, like most people, she's adjusted her lifestyle to "the new
norm." She says she'll keep looking for sales and free shipping deals online.

"There will be a pretty controlled approach to the concept of holiday," Hoffman
says.

*Shoppers may have a "conservative outlook" on the economy, but consulting firm
Deloitte concluded it isn't hindering their holiday plans. More than six out of
10 survey respondents said they plan to spend more or the same on the holidays
-- an 11 percentage-point increase from Deloitte's 2009 holiday survey and the
highest level since 2006. Two-thirds of respondents said their household
financial situation is the same or better than last year at this time. That's up
10 percentage points since last year. Still, Deloitte says consumers remain
cautious about their spending, with nearly 75% planning to change the way they
shop to save money, and almost half saying they plan to pay with cash rather
than credit.

Matthew Shay, CEO of the National Retail Federation, says retailers feel like
they have "a bit of breathing room" thanks to shoppers' plans to budget for
impulse purchases for themselves and discretionary gifts. Still, he notes,
"Retailers won't fully believe the economy has totally recovered until we start
to see unemployment numbers stabilize and consumer confidence increase."

Don't expect dramatic price cuts

Brad Wilson, founder of the deal site BradsDeals.com, says this holiday season
is "sort of boring by comparison" with 2008 and 2009 when the recession kept
many people out of stores. By now, retailers are more cautious about ordering
inventory so they don't have to slash prices as dramatically as they did in late
2008 to move what hadn't sold. Now, he says, "Retailers are relatively healthy,
but we still don't have consumers who are all that healthy." So he predicts the
biggest retailers will compete aggressively on price to gain market share, not
"out of desperation."

This year's early Black Friday promotions lead Wilson to conclude that retailers
aren't banking on people increasing their spending by much. Deals such as
Wal-Mart's early promotion this week of Vizio HDTVs that start at $298 suggest
retailers are expecting "frugal splurging," Wilson says, "not like the 2007
charges to my credit card."

Retail branding expert Ken Nisch agrees there will be "less desperate
promotion," which he predicts will lead to fewer promotions overall.

Retailers now have a "lot more clarity on what's going to sell and not going to
sell," thanks to product testing and merchandise planning, says Nisch, chairman
of the retail design and branding company JGA.

Still, to many, it will seem like more of the same.

"The 2010 holiday shopping season will be spectacularly unspectacular for many
consumers, but that will suit retailers who remember well the turbulence of
Holiday '08," Hoffman says.

Kristy Tucker, a teacher in Lexington, Ky., offers both hope and more of the
same for retailers. She's hoping for a piece of jewelry this Christmas that will
commemorate the upcoming birth of her first child. She's always preferred one
high-quality gift rather than lots of little ones that just "migrate to our
storage room." But when it comes to gift giving, she says she's gotten in the
habit of looking for lower-cost gifts and that won't change even though the
economy has improved.

"I just can't kick this habit of looking for bargains," says Tucker, 33. "It's
akin to the hunter seeking the ultimate deer."

Contributing: Rachel Huggins

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Color, Rebecca Cook
PHOTO, B/W, Rebecca Cook

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COVER STORY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              54 of 169 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            July 21, 2010 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Wonders, perils in Bahamas' 'blue holes';
Hidden pockets are laboratories of strange creatures and weird science

BYLINE: Dan Vergano

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 9D

LENGTH: 613 words


What lies below the Bahamas in the Caribbean? A veiled world of fossils, blind
creatures and scientific riddles.

In next month's issue of  National Geographic magazine, an international team of
cave divers led by anthropologist Kenny Broad of the University of Miami reveals
the mysteries hidden from vacationers' view.

The two-month expedition, paid for by the National Geographic Foundation, was
merely a small slice of time in a years-long effort to uncover the secrets of
this realm, which has been plumbed by researchers for at least three decades.

Only a few miles inland from the Bahamas' sparkling coral reefs, the islands'
limestone boasts dozens of submerged caves, "blue holes," some of them hidden in
what look like island swimming holes linked to the ocean.

But swimming holes they are not. The inland caves on five islands sport
freshwater caps covering heavier saltwater layers, sometimes filled with clouds
of poisonous hydrogen sulfide released by salt-eating microbes, acting to
preserve whatever falls within. Others contain whirlpools powered by the tides.

"Cave diving is really about knowing your limits," Broad says. "But it provides
one of the most amazing experiences in life, and the scientific opportunities
are tremendous."

Says cave diver and geologist Patricia Beddows of Northwestern University in
Evanston, Ill., who was not part of the expedition: "Each one of these cave
diving expeditions, without fail, provides an enormous amount of information.
Cave diving is an extraordinarily powerful tool to allow us to get into the
heart of karst (cave) systems worldwide."

In submerged caves such as Stargate on Andros island in the Bahamas, the
expedition team reports:

*Specialized "chemosynthetic" bacteria that live without oxygen and feast on
chemical reactions possible only in the caves.

*Stalactite curtains, or "speleothems," that contain a record of past sea level
and climate conditions locked in their structures.

*Fossils of Lucayan tribe members who lived on the islands until the 1500s.

"We've brought scientists from many disciplines together so our results inform
each other's work," Broad says. "The initial exploration is just a proof of
concept. We still have lots of work ahead."

Coastal regions of the Caribbean, such as Florida, Cuba and the Yucatan, and
other regions worldwide contain limestone permeated with caves, Beddows notes,
leading to such blue holes. In addition to their scientific value, they often
serve as freshwater resources for increasing  numbers of people in those
regions, which makes investigation of them essential for public health.

Sea level about 20,000 years ago, during the height of an Ice Age, was hundreds
of feet lower in the Bahamas. The transition has left its mark on the
speleothems and geology of the caves, Broad says, making each one a laboratory
for measuring the effects of past changes in climate.

Each cave diving expedition requires years of preparation,  and the results will
affect scientific conclusions for years afterward.

"It's possible to make a direct comparison between what we do and exploring
outer space," Beddows says. Years of training for short investigations in a
hostile environment are the hallmarks of cave diving science, which she
describes as a "select" discipline, slowly growing in numbers but now
increasingly established.

Alongside the danger, the blue holes of the Bahamas have offered little allure
for divers who in some cases could instead walk to beaches with access to some
of the world's most beautiful coral reefs.

"Why dive into a muddy-looking hole when you can head for the beach?" Broad
says. "But (the holes) are really fascinating places once you start looking."

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Photos by Wes C. Skiles, National Geographic
PHOTO, B/W

DOCUMENT-TYPE: SCIENCE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              56 of 169 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          February 17, 2010 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Drought reversal is 'extraordinary';
More than 92% of nation is quenched

BYLINE: Doyle Rice

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 475 words


What a difference a rain makes. The nationwide drought that had farmers,
communities and entire states fighting to conserve water has reversed in the
most dramatic turnaround since federal scientists began keeping records.

More than 92% of the country is drought-free -- the nation's best showing since
1999.

"The lack of drought is extraordinary," said Douglas Le Comte, a meteorologist
with the federal Climate Prediction Center.

At the worst of the USA's most recent drought -- in August 2007  -- almost 50%
of the country was involved. Currently, about 7% of the country is in a drought,
according to federal scientists. The only part of the USA in "extreme" drought
is a small fraction of Hawaii.

In 2007, gigantic portions of the Southeast were in the worst drought in more
than a century, sparking water wars among Georgia, Alabama and Florida.

"It was horrid," said Teresa Hammack of Mars Hill, N.C., whose springs ran dry
in August 2007 at the height of the Southeast drought. Hammack's home relies
entirely on underground springs as a source of water.

"Our springs are running rampant, with clean, fresh water," she said.

There have been less than half a dozen occasions since the late 1800s when
drought has been as sparse as it is now, Le Comte said.

Even before this month's massive snowfall totals, relief has come in a number of
different ways:

*The West has been helped this winter by a Pacific train of storm systems laden
with ample moisture. The storms, caused by the ongoing El Nioo climate pattern,
brought lots of rain and snow to the Southwest, including the normally arid
deserts of Southern California and eastern Arizona, according to the U.S.
Drought Monitor.

*The southern drought (across Texas, Louisiana and Florida) was eased by a very
wet fall and winter, said David Miskus, a meteorologist with the Climate
Prediction Center.

*Drought relief in the Southeast started a year or two ago, Miskus said. A
number of wet weather systems, including Tropical Storm Fay in August 2008,
chipped away at the drought, Le Comte said. By the spring of 2009, a number of
soaking weather systems ended the drought in the Georgia area, he said.

"I guess it was time for Mother Nature to make up for the long-term subnormal
precipitation with deluges," Miskus said.

In drought-plagued California, the "meteorological drought is pretty much over,"
said Le Comte, but the state still has a water supply shortfall.

According to the federal Drought Monitor, California reservoir levels, after
being down from several consecutive years of subnormal rain and snow, have
started to recover, although most reservoirs have not reached normal capacity.

"We've gone from a very scary situation to an OK situation," said Jeffrey
Kightlinger, general manager of the Metropolitan Water District of Southern
California. "If it stays wet, we'll stay in an OK situation."

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Julie Snider, USA TODAY, Source: U.S. Drought Monitor
(Map)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              58 of 169 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              June 25, 2010 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Northern Wis. region suffering big dry spell;
Drought hasn't hit area for this long since the 1950s

BYLINE: Judy Keen

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 713 words


LAKE TOMAHAWK, Wis. -- The drought that has gripped northern Wisconsin for eight
years is drying up lakes, distressing wildlife and forests and changing Pat
Wingo's business.

At Captain Hooks, the bait, tackle and gift shop he owns in this town of 1,200,
Wingo, 45, stocks less live bait and more plastic lures because there are fewer
walleye and more bass in some lakes. Walleye are finicky about where they spawn,
and changes in some lakes have reduced their population, he says.

His work as a fishing guide is altered, too. Some of the usual hot spots are
gone. He takes anglers in pursuit of musky and perch to different lakes than he
once did. "We've seen some big changes," Wingo says. The lakes and their fish
populations "probably have changed forever."

Parts of this state's North Woods and the adjacent Upper Peninsula of Michigan
are the only areas in the continental USA experiencing "extreme" drought. It's
the region's most severe drought since the 1930s and its longest dry period
since the 1950s, says Roy Eckberg, a National Weather Service meteorologist in
Green Bay, Wis.

It will take 30-50 inches of precipitation to make up the deficit, probably over
two or more years, he says. The drought is caused by "natural variability in
weather patterns, and I'm sure there is some global (climate) change aspect,"
Eckberg says. "How much, that's really hard to say."

Director John Young of the State Climatology Office says the outlook for summer
is for normal rainfall, which could "start a partial restoration of lake
levels."

Some of the drought's visible effects are striking. The Rainbow Flowage, a
reservoir just east of here, is down 13 feet from its maximum depth, exposing
rocks that should be underwater and creating beaches. Two of its three boat
landings are unusable. Dropping water levels have cut off bays from the main
parts of Clear and Sugar Camp lakes.

The drought's effects deep in the forests are potentially more troubling. "It's
going to take a long time to recover from this," says Tom Jerow, water leader
for the Wisconsin Department of Natural Resources' northern region. Among those
changes:

*The frog population has declined because shallow ponds have dried up, says DNR
wildlife biologist Ron Eckstein. It will take two or three years for them to
rebound when the drought ends.

*Receding water threatens beavers, who build lodges on shorelines and store food
beneath the ice in winter. As gaps between the two grow, it's harder for them to
access their food.

*Trees such as red oak and white birch are more vulnerable to insects. They're
weakened when lack of moisture makes it hard for them to store nutrients in root
systems, Eckstein says.

*Lower lake levels and deeper sunlight penetration cause increased weed growth,
which can affect fish spawning, says Steve AveLallemant, DNR fisheries
supervisor for the northern region.

*By hindering the growth of saplings, berries and other vegetation, droughts
affect animals' food supplies. Because of the drought, breeding duck numbers
were lower than average this year, the DNR says.

People here aren't complaining about some changes: Migrating shore birds that
prefer sandy beaches are dropping by more often, and there's been a big dip in
the mosquito population.

Tourists are still coming. Bill Johnson, 47, a Minneapolis marketing manager who
brings his two sons here every summer, didn't consider going elsewhere. "It's
quiet, beautiful and there are plenty of things to do," he says. "That hasn't
changed."

Business is down a bit at Rainbow Shores Bar & Grill on the edge of the Rainbow
Flowage, says Lisa Busha, 43, who owns the isolated tavern with her husband,
Mark, 40. They estimate that the number of people fishing the reservoir has
declined by half.

The drought is "very depressing," she says. "It's all anybody talks about. I
think we've given up on water this season."

Ed Pleus, 65, a retired boat salesman who fishes daily, says the drought and
recession have really hurt the area. On opening day of fishing this year, he
counted 44 anglers at the spot he frequents. There are usually 55 or 65, he
says.

"These are tough times," he says, "but I've seen it worse."

Wingo says his business is doing OK and the area's main attraction hasn't
evaporated. "People," he says, "are still fishing."

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Julie Snider, USA TODAY, Source: U.S. Drought Monitor
(Map)
PHOTOS, B/W, Photos by Butch McCartney for USA TODAYPhotos by Butch McCartney
for USA TODAY (3)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              62 of 169 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           October 28, 2010 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Outside political funding picks up;
Total spending could hit $4B by Tuesday

BYLINE: Fredreka Schouten

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 686 words


WASHINGTON -- Democratic Rep. Dina Titus has outraised her Republican
challenger, Nevada physician Joe Heck, by more than $1 million.

But the millions collected by the candidates in their battle to represent Las
Vegas still fall well short of the nearly $6.8 million that special-interest
groups and political parties have pumped into the race, making it one of the
House contests attracting the most outside spending. Much of the money is
flowing into negative advertising.

"It's hard to break through when you are being outspent," Titus said in an
interview. Her 80-year-old mother, she added, "can't stand to watch the
television" because she's so dismayed by the attack ads.

The daily advertising barrage in this congressional district and other highly
competitive House and Senate races around the country underscores the record
amounts of campaign money pouring into this year's midterm elections, which will
determine whether Democrats retain their hold on Congress and the outcome of
President Obama's legislative priorities.

Total spending -- by candidates, political parties and special interests -- has
topped $3.2 billion and is likely to hit $4 billion when reports detailing
last-minute donations and spending are tallied, according to a study released
Wednesday by the non-partisan Center for Responsive Politics. That would
obliterate the record $2.85 billion spent in 2006, the last midterm elections.

"We knew this election could make spending history, but the rate of growth is
stunning," said Sheila Krumholz, the center's director.

More than $200 million -- roughly equal to the New York Yankees annual payroll
-- is hitting the airwaves each week in election-related TV advertising, said
Evan Tracey, who tracks political advertising at the Campaign Media Analysis
Group.

"The mentality is that there is no safe seat," he said.

So far, Democratic and Republican candidates and their respective party
committees have raised equivalent amounts: about $1.4 billion on each side, the
center's data show.

Outside spending is making a difference. Parties and special-interest groups,
many of whom are spending millions to target candidates without disclosing their
donors, have pumped more than $400 million into the election to date, easily
surpassing the $240 million spent by similar groups through the end of October
2006, according to the non-partisan Sunlight Foundation.

Conservative groups have the upper hand in independent efforts, outspending
liberal organizations by more than 2-to-1, the Center for Responsive Politics'
analysis shows.

GOP-affiliated groups active in Nevada include the American Action Network, a
conservative non-profit organization that has spent more than $700,000 to defeat
Titus, who was first elected to Congress in 2008 in a seat previously held by a
Republican.

The group opposes the new health-care law and a climate-change bill approved by
the House that aims to limit greenhouse gases. Titus backed both.

The Nevada House contest "presented us with an opportunity to educate voters and
hopefully motivate folks to demand change in how they are represented in
Congress," said Rob Collins, the network's president.

Liberal groups attacking Heck include the American Federation of State, County
and Municipal Employees and the League of Conservation Voters, which has spent
more than $205,000.

Overall, the league is spending $4 million in nearly two dozen House and Senate
races, up from $1.7 million in 2006, said Tony Massaro, the group's senior vice
president for political affairs. "Our supporters have been fired up by two
things: passage of comprehensive clean-energy legislation in the House and the
failure to pass the legislation in the Senate," he said.

Heck has faced plenty of negative advertising from Democratic-affiliated groups,
said Ryan Erwin, a GOP strategist advising Heck's campaign. But he said the
outcome on Tuesday won't be determined by outside spending.

In a state with a jobless rate of 14.4%, "this is going to come down to a
question ... of whether voters are better off today than they were when Dina
Titus went to Congress? ... The answer is no."

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Julie Snider, USA TODAY, Source: Center for Responsive
Politics (Bar graph)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              63 of 169 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           November 3, 2010 Wednesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Taxes, spending and budgets dominate issues on ballots

BYLINE: Dennis Cauchon

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 551 words


Massachusetts voters considered slashing the state's sales tax in half Tuesday,
one of several key ballot issues that will test the nation's mood for limiting
government.

Indiana, Colorado, California and Washington join Massachusetts in considering
large and important ballot measures that would dramatically cut, cap or increase
taxes.

The Massachusetts proposal may be the most dramatic. It would cut the state
sales to tax to 3% from 6.25%, reducing revenue by more than $2.5 billion. A
related measure would eliminate the sales tax on alcohol, saving consumers $110
million.

Tax cut supporter Carla Howell says she hopes the proposal's success will start
a sales tax revolt in other states, similar to what happened in when California
voters slashed property taxes by approving Proposition 13 in 1978.

Social issues were few on the ballot box Tuesday, unlike recent years when gay
marriage and abortion were frequent topics.

The big exception is California's Proposition 19, which would legalize and tax
growing and possessing marijuana for personal use. A tax on marijuana could
raise about $1.4 billion a year, the state estimates.

Voters cast ballots Tuesday on 159 statewide issues in 36 states, down from 204
issues considered in the last midterm election.

Illinois mulled a constitutional amendment to permit the recall of a governor, a
response to the corruption scandals involving former governor Rod Blagojevich
and other governors.

Other key ballot measures:

*Property taxes. Indiana decided whether to permanently cap property tax
increases and place a higher levy on business property than on homes.

*Spending limits. Colorado voters decided on three citizen initiatives that
would severely limit how much the state and local governments can tax, spend and
borrow.

*Card-check. Arizona, South Carolina, South Dakota and Utah decided whether
union elections should be done by secret ballot. Business groups supported the
measure; unions opposed it. The measure was ahead in early returns in South
Carolina.

*Income tax. Washington state decided whether to impose the state's first-ever
income tax, starting at 5% on individual income over $200,000 and rising to 9%
over $500,000. Bill Gates Sr., father of the Microsoft founder, led the pro-tax
effort. Microsoft Chief Executive Steve Ballmer opposed it.

*Health care. Arizona, Colorado and Oklahoma may give voters the option of
withdrawing from the federal health care overhaul. Legal challenges are
expected.

*Budget changes. California and Washington decided whether supermajorities --
more than 50% -- should be needed for a legislature to approve a budget.
Virginia, Oklahoma and South Carolina considered requiring legislatures to
create bigger "rainy day funds" to save money when times are good to be used
when times get tough.

* Climate change. California's Proposition 23 would suspend reductions in
greenhouse gas emissions until unemployment falls below 5.5% for a year.

*More legislators. Alaska may increase the number of legislators from 60 to 66
so districts can better reflect the large, sparsely populated state. Alaska now
averages one legislator per 11,500 people and per 10,000 square miles.

*R.I.P.P.? Voters considered shortening the state's official name from "State of
Rhode Island and Providence Plantations" to just "Rhode Island."

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Elaine Thompson, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              64 of 169 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            January 18, 2010 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Calif. readies for onslaught of storms;
Areas vulnerable to mudslides warned to be set to evacuate

BYLINE: William M. Welch and Doyle Rice

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 429 words


LOS ANGELES -- Residents of canyons and foothills braced for possible mudslides
as a series of powerful storms is forecast to begin pounding the West Coast
today with heavy rain and snow, strong winds and high surf.

National Weather Service meteorologist Jamie Meier said the foothills and
mountain areas around Los Angeles could receive 8 to 16 inches of rain this
week.

Los Angeles County sheriff's deputies went door-to-door Sunday, warning
residents in the most vulnerable areas that they should leave for safer ground
when the rains start and before mandatory evacuations are issued, Lt. Angela
Shepherd said. Those homes are in areas stripped of vegetation and left
susceptible to slides of mud, ash, rock and debris by massive wildfires last
year.

She said roads into forest and mountain areas would close to traffic. The county
has put in place sandbags and concrete barriers to try to divert slides away
from homes.

Bob Spencer,  spokesman for the county Department of Public Works, said the
department has advised more than 500 homeowners  to erect barriers that could
protect their homes.

"There are certainly hundreds of residences that could be vulnerable," he said.

High surf and big swells were forecast to accompany the storms, and in Northern
California, the Coast Guard and state officials urged boaters to avoid the water
this week. Waves reaching 25 feet were predicted. Inland, heavy snow was
forecast for higher elevations, and forecasters said coastal and urban flooding
was possible in parts of Southern California.

The weather service is predicting that this will likely be the wettest week in
Southern California since early 2005.

In addition to the heavy rain, winds could howl up to 70 mph in the mountains
around Los Angeles.

Farther north, the worry is snow, and lots of it. According to Weather Channel
meteorologist Tom Moore, the series of storms could dump up to 6 to 8 feet of
snow on the Sierra Nevada this week.

The Weather Channel also reports that the rain and snow this week will spread
across the interior West, with especially heavy precipitation forecast in
Arizona, southern Nevada, southern Utah and southwestern Colorado.

Meier says this weather is typical of El Nioo, a cyclical climate pattern in
which surface water temperatures in the central and eastern equatorial Pacific
Ocean are warmer than normal. A strong El Nioo usually results in a stormy
winter along the West Coast, a wet winter across the South, and a
warmer-than-average winter for parts of the North, according to the Climate
Prediction Center.

Rice reported from McLean, Va.

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Reed Saxon, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              66 of 169 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            April 29, 2010 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Don't mix politics with climate bill

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 342 words


I was alarmed to read the blog post  "Is it dead? Climate bill suffers setback
over immigration." Imagine that during a conversation with your children, who
are convincingly campaigning for greater personal freedom, a smoldering
electrical wire triggers your fire alarm. What do you do? You grab your
cellphone, corral your family outside and dial 911. The conversation with your
children, though relevant, must wait (USATODAY.com, Green House, Sunday).

As we witness the planet's flashing neon signs warning us of danger ahead, the
same adrenaline hit that instinctively drives us to protect our family's safety
must also focus our collective attention on protecting the planet. It doesn't
really matter why immigration suddenly distracted Washington from the
all-important matter of climate change, but Sens. Harry Reid and Lindsey Graham
would serve the country well by ensuring that energy reform receives top billing
in the Senate. The alarm is sounding, and my ears are ringing.

Stacy Clark

Dallas

More flu lessons

Your survey of lessons learned from the government attempts to respond to H1N1
omitted two key lessons that were not learned ("One year later, five lessons
from the swine flu outbreak," Editorial, Monday).

The first is the danger of placing all of our eggs in the basket of centralized
government agencies. Whatever potential they have for protecting public health,
the consequences of their mistakes can be catastrophic. We need to  have other
options.

The second is that cell-based technology -- and the number of companies capable
of developing it -- has been severely limited by our out-of-control legal
liability system that has been closing down vaccine manufacturers and making
America dependent on foreign manufacturers for vaccines. Until we restore a
rational and objective legal liability system, we will eliminate U.S. investment
in vaccines in order to provide financial jackpots to a few law firms. That must
be corrected at once.

Richard E. Ralston

Executive Director, Americans for Free Choice in Medicine

Newport Beach, Calif.

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              67 of 169 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              July 6, 2010 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Obama administration slow in responding to oil spill

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 492 words


A box accompanying USA TODAY's article "Land-based spills add up, too"  reported
that the U.S. finally accepted help from 12 countries and international
organizations in dealing with the oil spill ("World pitches in," News,
Wednesday).

Why did this take  71 days?  These entities have been willing and ready to help
us for  more than two months. There appears to be negligence on the part of the
administration for allowing this process to take so long. I believe the news
media have a responsibility to not only take BP to task for the spill, but also
to find out why it's taken so long for us to accept assistance from other
countries.

This illustrates clearly why Americans are so distrustful of this
administration. The government bureaucracy  has been slow to respond to  the
crisis even though  administration officials continually try to convince us
otherwise,  for example by proclaiming they were on top of this crisis on "day
one."  A non-biased press is absolutely essential in getting to the truth.

Jerry Komar

Collingswood, N.J.

Climate bill not answer

The climate bill will not stop the BP oil leak or clean up our coast. Shouldn't
we focus on stopping the leak and keeping oil away from our shores? As some in
our federal government push for this climate change bill to be passed, attention
is being taken from the real problem.

Russ Stabley

Fort Lauderdale

With business (as usual)

Rep. Joe Barton, R-Texas, accused President Obama of a "shakedown" of BP in
order to create a $20 billion "slush fund."  Instead, Barton should have been
criticizing BP for the company's disregard for safety and the resulting
disaster.

No wonder some people are calling the Republicans the GOBP for defending the
British oil giant instead of applauding Obama's efforts. The president is trying
to ensure that BP pays for the spill cleanup and the economic recovery of the
Gulf Coast region. The GOBP is always on the side of the big corporations at the
expense of the average family.

Tom Minnerick

Elgin, Ill.

Critics unfair to Obama

The vehement and inflammatory criticism that has been leveled against President
Obama over the oil spill is completely unfair.

Obama has been at the center of efforts to manage the effects of this disaster
and demand action from BP. His administration has done a remarkably effective
job of overseeing the federal response. The bulk of the president's critics and
detractors are heartlessly using this event for their self-centered political
benefit. Instead of actually assisting, they are broadcasting venom and
attempting to manufacture outrage.

Their experts, analysts and talking heads are more than willing to heap
predictions of catastrophe in order to generate anger and frustration. It's all
politics.

The president is attempting to look toward the future and figure out how we, as
a nation, can recover, rebuild and reform our way of life once this tragedy is
behind us. He needs the country's support.

Reggie Marselus

Lenexa, Kan.

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Judi Bottoni, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              69 of 169 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             March 2, 2010 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Best source for science on TV: Comedy Central?;
Stewart and Colbert give it respect, make it fun

BYLINE: Dan Vergano

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 7D

LENGTH: 639 words


Looking for science? Headed for Animal Planet or the Science Channel?

Think again, scientists say: All the cool kids want to sit across from Comedy
Central's Jon Stewart and Stephen Colbert.

"Comedy Central is it, as far as science goes," says Caltech physicist Sean
Carroll, who is scheduled for a Colbert Report visit in March to promote his
book, From Eternity to Here: The Quest for the Ultimate Theory of Time. "I give
tremendous credit to The Daily Show and The Colbert Report for understanding
that science is fascinating and fun, not off-putting and work."

At one time, Johnny Carson's Tonight Show regularly hosted astronomer Carl
Sagan, anthropologist Margaret Mead  and many other scientists. Now, the
late-night network shows largely eschew researchers, says astronomer Neil
deGrasse Tyson of the American Museum of Natural History's Hayden Planetarium in
New York, who holds the Colbert Report guest record with six appearances and was
set to make  his fourth Daily Show visit on Monday. The two shows "are carrying
the torch that Johnny Carson lit," Tyson says.

In recent years, Colbert has hosted string theorist Brian Greene, physicist Jana
Levin and paleontologist Neil Shubin, among many other scientists, including
Tyson in his show's first two weeks. Stewart devoted an "Evolution,
Schmevolution" week in 2005 to biology in the midst of the federal Kitzmiller v.
the Dover Area School District court case that found "intelligent design" --
which explains evolution as being partly driven by intelligent intervention in
animals -- was just another species of creationism.

"I'll admit to being terrified before I went on" The Colbert Report in 2008,
says Shubin, one of the discoverers of the 375-million-year-old  fishlike land
creature called Tiktaalik. "I'm really grateful for the way the show showcases
ideas."

At his scheduled appearance Monday on The Daily Show, Tyson was  to promote
tonight's  Nova documentary The Pluto Files (PBS, 8 ET/PT, check local
listings). As it looks at the debate over whether Pluto deserves to be called a
planet, the documentary includes segments like "Who Does Neil Tyson Think He
Is?" with Colbert, Stewart, NBC's Brian Williams and ABC's Diane Sawyer.

Tyson, a television-appearance pro, has visited Jay Leno's Tonight Show and Late
Night With Conan O'Brien, as well as Late Night With Jimmy Fallon. But he says
such visits are rare for other researchers. Late Show With David Letterman
brought Obama administration science adviser John Holdren on last year to
discuss climate change, but Tyson has struck out so far with Dave.

Could Colbert's mocking style destroy the dignity of science? In 2008, political
scientist Jody Baumgartner of East Carolina University in Greenville, N.C., and
colleagues found that young adults watching The Colbert Report's opening
monologue took the show's mock-conservative host seriously, failing to "get" its
parody of strident punditry.

But Baumgartner says: "It seems to me as if any 'risk' for scientists appearing
on these programs is minimal. Both Stewart and Colbert seem to be genuinely
respectful of their science guests, even if they do engage in dialogue that is
intended to generate laughs."

Carroll says the Science Channel has devoted itself to wacky pyrotechnics-based
shows rather than real science. The satirical weekly The Onion mocked that the
"Science Channel Refuses To Dumb Down Science Any Further" and noted shows such
as Punkin Chunkin, which examines gourd-lobbing technology.

"It is a very bad thing for the country that Comedy Central is the go-to place
for hearing scientists talk about their recent work, but it's great for Comedy
Central," Carroll says.

Says Tyson: "Any access that real science gets to mass media is a good thing.
Colbert and Stewart are very smart people. And they know the value and meaning
of science."

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Patrick Queen
PHOTO, B/W, Charles Sykes, AP
PHOTO, B/W, Jason DeCrow, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              71 of 169 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             March 15, 2010 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Allergy sufferers journey into season of symptoms

BYLINE: Mary Brophy Marcus

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 4D

LENGTH: 868 words


Seasonal allergies won't kill you, but they sure can knock you down.

"It's very uncomfortable. I get watery eyes, I sneeze. It affects my mood," says
Ken Gruber, 58, of North Caldwell, N.J., who has grass and tree allergies.

Allergic rhinitis afflicts an estimated 60 million people in the USA, according
to the American Academy of Allergy, Asthma & Immunology.

To usher in the spring pollen season in many parts of the country, USA TODAY's
Mary Brophy Marcus sorted through studies and spoke with experts to share some
helpful -- and just plain curious -- seasonal-allergy-related news.

Climate change

Global warming could be notching up allergies and extending allergy season
around the world, recent research suggests.

In one study, discussed this month at the annual meeting of the American Academy
of Allergy, Asthma & Immunology  in New Orleans, researchers tracked season
duration and prevalence of sensitizations for five types of pollens in one
region of Italy from 1981 to 2007. They reported that over time, there was a
progressive increase in the duration of some pollen seasons.

"Allergies and asthma seem to be increasing everywhere, and we don't know why
that is," says David Rosenstreich, director of the division of allergy and
immunology at Montefiore Medical Center in the Bronx, N.Y. Rosenstreich says
global warming probably is not the only culprit; many factors seem to be coming
together to create a "perfect storm of allergy and asthma."

He points to the changing geography of New York as an example. Just north of the
Bronx lies a solid blanket of woods for 100 miles. "There are more trees in that
area now than there were 100 years ago. It used to be all farms. Now, in spring,
right smack in the middle of the Bronx, we have an enormous amount of pollen
blowing in -- a huge epidemic of asthma and allergies every spring that the
hospitals prepare for."

Oral allergy syndrome

Ever bite into a juicy red apple and feel your mouth tingle? If so, you might
have oral allergy syndrome, says Marshall Plaut, chief of the allergic
mechanisms section, at the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious
Diseases.

The phenomenon typically occurs in people who are allergic to pollens when they
eat certain foods, especially fresh fruits.

"It appears to be much worse during seasonal allergy seasons," says Plaut, who
explains that the syndrome is a result of a cross reactivity between the
proteins in the pollens a person is allergic to and the proteins in certain
foods that are structurally similar to those in the pollens.

"Why it worsens during pollen season relates to some poorly understood
immunological mechanism," says Plaut, but why it's in the mouth, no one knows.

New York City resident Stephanie Robinson, 24, has a birch tree allergy and
experiences oral allergy symptoms year-round. "Ever since I was little, when I
eat plums or nectarines, my throat gets itchy, my eyes blow up. Apples give me
hives," Robinson says.

Plaut says people usually don't have severe reactions, but anaphylaxis, a
life-threatening reaction, can occur rarely.

Itchy eyes

It's very common to have itchy, watery, red eyes during allergy season, says
Karl von Tiehl, assistant clinical professor of allergy and immunology at
Cincinnati Children's.

"They tend to happen in peak pollen times, when the earth is covered with
yellowy pollen," he says.

Eye problems are linked to the nose, von Tiehl says. Certain kinds of chemicals
that are released in the nose can lead to nasal symptoms like itching,
runniness, stuffiness and sneezing. The eye symptoms are a neurological reflex
that starts in the nose, travels to the brain and back to the eyes and nose
again, he says.

He says there are many effective drops for eyes: mast cell stabilizing agents,
antihistamines and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory eye drops. All are effective
in removing itch or redness.

You want to avoid long-term use of decongestant eye drops, though, von Tiehl
says. "They remove redness and some itch -- they're usually highly advertised as
being allergy drops and they're very effective -- but chronic use can lead to
increased pressure in the eye and glaucoma."

Treatment options

Figuring out what to take among the myriad drug options -- from over-the-counter
sprays and tablets to prescription pills and nasal sprays -- and whether to
self-medicate, see your family doctor or visit an allergy expert can be
confusing.

Most people can try treating themselves with over-the-counter medications first,
Rosenstreich says. But if your symptoms make you miserable, interfere with life
and you're not getting much relief, a visit to your primary-care doctor or an
allergy specialist is wise.

"A lot of people aren't aware of medications other than Benadryl," von Tiehl
says. He says the first line of prescription drugs for hay fever are intranasal
corticosteroids, which shrink swollen nasal passages.

Prescription antihistamines or a medication that inhibits leukotrienes are
options too, says James Li, chief of allergy at Mayo Clinic. Short-term oral
steroids can be used for those with severe symptoms, too, Li says.

If nothing else does the job, consider allergy shots -- called immunotherapy --
which Rosenstreich says are very effective and safe.

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, Color, Frank Pompa, USA TODAY (Illustration)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              72 of 169 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             March 30, 2010 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Monarchs no longer rule;
The butterflies, already losing habitat, are being battered by bad weather

BYLINE: Elizabeth Weise

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 8D

LENGTH: 485 words


This year may be one of the worst on record for the beleaguered monarch
butterfly, experts say.

Massive hailstorms that dropped 2 inches of ice on the trees where the
orange-and-black-winged butterflies spend the winter in Mexico, followed by 15
inches of rain, could mean that as many as 50%  were killed this year.

"My fear is that the number was much higher than that," says Chip Taylor, a
professor of entomology and director of Monarch Watch at the University of
Kansas-Lawrence. "And that's from a population that was pretty small to begin
with." He believes it may take several years for the population to recover.

The  area northwest of Mexico City where the winged creatures gather was hit
hard by the severe weather. "Fifty people died in the area," Taylor says.

Says Lincoln Brower, a zoologist and monarch specialist at Sweet Briar College
in Virginia,  "I was down there about 10 days ago, and things are in pretty bad
shape."

The monarch population is typically measured by the number of acres of pine
trees the butterflies fill. This year, scientists found the smallest area of
monarchs overwintering in the 16 years they have been looking --  down to 4.7
acres from an average of 18.3 acres, Taylor says.

Brower inspected one of the principal colonies, which had been 1.2 acres in
size. "All we found was two trees with butterflies in them."

Each female flies 1,000 miles or more  on her way north from Mexico, depositing
her eggs along the way only on milkweed leaves. She dies, but her eggs hatch and
her offspring continue the migration.

It can take three to four  generations for the monarchs to reach Canada, Taylor
says. Then in the fall, that final generation begins its migration back to
Mexico, and those butterflies live for eight months.

"It's one of the mysteries scientists are still working on," says Craig Wilson,
a butterfly follower and science educator at Texas A&M University in College
Station.

Monarch populations have fallen dramatically because of three things, says
Brower, one of the world experts on the species:

*Illegal logging in Mexico has destroyed the butterflies' mountain habitats.

*Climate change is causing severe weather.

*There has been a significant increase in the planting of corn and soybeans in
the Midwest  genetically engineered to be herbicide-resistant. That allows
farmers to spray weed killer without hurting the crops, but it has meant almost
no milkweed survive in the fields.

"They've literally eliminated 100% of the milkweed of what once was prime
breeding habitat of the butterflies," Brower says.

Monarch Watch has begun a milkweed-planting campaign to encourage the creation
of monarch way stations across the nation.

Monarchs are beautiful, but creating habitats where they can thrive also
benefits humans, Taylor says. Those habitats also "protect other insects, the
little guys whose life's work is to pollinate our nuts, our fruits and our
vegetables."

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, Color, Karl Gelles, USA TODAY, Source: Chip Taylor, Monarch
Watch, University of Kansas (Maps)
PHOTO, Color, Chip Taylor, Monarch Watch, via AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              74 of 169 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              April 2, 2010 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Yes, drill offshore for oil, and do many other things, too

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 582 words


In 2008, candidate Barack Obama dismissed offshore drilling for oil and gas as a
bad idea that would "only worsen our addiction to oil and put off needed
investments in clean, renewable energy." That was the summer of $4 gas, though,
when Americans were frantic to do something, and Obama eventually gave grudging
support to a bipartisan plan that included drilling.

On Wednesday he shifted even more dramatically, proposing a robust plan to open
up long-closed stretches of ocean off the East Coast and northern Alaska for
drilling. Maybe it was just practical politics -- do something for the
drill-baby-drill crowd and it'll be easier to get support for broader
climate-change legislation that includes proposals Democrats and
environmentalists like.

But it's also true that when you're in charge of making the country work, it
becomes clear pretty quickly that it's foolish to put any reasonable energy
source, or energy savings, off limits. That's certainly the way Obama has been
acting lately.

During the campaign he was cool toward nuclear energy, but in February he
announced billions in loan guarantees for the first nuclear plants to be built
in 30 years. His stimulus bill contained billions for alternative energy
projects, and on Thursday, his administration announced it was setting
aggressive new targets for automotive fuel economy -- a goal of 35.5 miles per
gallon by 2016, up sharply from 27.5 mpg now.

Good, good and good. There are critics of every one of these plans, but the
nation doesn't have the luxury of instantly wishing away its dependence on oil,
or forgoing the big, nuclear-powered plants that will provide electricity if
all-electric cars or plug-in hybrids one day fill the nation's highways. We
should move just as aggressively to make alternative energy such as wind and
solar more than the 4% of our energy mix it is now. Conservation holds even more
potential. We need to do everything.

That's especially true of drilling offshore for oil and gas. The math alone
makes a compelling case. U.S. oil production peaked in late 1970 and has fallen
45% since then. U.S. consumption has fallen, too, but not nearly as much. To
fill the gap, we now get almost 60% of our crude oil from a volatile world
market, vs. 13% in 1970.

Critics note that the potential supplies offshore are a tiny part of the world
market, but even so the Interior Department's estimates range from 39 billion to
62 billion barrels of oil. We use 7 billion barrels a year, so if the oil is
really there, it could be five to nine years worth. True, robust production
wouldn't kick in for a decade or more. But that same argument helped block
action 10 years ago. Domestic gas supplies, meanwhile, are massive and
underutilized.

Some of the most ironic objections come from those who say offshore exploration
will destroy beaches and coastlines, citing the devastating 1989 Exxon Valdez
oil spill in Alaska as an example. The last serious spill from a drilling
accident in U.S. waters was in 1969, off Santa Barbara, Calif. But tankers like
the Valdez continue to carry the imported oil we're ruinously addicted to and
have gone aground more frequently, more recently and far more disastrously.

It's been almost two years since $4-a-gallon gasoline shocked U.S. drivers and
upset the U.S. economy. Predictably, prices fell, the crisis eased, and almost
nothing was done to protect the nation against another shock. By increasing
efforts to try everything, including drilling, Obama has made a start.

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Chris Carlson, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              76 of 169 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            April 29, 2010 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

1st offshore wind farm gets OK;
Unleashes fresh fight over Cape Cod

BYLINE: Oren Dorell

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 446 words


The Obama administration on Wednesday approved the USA's first offshore wind
energy project, but opponents to the turbines off Cape Cod vowed the fight is
not over.

Interior Secretary Ken Salazar announced his decision after a nine-year federal
review of the project that pitted environmentalists against one another and drew
opposition from across party lines.

Among opponents to Cape Wind in Massachusetts was Edward Kennedy, a Democrat
whose family estate is in nearby Hyannis Port. Republican Sen. Scott Brown, who
now holds the Senate seat long held by Kennedy, also opposes it. He has called
the Nantucket Sound "a national treasure that should be protected."

The 130 turbines, 440 feet tall, would sit in waters between Nantucket Island
and Cape Cod. The turbines would be 5 miles off Cape Cod at their nearest point
to land.

Brown said the project would jeopardize tourism and fishing, both "vital to the
cape's economy," and threaten aviation safety and the rights of Native American
tribes. Area tribes have said the project would desecrate submerged ancestral
burial sites.

Cape Wind will produce power for 75% of the demand in Cape Cod, Martha's
Vineyard and Nantucket Island, the Interior Department said. If construction
begins this year, Cape Wind said, it can generate power by 2012.

Audra Parker, president of the Alliance to Protect Nantucket Sound, which led
opposition to the project, vowed that it "is going to be in litigation for
years" and ultimately will be defeated. Parker said the approval was "a slap in
the face" to rate payers, "who will ultimately have to pay for this project."
The Interior Department said the project would cost $1 billion.

Supporters said the decision sends a good signal to the wind energy industry.
"America is open for business for offshore wind" after trailing Europe and
China, said Tom Vinson of  the American Wind Energy Association. Coastal areas
will see more offshore turbines, with plans in Rhode Island, Delaware, Virginia
and the Great Lakes, Vinson said. A Rhode Island project could provide 15% of
the state's energy needs, he said.

The American Bird Conservancy said the windmills pose a threat to birds, which
could fly into the turbines. The project will cause loons to abandon the area
and hurt endangered roseated terns, the conservancy's Michael Fry said.

Kert Davies, research director at Greenpeace, an environmental activist group
that backed the project,  said Cape Wind has to comply with laws protecting
wildlife. "If we do nothing about climate change, birds, especially endangered
birds, will be hit by a giant hammer," Davies said. "We see this project as a
keystone in the solution for global warming."

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Charles Dharapak, AP
PHOTO, B/W, Steven Senne, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              78 of 169 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             June 2, 2010 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Capital shocker: Gores to split after 40 years;
Friends are told of 'mutual' breakup via group e-mail

BYLINE: Mimi Hall

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 449 words


WASHINGTON -- Word from Al and Tipper Gore that they are separating after 40
years of marriage rocked the nation's capital Tuesday, more than a decade after
their storybook romance stood in contrast to the turbulent relationship between
Bill and Hillary Clinton.

"This is very much a mutual and mutually supportive decision that we have made
together following a process of long and careful consideration," the couple said
in an e-mail to family and friends just two weeks after their 40th anniversary.
"We ask for respect for our privacy and that of our family, and we do not intend
to comment further."

Kalee Kreider, a spokeswoman for the former vice president, confirmed the
contents of the e-mail but would not provide other details. Other friends
declined to speak on the record, citing the Gores' request for privacy.

It was the talker of the day in Washington. Politico issued a breaking-news
alert shortly after noon. Within a couple of hours, The Huffington Post had
posted a photo and video gallery of the couple's best-known PDAs (public
displays of affection), including the ardent kiss that then-Democratic
presidential nominee Gore planted on his wife at the 2000 Democratic National
Convention.

"It's absolutely stunning," said David Jackson, a pop culture professor at
Bowling Green State University in Ohio. "They appeared to be a totally
functional modern, working couple."

For decades, the Gores cultivated their image as a couple who met and fell in
love in high school and kept the spark alive while raising four kids and living
a public life.

An accomplished drummer and photographer, Tipper loved the counterculture
Grateful Dead band and was seen as the more impetuous of the pair who helped
humanize her handsome but stiff leading man. In 2004, Al Gore called her "my
beloved partner."

Their marriage survived stresses: the near-death experience of their young son
who was hit by a car in 1989, her battle with depression, the 1998 scandal when
President Clinton admitted to sexual relations with an intern, the 2000 election
recount and subsequent Supreme Court ruling for George W. Bush.

Tipper Gore, 61, has since set up a photo website and spent time with their
children and three grandchildren. Al Gore, 62, who won the Nobel Peace Prize in
2007 for his work on climate change, has traveled extensively to promote
environmental causes and launched Current TV, a media company.

The Gores' separation shows "it's impossible to tell what goes on in a
marriage," says Stephanie Coontz, author of Marriage, A History. At the same
time, she says, if they keep the personal details private and remain friends,
their breakup could be a "model" for how to separate "with dignity."

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Color, File photo by Mark Wilson, Getty Images
PHOTO, Color, File photo by Tim Dillon, USA TODAY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              83 of 169 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           October 20, 2010 Wednesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Measure targets California green law

BYLINE: Wendy Koch

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 493 words


California, long a trendsetter in environmental protection, will decide in
November whether to pull back from a landmark anti-pollution law as its economy
continues to struggle.

A ballot measure, advocated by the oil industry, would suspend a law to reduce
greenhouse gas emissions until the state's unemployment rate falls below 5.5%
for four consecutive quarters. Unemployment is 12.4%.

"Proposition 23 is a really significant initiative, not just for California, but
for the nation as a whole," says Jennie Drage Bowser of the non-partisan
National Conference of State Legislatures. She says it could affect whether
Congress passes legislation to tackle climate change.

Recent polls show Californians are evenly split on the measure, which has drawn
about $37 million in campaign donations.

Supporters have raised $9 million, two-thirds of it from oil companies based
outside California, according to MAPLight.org, a non-partisan group that tracks
such donations.

Opponents, including environmentalists, clean-technology companies and health
groups, have raised about $28 million, including $1 million from movie director
James Cameron. They're holding a fundraiser Friday featuring musicians Jackson
Browne and Elvis Costello.

Nationwide, there are other environmental measures on the Nov. 2 ballot:

*In Arizona, Proposition 301 would transfer money from a land-conservation fund
to a general one to help plug a deficit in the state budget.

*In Maine, Question 3 would create a $10 million bond for state parks and land
conservation.

*In California, Proposition 21 would increase vehicle registration fees, which
vary by car, $18 annually to help fund state parks and provide free day access
to the parks.

Proposition 23, though, is the most significant, says Justine Sarver of the
Ballot Initiative Strategy Center, which fights conservative measures.

"This is a huge battle over the future of environmental law in this country,"
Sarver says.

The first major provisions of California's Global Warming Solutions Act of 2006
are slated to take effect next year. Utilities will have to obtain at least 33%
of their electricity from renewable sources within a decade.

Steven Maviglio of the "No on 23" campaign says suspending the law will cost
jobs in the clean-tech industry, which he calls "one of the few bright spots in
our economy."

He says California entrepreneurs don't want out-of-state oil interests dictating
state policy, and health groups such as the American Lung Association want
cleaner air.

Proposition 23's supporters say California's law, which would require companies
to cap their emissions, would cost 1 million jobs.

"This is the wrong time to implement costly new measures," says Bill Day of
Valero Energy. Valero, a San Antonio company that has two refineries in
California, donated $4 million to promote the measure.

The law, signed by Republican Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger, aims to reduce the
state's greenhouse gas emissions to 1990 levels by 2020.

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              88 of 169 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            April 28, 2010 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Immigration issue proves difficult for leaders to postpone

BYLINE: Kathy Kiely

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 479 words


WASHINGTON -- Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid on Tuesday backed off a plan to
make immigration the next item on the Senate's agenda, but a controversial new
Arizona law and a push by immigration rights groups has renewed a debate many
lawmakers would rather not have in an election year.

"It's a very tough time right now," said Sen. Dianne Feinstein, D-Calif., who
favors a comprehensive new immigration bill.

Reid had wanted to push a bipartisan bill authored by Sens. Charles Schumer,
D-N.Y., and Lindsey Graham, R-S.C., that would beef up border security, require
biometric identity cards for employment and create a path to citizenship for
about 11 million illegal immigrants.

Graham said he doesn't want the bill considered this year and threatened to pull
his support for another of President Obama's priorities, an energy and climate
change bill.

Reid said he would move first on the climate and energy bill because it is
ready.

He said he has not given up on immigration legislation but acknowledged passing
the bill "will require bipartisan support."

Battle lines that formed Tuesday ran through both parties.

Former Florida governor Jeb Bush criticized a bill that fellow Republican Jan
Brewer, the governor of Arizona, signed into law this week.

Bush told Politico that the law, which allows police to demand proof of legal
status from anyone they suspect of being an illegal immigrant, could create
"civil liberties issues that are significant."

Democratic senators said they support immigration legislation but questioned
whether such a complicated bill is possible in a busy year.

"I have no idea," said Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Patrick Leahy, D-Vt.,
when asked whether he thought he could move an immigration bill to the Senate
floor.

Election year politics comes into play for both parties.

Four years ago, Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz., partnered with Sen. Edward Kennedy,
D-Mass., in drafting a sweeping -- but ultimately unsuccessful -- immigration
bill.

This year, McCain -- who faces a strong GOP primary challenge from former
representative J.D. Hayworth, a critic of that bipartisan measure -- has called
for tough border security and praised Arizona's immigration law.

On the Democratic side, pressure is building from Latinos, a key party
constituency. In Nevada, where Reid faces a tough battle for re-election, exit
polls showed Hispanics accounted for 15% of the voters in 2008.

Rep. Luis Gutierrez, a Democrat from Obama's hometown of Chicago, said in an
interview this week that his party leaders need to respond to "the growing
frustration which exists in the immigrant community to the lack of action" on an
immigration bill.

In his campaign, Obama made a "clear and unequivocal promise" to push for an
immigration bill early in his term, Gutierrez said. "You cannot ... promise
you're going to act and then weasel out because it's difficult," he said.

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Harry Hamburg, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              96 of 169 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             April 23, 2010 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Optimism fills shopping carts;
Consumers let loose of their 'pent-up demand'

BYLINE: Jayne O'Donnell

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 1354 words


Cheryl Stewart got laid off a year ago, so she and her husband slowed their
spending. Recently, she started buying clothes and redecorating her daughter's
room, and is preparing to buy furniture.

She's on a budget, but the Baltimore mother of two says though she is still not
working, she's simply tired of "denying myself for so long."

Jane Scott cut back last fall on pricey haircuts, dinners out with her husband
and clothes shopping. But Scott's employer has attracted new clients, and she
feels more secure in her job.

So the Jacksonville, Ill., customer service representative has been spending on
"things that were more wants than needs" and has a new warm-weather wardrobe to
show for it.

Paige Worthy, a writer in Chicago, confesses to having "spring spending fever."

She says she is "supporting" several home furnishing stores, including Crate &
Barrel and West Elm, and finding the deals at J. Crew, Gap and Banana Republic
too good to pass up.

Worthy, who "actually never stopped shopping," finds she's spending even more
now.

A government panel of economists can't agree on when -- or even whether -- the
recession has ended. And seven in 10 consumers in a BIGresearch poll this month
say they think the country is still in a recession. But economic optimism is
showing up in shopping carts and in many consumer polls.

So many people have stepped up shopping that last month's retail sales compared
with March 2009 showed the biggest increase in more than 10 years. Many
purchases still tend toward the practical, but Walmart's sales increases are
less notable than they were a year ago, luxury retail sales are way up, and
furniture stores seem to be making a comeback.

There are many reasons optimism remains cautious in most quarters, however.

March sales were being compared with one of the lowest points in retail history.
The unemployment rate remains dismal at 9.7%. A snowy start to the year for much
of the country, followed by warmer-than-usual weather, gave those who could
finally shop a reason to buy even more.

Also, Easter fell almost a week earlier than last year, moving holiday-related
sales that would have occurred in April into March.

Still, sales in every category of retail are "up, up, up," says Phil Rist of
BIGresearch, a consumer intelligence firm. But he remains a bit guarded. "We're
going in the correct direction, but it's going to take some time."

Back to shopping

Economists and retail experts say people are releasing their "pent-up demand."

"Thrift only lasts so long. You eventually have to replace stuff," says David
Wyss, chief economist at Standard & Poor's. "People are making up for lost
time."

After two months of decline, consulting firm Deloitte's Consumer Spending Index
moved upward in March to a level that's almost 2 1/2  times what it was in March
2009.

Deloitte, which uses the index to track consumer cash flow to help predict
future spending, said the increase was because of the decline in initial
unemployment claims -- which peaked a year ago -- and lower tax rates thanks to
last year's federal government stimulus package.

In a survey of 8,200 consumers April 6-13, BIGresearch found almost a third
described themselves as confident in the economy. That's up slightly from March
and far ahead of April 2008 and 2009 but still lags considerably behind the
period from April 2004 through 2007.

Most still say they are focused on savings, yet the 90-day outlook for sales of
clothing, shoes and some home furnishings is also brighter than it has been in
the past two years.

Retail consulting firm Kurt Salmon Associates says its research shows there is a
new "I think I survived the recession" mentality among consumers. Many feel
that if they weren't laid off, they likely won't be. Still, the firm is
predicting lackluster April retail sales and believes retailers need to view
March and April results together to get a more realistic view of where the
economy really is right now.

People are beginning to feel better than they did six to nine months ago, says
Kurt Salmon retail strategist Mark Anglin, but many don't think they'll be able
to move from their homes for many years, often because they owe more than the
home is worth. So they're starting to spend on clothes and make affordable
investments in their homes.

"A lot of consumers recognize that they haven't spent money on the house in a
number of years," says Anglin. "They're not making major purchases but are
making smaller purchases that can improve their quality of life, like kitchen or
decorative items."

Style consultant Sherrie Mathieson says her clients were simply nervous about
shopping much of last year. But they're getting their courage back.

"As the stock market makes up for losses, people allow themselves to buy again,"
says Mathieson, who is based in Ridgefield, Conn. "Interestingly, the approach
is for better, higher-priced items chosen for longevity, quality and design, and
less in quantity."

That helps explain why some of the bottom dwellers on last year's sales charts,
including Neiman Marcus and Saks Fifth Avenue, have seen big increases in the
past couple of months.

Business consulting firm Bain last week predicted a 4% increase in the global
luxury goods market in 2010 after an 8% decline last year. (North and South
America are expected to gain 4% as well.) Sales of accessories, shoes and
leather are expected to rise 5%, and apparel, watches and jewelry are forecast
to grow 4%.

Still, Neiman Marcus and Saks are adjusting to the realities of the
post-recession consumer. Neiman Marcus is testing a concept for in-store
departments geared toward the "aspirational" (read: not rich) shopper. Saks said
last month that it is closing its Portland, Ore., store.

But Saks CEO Stephen Sadove says he's heartened by recent trends.

"Customers are starting to shop again, and we are hearing many anecdotes from
our stores that they are seeing customers they haven't seen in some time," said
Sadove. "They have pent-up demand."

Midprice stores win

Stores that sell more to the middle class have done well as the economy has
improved. Rist says J.C. Penney is increasing in popularity among survey
respondents. Amazon's earnings, released Thursday, show first-quarter profit
grew 68%.

With "a number of things still weighing on the consumer family budget," Penney
CEO Mike Ullman says, shoppers continue to be "pragmatic about where they
spend." He says that's leading more to try -- and stick with -- the midprice
department store.

"People who do come and discover us aren't returning to their former loyalties,"
Ullman says.

Wyss, the economist, says that while discounters have gained a lot of market
share, their sales increases flatten when the economy improves.

"People are getting tired of being thrifty," says Wyss. "You formed a solidarity
with the unemployed by shopping at Walmart, and now you don't have to do that
anymore."

Discounters don't tend to "distinguish themselves" in areas outside of
commodities, Ullman says, so Penney tries to get consumers in to buy socks and
keep them with an increasingly diverse group of brands and outside designers.

They've attracted Stewart, who uses the hair salon and shops Penney sales racks
along with the Lands'  End department at Sears.

Stewart, who had a baby five months ago, says she needed to get a new wardrobe
that fit her better, so she started shopping more for clothes for herself rather
than for her children.

"I decided to take more time out for me and my look," says Stewart.

She also couldn't bear to look at her 4-year-old daughter's room, which wasn't
fully furnished. She's been gradually buying accessories for the room, some from
a high-end consignment shop, and is working with a design expert on how to
arrange the room once she buys larger pieces from a furniture store.

Like many, Stewart and her husband are sticking to a budget but letting
themselves enjoy spending a bit. They decided, "Let's go out and do things and
make the place more livable and likable," she says.

"We're going to make good investments, as we know we're going to have them for a
while," says Stewart. "There's no point saying 'no' to ourselves anymore."

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, Color, Karl Gelles, USA TODAY, Source: BIGresearch Consumer
Intentions and Actions online survey of 8,197 adults conducted April 6-13 (Pie
charts)
GRAPHIC, B/W, Robert W. Ahrens, USA TODAY, Source: BIGresearch Consumer
Intentions and Actions online survey of 8,197 adults conducted April 6-13 (Pie
charts, bar graphs)
PHOTO, Color, Colby E. Ware for USA TODAY

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COVER STORY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              98 of 169 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           August 18, 2010 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Mom's the word for 'Nanny McPhee';
Thompson, Gyllenhaal share magic of friendship, motherhood

BYLINE: Donna Freydkin

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 1461 words


NEW YORK -- For Emma Thompson, love means having to say you're sorry. Quite a
bit, as it happens.

She frequently apologizes to daughter Gaia, 10, for missteps in motherhood.

"I always say to Gaia, 'I got that wrong. I'm very sorry. That was badly judged,
but next time, I'll do it this way.' The point about great parenting is that you
know if you get it wrong, you can try again and get it right," says Thompson.

Her friend and colleague Maggie Gyllenhaal, mother of 3-year-old Ramona,
approves of Thompson's tactics. "That's great. It's defensiveness that kills
you, with every relationship," she says.

Thompson is a riot, an opinionated, candid woman full of witty asides and killer
zingers. Gyllenhaal is softer-spoken and more reserved, but just as spirited.
Together, they are disarmingly outspoken and honest about the rewards and
travails of raising kids. Thompson groans playfully, hanging her head in mock
exhaustion. "God, it's terrible being a parent!"

Try being a single mom  during wartime, with no money, three unruly kids and a
farm to run. In Nanny McPhee Returns, opening Friday, Thompson plays Nanny
McPhee, the mythically wise and tough caretaker who helps Mrs. Green
(Gyllenhaal) deal with her lovingly rowdy offspring and the uptight niece and
nephew who come stay with her. Did Thompson, who wrote  the screenplay, craft it
with Gyllenhaal in mind?

"Say yes!" orders a laughing Gyllenhaal, 32.

Well, sort of, explains Thompson, 51.

"Absolutely. I was in the process of writing it, and then I met Maggie, who was
a new mum and, at that time, slightly kind of ..." Thompson stops talking to
tear her fingers through her hair and demonstrate what "frazzled" looks like.
"When you're just trying to survive. A lot of that is absolutely Mrs. Green."

The typically blunt Thompson shared her observation with Gyllenhaal when she had
the younger woman over for Sunday lunch at her London home. "You gave me the
script at the lunch and said, 'Mrs. Green should look exactly how you look right
now,' " Gyllenhaal says, chortling. "I must have made some effort to be
presentable!"

Their connection is obvious. Gyllenhaal and Thompson are most animated when
discussing motherhood. Gyllenhaal and her husband, actor Peter Sarsgaard, and
Ramona, are based in Brooklyn. Thompson and her actor husband, Greg Wise, and
Gaia are based in London and Scotland, along with their Rwandan son, Tindyebwa
Agaba, now 23, who came to live with the couple in 2003.

Thompson takes a minute to compliment Gyllenhaal's parenting style, as witnessed
during the Nanny shoot. "You kept saying to (Ramona) in various subtle, kindly
loving ways that she didn't have to perform for people. She didn't have to
smile. I thought that was genius," she tells a smiling Gyllenhaal. "She's
getting a first-rate emotional education, and that's the most important
education of all."

Says Gyllenhaal: "I'm kind of most interested in that."

Concludes Thompson with finality: "You're really good at that. I watched that
carefully."

Mutual admiration

The two are vivacious and droll together. And their relationship is genuine,
says Nanny director Susanna White.

"They're very close. Emma has huge affection for Maggie and admires her as an
actress and really sees her as a friend. Maggie would look to Emma for advice on
life-work balance, because Emma has spent time trying to work that out, and
Maggie would listen to her," says White.

"Emma is so frank and clever. She says what she thinks, and everything that
comes out is wise and clever and funny. She's very confident and knows exactly
who she is. And Maggie is just so warm. She was really like a mother with those
kids. She spent a lot of time playing games and snuggling with them."

In an interview earlier this year, Gyllenhaal  told USA TODAY that she wanted to
be Thompson when she grew up. The comment now elicits giggles from the two
women, as they sip proper English tea on an early, overcast Monday morning.

"Now, Maggie is actually quite resentful of me," Thompson says with a chuckle.

Gyllenhaal leans back in her seat and admits jokingly that "I'd rather not be
Emma."

And Thompson responds with a laugh. "She's so fed up with it."

The two first got to know each other while shooting the 2006 dramedy Stranger
Than Fiction in Chicago. Thompson and Gyllenhaal didn't have any scenes
together, but their work overlapped by a few days, so they had drinks one
evening.

Next, they reconnected on Thompson's home turf in England, when Sarsgaard was
shooting the Oscar-nominated 2009 drama An Education in London.

Thompson had a cameo in the film, so  she invited Sarsgaard, Gyllenhaal and
Ramona, then just a little older than 1, to her home for  the aforementioned
lunch where, recalls Thompson, they "played silly games and ate."

As a mother, Gyllenhaal saw plenty to love in the character of Mrs. Green,
particularly in her unaffected, honest way of dealing with her reality.

"Mrs. Green is totally at wits' end and foundering and flailing and failing
sometimes, but she's still a heroine and still a great mom. To be both things at
once is such a contemporary idea," she says.

Thompson is of the same mind-set. "It's a really good point. Mrs. Green hears
her children."

During the nearly four-month Nanny McPhee shoot in both London and the English
countryside, Thompson, who produced the movie, kept thanking Sarsgaard, says his
wife.

"Thank you for coming, thank you for letting us have her and taking care of
Ramona. It's hard to be away for a long time, especially with a child," recalls
an appreciative Gyllenhaal. "Emma was so aware of that."

Thompson, who has been married to Wise for seven years, gets it.

"It's just being aware. So often, the person left behind doing the looking-after
is taken for granted. Greg and I do the same thing, so we really understood,"
she says.

Setting priorities

Granted, both women live privileged, well-remunerated lives. But beneath any
red-carpet glitz, they deal with the same issues as other professional moms: how
to have a satisfying work-life balance.

To take more control of her career, Gyllenhaal is going behind the scenes -- she
optioned the book Mating by Norman Rush, and her mother, Naomi Foner, is writing
the script.

Gyllenhaal says  it's tough to turn down tempting projects that conflict with
motherhood. She and Sarsgaard try to take turns on movie sets, "which is all
well and good, but if you're not Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie, you can't just
say, 'I'll go do that but only starting Aug. 14 and only in New York City,' "
she says. "You do have to sacrifice sometimes."

Thompson nods. "Absolutely. And when people say you can have it all, it's
bollocks. You won't lie on your deathbed thinking, 'Gee, I wish I'd made more
movies.' You're just going to be thinking, 'What a nice time we had when we
spent that time in the summer together.' Those are the memories," says Thompson.
"Making movies is lovely. But I'm aware of what position it has to take in
life."

"Yes," sighs Gyllenhaal, who earned her first supporting-actress Oscar
nomination for playing a newbie journalist in last year's Crazy Heart.

It's all a balance, sums up Thompson crisply. "It's like literally saying,
'There's a lovely job, and oh God, I'd love to do it and it would make me so
happy as an artist, as an actor. But I can't.' And then you just put it away,
and that's it. You forget about it," she says.

Thompson won a best-actress Oscar for 1992's Howard's End and a screenwriting
Academy Award for 1995's Sense and Sensibility. She's currently drafting the
screenplay for the remake of the classic musical My Fair Lady. Plus, she's
involved in the global anti-poverty group ActionAid.

"When I found that I couldn't have any more kids -- I couldn't keep on doing IVF
because I was too old, and it's a brutal process, as anyone who has done it
knows -- I thought, 'Well, if I could do something useful, that would make me
feel better.' So I decided to go to Africa to do the first trip with ActionAid,"
she says.

Her first visit, recalls Thompson ruefully, coincided with her daughter, then
nearly 4, starting school. "It nearly killed me. I stayed and started her off,
but I went away three weeks into her term, which was too soon," says Thompson.
"I should have been there."

Gyllenhaal interjects that she just turned down a movie that would have cut into
her daughter's first day in the classroom.

Thompson nods her assent. "That's a good decision. (Everyone says) children are
so adaptable. Yeah, but at what cost?"

Timing, both women agree, is everything in life. For Gyllenhaal, "it's about
thoughtfulness."

"It's true with friendships and everything," agrees Thompson. "You can have a
proper discussion without the heat. It's true with parenting, as well. Shouting
... doesn't work."

Not even for sharp-tongued Nanny McPhee.

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Color, Robert Hanashiro, USA TODAY
PHOTO, Color, Universal Pictures
PHOTO, B/W, Liam Daniel, Universal Pictures

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COVER STORY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              99 of 169 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           January 14, 2010 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Economy ticks up a bit, but jobs still lagging

BYLINE: Christine Dugas

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 859 words


The economy continued to show modest improvement in December, but it failed to
spark many new jobs.

Consumers' holiday spending rose slightly  from 2008, although it was still
below 2007 levels, the Fed said in its monthly beige book report, named for the
color of its cover.

Ten of the Federal Reserve's 12 districts reported increased activity or
improved conditions, while two -- Philadelphia and Richmond -- reported mixed
conditions. USA TODAY reporter Christine Dugas summarizes the report.

1st District: (Maine, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, Rhode Island, Vermont, most
of Connecticut) Retailers, as well as some advertising and consulting firms,
reported a pickup in year-end sales. Many manufacturers experienced modest
growth at the end of the year. Commercial real estate was sluggish, but home
sales gained steam. Businesses said employment is level or up slightly; some
firms plan 2010 raises.

2nd District: (New York, northern New Jersey, Fairfield County, Conn.) The
economy in the region continued to improve as manufacturers indicated "some
expansive activity." Hiring picked up in New York City's financial district, and
manufacturers also reported increased employment. Holiday retail sales showed
little change from 2008, but the results were somewhat better, because many
stores had reduced inventories.

3rd District: (Delaware, southern New Jersey, eastern Pennsylvania) Business
conditions were mixed at the end of 2009, but businesses predict a gradual
improvement in the first half of 2010. Manufacturers, retailers and auto dealers
experienced a modest increase in sales and orders. Home construction and sales
were sluggish in December. Bank lending remained slow, but bankers expect demand
to pick up by midyear.

4th District: (Ohio, eastern Kentucky, western Pennsylvania, northern West
Virginia) Overall, the economy showed modest improvement. Some businesses began
to recall some workers or increase hours. The health care industry reported an
increase in jobs. Manufacturers said production had picked up modestly in
December, and they're more positive about 2010.

5th District: (Maryland, Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, southern West
Virginia, District of Columbia) Retailers, including department and grocery
stores, said sales were weak. Manufacturing activity turned down in December,
although furniture and textile makers reported an uptick in demand. The import
and export activity at the region's ports improved in December, and banking
activity increased slightly. Tourism and temporary employment services reported
"mixed results."

6th District: (Alabama, Florida, Georgia, eastern Tennessee, southern Louisiana,
southern Mississippi) Holiday retail sales showed some signs of improvement, and
discounts were not as deep as those in 2008. There were fewer reports of
layoffs, but holiday hiring was lower than normal. Tourism spending was weak, as
hotel reservations and room rates were soft. Existing home sales picked up,
while new home sales were softer than a year ago. More commercial construction
projects were put on hold.

7th district: (Iowa, northern Indiana, northern Illinois, southern Michigan,
southern Wisconsin) Holiday sales, particularly for sales of clothing, toys,
gift cards and entertainment items, improved considerably on 2008. Retailers
offered more specials and promotions, because consumers were price sensitive.
The auto industry reported an increase in demand. Construction activity remained
weak, but single-family homes picked up slightly.

8th District: (Arkansas, southern Illinois, southern Indiana, western Kentucky,
northern Mississippi, eastern Missouri, western Tennessee) Retail sales and home
sales showed a modest increase. Commercial and industrial real estate markets
remained soft, and commercial bank loans slipped. Manufacturers reported that
activity continued to decline, and employment remained weak.

9th District: (Minnesota, Montana, North Dakota, South Dakota, upper Michigan,
northern Wisconsin) Winter tourism activity improved as winter sports benefited
from heavy snow. Holiday retail sales were up moderately. Commercial
construction was flat, while commercial real estate saw a slight increase in
property value.

10th District: (Colorado, Kansas, Nebraska, Oklahoma, Wyoming, western Missouri,
northern New Mexico) Consumer holiday spending showed little change, and bank
loan demand was soft. Residential home sales were up slightly from 2008, showing
the strongest improvement in the low-end market because of the first-time home
buyer tax credit.

11th District: (Texas, northern Louisiana, southern New Mexico) Retail sales
showed a slight increase as discount stores saw an uptick in demand. Sales of
electronics and household goods "fared better than expected." New and existing
home sales were up. There was little demand for commercial real estate lending.

12th District: (Alaska, Arizona, California, Hawaii, Idaho, Nevada, Oregon,
Utah, Washington) Housing demand was stable, and home sales were mixed.
Foreclosures increased the inventory of homes for sale. Agriculture businesses
said sales had improved, while energy companies said sales were mixed.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Paul J. Richards, AFP/Getty Images
PHOTO, B/W, Jacquelyn Martin, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              100 of 169 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            February 2, 2010 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Budget at a glance

BYLINE: Ray Locker, Sandra Block, Kevin Johnson, Mimi Hall

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 892 words


Defense

Obama proposal: The budget calls for $192.3 billion in spending for the wars in
Afghanistan and Iraq for the next 18 months -- $159.3 billion for 2011 and $33
billion for the rest of this year. That's a drop from the $205.5 billion in last
year's proposal. The budget also includes a 3.4% increase in spending other than
for the two wars, from $530.8 billion to $548.9 billion.

Context: There are also increases in other war-related spending, such as a 5.8%
increase -- to $30.9 billion -- for overall military medical care. The budget
also proposes increased spending for drone aircraft that are used in both wars
and the end of the C-17 cargo aircraft program.

Health

Obama proposal: The overwhelming majority of the $911 billion request -- more
than $830 billion -- goes to mandatory spending on Medicare and Medicaid, the
programs for the elderly, poor and disabled. The budget includes $25.5 billion
to help states cover their share of Medicaid costs until July 2011. The proposal
includes requests for $1.7 billion to reduce fraud, $6.6 billion to expand care
for young children and $1.4 billion to improve food safety.

Context: With health care legislation in limbo, there are no dramatic changes or
new programs included in this year's budget proposal for the Health and Human
Services Department.  The proposal includes $290 million for community health
centers that serve low-income and uninsured patients and $995 million to expand
the number of doctors and nurses in rural and other areas with too few
health-care workers.

Justice

Obama proposal: The budget calls for $29.2 billion, a 5.4% increase over fiscal
2010. This includes funds for an additional 448 federal agents to be spread
among the FBI, Drug Enforcement Administration and federal Bureau of Alcohol,
Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives.

Context: Obama's budget continues the debate with Congress over how to shut down
the military detention facility for terror suspects at Guantanamo Bay. The
president calls for $73 million to help transfer and prosecute accused 9/11
mastermind Khalid Sheikh Mohammed and four alleged conspirators, as the Obama
administration reconsiders its initial decision to try the five defendants in
New York City.

State

Obama proposal: The budget calls for a 12% increase in State Department and
other foreign operations spending to $56.8 billion in 2011, up from $50.7
billion. The budget also includes $4.5 billion in extra spending for 2010. More
than $7.1 billion is for aid to Afghanistan and Pakistan.

Context: This request continues to shift in focus from Iraq to Afghanistan. The
supplemental request also includes $4.5 billion in spending on Afghanistan and
Pakistan and to help phase out the U.S. presence in Iraq. There is also a $1.4
billion request to help developing nations fight climate change and limit carbon
emissions.

Taxes

Obama proposal: The budget would extend the Bush era tax cuts for households
earning less than $250,000 a year. It would expand the Obama administration's
"Making Work Pay" tax credits of $400 for individuals and $800 for couples. The
budget would expand the earned income tax credit for the working poor.

The top tax rates for households with more than $250,000 in income ($200,000 for
single taxpayers) would rise to 36% and 39.6%, up from the current top rates of
33% and 35%. The higher rate applies for incomes above $373,000. The proposal
also would cap itemized deductions for high-income taxpayers and phase out a
portion of their personal exemptions. Households with income over $250,000 would
pay 20% on capital gains and dividends, up from the current 15%.

Context: In his budget proposal, Obama says the nation can't afford tax cuts for
the wealthiest 2% of households, and calls for using the money to reduce the
deficit. Republicans, such as Rep. Dave Camp of Michigan, the top Republican on
the House Ways and Means Committee, argue that raising taxes would inflict
further damage on a weak economy.

Veterans

Obama proposal: The budget seeks a 7.5% increase in spending by the Department
of Veterans Affairs to $60.3 billion. It includes $5.2 billion in spending to
help veterans with a variety of mental health issues, including post-traumatic
stress disorder and traumatic brain injury. It also increases the cooperation
between the VA and Pentagon on mental health issues.

Context: There has been a 20% jump in overall VA spending since the 2009 budget,
the last one drafted by the Bush administration.  Working with the Defense
Department, the VA is planning to develop a lifetime electronic medical record
for all troops and veterans.

Energy

Obama proposal: In his State of the Union Address last week, Obama called for
more nuclear power plants. The budget proposes $36 billion in loan guarantees to
help pay for new plants, adding to $18.5 billion already available. The budget
also calls for eliminating funding for the Yucca Mountain nuclear waste facility
in Nevada, which he promised to close as a candidate.

Context: Nuclear power represents 20% of the nation's power supply, and the last
new U.S. plant to come online was in 1996. Bigger loan guarantees will be a
"tremendously positive development for our nation,"  says Marvin Fertel, CEO of
the Nuclear Energy Institute. But Kert Davies of  Greenpeace says the money
would be better spent on energy efficiency and renewable energy sources.

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              102 of 169 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             March 12, 2010 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Water shortages may hit northern Rockies

BYLINE: John S. Adams

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 461 words


Much of the nation may be snow-weary, but farmers and ranchers who rely on
winter snowpack in the northern Rockies for irrigation during the dry months of
the growing season could face water shortages this summer unless more snow
arrives soon.

Wet spring and summer conditions in 2008 and 2009 helped pull the region out of
a decade-long drought, but now hydrologists are once again reporting
below-average mountain snowpack throughout much of the northern Rockies.

As of early March, according to the U.S. Drought Monitor, snowpack was at or
near record-low levels in many locations from northeastern Utah northward along
and near the Idaho border with Montana and Wyoming.

In Spokane, Wash., the winter of 2009-10 has been the least snowy on record,
with a mere 13.7 inches of snowfall recorded so far, according to the National
Weather Service. The city usually gets more than 46 inches of snow each winter.
Experts are concerned that it could be a long summer for irrigators unless the
region experiences the kinds of snowfalls that have buried other parts of the
country in recent weeks.

"There's not much time to make it up," said hydrologist Phil Morrisey of the
Natural Resource Conservation Service in Idaho. "Even an abundant snowfall in
March would be unlikely to make much of a difference this late in the season."

Some river basins in eastern Washington, Idaho, Wyoming and Montana are below
50% of their average seasonal snowpack for this time of year, according to
Conservation Service snow monitoring data.

In the lower Yakima River basin in south-central Washington, snowpack is at
about 80% of normal. Conservation Service hydrologist Scott Pattee said four of
five reservoirs there will not fill to capacity this spring, which could mean
trouble for farmers.

"It's going to mean water rationing for junior water-rights holders," Pattee
said. Junior water rights are those issued most recently, he explained. Senior
water-rights holders have first rights to irrigation waters. According to
hydrologists across the region, most Rocky Mountain river basins typically
accumulate 80% to 85% of their seasonal snow by March 1. They said April 1 is
when most states in the region reach the peak snowpack.

Long-term forecasts suggest that warm and dry conditions will persist in the
final month of the snowy season, meaning many areas have already reached their
peak for the season, Pattee said.

The same El Nioo climate pattern that brought loads of much-needed moisture to
drought-stricken areas through the Southwest, including the typically dry
deserts of Southern California and eastern Arizona, is to blame for the drier
than usual winter in the northern tier, Pattee said.

Adams reports for the Great Falls (Mont.) Tribune. Contributing: Doyle Rice, USA
TODAY.

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Julie Snider, USA TODAY, Source: National Weather Service
(Bar graph)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              104 of 169 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            April 22, 2010 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Houses of 2020 will be all about energy;
Smart technology in smaller quarters

BYLINE: Wendy Koch

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 7D

LENGTH: 484 words


The American house of 2020 will likely be smaller, smarter, more urban and
efficient.

It might not look like a space-age Jetsons set, but just as iPhones and Google
have revolutionized personal computing, technology will boost home IQ.

More houses will have energy meters that track power usage and program
appliances to run when electric rates are lowest.

Houses also will waste less energy because they'll have better insulation and
windows.

The house of the future will be built significantly "tighter," says Nate Kredich
of the U.S. Green Building Council.

Builders already are including basic features such as programmable thermostats,
found a January survey by the National Association of Home Builders. "It's not
rocket science, but it helps control energy costs," says NAHB's Stephen Mellmen.
"Affordability is driving these decisions."

Perhaps the most obvious change will be home size. Of builders surveyed, 96%
plan to build smaller. The trend began with upscale buyers before the recession
and has intensified, says Kermit Baker of Harvard University's Joint Center for
Housing Studies.

A new single-family U.S. house averaged 2,373 square feet last year, down from
2,507 in 2007, according to Census Bureau data.

Production builders such as Pulte are reducing the average size of their new
models and offering more eco-features such as solar panels. KB Homes is now
offering pre-wiring for electric vehicle charging stations.

A decade ago, Kredich says, low VOC (volatile organic compound) house paints
were pricey, but costs have come down.

"We can expect to see the same phenomenon in categories such as photovoltaic
(solar) technology where costs to date have been largely prohibitive," he says.

Alex Wilson, executive editor of BuildingGreen, a Vermont-based company that
publishes books and an online newsletter, expects lower prices and improved
performance to make solar water heaters and rooftop panels "very common" by
2020, used in at least 30% of new houses. Other changes he sees:

*Smart growth. More houses and apartments will be built in  areas close to
public transit, walkways and bike paths.

The Environmental Protection Agency says house-building permits more than
doubled since 2000 in the downtowns and close-in suburbs of 26 of the nation's
largest metro areas.

*LED lighting. This will gain market share but is still costlier than compact
fluorescent.

*Ductless heating. Geothermal heat pumps will be replaced by lower-cost,
ductless "mini-split" air-source heat pumps, predicts Wilson. He says ductless
technology is improving, and while most manufacturers are now Japanese, more
U.S. firms will move into the market.

*Efficient windows. Triple-glazed, low-emissive windows will become common,
accounting for up to a third of sales in colder climates. It also will become
common to "tune" windows, Wilson says, by using different glass on a home's
south side than on its east or west.

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Reed Saxon, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              107 of 169 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              June 11, 2010 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Gates: Triple energy funds

BYLINE: Oren Dorell

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 153 words


WASHINGTON -- The U.S. must triple its investment in clean energy research to
compete in the new global industry, a group of business executives including
Bill Gates said Thursday.

Gates said his work as co-chairman of the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation,
which focuses on education and health initiatives for the world's poorest
people, has led him to clean energy.

"The climate impact will wholly fall on them" and will be measured "in deaths,"
he said.

The group, the American Energy Innovation Council, laid out a plan for Congress
to achieve 80% reductions in carbon emissions by 2050, a target previously
identified by President Obama:

*Increase research and development spending from $5 billion a year to $16
billion.

*Create a structure for clean energy research modeled on the National Institutes
of Health.

*Establish standards and regulations for the new industry, including setting a
price for carbon emissions.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              108 of 169 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              June 11, 2010 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Audi A5 gets the topless part right;
What fun; but rest of car is far from perfect

BYLINE: James R. Healey

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 8B

LENGTH: 929 words


Audi's new A5 Cabriolet is a pleasant convertible and a somewhat disappointing
car.

The convertible is new to the A5 line. An A5 coupe has been around a couple of
years in the U.S. as the sporty, two-door, hunkered-down alternative to the A4
sedan.

A5s are a bit shorter than the A4 and somewhat less roomy inside (in the
Cabriolet, that shortcoming is amplified by the need for space to store the
folded top; the back seat and trunk suffer).

Like the coupe, the Cabriolet has a wider track than the A4 -- the side-to-side
distance between the wheels is greater. That changes the proportion and stance
enough that the 5 looks hunkier than the 4.

Now that the A5 Cabriolet has filled the sales pipeline, Audi has discontinued
the A4 convertible.

We'll acknowledge a serious pro-convertible bias. Convertibles simply are a gas.

Sure, less practical because the folding top mechanism swipes space. And not
universally useful because maybe you live where weather's not perfect. But even
a few topless days a year justify a cabrio.

A5 cabrio's lid is cloth, at a time automakers seem to favor folding metal tops.
The cloth lid worked well, raising or lowering in about 18 seconds. Audi says
you can operate it at up to 31 miles per hour. We didn't risk it faster than
about 20 mph.

It tucked behind the rear seats, which are uncomfortably upright to allow for
the top storage well, which juts into the trunk, too.

Up, the top gave a finished, smooth silhouette. It was sufficiently insulated to
keep the inside quiet. Down, the car looked -- well, like a convertible ready
for a fresh-air frolic.

But the frolic index was on the low side, and that's where the disappointment
came in.

The cabrio's available only with Audi's 2-liter turbocharged four-cylinder
engine. Rated a robust 211 horsepower and 258 pounds-feet of torque, it
nevertheless was being asked to motivate 2 tons.

A slug from a dead stop, but fleet once underway. Delivered annoying sideways
tug (torque steer) under hard acceleration from low speed.

The engine shivered and balked launching from rest. Audi says that's one of
those ANEHM (absolutely nobody else has mentioned) gripes.

The test car was a front-drive model, so it came with Multitronic, Audi's
moniker for a continuously variable automatic transmission (CVT), instead of the
six-speed Tiptronic automatic fitted to the Quattro all-wheel-drive version.

The CVT provided an "S" (for sport) mode that turned it into an eight-speed
automatic in which five of the defined gears were overdrive ratios.

In S, gas mileage plunged almost fast enough to see. It had settled at 20.8 mpg
in CVT mode and crashed to 18.9 after routinely using S with no change in
driving style. Back in CVT mode it climbed to 19.8 mpg by the time the test
ended.

Perversely, S seemed to make A5 slower, not quicker, and amplified the shiver
and balk.

In tight confines, such as parking garages, the drivetrain was quite noisy in
reverse.

Some pluses:

*Ride was taut but not harsh, and especially well-controlled on bumps. Plus,
there were no disagreeable body shakes typical of convertibles.

*Tight-pattern LED overhead lights let passengers read without
driver-distracting light-spill.

*One switch on the console raised or lowered all four windows simultaneously at
a touch. All cars should have the same.

*Interior trim was classy, seats comfy (in front, at least, where there was room
for actual humans) and control layout was OK. Still that maddening Audi MMI
(multimedia interface) for some functions, though. Give everything its own
control, even if that means lots of buttons, switches and knobs. It's easier to
figure than the combination joystick-jog knob at the heart of MMI.

*Test car's optional Comfort Package ($2,400) included seat-top vents to climate
-control your neck and head. OK in theory, but you've got to like a close-in
breeze on your neck, which some loathe.

*Not unique to Audi, but worth a mention, was the front-seat safety belt
"presenter." A mechanical arm moved the belt forward when you sat down. That
eliminated the wretched twist and stretch moves normally required to reach the
distant belt in a convertible, which lacks a tall door pillar on which to hang
the belt.

If you're rich (the test car was north of $50,000) and want a convertible for
occasional use by one or two people, the A5 Cabriolet might suit.

If your demands exceed that, the Audi might not be for you.

2010 Audi A5 Cabriolet

*What? Convertible version of the small, sporty A5 coupe, available with
front-wheel drive (FWD) or Quattro all-wheel drive.

*When? On sale since October.

*Where? Made at Neckarsulm, Germany.

*Why? Convertibles need no explanation.

*How much? $42,925 including $825 shipping for front-wheel drive, $44,925 for
Quattro all-wheel drive. Test car, FWD with many options to show off various
features (typical of media test cars), was $51,525.

*How potent? 2-liter turbocharged four-cylinder is rated 211 horsepower at 4,300
rpm, 258 pounds-feet of torque at 1,500 rpm. FWD comes with CVT (continuously
variable automatic transmission), Quattro comes with six-speed Tiptronic
automatic.

*How big? Subcompact; trimmer inside and out than the compact A4 with which it
shares hardware. A5 Cabriolet is 182.1 inches long, 79.5 in. wide (including
mirrors), 54.4 in. tall on a 108.3-in. wheelbase. Passenger space 81 cubic feet,
trunk 10.2 cu. ft. Weight: 3,880 lbs. (FWD), 4,034 lbs. (Quattro). Turns around
in 37.4 ft.

*How thirsty? Rated 23 miles per gallon in town, 30 on the highway, 26 in
combined driving (FWD) or 20/26/23 (Quattro).

Burns premium, holds 17.2 gallons.

*Overall: Disappointing.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Color, Audi
PHOTO, Color

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              118 of 169 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            November 5, 2010 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Watch out, Civic: Here comes Chevy Cruze;
Classy little compact isn't perfect, but it's good enough to give rivals some
trouble

BYLINE: James R. Healey

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 1147 words


It's an old story: Detroit automaker does a gut check, creates a car it says is
a credible rival to Asian brands -- really, truly, honest.

This time, maybe not the same old story.

The 2011 Chevrolet Cruze, on sale since September, finally seems a compact from
General Motors that Honda, Toyota, Ford, Hyundai and Nissan should take
seriously. It replaces the Chevy Cobalt, which was OK in its day, but that day
is long past.

The Cruze test car -- a nicely equipped 2LT, $21,890 -- had its issues. In fact,
if one were feeling mean, and choosing to define the car by its worst moments,
the summary would be: guttural engine, jerky transmission, clunky suspension.

All true, but not necessarily representative.

For instance, the six-speed automatic usually shifted just fine, but too often
it was guilty of rough gear changes and slightly balky hard-throttle downshifts.
More of an annoyance than a deal breaker.

There's plenty to like, and we'll get to that. But as long as we're here, let's
finish the crepe hanging.

*Suspension thunk-clunked over patched and broken pavement.

That used to be common on small cars, but seemed to be fixed. Lately it's making
an unwelcome comeback, and not just on Cruze.

*Knob markings were unreadable.

The tiny notch that shows if, say, headlights are set to "auto" or "off" was too
small to read, too dim to see at night. Same for the climate-control knobs.

GM trucks have similar knobs and the truck teams acknowledge complaints from
owners and say the knobs are being changed.

Don't the car and truck teams talk to one another? Or did GM get a bunch of
knobs dirt cheap (because they're nearly unreadable) and can't afford not to use
them?

*Back seat's tight.

Chevy brags that Cruze is roomy -- midsize space in a compact car. Not really.
The folks in front don't have to be very tall to wipe out most of the rear leg
and knee room. The data sheet shows more space back there than some rivals have,
but it seemed as if there was less.

*Engine muttered coarsely.

Though it's not one of those new direct-injection designs, the 1.4-liter turbo
had the vaguely tractor-like sound of a direct-injection powerplant. Made a bad
initial impression.

But spur it hard and the sound smoothed into a muscular growl. That's OK for
folks who like to shove the gas pedal hard. But maybe objectionable to more
moderate drivers.

We didn't test the 1.8-liter, non-turbo that's only available on the base car,
so we can't comment on how that one sounds.

*Brakes were spongy.

Push the pedal a little and you don't get the feeling the car will halt in time.
That provoked a much harder push (because by now you were a lot closer to the
Hummer H2 stopped at the red light in front of you). And that, in turn, resulted
in a sudden transition to panic-stop mode. Graceless, bothersome, unpleasant for
all aboard.

The silver lining: Most of those problems could be rectified if Chevy's willing
to invest in the proper running changes. No cure for the rear-seat snugness, but
you don't buy a compact car expecting to tote the school basketball team back
there, so perhaps not a big deal.

The counterweight that lets you ignore or tolerate the problems consists of:

*Classy interior.

Handsome shapes, pleasing textures, premium-appearing trim. Those knobs that
defied readability at least rotated smoothly.

*Handy touches.

The test car had both a mini-plug and USB connection tucked in the console, for
linking your iPod or similar device to the car's stereo. Not unique, but
well-placed for easy use while avoiding a tangle of cords near the gearshift.

Small nook in front of the gearshift proved just right for stowing small items,
including coins, that you want within reach. Wide-opening glove-box door made it
easy to actually use the area. Some doors and glove boxes are so small and
awkward that they might as well not be there.

*Crisp handling.

Cruze liked spirited cornering. Not a sports machine, but close enough to
deliver great fun and satisfaction on twisting roads. Done without the hard ride
that's often the price of such agility.

Surprising, perhaps, because Cruze uses a beam rear axle, not the independent
rear suspension usually associated with tight, precise handling.

Beam axles are cheaper than independent setups, so expect to see more of them as
automakers frantically try to cut costs, even when it means cutting corners.

But beams also can free up trunk space, a real benefit for a small car. Cruze's
15.4-cubic-foot trunk is as big as most midsize car trunks.

*Conservative styling.

Yes, that's a plus. It's likely to wear well, like a blue blazer, and not go out
of fashion and look dated the way highly styled vehicles do.

It's sweeping enough to avoid dorkiness, normal enough to avoid exhibitionism.

Stewed together, Cruze's attributes support Chevy's ad claim it can match or
best the likes of Civic.

What stood out

*Classy: High-end version feels more like a premium midsize.

*Comfy: Up front, at least.

*Coarse: Engine, suspension a bit noisy; transmission a bit jerky.

---

2011 Chevrolet Cruze

*What? Compact, front-wheel-drive, four-door sedan replacing Cobalt.

*When? On sale since September; high-mileage version called Eco due in January.

*Where? Made at Lordstown, Ohio.

*Why? If you've driven a Cobalt lately, you wouldn't ask.

*How? Adapt global hardware for U.S. tastes.

*How much? LS, $16,995 including $720 shipping. LT and Eco, $18,895. 2LT,
$21,395. LTZ, $22,695.

*Who'll buy? Chevy forecasts mainly frugal types, ages 45 to 65, averaging
$70,000 yearly who want some joy from their cars.

Secondary target: Young professionals, 25 to 35, who want to appear adult and
responsible.

*Instead of what? Honda Civic, Toyota Corolla, Ford Focus, Hyundai Elantra,
Nissan Sentra, Chevy dearly hopes.

*How powerful? 1.8-liter four-cylinder in LS rated 138 horsepower at 6,300 rpm,
123 pounds-feet of torque at 3,800.

1.4-liter turbocharged four-cylinder standard in all other models: 138 hp at
4,900, 148 lbs.-ft. at 1,850. Six-speed manual is standard on base model.
Six-speed automatic is standard on others.

*How big? Slightly longer, wider, taller than a Honda Civic. Cruze is 181 inches
long, 70.7 in. wide, 58.1 in. tall on a 105.7-in. wheelbase.

Passenger space: 94.6 cubic feet. Trunk, 15.4 cu. ft.

Weighs 3,025 to 3,247 lbs.

Turns in 35.7 ft. diameter. Tows 1,000 lbs. (Eco not approved for towing.)

*How thirsty? 1.8-liter is rated 26 mpg in town, 36 highway, 30 in combined
city/highway driving (manual transmission); 22/35/27 (automatic).

1.4 turbo: 24/36/38. Eco: At least 40 highway, Chevy promises. Specific EPA
ratings not yet available.

Trip computer in 1.4-liter turbo test car with automatic showed 21.7 mpg in
suburban use.

Both engines burn regular. Tank holds 15.6 gallons. (Eco with manual, 12.6 gal.
to cut weight.)

Chevy says 1.4 turbo will perform almost imperceptibly better on premium.

*Overall: Solid contender, but for how long? Rivals have new designs in the
wings.

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS, B/W, General Motors via Wieck (2)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              122 of 169 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            January 22, 2010 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Brown win is message to Congress

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 866 words


That a Republican broke the Kennedy dynasty in Massachusetts sends an important
message to all members of Congress ("Upset in Mass. election gives Democrats
pause," News, Wednesday).

Congress works for Americans; Americans do not work for Congress.  I hope the
Democrats, on their hell-bent rush leftward to destroy America, pay attention to
this lesson.

President Obama must also heed this message as he contemplates enacting his
policies and an agenda that could embarrass America.

Alan J. Winters

Bellaire, Texas

End of health reform

Now that Republican Scott Brown has won the Senate race, health care reform is
in the toilet. The people of Massachusetts have shown what they're made of, and
it's not courage.

Health care in these United States will never change unless and until our
elected representatives are taken off the gravy train of health care they now
enjoy. How can they possibly know enough to vote on what's good for their fellow
Americans unless they are subject to the same health care problems the rest of
us face?

The people of Massachusetts will regret this election.

Tim Hill

Grand Canyon, Ariz.

Coakley a bad Catholic

I commend the people of Massachusetts for electing Republican Scott Brown to the
Senate.

This is a devastating loss to the Democratic Party and a direct reflection of
the growing, serious discontent and disillusionment among many former supporters
of the president. It shows a growing rejection of several of the policies of the
Obama administration.

Catholics and other Christians were furious with Martha Coakley, a professed
Catholic.  She openly opposed conscience rights for  health care professionals,
which would allow those morally opposed to contraception and blood transfusions,
for example, to opt out of giving care related to those procedures.

The Democratic state attorney general has used the kind of "anti-Catholic"
rhetoric that has come to characterize the scandalous posture taken by too many
Catholics in public life.

In a recent interview, Coakley effectively said that faithful Catholics
shouldn't work in emergency rooms.

Brown, though not a pro-life candidate, has promised to oppose the  Senate
version of so-called health care reform that  would fund abortions with federal
dollars.

Paul Kokoski

Ontario, Canada

Frightening schism

Scott Brown's win goes beyond Martha Coakley's performance and relates to the
frightening ascendancy of the  Tea Party movement.

What are Americans thinking? I saw this strain of thinking when I lived in
Massachusetts from 1984 to 1999, despite the supposed liberal climate in the
state. There is political schism in Massachusetts, and in the rest of the
country. I am more than concerned.

Patrick Frank

Kingstree, S.C.

Overconfidence problem

The problem with Democratic nominee Martha Coakley's campaign is that she acted
as if she was inheriting the late Ted Kennedy's Senate seat, rather than
fighting for it.

Overconfidence is the worst trait a politician can have. Hard work wins
political elections, not arrogance.

Kenneth L. Zimmerman

Huntington Beach, Calif.

Instead of fighting cameras, obey law

It seems as if Americans today  have no respect for authority and wonder what
the big deal is when they get busted ("Communities put a halt to red-light
cameras," News, Monday).

Despite abuse of cameras by some municipalities, attempts to limit their use
indicate how people refuse to take responsibility for their actions. I often
witness  cars rolling through an intersection, with drivers ignoring a stop sign
or red light.

Those  drivers would probably be irate about a police officer writing them a
ticket for breaking the law.

If you don't want a ticket, don't run a red light.  If you break the law, there
is a consequence.

Charles Brown

Three Rivers, Mich.

Call out extremism

I am pleased that discussions in response to the On Religion  column of USA
TODAY are reflecting on religious issues and pushing the importance of having
respectful dialogues about religious beliefs ("Moderate Muslims could do more to
dispel stereotypes," Letters, Jan. 8).

It has also made me  ask a question of myself. How can I ask Muslim Americans to
be more aware of extremists in their midst and  rein in fundamentalist views, if
I am not willing to challenge the extremist and harmful views of my zealous
Christian friends and neighbors, or spokespersons such as Pat Robertson?

Susan Haskell

Solana Beach, Calif.

MLB shares blame

If Major League Baseball decides, as several readers have suggested, to wipe out
retired baseball star Mark McGwire's records because he used
performance-enhancing drugs, then it should also strike the records of  all
players from the late 1980s to the mid 2000s ("Strike baseball records of
players who used steroids," Letters, Jan. 15).

The whole generation is under suspicion, and you can't just condemn the ones who
came forward. In fact, they are  the honest ones.

About 100 players who tested positive in 2003 were on a list, and their  names
were never released.  So it would have to be all or none.

And if anyone should be blamed, it is the commissioner's office and the owners
who knew this was happening. Because it was drawing crowds and making money,
they  ignored it.

Thomas E. Amspacher

Shippensburg, Pa.

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Michael Dwyer, AP
PHOTO, B/W, AP

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              129 of 169 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            February 12, 2010 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Home sales take big fat leap;
Prices are up in many places, too

BYLINE: Stephanie Armour

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 379 words


Home sales posted strong gains in the fourth quarter and prices rose in nearly
45% of U.S. metropolitan areas compared with a year earlier, more evidence of an
improving climate in housing.

Bolstered by low interest rates and a first-time home buyers tax credit,
existing-home sales rocketed 27.2% from the fourth quarter of 2008 to a
seasonally adjusted annual rate of 6.03 million, the National Association of
Realtors reported Thursday.

The national median price for an existing single-family home was $172,900, or
4.1% below the median price in fourth-quarter 2008. That was the smallest price
decline in more than two years.

Prices rose in 67 out of 151 metro areas in the fourth quarter compared with a
year earlier. Only 30 areas had annual price increases in the third quarter.

Sixteen areas had double-digit increases last quarter, led by Saginaw, Mich., up
53.5% to a median of $67,400.

"There's a growing body of evidence that the housing market has stabilized. The
question is how quickly can it recover and will we bump along at the bottom for
a couple of months?" says Bernard Baumohl, chief global economist at the
Economic Outlook Group. "In the first couple of months of 2010, we should see a
healthy turnaround."

Baumohl says the combination of low interest rates and tax credits for
qualifying home buyers should lure buyers, further stabilizing prices and
boosting sales.

But the market could falter once the tax credit expires April 30 and if interest
rates begin to climb later this year as many economists expect.

The credit is worth up to $8,000 for first-time buyers and up to $6,500 for
repeat buyers. But they must have purchase contracts signed by April 30 and
close by June 30.

The national average mortgage rate for a 30-year, fixed-rate loan fell to 4.97%
this week, down from 5.01% a week ago, Freddie Mac reported Thursday.

But foreclosures are expected to climb, which could further depress prices.
Foreclosure filings were reported on 315,716 properties in January, 15% more
than a year ago, RealtyTrac reported Thursday.

"It's premature to say the coast is clear. The housing credit really played a
role in juicing up sales," says Mark Zandi at Moody's Economy.com. "We're closer
to the end of the downturn than the beginning, but we're not there yet."

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              132 of 169 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            March 10, 2010 Wednesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Allegations againstMassa accumulate;
Democrat acknowledges 'misbehavior'

BYLINE: Kathy Kiely

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 577 words


WASHINGTON -- Hours after resigning amid allegations of sexually harassing
staffers, former House member Eric Massa went on national television Tuesday to
deny sexual impropriety but acknowledged he had been overly familiar with his
congressional aides.

"I own this misbehavior," he told Fox News commentator Glenn Beck. "I am at
fault."

Two publications reported Tuesday that the allegations involved physical contact
-- contradicting Massa's initial claims that the harassment was verbal. The
Washington Post said Tuesday the ethics panel was looking into charges that
Massa groped male staffers; Politico said there were allegations of improper
conduct with interns.

USA TODAY could not independently verify the reports.

"I did nothing sexual," the New York Democrat told Beck.

At the same time, Massa portrayed himself as a victim of Democratic leaders, who
he said resented his opposition to some of President Obama's initiatives, such
as health care and climate change legislation. "Everybody loves an independent
member of Congress until you are one," Massa told Beck.

Politically, Massa's resignation cuts both ways for Democratic leaders. On one
hand, it shows them acting more decisively to investigate allegations of sexual
harassment against a member of their party than Republicans did when former
congressman Mark Foley of Florida was accused of inappropriate behavior with
congressional pages. Foley resigned in September 2006 amid a scandal that GOP
leaders acknowledged they had been warned about months earlier.

Massa's resignation also creates headaches for a party already facing a
difficult outlook in this year's elections.

Massa, 50, became a Democratic hero in 2008 when he won a Republican district in
Upstate New York. June O'Neill, head of the New York Democratic Party's
executive committee, said it will be "an uphill battle" to hold onto Massa's
district, which GOP presidential nominee John McCain won 51%-48% in 2008.

Since the Associated Press first reported last week that Massa was the subject
of a House ethics investigation, the congressioal freshman has given conflicting
accounts for his abrupt departure. First, he cited a reoccurrence of cancer
during a call with reporters last Wednesday.

On Sunday, Massa told a radio station that House Democratic leaders got "rid of
me because my vote is the deciding vote on the health care bill" -- but he told
Beck, "Nobody forced me out."

On Tuesday, House Majority Leader Steny Hoyer, D-Md., described Massa's charge
that he was pushed out because of his political views as "absolutely,
definitively false." Hoyer also confirmed that aides to Massa approached his
office a month ago about "a matter of concern to the staff." Hoyer described the
allegations as "serious" and that his staff advised Massa's: "If you don't take
action within 48 hours, we will."

Beck invited Massa to tell his story on television and devoted the full hour to
it. By the time Massa went on the air, new details of the allegations had
surfaced, and Massa admitted his behavior was "wrong."

Massa, a married father of two adult children, told Beck that his chief of staff
"had a conniption" because Massa was sharing a townhouse with male staffers.
Massa also said that he engaged in sexual banter with a group of male staffers
at a wedding where "everyone had too much to drink," and that he tousled one
staffer's hair and "tickled him till he couldn't breathe."

Massa also appeared on Larry King Live on Tuesday night.

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Chip Somodevilla, Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              137 of 169 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            April 15, 2010 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Clinton takes the Initiative

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 4D

LENGTH: 478 words


About 1,300 college students from 83 countries are expected to converge this
weekend at the University of Miami to work toward solutions to global challenges
such as climate change, poverty and human rights. They were invited by former
president Bill Clinton, who five years ago founded the non-profit Clinton Global
Initiative, aimed at engaging world leaders in public service. In 2008, he added
Clinton Global Initiative University for college students.

He speaks with USA TODAY's Mary Beth

Marklein about the weekend activities.

Q: Why did you involve college students?

A: First, I thought it was important to give young people a chance to
participate and get into the habit of this kind of work. Secondly, they have
incredibly good ideas, and some are very, very sophisticated. They also
understand how technology can be used to harness potential and solve problems at
much lower cost. I think there's a stronger service ethic than ever before. When
I was in Georgetown, the number of people who did community service was quite
limited.

Q: Students involved in your initiative have developed more than 2,000
commitments, or action plans -- starting bike-sharing programs on campuses,
establishing community gardens and improving schools and libraries worldwide.
What happens this weekend?

A: Already this year we've had 950 new commitments. What happens is they come to
Miami, they have these ideas, and we give them a chance to try to find the
resources they need to fulfill them. A lot of these commitments get refined, new
commitments get made, they match up with students from other schools, or attract
new partners. Wal-Mart this year will grant awards to outstanding commitments.

Q: It sounds as if Haiti was high on the minds of many students this year.

A: The University of Miami generated more than 250 commitments, and many of them
are related to Haiti, including bringing students from Haitian universities that
were destroyed physically in the earthquake to make sure they can finish their
educations on time. I expect some commitments to come out of a session we're
going to have on human trafficking. Three students at Virginia Tech have
partnered with religious groups to help a village construct a facility to
generate more fresh eggs every day and improve nutrition.

Q: You're inviting about 80 college presidents to Miami, too. What message do
you want to send to them?

A: That part of their leadership responsibility is to set the right tone for
this. That they should be telling their students from the minute they walk in
the door as freshmen that their institution is committed to citizen service, in
their community and the city in which they're located, and the state and around
the world. And that they should (encourage students to) see making an impact as
an important part of their education, as something they should do for the rest
of their lives.

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Timothy A. Clary, AFP/Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              138 of 169 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            April 22, 2010 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Murtha's open Pa. seat gives GOP hope;
Spending for tight congressional race may top $3 million

BYLINE: Kathy Kiely

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 940 words


JOHNSTOWN, Pa. -- In 36 years as a congressman, John Murtha made it his mission
to funnel millions of dollars from Capitol Hill to this district of shuttered
steel mills and struggling coal mines. Two months after his burial, the
Washington money is still flowing to Murtha country -- this time for the contest
to pick his successor.

The veteran Democrat's death Feb. 8 of complications from gallbladder surgery
has set the stage for a special election next month that both parties hope will
be a harbinger for the fall congressional contests. It's the first special
election in a competitive district since the health care law passed, and polls
out this week  show a dead heat between Democrat Mark Critz and Republican Tim
Burns.

House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., and House Minority Leader John Boehner,
R-Ohio, held dueling Washington fundraisers this week  for their candidates. By
the time voters go to the polls May 18, Pennsylvania Republican Chairman Rob
Gleason predicts the  price tag for the three-month campaign in this
southwestern Pennsylvania district, where the median family income is $50,000,
will surpass $3 million.

"This is very big," said Gleason, a businessman who lives in Johnstown. "I'm
putting everything I can into it."

In neighboring Fayette County, veteran Democratic Party Chairman Fred Lebder is
giving a similar message to his troops. "We can do it," he said at a campaign
headquarters opening in Uniontown on April 12. "But we have to work our butts
off."

Former House speaker Newt Gingrich is scheduled to stump for Burns today. Coming
later: Sen. Scott Brown, the Massachusetts Republican whose surprise win in a
special election -- for a seat that Democratic Sen. Edward Kennedy occupied for
nearly 47 years before his death -- is a model for the upset the Republican
Party hopes to score here. Democrats are countering with a Friday fundraiser
headlined by Vice President Biden.

The discontent that polls and politicians are detecting nationwide is especially
pronounced in the steel towns that saw tens of thousands of jobs vanish in the
course of a generation. "There is a lot of anger out there," says Richard
Bloomingdale, president-elect of the Pennsylvania AFL-CIO. "They lost their
good, union-paying jobs and now they're working at Wal-Mart."

Despite Murtha's long tenure, and the Democrats' better than 2-to-1 registration
edge, there are lots of reasons for GOP optimism.

In the 2008 presidential race, the district divided 49%-49%. Voters gave the
Republican nominee, Arizona Sen. John McCain, the edge by 873 votes.

"They're not afraid to cross party lines," says Burns, the Republican nominee.

Burns, 42, is a self-made millionaire who says he doesn't believe in man-made
global warming -- a popular position in a district where there are concerns that
climate change regulations will curtail the use of coal -- and wants to repeal
the recently passed health care law.

Critz, 48, served as Murtha's district director and is emphasizing his tie to
the late congressman while distancing himself from national party policies.  "I
opposed the health care bill," Critz says in his latest TV ad. "And I'm pro-life
and pro-gun. That's not liberal."

Critz got into the race Feb. 22. Burns, meanwhile, spent the better part of a
year campaigning in what was widely viewed as a long-shot race against Murtha.
Now, he finds himself the national party's new champion.

"This will be a referendum on the current agenda -- the Obama-Pelosi agenda,"
says Burns, who is making Pelosi a major issue in the race. "I can't wait to
tell Nancy Pelosi to her face what I really think of her," the software
entrepreneur told a luncheon of coal mine executives here, eliciting
appreciative chuckles.

There's a reason Burns is making an issue of the San Francisco Democrat.
According to Gene Ulm of Public Opinion Strategies, a firm working for Burns,
65% of the district's residents disapprove of the House speaker. "No one likes
her here," concedes Gloria Dillon, a Democratic state committeewoman.

The irony is that Pelosi enjoyed an odd-couple friendship with Murtha. A former
Marine who disagreed with Pelosi on abortion and gun control, Murtha nonetheless
helped her become the first female speaker. She let him continue to amass the
clout that enabled him to win more "earmarks" -- special, federally funded
projects -- for his district than any other member of the House in 2008 and
2009, according to the watchdog group Taxpayers for Common Sense.

Critz is banking on voters remembering that when they go to the polls. "Economic
development and jobs are really the focus of my campaign," he says.

Complicating the race: The special election to fill Murtha's seat will be held
the same day  as the Pennsylvania primary. That means it's possible a candidate
could win the seat for now but lose the party contest to run for a full two-year
term in November.

Both Burns and Critz have primary competition. The most formidable candidate:
Bill Russell, an Army veteran opposing Burns for the Republican nomination.
Russell, 47, got more than 42% of the vote against Murtha last year and had as
much money in the bank as of March 30 as Burns and Critz.

"Our supporters are still there and very strong," he says.

The deciding factor in the race: Voters such as mine foreman Ed Parks. A
registered Democrat who says he voted for Murtha and Obama, Parks says he's not
sure how he's going to vote, but he is sick of the bickering in Washington.

"You watch the State of the Union Address, you could draw a line straight down
the middle of the room," he said, referring to the partisan reaction to Obama's
speech. "I'm mad at all of them."

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Jason A. Cohn for USA TODAY
PHOTO, B/W, John H. Beale for USA TODAY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              140 of 169 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              May 4, 2010 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Let's keep oil spill in the proper perspective;
As with Katrina, this is a serious disaster. But media hype and an aversion to
offshore drilling shouldn't skew reality.

BYLINE: Jonah Goldberg

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 839 words


By the end of last week, the pundits found their angle. The Deepwater Horizon
spill in the Gulf of Mexico could be President Obama's Hurricane Katrina. The
New York Times: "Shadow of Hurricane Katrina Hangs Over Obama After Spill." As
if for balance, Rush Limbaugh perhaps sarcastically raised the specter that foul
play (Ecoterrorism? Insider-sabotage?) might be behind the explosion, which
eerily coincided with both Earth Day and the debate over cap-and-trade
legislation. Left-wing bloggers mocked him as mercilessly as right-wingers
mocked Spike Lee and others for suggesting that the federal government
deliberately flooded a black neighborhood in New Orleans by blowing up its
levees.

Meanwhile, the White House spared no effort in trying to cap the gusher of
Katrina comparisons. Three Cabinet secretaries were dispatched to the Gulf to
help direct the recovery. One can only wonder whether having three worried
politicians at the scene is at all helpful to the engineers, scientists and
Coast Guard personnel already working tirelessly on the problem.

Regardless, the Katrina comparison is almost surely unfair. Obama's reaction to
the explosion has been entirely defensible. Could Obama have done more? Of
course, but only with the benefit of  hindsight. American offshore oil drilling
has had an exemplary safety record over the past 40 years  (though this accident
does raise new questions about the more recent innovation of very deepwater
drilling).  As someone who has reported from the Gulf of Mexico, including from
rigs like the Deepwater Horizon, I can attest that safety and environmental
stewardship are near-obsessions of both industry professionals  and their
regulators.  It's hardly as if BP wanted this massive environmental and
financial disaster.

Katrina falsehoods

But in one area the Katrina parallel works: the news media. This was anything
but the press' finest hour.   Many outlets reported that rape gangs were rampant
in  New Orleans, that snipers were keeping the feds at bay, that the Superdome
was littered with rotting bodies,  that poor black people were left to die in
disproportionate numbers. None of that was true, as several newspapers admirably
reported after the frenzy dissipated. Meanwhile,  most outlets either missed or
downplayed the efforts by the federal government, particularly the Coast Guard,
which conducted heroic air and sea operations soon after the storm passed. The
Federal Emergency Management Agency's efforts were certainly lacking, but the
focus on Michael Brown's "heckuva job" -- in the infamous words of President
Bush -- often had more to do with editorializing than the facts on the ground.

Once again, many people are eager to turn a Gulf Coast catastrophe into
something more apocalyptic, this time not to tear down a president but to
discredit offshore drilling. It most certainly is a horrific disaster, but the
"worse than Valdez" theme, hyped on the Drudge Report and cable news, hasn't
been validated. Estimates of how much oil has been spilled have varied wildly,
in part because satellite imaging is great at capturing the "sheen" from a spill
but not so good at measuring its thickness.

Even if the higher estimates turn out to be true, the spill so far is relatively
minor in size compared with others in history. (For instance, the Exxon Valdez
spill -- though certainly disastrous -- isn't anywhere near the Top 10 spills of
all time). Obviously, that's hardly reassuring given the sensitive location of
the spill and the fact that it could continue indefinitely if not contained. But
it's worth remembering that the damage from previous, and much larger, spills
wasn't nearly so lasting as people had feared. For example, if the Deepwater
spill is releasing 5,000 barrels a day, as the government estimates, it would
take several years to spill the 252 million to 336 million gallons Saddam
Hussein released into the Persian Gulf during the 1991 Iraq war.

Changes of heart

The point here isn't to minimize what is a true disaster. But already,
politicians are reversing their support for drilling based on little more than
what they see on the TV. It's funny how everyone's against setting policy in a
climate of fear -- unless the fear produces his preferred policy. The Three Mile
Island nuclear mishap in 1979 caused America to stop building reactors for a
generation because we let media hype set the policy. It would be a tragedy if we
let the same thing happen with domestic oil drilling. Indeed, one irony is that
America could stop drilling tomorrow and that would likely increase the number
of spills worldwide, given that more environmentally lax countries wouldn't stop
their efforts and we'd get more oil via tankers, which  are more likely to spill
than oil rigs, and the less oil we produce, the more we have to import by ship.

Regardless, now's not the time to debate the policy. Now's the time to deal with
this disaster.

Jonah Goldberg, a member of USA TODAY's Board of Contributors, is a visiting
fellow at the American Enterprise Institute.

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Ryan Moore, Hattiesburg (Miss.) American, via AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              142 of 169 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              June 21, 2010 Monday
                              Correction Appended
                                 FINAL EDITION

Legislators trek on private dime;
Sponsor-paid trips up in early '10, called beneficial

BYLINE: John Fritze

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 458 words


WASHINGTON -- Non-profit groups and special interests spent 73% more in the
first three months of the year jetting members of Congress on domestic and
foreign trips, a USA TODAY review of records compiled by CQ MoneyLine shows.

Twelve lawmakers, some accompanied by their spouses, traveled to Spain, nine
went to Israel and three to Turkey. Groups funding the trips spent $435,000 in
the first quarter, up from $251,000 over the same period last year.

"Some travel is good for members of Congress," said Melanie Sloan, director of
the watchdog group Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington.
Problems arise if "all you're doing is going to Boca Raton (Fla.) in February."

Lawmakers and the sponsoring groups say the trips are beneficial and that
members face day-long seminars and meetings with experts.

"It's good for members to get out and travel," said Rep. John Lewis, D-Ga. He
has taken 14 domestic trips since January 2009 including many where he was
invited to speak to civil rights groups. "We just have to be mindful when we
travel on trips financed by private companies."

Private travel came under renewed scrutiny  after Rep. Charles Rangel, D-N.Y.,
was admonished Feb. 26 by the House ethics panel for taking Caribbean trips in
2007 and 2008 that were paid for by corporations, a violation of House rules.

The Aspen Institute, a non-partisan think tank, is among the largest trip
organizers. This year, it sent 12 lawmakers to Madrid for a conference on
Russian relations and 15 to Lisbon to discuss energy policy. Total cost:
$251,000.

Dick Clark, a former Iowa Democratic senator who  runs Aspen's program, said the
travel is paid for by independent foundations, such as the Rockefeller
Foundation. He said the trips let lawmakers  discuss  policy questions with
international experts.

"All I'm trying to do is bring scholarship to policymakers," he said. "They're
...like study sessions."

Rep. Michael Burgess, R-Texas, took a $7,981 trip to Spain in 2009 funded by
Aspen that focused on climate change. He sits on the House Energy and Commerce
Committee, which crafted an energy bill that passed the House. He voted against
it and said the trip helped sharpen his opposition.

"None of the trips ... were done for pleasure," said Burgess, who took seven
trips in 2009 and one this year. "The other option is take trips at taxpayers'
expense and that obviously raises concerns for people as well."

Privately funded travel is still far less common than it was before Congress
passed tougher rules in 2007 that prohibit companies, unions and other groups
that employ lobbyists from sponsoring extended trips. In 2005-06, private groups
spent $5 million on 2,100 trips for lawmakers compared with 1,075 trips worth
$3.5 million in 2007-08.

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: June 25, 2010



CORRECTION: A story Monday about privately sponsored travel for members of
Congress was not clear about how the Aspen Institute uses funding from the
Rockefeller Foundation. It is used for staff and operational costs, not for
lawmaker travel.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              144 of 169 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             July 1, 2010 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Can we win in Afghanistan?;
Only if the military and civilian leadership start acting like they're fighting
under the same flag. It's unconscionable that soldiers are being sent to war by
such a fragmented leadership. Did we learn nothing from Vietnam?

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 1357 words


Cal Thomas is a conservative columnist. Bob Beckel is a liberal Democratic
strategist. But as longtime friends, they can often find common ground on issues
that lawmakers in Washington cannot. View the video version of this column at
www.usatoday.com/news/opinion/default.htm or at USA TODAY's YouTube channel at
youtube.com/usatoday.

Today: The war in Afghanistan.

Cal: Before we get to the politics surrounding the McChrystal affair,   I think
we can both stipulate that the war in Afghanistan is one we can't afford to
lose.   Would you agree?

Bob: Certainly, but we also can't afford to stay  for another decade.  This war
is now the longest this country has fought.    At some point, patience will run
out in Congress and among the American people. Let's hope success comes first.

Cal: Let's do more than hope. This is not a war of choice, but of necessity.   I
think we can surely agree that Gen. McChrystal was insubordinate according to
the Uniform Code of Military Justice   and that the president had the authority
as commander in chief to replace him as commander.

Bob: Yes, but it couldn't have come at a worse time,   which is why I wish the
president had not sacked him. A counterinsurgency strategy requires strong
relationships in Afghanistan between the U.S. military and the various tribal
chiefs.  McChrystal had those relationships,   and no matter how effective a
general David Petraeus   may be, he will have to establish those relationships
on his own, which will be critical when we ultimately tackle Kandahar.

Cal: You and I remember the divisive Vietnam War.   We didn't learn until long
after the names had been carved on  "the wall" memorializing the dead   that
some of the generals and civilian leadership had strong doubts about the
policies of President Johnson and later President Nixon.  The late
Kennedy-Johnson secretary of Defense, Robert McNamara, wrote a book in which he
confessed he was wrong about the war.   Some think it better to speak out before
the fact and not after the last coffin has come home.   But President Obama has
now, perhaps belatedly, called for unity.

Bob: There was plenty of opportunity for disagreement about strategy in the
three-month review ordered by Obama.   The counterinsurgency policy and increase
in troops was agreed to by all parties, including McChrystal.   The president
has every reason to expect unity behind this policy.

Cal: Well, there was a consensus among those who mattered, not necessarily
agreement. As we've learned in the backbiting months since, those such as Vice
President Biden and others who had reservations have allowed their reticence to
seep into the public consciousness.   That's cowardly and subversive.

Bob: He's always been for counterterrorism, just not counterinsurgency.   My
point is that such dissent should be aired before the policy decisions are made.
Then, either leave the team or get on board.

Cal: Agreed. No wartime president should have to fight enemies without and
within. The question now is about strategy. In his Rose Garden appearance
announcing the change in command, the president seemed to double down on the
counterinsurgency approach.   But the combination of rules of engagement that
limit our ability to kill the enemy (because they often use civilians as human
shields)   and an announced deadline of July 2011 for the beginning of troop
withdrawals   can only encourage the enemy to hang on. This isn't the way you
fight a war. It's the way you lose a war.

Bob: I would remind you that the military was pressed hard on the withdrawal
deadline by  Obama, and the Pentagon brass didn't seem to  have a problem with a
timetable.

Cal: Not quite, Bob. There was some careful parsing of words about what that
"deadline" meant. In fact, it's still unclear.

Bob: A lot is unclear. Can counterinsurgency even work?   After all, it largely
depends on the Afghan people.   Besides,  corruption is so rampant that the U.S.
military now has to pay warlords and perhaps some members of the Taliban to
escort convoys across the country.   Are you kidding me?

Cal: I like what former secretary of State Henry Kissinger wrote last week in
The Washington Post. He said Afghan strategy should be modified as such: "The
military effort should be conducted substantially on a provincial basis rather
than in pursuit of Western-style central government. The  time scale for a
political effort exceeds by a wide margin that available for military
operations. We need a regional diplomatic framework for the next stage of Afghan
strategy, whatever the military outcome. Artificial deadlines should be
abandoned."

Bob: Let's remember that it was Kissinger who announced in 1972 that "peace is
at hand"  in Vietnam.  He pushed for quick negotiations in Paris with the North
Vietnamese and Viet Cong, giving the South Vietnamese no option but to go along.
We quickly withdrew our forces, and in a matter of three years, Vietnam was
lost.   You mean that guy?

Cal: But Afghanistan isn't Vietnam.

Bob: It sure feels like it.

Cal: Vietnamese leaders weren't plotting to attack America. And just because
Kissinger may have been wrong on Vietnam doesn't mean he is wrong about
Afghanistan.

Bob: It doesn't mean he's right, either. Afghanistan has had a long history of
being a death trap for foreign powers,  going back to Genghis Khan.   But you
make an important point about the enemy wanting to attack the U.S. We have to
keep in mind that the Taliban doesn't want to attack the U.S.; al-Qaeda does.
By most reckonings, al-Qaeda has been severely diminished as a force in
Afghanistan.

Cal: Yes, but a cancer not extinguished is a cancer that can come back.

Bob: What about the politics of this?

Cal:  Republicans have unified behind Obama -- even praised him -- for his
prosecution of this war.    I wish Democrats had done the same during a
Republican administration instead of using even war for political advantage.

Bob: Democrats did unite behind President Bush in his invasion of Afghanistan.
Where they disagreed was in his invasion of Iraq. But you're right: It's much
more difficult to sustain momentum for war in the current political climate.
Most Americans think they don't have a stake in Afghanistan, which makes their
support fluid.

Cal: I am amused at how quickly people forget things. As a senator, Biden took a
very skeptical view of Petraeus and the Iraq surge that the general was
orchestrating.   Biden appeared on Meet the Press and said the Bush
administration surge in Iraq was doomed to fail. He said this over and over
again until progress was undeniable.    Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid said
the war was "lost."   How truly inspiring.

Bob: The jury is still out as to whether the surge has ultimately worked in
Iraq.

Cal: The surge worked. What has happened since then is something else entirely.

Bob: Even so, Biden  stood virtually alone in his opposition to the current
Afghan strategy, believing we should concentrate our efforts along the Afghan
border with Pakistan where al-Qaeda poses the greatest threat.   If Kandahar
proves unsuccessful, Biden may well be vindicated.

Cal: And he'd have finally been right about a foreign policy decision. This, the
man who wanted to divide Iraq into three countries.   I suppose if one throws
enough darts, he eventually hits the target.

Bob: But I hope Biden is not vindicated because an Afghanistan dominated by the
Taliban would allow al-Qaeda free reign on the border with Pakistan and that, as
the president has said, would pose a direct national security threat to the U.S.

Cal: So let's agree that though success right now looks dubious, it is not the
time to pull up stakes in Afghanistan. Remember, when the Iraq surge was just
getting underway, skeptics such as Biden were all too eager to declare defeat
and come home. Will we ever learn?

Bob: Based on the lessons of Vietnam, perhaps not. But yes, we need to give
Petraeus and company time to make this work. If in a year the trajectory has not
changed, we need to have a very public debate about what to do next. It's the
least we can do for our soldiers being sent to fight a war with no clear ending.
My God that sounds familiar.

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Mandel Ngan, AFP/Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              146 of 169 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             July 13, 2010 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Empire State's eyes on world given green gaze;
NYC skyscraper's windows revamped to save energy

BYLINE: Rick Hampson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 879 words


NEW YORK -- You want to ask him: How many do you break? That's because Anthony
Concepcion does windows -- lots of windows.

He's working at the Empire State Building. As part of an effort to become
certifiably green, the office tower is removing, retrofitting and replacing each
of its 6,514 double-hung, dual-pane windows. That's 26,056 panes of glass. "It's
a lot of glass," says Concepcion, 39, work crew supervisor for the contractor,
Serious Materials of Sunnyvale, Calif. "It's all part of going green."

The building, for four decades the world's tallest and once again the tallest in
New York, is spending $13 million on windows, insulation and other upgrades to
cut energy use by 38% and save about $4.4 million a year.

Never has a structure so old and so tall gone so green. "It's the most
recognizable building energy retrofit in the world," says Arah Schuur, director
of a conservation program at former president Bill Clinton's foundation.

If you can retrofit the Empire State Building, you can retrofit anything, says
Kevin Surace, president of Serious Materials.

The building has earned a score of 90 (out of 100) from the Environmental
Protection Agency's "Energy Star" program. That means a building constructed at
a size (102 stories), a time (1930) and a pace (about 14 months) not known for
energy efficiency now ranks in the top tenth of commercial office buildings.

Tony Malkin heads the company that runs the tower. He says the goal, in addition
to cutting costs and making the building more attractive to green-minded
tenants, is to give other office building owners a model.

The Clinton Climate Initiative, created by the former president's foundation,
says buildings can account for three-quarters of greenhouse gas emissions in
urban areas.

The Empire State Building project has aroused interest among other high-rise
owners, Schuur says, "but nothing far enough along to mention." Malkin says
projects like his soon will be announced.

Ahead of Chicago tower

A year ago, the Willis (formerly Sears) Tower in Chicago announced plans to
replace its 16,000 single-pane windows and put solar panels, windmills and
gardens on the roof, all to help reduce electricity use by a whopping 80%. Kate
Murphy, spokeswoman for the building, says finances have pushed back the
project.

Malkin's Empire State Building energy retrofit is about half-finished.

The new windows, which have 2.5 to four times more insulation, are not really
new. They are fashioned mostly from existing components by Concepcion's crew of
35. Working in two shifts, the crew assembles 75 to 80 windows a day in a noisy
workroom on the fifth floor.

Each night, workers remove scores of windows from their frames on the building's
office floors. The windows are replaced on the spot with refinished ones.
Workers then wheel the old windows to the workroom, where the glass panes are
detached from their sashes, pulled apart and carefully cleaned.

A sheath of transparent film is laid between the panes, which are resealed and
placed for an hour in a 205-degree oven to shrink the film into place. Next, a
mixture of inert gases is pumped into the spaces between the panes for
insulation. Finally, the panes are put back in the original sashes and remounted
in the office floor frames.

Surace, the Serious president, says he has never heard of a big building
choosing to reuse, rather than replace, so much window glass -- 96%. Malkin says
he's saving about $2,300 per window and avoiding the environmental impact of
trucking new windows from the factory and old ones to recycling.

Changes go unnoticed

Because the windows are removed after office hours and installed before most
office workers return the next morning, one of the most ambitious projects in
Empire State Building history is occurring without the knowledge of most of its
occupants. The morning after the 32nd-floor offices of Skanska USA, a unit of
the Swedish construction giant, had its windows swapped, "people didn't have a
clue anything had been changed," says Deborah Ippolito, a senior manager. "You
couldn't tell by looking at them."

Skanska, which occupies the entire floor, is the kind of big, environmentally
conscious tenant Malkin wants to attract with the energy retrofit and an overall
$550 million renovation.

Famous as it is, the Empire State Building never has enjoyed real cachet as a
business address. Tenancy was so low during its early Depression years that it
was derided as the "Empty State Building" and supported largely by visitors'
observatory fees. Ever since World War II, it has had relatively small tenants
paying relatively small rents.

Malkin wants to rent larger blocks of space to more prestigious tenants at
higher rents. A study by CoStar Group found that in the first quarter of 2009,
green-certified buildings had fewer vacancies than other comparable buildings
and that such buildings have commanded higher rents for several years.

Green windows -- actually, the sashes and frames are all painted the same
city-landmarked shade of red -- are part of that strategy at the Empire State
Building.

Which leads back to Anthony Concepcion and the issue of breakage. Normally
jovial, he grimaces a bit at the question. "Some days, none. Other times, up to
three," he says. "It averages out to about one a day."

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Robert Deutsch, USA TODAY
PHOTO, B/W, Robert Deutsch, USA TODAY
PHOTO, B/W, Daniel Acker, Bloomberg

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              148 of 169 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             August 16, 2010 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

At USC, the aim is straight and narrow;
New leadership expects Kiffin to win within rules

BYLINE: David Leon Moore

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 1570 words


LOS ANGELES -- The new president at Southern California has shown he is
no-nonsense when it comes to demanding ethical behavior from his beleaguered
athletic department. One of C.L. Max Nikias' first actions as boss at USC was to
send Reggie Bush's Heisman Trophy back to sender. In 2010, USC says it wants no
ill-gotten gain.

The new athletics director at USC has shown he takes action quickly and
decisively. One of Pat Haden's first moves as the popular successor to embattled
former AD Mike Garrett was to fire baseball coach Chad Kreuter for too much
losing. In 2010, though the Trojans are serving a severe NCAA probation for
major rules violations in their football and men's basketball programs, they
still want to win and win big.

They say they just want to do it the right way, with no exceptions.

With these kinds of supervisors and in this kind of no-tolerance climate, where
does this put the new USC football coach?

Lane Kiffin, a baby-faced, 35-year-old former Trojans assistant coach -- hired
by Garrett in January, seven months before Haden and Nikias took office -- has
never won big. He was 5-15 in a brief stint as head coach of the Oakland Raiders
and 7-6 in one season as head coach at Tennessee. Plus, he left a bevy of
questions in his wake about whether he is able or willing to conduct a college
program within the rules.

All of which raises this question: Would Nikias, a former dean of USC's
engineering school, and Haden, a widely admired former USC star quarterback,
Rhodes scholar and successful businessman and broadcaster, have hired
controversial Kiffin?

Haden, 57, sitting recently in the office he is decorating with framed pictures
of old Trojans and new grandkids, hears the question, pauses for a long time,
averts his glance to the ceiling, then exhales audibly.

"Lane Kiffin's our coach," he says. "Lane Kiffin is our coach."

And?

"I think Lane is ... I know what Lane is," Haden continues. "Lane is an
incredible recruiter, and Lane is a very good play-caller, and that's what I've
known him as.

"He passed muster by three organizations. The Raiders -- discount them if you
want -- hired him as their head coach. Tennessee hired him. And Mike Garrett and
his staff hired him.

"I think Lane has a big upside. You can't win without great players, and he's
going to get really great players. I just think he needs some advice. We don't
have to do these things (break rules) to win at USC. We don't. We won a lot of
national championships, a lot of Rose Bowls, before Reggie Bush. And we're going
to win a lot of them afterward.

"My message is we're going to win and we're going to do it ethically."

So is he uneasy having Kiffin, whose six secondary NCAA rules violations in his
one year at Tennessee earned him the nickname "Lane Violation," as the face of
what Haden expects to be the new and ethically improved USC football program?

"No, I don't think so," Haden says. "We all know Lane had some issues at
Tennessee. We're dealing with those. He's dealing with those, and Tennessee is
dealing with those. Our job is just to have him do it right. He can, and he
will. We've simply got to do it differently. We cannot stub our toe."

How much rope will Kiffin get in regard to rule violations? Not much. Haden says
the giveback of Bush's Heisman, the hit to the program's integrity and the shame
of the severe probation handed down by the NCAA for impermissible benefits Bush
took during his time at the school -- sanctions include a two-year bowl ban and
the loss of 30 football scholarships -- add up to a nightmare come true.

"We can't reset the clock," he says. "This is devastating to us. We're going to
have to deal with it the best way we can."

Closing down the circus

Perhaps the most visible example of the new USC is at practice. Under former
coach Pete Carroll, practice sometimes resembled a three-ring circus, with all
sorts of fans and minor and major celebrities hanging around to get a quick
high-five with Bush or quarterback Matt Leinart or maybe sneak a peek at Will
Ferrell or Snoop Dogg.

Now, practice is closed to all except immediate family members and news media.
Last year, there might have been as many as 500 people at practice. Last week,
during one three-hour session, there were maybe 20, aside from USC officials.

"You want to have fun," Haden says. "But when you had so many people that you
didn't really know around the program ... you step back and realize you were
opening yourself up to having problems, which we did."

Besides the issue of following the rules, Kiffin was criticized around the
Southeastern Conference last year because of bold (some would say reckless)
comments about his SEC rivals. In particular, he got into it with Florida coach
Urban Meyer.

Kiffin says those days are over. He says he needed to talk big at Tennessee to
make noise and get the attention of recruits, who weren't in the habit of
listing Tennessee as one of their possible schools.

"I don't like everything I did while I was at Tennessee, but I felt like it
needed to be done," Kiffin says. "We don't need to do any of that here."

People who've never met Kiffin might think from the headlines and the
controversies that he's a brash loudmouth full of quips and insults. But people
at USC remember him from his days as an offensive assistant to Carroll as a
rather bland X's and O's guy who rarely spoke above a whisper.

And that's sort of who he has been in his six months as USC head coach.

"People say I'm controversial," Kiffin says. "OK, in the last six months, list
the statements I've made in maybe 300 interviews and tell me how many
controversial statements I've made. I don't think there are any. We don't need
to do that here."

Kiffin says the lawsuit filed against him by the Tennessee Titans over his
11th-hour hiring of assistant coach Kennedy Pola does not count as being
controversial.

"No, that's paying the price for things before," he says, suggesting that the
suit was a publicity stunt aimed at getting back at Kiffin for abruptly leaving
Tennessee after one year -- a notion Titans head coach and USC alum Jeff Fisher
has denied.

"You get a job, you've got to hire coaches. Then all of a sudden, for the first
time anybody's ever heard of, there's a lawsuit -- against me, not against the
coach that left. Everybody I've talked to has never heard of such a thing."

Kiffin already has delivered in one respect. Under the gun, after Carroll's
unexpected departure to the Seattle Seahawks, Kiffin held together and delivered
one of the best recruiting classes in the country, a class ranked No. 1 by
Rivals.com.

"No other school could go through what we've gone through in the past year -- a
9-4 season, lose this phenomenal head coach, sanctions hanging over our head --
and still sign the No. 1 class in the country," Kiffin says. "It's because of
what kids have seen. It's 'SC.' "

New faces, same system

Whether it continues to look like Carroll's USC is up to Kiffin. He plans no
major changes offensively or defensively. He'll run the offense, just as he did
in 2005, when Bush won the Heisman and Bush, Leinart, power runner LenDale White
and wide receivers Dwayne Jarrett and Steve Smith were the stars of arguably one
of the best offenses in college football history.

Kiffin's father, longtime NFL defensive coordinator Monte Kiffin, 70, will run
the defense. It's the same basic defense used at USC under Carroll, who studied
under Monte Kiffin in his early coaching days.

The Trojans fell to 9-4 last season and fifth in the Pacific-10 after seven
years of incredible success -- seven consecutive Pac-10 titles, Bowl
Championship Series bowl games and top-four finishes -- and were embarrassed in
late-season losses to Oregon (47-20) and Stanford (55-21).

USC was picked second to Oregon in this year's preseason Pac-10 news media poll.
Because of the probation, the Trojans are not allowed to be ranked in the USA
TODAY Coaches' Poll. So they will measure their progress on the field, starting
Sept. 2 at Hawaii -- a game they will play without potential star Dillon Baxter,
a freshman running back suspended by Kiffin for the opener for an undisclosed
violation of team rules.

The closer the season gets, the less they talk about sanctions and the more they
talk about football.

Running back Allen Bradford: "Everybody's got the mind-set that we're going to
go 13-0 and make history."

Cornerback Shareece Wright: "Who's to say we can't win a national championship?
We did it before without the BCS."

True. The Trojans won a share of the 2003 title, finishing atop the AP news
media poll.

A lot of the Trojans' success will depend on sophomore quarterback Matt Barkley,
whose freshman season included a clutch performance in a road victory against
Ohio State but also a tendency to make wild or forced throws. He finished the
year completing less than 60% of his passes, with 15 touchdowns and 14
interceptions.

"I definitely have to improve," Barkley says. "I'm more comfortable this year."

Whether the president, AD and head coach will be comfortable remains to be seen.
Kiffin, leaning forward in his office chair, says there is no reason they won't
be. He has answered a lot of questions but is eager to get out of his office and
visit a player in the hospital who has had surgery.

He is asked one more question. He has made it through six months without, in his
opinion, a controversy. Does he have a goal? One year? Two years?

He laughs.

"Every day's a battle," he says.

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Color, Robert Hanashiro, USA TODAY
PHOTO, Color
PHOTO, B/W, Robert Hanashiro, USA TODAY
PHOTO, B/W, Kirby Lee, US Presswire

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COVER STORY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              151 of 169 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             August 27, 2010 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Was it worth it?;
Seven years of war provides many answers

BYLINE: Jim Michaels and Mimi Hall

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1836 words


RAMADI, Iraq -- It was a way to show that the government cared.

About 100 families of slain policemen and other victims of insurgent attacks
gathered in an auditorium to receive packages of food from the local government.

"We don't want food," said Nooriya Khalaf, 39, pointing dismissively at the
small bags with rice. "We want jobs."

The shouting and gesturing continued until the ceremony collapsed into chaos.
The women rushed the stage, gathering around a police chief and shouting
complaints at him.

Democracy is alive in Iraq. Under Saddam Hussein, Khalaf and others may have
been visited by the secret police for their remarks and then never seen again.
Today, a police chief is berated, and no one fears for his or her life.

Yet many Iraqis are not pleased with life. Unemployment is 35%, according to
Iraq's development ministry. Electricity is spotty. Terrorist bombings are
almost a daily event. Sunni Arabs, Shiite Arabs and Kurds are still arguing over
who should be prime minister nearly six months after parliamentary elections.

Many are still mourning the thousands who  died in the violence that followed
the defeat of the Baathist regime; a number the Iraqi Health Ministry estimates
at 87,000.

And although violence has declined from a peak in 2007, it is a constant threat.

"We had hoped to remove Saddam," says Ahmed abu Risha, a tribal leader. "But
this is a lot to pay."

Americans seem to agree.

In a USA TODAY Poll, 60% of Americans say "no" when asked, "Do you think the
situation in Iraq was worth going to war over?" Similar majorities either felt
that the war did not make the USA safer from terrorism or made no difference.
The same was said of whether the political situation in the Middle East is more
stable.

At the same time, 52% of Americans say Iraqis are better off as a result of the
war; 20% say they are not.

The results of the Aug. 21-22 poll come as the United States prepares to
officially end combat operations in Iraq on Tuesday. President Obama will travel
Tuesday to Fort Bliss, Texas, to meet with troops and will deliver an address
that evening from the Oval Office.

By the end of the month, troop levels will go from a high of more than 160,000
servicemembers in 2007 to fewer than 50,000. Most of those who remain will focus
on training Iraqi police and soldiers to take over the nation's security.

The seven years of fighting cost the lives of more than 4,400 Americans. The
financial cost of the war for the United States has been more than $748 billion,
making it the most expensive U.S. war apart from World War II in current
dollars.

As U.S. involvement winds down, and forces prepare for a full withdrawal in
2011, experts are asking, "Was it worth it?"

"When asked if the French Revolution (1789-99) had been a good idea, Chinese
premier Zhou Enlai supposedly said (two centuries later), 'It's too early to
tell,' " military scholar Max Boot says. "The same might be said for the war in
Iraq."

Scholars, former government officials, military experts and politicians agree
it's too early to tell whether the cost in lives and treasure will be worth an
outcome that will not be fully known for years, even decades. Even so, many say
they don't have to wait any longer to make up their minds.

"We've lost so many of our young soldiers, and I feel pretty heartbroken about
it," says Rep. Louise Slaughter, D-N.Y., an opponent of the Iraq war from the
beginning. "It couldn't possibly be worth it."

Sen. Joe Lieberman, a former Connecticut Democrat who won re-election as an
independent on a pro-Iraq-war platform, disagrees.

"We are significantly safer as a result of what I consider to be a victory in
Iraq," he says. "It cost too much; it went on too long; mistakes were made along
the way. But ultimately, if we had withdrawn, it would have had a devastating
impact on the entire Middle East and our credibility in the world.

"I think it was worth it."

Looking back: From 1990 to now

This moment in history is the culmination of a confrontation that dates to the
Gulf War of 1990.

After the al-Qaeda terror attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, President George W. Bush
and his Cabinet charged that given the climate in the Middle East, Saddam was
too much of a threat to remain in power.

In October 2002, the House and Senate voted overwhelmingly to authorize force
against Iraq. In November, the United Nations Security Council adopted a
unanimous resolution offering Saddam "a final opportunity" to comply with
disarmament. Three months later, Secretary of State Colin Powell said U.S. and
European intelligence agencies believed Iraq was hiding its weaponry and seeking
more.

The final U.N. inspection report stated that Iraq failed to account for chemical
and biological stockpiles. U.N. inspector Hans Blix said he had "no confidence"
that the weaponry had been destroyed.

In his 2003 State of the Union Address, Bush said: "Some have said we must not
act until the threat is imminent. Since when have terrorists and tyrants
announced their intentions, politely putting us on notice before they strike? If
this threat is permitted to fully and suddenly emerge, all actions, all words
and all recriminations would come too late."

At 5:34 a.m., March 20, 2003, a U.S. force backed by 34 nations crossed into
Iraq. The war was on.

In the ensuing years, the war saw failures and unforeseen consequences. No
weapons of mass destruction were found. A violent insurgency arose that shocked
many.

There were also successes. Millions of Iraqis braved terrorist threats to vote
in free and fair elections in 2005. Saddam's regime was deposed, and democratic
institutions moved into his palaces and ministries. Violence eventually
plummeted.

"The war has brought the Iraqi nation a hope for the future that didn't exist
under Saddam's rule," says retired Army lieutenant general James Dubik of the
Institute for the Study of War. "That's a huge thing."

Was it worth it?

"The bottom line is that it's too soon to tell," Dubik says. "Wars are not won
by just the fighting."

Dubik says diplomatic and economic efforts will determine whether the war brings
another war or a better peace. And he says it will take 20 years to play out.
Among the things Iraq needs to succeed: effective security forces, the creation
of an independent judicial system, an improved economy.

"I think it's completely doable," he says. "It's in our national interests, and
they want our help."

Many Iraqis see only a war's aftermath in which the economy is sputtering and
life remains hard.

"What you see in Iraq is not victory," says abu Risha, the tribal leader, who
says he gets only five hours of electricity a day. "Yes, we are victorious
against al-Qaeda. But after seven years, the country still lacks power."

Some Iraqis blame their government.

"It isn't politics," says Qasim Sabti, a painter who sat in the courtyard of his
gallery, drinking tea and smoking cigarettes with other artists. "It's looting."

"We had one dictator," Sabti says. "Now we have hundreds of dictators."

Jasim al-Halbusi, chairman of the Anbar provincial council, says much has been
made worse. "The Americans only left death and destruction: handicapped people,
orphans, widows, an immature political system. This is what we get with U.S.
liberation and democracy."

'They don't understand democracy yet'

Supporters say that seven years after the statue of Saddam Hussein in Firdos
Square was toppled, the Iraqis have a freely elected government, are rid of a
regime that murdered hundreds of thousands, and are slowly but steadily
rebuilding an oil industry that sits atop the world's third-largest oil
reserves.

Salah al-Emari, 36, manager of an appliance shop in Baghdad, says people's
frustrations will pass.

"This is the problem with my people: They don't understand democracy yet,"
al-Emari says.

Was the war worth it?

"Yes," he says.

"Democracy cannot be given," al-Emari says. "It has to be taken. We must heal
eventually."

Investor Salman Hassan, 63, sat with a group of men in the Iraqi Stock Exchange,
which was recently computerized, and watched prices change. "When the government
settles, everything else will settle," he says. "There is going to be
stability."

Prices on the fledgling market, which lists 84 companies, have been sluggish
lately because of the political uncertainty and central bank requirements that
have diluted bank shares, says Laith al-Timeemi, a 33-year-old broker and member
of the exchange's board of governors.

Even so, he expects prices to rise as Iraq's government begins to focus on
reconstruction projects and starts attracting foreign investment.

Meanwhile in the United States, "we know that years of effort have toppled one
of the world's most dangerous and unpredictable dictators and prevented a
terrible defeat that would have occurred if al-Qaeda in Iraq and its Shiite
counterparts had succeeded in chasing us out prematurely, " says Boot, the
military scholar and a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations.

If Iraq veers into chaos, he says, "much of the effort we have expended will
have been wasted."

John Bolton, U.N. ambassador under Bush, says deposing Saddam's regime was
"unquestionably correct" because it kept him from acquiring nuclear weapons,
which Bolton says he would have done because the sanctions effort was about to
crumble.

"Achieving that objective was materially in the interests of the United States,
and the world is a better place," he says, adding that the U.S. show of strength
against Iraq is what persuaded Libya's Moammar Gadhafi to dismantle his bomb
program and destroyed much of al-Qaeda's operational capacity. Bolton also says
mistakes made after the invasion may blight other benefits of the war.

"I would have turned over authority to the Iraqis as quickly as possible to try
to put government in the business of politics instead of a different business.
We're still playing out the consequences of not having done that."

In Anbar province, what was once the heart of the Sunni insurgency that cost so
many lives is now one of the most secure areas in Iraq. Today, America's
greatest enemy is now Anbar's as well.

"People of Anbar have issued a death warrant to al-Qaeda," abu Risha says.

War opponents in the USA say the true enemy of Iraq is the United States.

"I don't think there's been any measurable thing that we could cite that this
occupation of Iraq has made better. We achieved exactly nothing," says Cindy
Sheehan, an anti-war activist.

Sheehan says the war made things worse for Iraqis and others. "My work has gone
from trying to stop these wars to trying to alert people to the problems of
being subjects of a military empire."

Howard Dean, who rode a wave of anti-war sentiment to come close to capturing
the 2004 Democratic nomination for president, says no one knows yet whether the
war was worth it.

"If Iraq should, against the odds, turn into a liberal democracy, then we would
say it was worth it," he says. "The problem is, the odds are against it."

"I wish the Iraqis well. I hope they succeed and prove that I was wrong when I
came out against the war in 2003."

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, Color, Julie Snider, USA TODAY, Source: Gallup Poll (Line
graph, bar graph)
PHOTO, Color, AP file photo by Jerome Delay

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COVER STORY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              157 of 169 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           October 14, 2010 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

In this volatile election, money isn't everything;
Size of war chests not as crucial as it once was

BYLINE: Fredreka Schouten

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 2064 words


MADISON, Ind. -- Todd Young is a political novice with less name recognition
than his opponent and even less campaign cash.

But the Republican is locked in one of the most competitive congressional races
in the country as he tries to ride a wave of voter anger with Washington to oust
Rep. Baron Hill, a five-term Democrat who had $1.1 million cash in the bank at
the end of June, nearly four times the $259,600 in Young's kitty.

The battle for this conservative corner of southern Indiana illustrates how this
year's volatile midterm election has upended one popular notion of American
politics: that a big campaign war chest provides enough fuel to ward off
challengers. In primaries across the USA, voter frustration and the difficult
economy have helped upstart candidates with shoestring budgets end the political
careers of well-funded incumbents.

"There are problems money can't fix," says Nathan Gonzales of the non-partisan
Rothenberg Political Report. "Voters are dissatisfied with the direction of the
country. Some are downright angry, and they are prepared to take it out on the
party in power."

Anticipating trouble, Democratic incumbents in competitive races have built
substantial financial firewalls heading into Election Day. At the end of August,
for example, the campaign committee for House Democrats had $39 million in the
bank, $13.4 million more than its Republican counterpart. That's money Democrats
can unleash on get-out-the-vote efforts and last-minute television ads to aid
vulnerable lawmakers.

Even so, independent analysts such as the non-partisan Cook Political Report
predict that Democrats are on course to lose at least 40 seats in the House,
which would throw control of the 435-seat chamber to Republicans and endanger
President Obama's legislative agenda on everything from climate change to taxes.

"The conditions are so anti-Obama at this point," says William Kubik, a
political scientist at Indiana's Hanover College, "it's almost like giving an
extra $1 million to every Republican challenger."

The party of the sitting president has lost seats in 10 of the last 12 midterm
elections. The GOP needs a net gain of 39 House seats and 10 in the Senate to
retake the majority in Congress.

A slew of groups affiliated with Republicans are pumping millions into contested
races across the country, spurred on by a Supreme Court decision in January that
allows corporations and unions to spend unlimited amounts on political activity
that calls for the election or defeat of candidates. That spending by outside
groups with GOP ties is helping candidates such as Young narrow the spending
gaps with better-funded Democrats.

To date, conservative groups such as the U.S. Chamber of Commerce have spent
$121.6 million -- dramatically outpacing the $79 million spent by liberal
organizations such as Planned Parenthood, according to the non-partisan Center
for Responsive Politics, which tracks money in politics.

'TV is the biggest megaphone'

Want to spend a lot of money fast? Run for Congress.

It cost nearly $1.4 million on average to win a House seat in 2008, and $8.5
million to become a U.S. senator that year, the center's data show.

The lion's share -- 50% to 70% of a campaign budget, depending on the size of
the local television market -- goes to advertising, says Evan Tracey, who tracks
political ads for the Campaign Media Analysis Group. In Louisville, one of
several TV markets in Hill's district, it costs an average of about $300 to air
a 30-second television spot, Tracey says. (The district sprawls over 20 counties
and two time zones in southeastern Indiana, including communities that hug the
Ohio River, the state's border with Kentucky.)

In Philadelphia, the same 30-second ad would cost about $1,700 to air.

Run that ad repeatedly for a week, and the costs quickly add up. "TV is the
biggest megaphone a campaign can buy," Tracey says. "You're just not going to be
able to shake every voter's hand in your district."

Martin Frost, a former Texas congressman who oversaw campaigns for House
Democrats in 1996 and 1998, says smart candidates also invest heavily in getting
voters to the polls.

He has advised Democrats this year to reserve ample funds for last-minute,
get-out-the-vote efforts to avoid a repeat of the 1994 "Republican Revolution"
that knocked his party out of power for the first time in 40 years. That year,
several Democratic seats were lost by as few as 500 votes -- a sign incumbents
failed to invest the staff and money to go door-to-door to gin up turnout, he
says.

"This is labor-intensive, but it's absolutely necessary -- otherwise you lose
races you shouldn't lose," Frost says.

Democrats have a significant financial advantage: In nearly three dozen of the
races rated as tossups by Cook, the party's candidates had more cash in the bank
than their GOP opponents at the end of June.

Recent history shows that the party with the most money doesn't always win. In
2006, GOP committees outraised their Democratic counterparts by more than $100
million, but that didn't stop Democrats from sweeping back into power on a tide
of discontent with President George W. Bush.

The primary battlefield already is littered with well-funded casualties:

*In Alaska, little-known Republican lawyer Joe Miller upset incumbent Sen. Lisa
Murkowski in the state's GOP primary, despite Murkowski's 10-to-1 fundraising
advantage. She now is waging a write-in campaign.

*In Utah, three-term incumbent Sen. Bob Bennett, who had amassed $3.5 million,
was tossed out of office in May by conservative delegates to the state's GOP
convention. The eventual GOP nominee, lawyer Mike Lee, had raised $128,000
before the convention.

*In Delaware, Tea Party favorite Christine O'Donnell spent $230,000  in the
run-up to the GOP primary. She trounced Rep. Mike Castle, a former governor and
nine-term congressman, who spent $1.5 million.

Several of the upstart candidates were aided by spending from outside
special-interest groups, such as the California-based Tea Party Express. But the
$550,000 the group spent supporting Miller, for example, represented just a
fraction of Murkowski's spending.

Other well-funded candidates are struggling.

Republican Meg Whitman, former CEO of eBay, has invested a record $119 million
of her own money in the race for California governor. She's essentially tied
with Democrat Jerry Brown, a former two-term governor who has raised $28.9
million. Outside groups and unions, such as the AFL-CIO, have spent $19.3
million more to aid Brown.

Given Democrats' 13-point advantage in voter registration in the state, "to be
tied in a state like California is a very good position heading into Election
Day," says Whitman spokeswoman Sarah Pompei. "We've invested the necessary
resources to ensure victory."

'Whoever is in office, I'm voting out'

From the start, this election year promised to be a challenge for Hill, a
fiscally conservative "Blue Dog" Democrat  who is facing Young and Libertarian
Greg Knott on Nov. 2. Hill is one of 39 Democrats running for re-election in
districts carried by  John McCain in the 2008 presidential contest.

Hill, 57, is a veteran of close races. He served three terms before losing by
1,425 votes in 2004 to Republican Mike Sodrel. Two years later, despite being
outspent by Sodrel and his allies, Hill recaptured his seat in a Democratic
sweep.

Although Hill touts his independence, his opponents note that he voted with
Obama and House Speaker Nancy Pelosi on the $814 billion economic stimulus
package, legislation aimed at limiting the greenhouse gases that cause global
warming, and the landmark law that requires most Americans to have health
insurance by 2014 or pay fines.

Like other parts of the country, the sluggish economic recovery dominates the
political debate in the state, where the jobless rate stands at 10.2%,  compared
with a national average of 9.6%.

"It's a toxic environment" for Hill and other Democrats in conservative-leaning
Indiana, said Robert Dion, a political scientist at the University of
Evansville. Popular Indiana Gov. Mitch Daniels is Republican, as is the state's
senior senator, Richard Lugar.

"This is a state that wants to be Republican and finds itself looking at a
Democratic administration that seems unsuccessful at handling nagging problems,"
Dion said. "Baron Hill becomes the focus, because Obama is not on the ballot
this year."

Two years ago, Rebecca Wilson of New Albany, Ind., voted for Hill and Obama.

That was before Wilson, 40, lost her human resources job at a nearby casino that
saw its revenue drop sharply in the recession. Wilson was jobless for more than
a year before finding her current post at the local cable company's call center.
She makes $10 an hour on the 3 p.m.-to-midnight shift, a little more than half
what she was paid in her old job.

"Whoever is in office, I'm voting out," Wilson said on a recent Sunday morning
after a shopping trip to Walmart.

She worries the new health care law will drive up costs for employers who will
be required to provide insurance, and could spur more layoffs. With two sons in
the Marines and a daughter in the Army, Wilson said she disagrees sharply with
Obama's handling of withdrawing U.S. troops from Iraq and Afghanistan. The
roughly 50,000 U.S. troops who remain in Iraq are vulnerable to attack, Wilson
said.

"I wanted a strong finish or a complete pullout," she said. "I believed in
Obama, but I lost my faith."

Next month, Wilson said, she'll vote for Young.

Riding anti-incumbent wave

Young, a Bloomington lawyer and ex-Marine, is counting on that anti-incumbent
mood. "People are unhappy with Baron Hill, and they want someone else," Young,
38, says over a late-afternoon coffee. His campaign pitch: He's a fiscal
conservative who will help rein in Washington spending.

His day started hours earlier in Seymour, Hill's hometown, where the candidates
marched through a steady, cold drizzle to greet voters at the annual Oktoberfest
Parade. Then, Young met with Tea Party activists in Madison, a town of carefully
preserved 19th-century brick townhouses on the bank of the Ohio River.

Kathie Petkovic, who owns Madison's Riverboat Inn and Suites and helped host the
Tea Party gathering, says she likes the Republican's message, even though she'd
like to see fewer lawyers and more business owners in Congress. "But he's a
Marine," she says. "It says he loves his country if he bothered to serve."

Petkovic, 62, is Republican but says she has backed Democrats in the past. Even
so, Hill won't get her support because he has voted too often with Pelosi, whom
she calls "arrogant."

Among Petkovic's chief complaints: the new health care law's requirement that
individuals buy health insurance. "To mandate how we are going to spend our
money ... that's just not the government's job," she said. "People were against
(the Democrats') version of health care, and Pelosi didn't care at all. She
pushed it through."

Despite Hill's fundraising advantage, Young has been aided by Washington
interests. The National Republican Congressional Committee, for instance, has
spent more than $400,000 in independent pro-Young advertising so far. A
conservative group called American Future Fund pumped more than $250,000 into
anti-Hill advertising last month.

Hill is known in Indiana as a tireless campaigner and is famous for scoring a
record 1,724 points in  basketball while attending his hometown Seymour High
School. He's unapologetic about his record in Congress.

Unemployment could have soared 20% or 25% without swift government intervention
to stimulate the economy, he recently told the editorial board of The
Courier-Journal in Louisville. "Some of the things we did were not popular but
necessary," he says. "We are turning the corner."

Hill's campaign did not respond to interview requests. In a statement, Hill
touted his southern Indiana roots.

He also repeated a common campaign theme: that Young is "out of touch,"  in
part, because he is a "wealthy lawyer" who hails from an Indianapolis suburb
outside the congressional district. "Voters might not always agree with me,"
Hill said, "but they know that nobody works harder for southern Indiana."

Chris Murphy, 56, of New Albany, says he's voting for Hill because he "got
something done" by voting for health care.

"Baron Hill's got a lot more experience," says Murphy, a legal examiner. "It
won't take him a year to figure out where his office is."

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Julie Snider, USA TODAY, Source: Center for Responsive
Politics (Bar graph)
PHOTO, Color, Nina N. Greipel for USA TODAY
PHOTO, B/W, Nina N. Greipel for USA TODAY
PHOTOS, B/W, AP (4)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COVER STORY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              160 of 169 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           October 27, 2010 Wednesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Economic reports see little change;
Consumers feel a bit better, but home prices slip

BYLINE: Paul Davidson

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 494 words


Two reports Tuesday spotlighted an economy that continues to move sideways.
Consumer confidence rose slightly in October, but the specter of falling home
prices could dampen the mood of shoppers in coming months.

"The rebound in (stock) prices has started to boost consumer confidence, but
further gains could be limited by a renewed slide in house prices," said Capital
Economics' Paul Dales in a research note. A closely watched index of consumer
confidence rose to 50.2 in October from 48.6 the previous month, The Conference
Board said. Most of the gain was due to an increase in the "expectations index"
to 67.8 from 65.5 in September. It was likely pushed up by the recent stock
rally, High Frequency Economics said in a research note.

Sixteen percent of those surveyed said they expect business conditions to
improve in the next six months, up from 15% in September. Meanwhile, 14.1% said
conditions would get worse, down from 16.6%.

Consumers' appraisal of the present situation, which is more closely tied to the
beleaguered job market, ticked up only marginally, to 23.9 from 23.3. About 3.5%
said jobs were plentiful, down from 3.8% in September.

The overall index is up from its record low of 25 in February 2009 but
substantially off levels in a normal recovery -- about 95, according to Capital
Economics. The index -- mostly flat after climbing to 62.7 in May -- is
sometimes deemed a harbinger of consumer spending, which makes up 70% of the
U.S. economy.

Yet, consumer confidence could be crimped by lackluster housing prices.

Home prices dipped 0.2% in August from the previous month on a non-seasonally
adjusted basis, according to the Standard & Poor's/Case-Shiller home price
index, which tracks 20 large cities. Values fell in 15 of 20 cities, with only
Chicago, Detroit, Las Vegas, New York and Washington, D.C., posting gains.

Nationwide, home prices largely have been unchanged since last fall after rising
about 5% last year from their April 2009 bottom on the stock market rally and a
home buyer's tax credit. Prices are now 28% below their June 2006 peak.

An extension of the tax credit helped goose prices earlier this year, but
lately, they've been constrained by the latest wave of foreclosure and short
sales, Wells Fargo economist Mark Vitner says.

The distressed sales, along with high unemployment, likely will continue to
weigh on the housing market in the months ahead, experts say. A delay in such
sales resulting from recent charges of fraudulent foreclosures will not help
housing sales and prices, economists say.

"The longer you delay (the process), the longer it's going to take to work off
the excess supply and get the market back to normal," says David Blitzer, who
oversees the survey for S&P.

Paul Ashworth of Capital Economics says prices could fall another 5% by next
year. But Joel Naroff of Naroff Economic Advisors expects values to rise up to
5% next year, saying "large parts of the country have already turned the
corner."

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              164 of 169 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            November 9, 2010 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

'William and Harry' and Kate;
New book reveals juicy tidbits ahead of a royal wedding

BYLINE: Craig Wilson

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 3D

LENGTH: 480 words


They might be the most famous brothers in the world, easily recognized by just
their first names: William and Harry. Sons of Diana and Charles. Grandsons of
Elizabeth. Paparazzi's catnip.

Katie Nicholl, a royal watcher and columnist at the Mail on Sunday in London,
uncovers what makes the two young Windsors tick in William and Harry: Behind the
Palace Walls (Weinstein Books, $24.95).

As rumors swirl around an imminent royal wedding, Nicholl gives her own take on
the romance between Prince William, 28, and his longtime but sometimes
off-and-on-again girlfriend, Kate Middleton, also 28. Or "Waity Katie," as she's
called by the British press.

There was a pact made in 2007, according to Nicholl.

"He promised her his commitment and said he would not let her down, and she in
turn agreed to wait for him," Nicholl quotes a member of their inner circle.

Possible wedding dates now are next summer or 2012.

"Royal weddings may seem like fairy tales to the public, but they are in fact
all about timing and coordinating schedules," Nicholl writes. The queen's
upcoming Diamond Jubilee celebrations in 2012, for instance, and the London
Olympic Games, also in 2012, need to be taken into account.

More royal tidbits from the book:

*Harry, 26, an infamous prankster, was asked by his grandmother to activate her
new cellphone voice-mail greeting. The message: "Hey, wassup? This is Liz. Sorry
I'm away from the throne. For a hotline to Philip, press 1; for Charles, press
2; for the corgis, press 3." It was quickly removed after the queen's private
secretary, Robin Janvrin, called and "got the shock of his life," according to
an aide.

*Camilla Parker Bowles was so stressed before her 2005 marriage to Prince
Charles, and meeting his two sons, that she took up yoga.

*Harry's turbulent relationship with Chelsy Davy included her breaking up with
him on Facebook by simply changing her relationship "status" to "not in one." He
quickly moved on to a number of other young women and has been linked to
Norwegian rock star Camilla Romestrand.

*William's constant struggle with a life already planned out for him.

*William's arguments with Camilla's daughter, Laura Parker Bowles, over who was
at fault for the collapse of their parents' marriages. "Your father has ruined
my life," she once yelled at William.

Prince Charles' 'World'

William and Harry's father, Prince Charles, is also making book news: His
Harmony: A New Way of Looking at Our World (Harper, $29.99) is just out. A
longtime environmentalist, the prince details how we must reconnect with nature
to protect the planet.

"This is a call to revolution," he writes in the first paragraph. "The Earth is
under threat. It cannot cope with all that we demand of it. It is losing its
balance and we humans are causing this to happen."

On Nov. 19, Charles will present his views on climate change on an NBC special
hosted by Brian Williams.

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Chris Ison, AP
PHOTO, B/W

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved
