
                               2 of 264 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          September 23, 2009 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Deal on climate change is elusive;
Political, economic issues hinder talks to stop warming

BYLINE: Traci Watson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1836 words


Two years ago, more than 180 nations made a bold promise: By the end of 2009,
they would draft a sweeping treaty to slow climate change.

Yvo de Boer, the United Nations' top climate-change official, called the
agreement "a real breakthrough," and British Prime Minister Gordon Brown
expressed confidence it would produce "a deal ... in 2009 to address the
defining challenge of our time."

Now the deadline is nearing, and hope is fading. The treaty is supposed to be
finalized at talks that start Dec. 7 in Copenhagen, but diplomats have made
almost no progress toward an agreement -- a point made repeatedly by world
leaders Tuesday at the U.N. climate summit in New York City.

"As we head towards Copenhagen, there should be no illusions that the hardest
part of our journey is in front of us," President Obama said at the U.N.

Swedish Prime Minister Fredrik Reinfeldt warned of a deadlock. "The negotiations
are going far too slowly," he said.

The debate over climate change is wrapped in a range of political and economic
conflicts.

Climate scientists, such as Rajendra Pachauri, head of a U.N.-organized group of
thousands of climate experts, say the world is headed for dramatic changes
unless nations slash emissions of carbon dioxide -- from cars, power plants and
factories -- and other greenhouse gases soon.

The key question is how to do so without crippling the worldwide economy -- and
making such limits fair to industrialized nations such as the United States as
well as developing nations and rising powers such as China. The U.S. Energy
Department says China is the only nation that produces more carbon dioxide
emissions from burning fossil fuels than the USA.

The notion that such emissions are dramatically changing the climate is widely
accepted.

The U.N.'s Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change published a report two
years ago saying the odds are better than 90% that global warming is caused by
humans. Even so, there are holdouts -- notably Republicans in the U.S. Senate,
which ratifies treaties involving the USA -- who question whether emissions have
much of a role in what they suggest is a natural warming of the planet.

Meanwhile, there are questions about whether even a dramatic reduction in
emissions would avoid dangerous climate changes.

Against that backdrop, the scramble for a deal to combat global warming
continues.

Key nations will take part in climate talks at a flurry of upcoming meetings,
including the G-20 meeting in Pittsburgh of major economic powers Thursday and
Friday and further U.N. talks starting Monday in Bangkok.

The Earth isn't waiting, scientists say.

If emissions keep increasing as they have, the planet's average temperature will
rise 3 to 7 degrees by 2100, according to the U.N. climate panel's 2007 report.

A temperature rise of more than 3 1/2 degrees could melt the ice covering
Greenland -- raising sea levels 20 feet, says climate scientist Jonathan Gregory
of Britain's University of Reading.

If Antarctica's ice melts, too, cities such as Hong Kong and Miami would be
threatened, MIT climate scientist John Reilly says.

Scientists at the Hadley Centre reported this year that above 3 1/2 degrees,
swaths of the Amazon rainforest will die.

Despite such dire scenarios, drafting a climate treaty will be "10 times more
difficult" than it was in 1997, when diplomats meeting in Kyoto, Japan, agreed
to the world's first mandatory climate pact, says John Prescott, Britain's
former deputy prime minister and an important player in the Kyoto deal. More
nations are involved now, Prescott says, and they are further apart on how much
to cut emissions.

The worldwide financial crisis is adding to the economic concerns that surround
talks on a climate-change treaty.

Obama acknowledged the economic pressures in Tuesday's speech, saying "every
nation's most immediate priority is reviving their economy and putting their
people back to work. And so all of us will face doubts and difficulties in our
own capitals as we try to reach a lasting solution to the climate challenge."

The Bush administration and the Senate opposed the Kyoto Protocol because it
exempted developing nations such as China and India from mandatory emissions
cuts, which U.S. politicians feared would put the USA at an economic
disadvantage. The Senate's lack of approval of the Kyoto treaty helped make the
treaty ineffective in cutting emissions.

Today, many U.S. senators have the same worries they had in the 1990s: that a
climate treaty would slow economic growth, make U.S. industry less competitive
and drive up energy prices.

The Kyoto Protocol expires in 2012. If the deal making in Copenhagen leads to a
new pact that would harm the U.S. economy, "no such treaty or agreement can be
approved by the Senate," says Sen. James Inhofe, R-Okla.

Here are some of the problems confronting the global effort to cool the Earth's
temperature:

Mistrust and finger-pointing

In Copenhagen, countries are supposed to settle which of them would be required
to lower their emissions and by how much.

The battle over those issues is unlikely to end this year, says Eileen Claussen,
head of the Pew Center on Global Climate Change and a former U.S. climate
official. That's because the countries are far apart:

*The European Union suggested to the U.N. that industrialized countries,
including its members, cut emissions by 30% by 2020. Meeting that limit plus
another goal to use more solar power and other "renewable energy" would cost
tens of billions of dollars in 2020, according to a European Commission study.

*China, which considers itself a developing country, wants developed countries
to cut emissions 40% by 2020, according to the official Xinhua news agency.
China insists it should not be subject to mandatory emissions cuts, pointing to
its efforts to produce more renewable energy and to become more
energy-efficient.

*A bill passed by the House of Representatives in June would use a
carbon-trading system to help cut U.S. emissions 17% by 2020, according to an
analysis by the World Resources Institute, an environmental research group. A
similar bill is scheduled to be introduced in the Senate in the next few weeks.

The numbers being floated are partly bargaining positions, says former U.S.
climate negotiator Rafe Pomerance, now president of Clean Air-Cool Planet, a
non-profit climate-change group. But he said nations "end up creating a set of
expectations that would be difficult to meet."

Demands for money

Several dozen industrialized nations agreed two years ago to dig deeper into
their pockets for climate-related aid.

Developing countries would draw on the funds to cut their own emissions and to
cope with the effects of a warming world, such as water-collection projects to
guard against drought.

The thorny question is how much money wealthier nations will offer. At
negotiations in August, developing countries requested $400 billion a year. A
U.N. report released Sept. 1 pegged the need at more than $500 billion a year.

That far outstrips the money that developed nations are likely to put on the
table, particularly at a time of budget deficits.

The European Union said Sept. 10 that it would contribute up to $22 billion a
year, but the United States has kept quiet. Obama's proposed budget for foreign
aid in 2010 is $36.5 billion for public health programs, anti-drug campaigns and
other projects.

Developing nations have threatened to derail the talks if their demands aren't
met.

If a treaty "is not consistent with our minimal position," Ethiopian Prime
Minister Meles Zenawi said Sept. 3, according to Reuters, "we are prepared to
walk out of any negotiations."

Senate stalemate

Twelve years ago, the Senate overwhelmingly opposed a global-warming treaty --
95 of the 100 senators voted for a resolution against any agreement that would
harm the U.S. economy.

U.S. diplomats learned their lesson, Claussen says: Don't settle on a treaty
that's likely to be rejected back home.

This time, U.S. climate negotiators have "made clear" that they won't finalize a
treaty without "a very good sense of where Congress is," Claussen says.

The clock is working against the U.S. team. Introduction of a Senate version of
the climate bill has been delayed repeatedly and may not take place until
October, in part because of the health care debate. Senate Majority Leader Harry
Reid, D-Nev., said last week that a bill may not come up for a vote until 2010.

The House version includes measures to soften economic impacts of reducing
carbon dioxide emissions. Among them are financial aid to workers who lose their
jobs because of the bill and barriers to importing goods from nations that don't
cut emissions.

Even so, most Republican senators oppose a bill on climate change, and many
moderate Democrats -- especially those from coal and manufacturing states in the
Midwest -- are worried that such a plan would mean job losses in their states.

There's also a faction of senators who are skeptical that climate change is a
problem at all.

"A lot of members of Congress ... are absolutely convinced" that humans are the
primary cause of global warming, Sen. Chuck Grassley, R-Iowa, said last month.
"I haven't reached that conclusion at this point."

Scientific realities

Nearly all the news from scientists add up to one hard truth: It will be
extremely difficult to avoid more warming of the Earth.

Even if carbon dioxide emissions fell to zero tomorrow, the Earth's temperature
would continue to rise, says climate researcher Francisco de la Chesnaye of the
Electric Power Research Institute.

That's because it takes decades for the climate to adjust fully to a new level
of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere, he says.

In July, the European Union and 16 of the world's wealthiest nations --
including China and the United States -- signed a statement acknowledging the
scientific opinion that the Earth's temperature rise "ought not to exceed"
roughly 3 1/2 degrees.

That's a tall order. The Earth already has warmed 1 1/2 degrees since the late
19th century and will warm another 1 degree by 2100 based on the greenhouse
gases already emitted.

To keep the temperature rise below 3 1/2 degrees, greenhouse gases may have to
be cleansed from the atmosphere, says Hugh Pitcher of the Pacific Northwest
National Laboratory.

That might be accomplished, say Pitcher and other climate experts, with
technology that doesn't yet exist: systems to suck carbon dioxide from the air
and store it underground.

"We have got ourselves painted into a little bit of a corner on this one," he
says.

Based on the amount of greenhouse gases now in the atmosphere, achieving the 3
1/2 degree goal "will require huge efforts over the whole century," MIT climate
expert Henry Jacoby says. "The kind of agreement that can be reached in
Copenhagen can only get started on that task."

Though it will be difficult to prevent more warming, that doesn't mean "we might
as well go home and forget it," Jacoby says. "If we get discouraged and don't do
anything, the implications are very, very serious. The risks are very, very
great."

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Sam Ward, USA TODAY, Source: Joint Global Change Research
Institute (Line graph)
PHOTO, Color, Timothy A. Clary, AFP/Getty Images
PHOTO, B/W, Pool photo by Konishi Taro

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COVER STORY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2009 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               4 of 264 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 9, 2009 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Summit puts focus on tiny Pacific islands;
Tuvalu is at risk of flooding from climate change

BYLINE: Brian Winter

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 900 words


COPENHAGEN -- At the climate summit taking place here, nobody's a bigger
celebrity than the delegation from the tiny island nation of Tuvalu.

The South Pacific chain of nine coral atolls is often held up by the United
Nations and others as a pre-eminent example of a country at risk from global
warming. Its 12,000 residents live in an area of  9 square miles, and its
highest peak is 15 feet above sea level.

Tuvalu's government says that, if global warming causes seas to rise, all its
people may have to be evacuated within 50 years.

"Climate change is real to us. It's happening now. It's a threat to our
existence," Mataio Mataio, the head of Tuvalu's Department of Environment, said
Tuesday.

Tuvalu is one of several nations that have come to Copenhagen to demand money
from richer countries, including the USA, to help cope with the effects of
global warming.

Yvo de Boer, the U.N.'s top climate change official, said industrialized nations
should contribute $10 billion a year right away -- and potentially "hundreds of
billions" a year in the longer term. The money would be used by poorer countries
to repair damage caused by global warming, and to overhaul their own economies
to pollute less.

Tuvalu's case shows why some skeptics say such plans may amount to a shakedown.

There is debate among academics as to whether Tuvalu's problems stem from global
warming or other factors such as overpopulation. Some are also concerned that
funds could be misappropriated because of corruption in poor countries.

"Ninety percent of the countries here in Copenhagen could be on the receiving
end of this money, and that's why they're thirsting for a deal to get done,"
said global warming skeptic and author H. Leighton Steward. "I have some real
doubts about whether that money's really needed, and whose pockets it would end
up in."

The issue is shaping up as one of the most contentious at the U.N. summit, where
representatives from 192 countries are trying to forge an agreement to limit
emissions of greenhouse gases that the United Nations says threaten to warm the
Earth to dangerous levels.

Poor countries -- including Bangladesh -- have said they won't agree to any deal
that doesn't incorporate "mitigation funds." They argue that rich countries have
a moral obligation to provide aid because they're the biggest polluters.

"We are suffering the most, but we have caused the problem the least," said
Saber Hossain Chowdhury, the head of Bangladesh's parliamentary delegation to
Copenhagen.

Warming not only problem

Tuvalu's problems predate worries over global warming.

The country, about 600 miles north of Fiji, has "no known mineral resources,"
and soil quality is poor, according to the CIA's World Factbook. Its people make
their living primarily from farming, fishing and money sent by relatives abroad.

Mataio said there is "no doubt" that Tuvalu is already feeling the effects of
global warming caused by the burning of fossil fuels. He said the primary
symptoms are heavy coastal erosion and flooding that has become worse in recent
decades. Tuvalu needs foreign aid to be able to build sea walls to guard against
rising seas, Mataio said.

"That's the only way we can adapt," he said.

Mataio said the initial $10 billion a year proposed by De Boer would be
insufficient once it was divided among all poor nations in need. "We need more,"
he said.

A report by the U.N. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change said rising seas
are "expected to threaten ... the livelihood of island communities."

However, a study released in May by EACH-FOR, a consortium of researchers
supported by the European Commission, concluded that more research is still
needed to determine the impact of global warming on Tuvalu.

That report cited water shortages, overpopulation and problems with trash
disposal as environmental problems facing Tuvalu that are serious -- but
separate from climate change. It also warned that too much public emphasis on
global warming's potential impact might itself be driving people to leave the
island.

"Constant portraying of Tuvalu as a doomed, disappearing nation might compromise
its potential for future development," the EACH-FOR report said.

Francois Gemenne, a fellow at the Institute for Sustainable Development and
International Relations in Paris, spent two months in Tuvalu in 2007 helping
research the report. He worries that some officials there may have a mistaken
tendency to "attribute any environmental problem to climate change."

He noted that most of the vehicles driven in Tuvalu are SUVs. "They have to
import everything," said Gemenne, who is in Copenhagen for the summit. "It's a
tough place to live."

The hallways at the conference hall here are lined with exhibits from poor
countries seeking redress for global warming.

Nigeria's booth has photos of gully erosion it says is caused by global warming.
A pamphlet handed out by Haiti says global warming has worsened hurricanes that
hit the island.

"There are definitely signs of trouble emerging around the world," said Dan
Esty, a professor of environmental law and policy at Yale and an adviser to
President Obama's campaign. "But, with some of these things, it's still hard at
this point to say what's exactly climate change and what's natural variability."

Gemenne said that, despite his doubts, Tuvalu still deserves help to protect it
from rising seas. "They're certainly one of the most vulnerable," he said.

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, USA TODAY (Map)
PHOTO, B/W, File photo by Torsten Blackwood, AFP/Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2009 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               7 of 264 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              March 2, 2009 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Politics heats up global warming;
Climate scientists are urged to get in game to aid understanding

BYLINE: Dan Vergano

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 4D

LENGTH: 913 words


Money and politics, the stuff of social science, now drive global warming, and
climate science needs to get with it, a National Research Council report
suggests.

"Demand is growing for credible, understandable and useful information for
responding to climate change," says the report, called Restructuring Federal
Climate Research to Meet the Challenges of Climate Change. The report, released
Thursday, calls for "transformation" of climate science to emphasize the
climate's influence on food, economics and public health.

Otherwise, there's lots of evidence that politicians will tackle such practical
problems without scientists.

In his speech to Congress last week, for example, President Obama asked his
audience "to truly transform our economy, protect our security, and save our
planet from the ravages of climate change." The Senate and House had hearings
last week that explored the economics of climate change.

And the Center for Public Integrity reported that about 2,340 climate change
lobbyists, advocating for everything from more nuclear reactors to money for
saving coral reefs, have found employment since 2008.

For the planet and its people, what's at stake is an expected rise of 6 degrees
Fahrenheit in average global surface temperatures by 2100, described in the 2007
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change report, if "greenhouse" gas emissions
continue at current rates. Greenhouse gases, primarily carbon dioxide released
by burning fossil fuels such as coal, trap heat in the atmosphere and propel
global warming.

Containing them could be expensive. "People are wondering how much this is going
to cost," says Peter Barnes, author of Who Owns the Sky?: Our Common Assets and
the Future of Capitalism. "There are approaches out there that could benefit
many people, or ones that could benefit just a few."

Greenhouse gas emissions are surpassing the "business as usual" projections
behind the estimated 6-degree increase, according to research presented by
Stanford University's Christopher Field at the American Association for the
Advancement of Science meeting last month in Chicago and last week at a Senate
Environment and Public Works Committee hearing.

A House Ways and Means Committee hearing discussed keeping emissions worldwide
below levels needed to trigger a 2-degree rise, which poses "severe risks to
natural systems and human health," says climate scientist Brenda Ekwurzel of the
Union of Concerned Scientists. But Field warns that such an increase already may
be locked in this century because of newly recognized effects:

*Forest fires in drying tropical regions will release extra carbon dioxide.

*Melting tundra in the warming Arctic releases methane, a greenhouse gas.

*Warmer oceans are less able to absorb atmospheric carbon dioxide.

"We're facing a very serious increase, almost certainly," Field says.

Obama and his new Energy secretary, Nobel Prize winner Stephen Chu, have
championed low-emission fuels, wind and solar power, advanced biofuels and clean
coal, which is specially processed to reduce its carbon emissions. But Obama in
his speech also called for a cap on carbon pollution.

"That's the real story," Barnes says. "That's what the lobbyists are for."

The research council report says, "Broadly speaking, there are two mechanisms by
which climate change has a fundamental impact on the economy." First are direct
effects: droughts, floods, heat waves. Second are the economic cost of plans to
cap emissions. "There will be costs, and those costs will be borne by everyone,"
the report says.  The problem is that "our knowledge of the economics of climate
change is surprisingly incomplete and imprecise."

Obama has called for setting up a cap on emissions and dividing the allowed
emissions among the greenhouse-gas-releasing industries through the sale of
permits. The anticipated revenue from those permits is $645 billion over 10
years. If the plan succeeds, Barnes predicts that industries and environmental
groups will both want some of that money for their respective interests. He
prefers giving voters monthly "stimulus checks" to offset the energy costs
passed along by industries, "so taxpayers can see some benefits."

Fast growth from fossil to future fuels

President Obama's call last week "to ultimately make clean, renewable energy the
profitable kind of energy" encapsulated the hopes of a fast-growing energy
industry aimed at alternatives to fossil fuels. Fossil fuels such as coal, oil
and natural gas today provide about 85% of energy in the USA.

Wind power

Windmills, such as these Colorado wind farm turbines, are the nation's
fastest-growing renewable energy source, providing less than 1% of U.S. power
but increasing the supply 177% from 2003 to 2007, the Energy Information
Administration says. Wind varies, which makes power storage a priority in
developing the technology.

Solar power

Small today but perhaps the most promising long-term renewable energy source.
Nanotechnology advances promise better collection of the sun's energy. Solar
power industry groups moved their 2009 October meeting to Anaheim, Calif., to
accommodate 27,000 expected conventioneers, up from 12,500 in 2007.

Nuclear power

Nuclear reactors were not mentioned in Obama's speech, but they provide about 8%
of power in the USA. They don't add to greenhouse gas emissions, and some
utilities hope to increase the number of reactors. But questions about waste
disposal, construction costs and weapons proliferation bedevil the technology.

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Color, Ed Andrieski, AP
PHOTO, Color, Mark Hertzberg, AP
PHOTO, Color, Mel Evans, AP
PHOTO, Color, Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2009 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              10 of 264 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           September 3, 2009 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Supporters of climate bill spend more on ads;
Backers have spent $8M to push measure, topping $7.4M from opponents

BYLINE: Fredreka Schouten

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 697 words


WASHINGTON -- Environmentalists and others supporting climate-change legislation
are outspending the measure's opponents in the television advertising skirmish
underway in advance of Senate action this month, new data show.

Supporters of the plan to curb greenhouse-gas emissions spent $2.9 million in
August as they seek to renew interest in legislation overshadowed by the
contentious battle over President Obama's health care initiative. That's $1
million more than what opponents spent, according to Evan Tracey, who tracks
political advertising at the Campaign Media Analysis Group.

The surge in spending during the lawmakers' August recess put the proponents
ahead overall. They have spent $8 million in support of the measure since Jan.
1, compared with $7.4 million by those opposed.

"The perception is that environmentalists are a bunch of unwashed kids tying
themselves to trees," Tracey said. "That's not the case anymore. These are very
sophisticated and well-funded campaigns."

Even so, the ad blitz by environmental and liberal groups stands in contrast to
lobbying patterns. Oil and gas interests have spent more than $82 million in
lobbying during the first six months of this year, according to federal data
compiled by the non-partisan Center for Responsive Politics. By comparison,
environmental groups spent $9.8 million.

The spending is not about to abate. Wednesday, the League of Conservation Voters
launched a TV ad against Rep. John Salazar, D-Colo., the latest in a series
targeting lawmakers who voted against the House version of the climate-change
bill in June.

The league's Mike Palamuso would not provide spending figures but said the group
is investing more money in the climate-change campaign than it has on any other
bill.

"This is the most significant piece of energy legislation we've seen in at least
a generation," he said. "We are laying the foundation for the fight ahead."

Another group, the liberal Americans United for Change, is spending $430,000
through the Labor Day weekend on ads that slam two Virginia Republicans, Reps.
Eric Cantor and Frank Wolf, for their "no" votes. The ads targeting Wolf run in
the Washington TV market.

The message is aimed at senators as they return to Washington, said Jeremy Funk,
the group's spokesman. "This is what's coming if you guys don't do the right
thing," he said.

Also spending heavily: the American Values Network, a religious advocacy group
that has pumped about $400,000 into an advertising and e-mail blitz in support
of the bill in 14 states, including ads on Christian, country and talk radio.

Executive Director Eric Sapp said he hopes to spend another $400,000 this fall,
much of it aimed at senators from manufacturing states that "will come under the
most pressure" to oppose the bill.

On the other side, the National Association of Manufacturers is running what
Executive Vice President Jay Timmons calls a multimillion-dollar ad campaign in
13 states that warns the climate bill would devastate the U.S. economy. The ads
started Aug. 27 and run through Friday.

A Senate panel plans to unveil its climate bill this month.

The House measure would require greenhouse-gas emissions to drop 17% by 2020
from 2005 levels. Companies that produce the emissions, such as oil refineries,
factories and electric utilities, would be required to either cut their
emissions or buy pollution permits.

Democratic leaders such as House Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California say the
change would spur the growth of renewable energy and green jobs. Environmental
groups want Congress to act before a conference in December in Denmark, where
world leaders will meet to craft an international climate-change agreement.

Opponents say the measure would send electricity and gas prices soaring and cost
U.S. jobs.

Jack Gerard, president and CEO of the American Petroleum Institute, said his
group helped organize at least 20 citizen rallies in recent weeks to air
concerns about the climate-change plan.

"This issue is just below health care in terms of public anxiety," he said.
"During this difficult economic time, there are a lot of people who can't
believe that Washington is going in a direction to add more costs to them."

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Julie Snider, USA TODAY, Source: Campaign Media Analysts
Group (Bar graph)
PHOTO, B/W, AP
PHOTO, B/W, AFP/Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2009 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              14 of 264 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           August 19, 2009 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Climate plan calls for forest expansion;
EPA: 18M acres of trees to be planted

BYLINE: Traci Watson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 504 words


WASHINGTON -- New forests would spread across the American landscape, replacing
both pasture and farm fields, under a congressional plan to confront climate
change, an Environmental Protection Agency analysis shows.

About 18 million acres of new trees -- roughly the size of West Virginia --
would be planted by 2020, according to an EPA analysis of a climate bill passed
by the House of Representatives in June.

That's because the House bill gives financial incentives to farmers and ranchers
to plant trees, which suck in large amounts of the key global-warming gas:
carbon dioxide.

The forestation effort would be even larger than one carried out by the Civilian
Conservation Corps during the Great Depression, says the U.S. Forest Service's
Ralph Alig. The CCC, which lasted from 1933 to 1942, planted 3 billion trees,
says the Civilian Conservation Corps Legacy, an alumni group for workers and
family members.

The environmental benefits are clear. More trees would not only lower carbon
dioxide levels, but they would improve water quality, because they need lower
levels of pesticides and fertilizers, says agricultural economist Bruce McCarl
of Texas A&M University, who contributed to the EPA analysis.

The plan would, however, be hard on ranchers and farmers and potentially food
prices, says American Farm Bureau chief economist Bob Young.

In the Senate, which is likely to consider a similar bill this fall, there are
some who worry the loss of farmland would lead to increases in food prices worse
than those seen in mid-2007, when costs spiked 7% to 8% above 2006 levels.

If those food prices seemed high, "wait till you start moving agricultural acres
into climate-change areas," warns Sen. Mike Johanns, R-Neb., Agriculture
secretary for President George W. Bush.

McCarl says food costs would stay roughly the same.

The latest EPA analysis does not say where the farmland would be lost. However,
an EPA study done in 2005 that analyzed climate-change policies similar to the
House bill found that trees would overgrow farms primarily in three areas:

*Great Lake states. Michigan, Minnesota and Wisconsin.

*The Southeast. Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia and Florida.

*The Corn Belt. Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Missouri and Ohio.

Forests once grew there, says study author Brian Murray of Duke University, so
trees would sprout quickly in those areas if farmers got financial incentives.
The House climate bill would allow landowners who reduce carbon dioxide to sell
carbon permits to polluters, such as power plants.

Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack last week hailed the possibility that
climate-change action could help forests. "We have our own deforestation problem
right here in the U.S. of A," he said. "Just keeping forest as forest is a
significant challenge."

Roughly 1 million acres of forests every year were flattened to make way for
homes and other development in the 1990s, Alig says. Without a climate bill, a
net total 26 million acres of forest will be lost to development by 2050, he
says.

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2009 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              15 of 264 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            November 30, 2009 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Leaked climate e-mails cause a fracture;
Some see a conspiracy; others say it's no big deal

BYLINE: Dan Vergano

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 10D

LENGTH: 885 words


The scientific conduct of climate researchers has come under increasing heat in
a sprawling online debate over leaked e-mails that, critics say, raise questions
about the arguments that global warming threatens the world.

The fight comes as leaders of 192 nations prepare to meet Dec. 7-18 in
Copenhagen  to craft an agreement to stem the heat-trapping "greenhouse" gases
that feed temperature rise.

Unknown hackers this month stole thousands of e-mails and documents, dating from
1996 to 2009, from the United Kingdom's University of East Anglia. The
university's Climate Research Center  has played a key role in advancing the
case that the planet is steadily getting warmer.

In the e-mails, researchers led by the  climate center's Phil Jones discuss
problems with data, models and outside critics of their research. The conclusion
of some who have looked at the e-mails, including Sen. James Inhofe, R-Okla., is
that the scientists are ignoring data that question whether global warming is
real and that they have conspired to disparage those who question their work.

'E-mails do not read well'

The controversy gained new momentum last week as Inhofe and others called for
investigations and the University of East Anglia announced an "independent
review."

George Monbiot, a well-known environmentalist who writes for the United
Kingdom's newspaper The Guardian, called for re-examination of all the data
discussed in the stolen notes and said Jones "should now resign" because of a
message saying he would keep climate skeptics' papers out of the benchmark 2007
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) report. Jones vows in the
e-mail to "keep them out somehow -- even if we have to redefine what the
peer-review literature is!"

Says Monbiot: "His message looks awful."

Critics view the temperature record maintained at the East Anglia climate center
as a backbone of warnings that surface temperatures are going up with
statistical certainty worldwide as predicted by greenhouse gas measurements.
Misconduct there exposes climate change as a lie, they say. Inhofe, for
instance, says the e-mails show researchers "cooked the books" to make the case
for global warming.

"My colleagues and I accept that some of the published e-mails do not read
well," Jones said in a statement. "Some were clearly written in the heat of the
moment; others use colloquialisms frequently used between close colleagues."

On Saturday, East Anglia official Trevor Davies said 95% of the worldwide
weather station data backing the climate center's temperature record are
publicly available. "The university will make all the data accessible as soon as
they are released from a range of non-publication agreements," he said in a
statement.

But Jones and others note that the center's surface temperature reconstructions
also have been independently mirrored by the National Climatic Data Center of
the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration and at NASA's Goddard
Institute for Space Studies, showing rising global temperatures from records
dating back to 1880.

Scientists: Look at the facts

The case for global warming rests on "all kinds of evidence," says climate
scientist Don Wuebbles of the University of Illinois in Urbana-Champaign. "Look
at what's happening to ice in the Arctic. Explain that as 'no global warming.'
It doesn't take a genius to see, obviously, warming is happening, e-mails or
not."

Further, notes IPCC chief Rajendra Pachauri, the evidence for warming in the
2007 IPCC report comes from multiple lines of evidence besides surface
temperatures, such as ocean heat, atmospheric water vapor and sea ice. The 2007
report found man-made gases have raised average atmospheric temperatures about
1.3 degrees Fahrenheit since 1905 and probably will raise them 3 to 7 degrees by
2100, depending on future emission cuts.

"The East Anglia temperature records aren't the core problem," says
climatologist Patrick Michaels of the Cato Institute in Washington, D.C., which
advocates for limited regulation.

Michaels, a skeptic of the worst implications of a warming climate, comes under
criticism in the e-mails for a 2007 Journal of Geophysical Research paper he
co-wrote. The paper said that industry and urban heat explain half of the
temperature rise seen over land. "Attempts to influence editors not to publish
papers you don't like: That's the real issue," Michaels says.

"The problem seems to be the circling-of-the-wagons strategy developed by small
groups of climate researchers in response to the politically motivated attacks
against climate science," says climate researcher Judith Curry of Georgia Tech,
writing on the ClimateAudit website.

But Pachauri says small groups of researchers "have no ability" to decide what
gets in or out of the IPCC reports, given their four layers of independent
review by hundreds of people. "The entire report-writing process of the IPCC is
subjected to extensive and repeated review by experts as well as governments,"
he says.

Scientists have not had any guidance on how they should act in the midst of a
scientific controversy like global warming, says science-misconduct expert
Nicholas Steneck of the University of Michigan, by e-mail. "I believe what the
CRU e-mails will show when carefully studied is a group of professionals
struggling with the (climate) dilemma."

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Alejandro Gonzalez, USA TODAY (Line graph)
PHOTO, B/W, Torsten Blackwood, AFP/Getty Images
PHOTO, B/W, Ints Kalnins, Reuters

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2009 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              16 of 264 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            March 18, 2009 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Brokaw revisits 'Global Warming'

BYLINE: Doyle Rice

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 6D

LENGTH: 286 words


Veteran NBC newsman Tom Brokaw returns to the debate on climate change in a new
documentary airing tonight.

Global Warming: The New Challenge, With Tom Brokaw (Discovery Channel, 10 ET/PT)
is Brokaw's second documentary on climate change. His 2006 collaboration with
Discovery, Global Warming: What You Need to Know, won an Emmy.

"What we're trying to get across in the documentary is that there's a growing
consensus that global warming is real and getting worse," Brokaw says in a
telephone interview.

He says the show presents a "playbook" of the scientific effects of warming. The
documentary examines the changes that are expected in the USA and around the
world over the next several years and decades, including ice loss from Greenland
and Antarctica, extreme weather and species loss.

"What I'm discovering for myself is the anecdotal evidence for global warming
that continues to bubble up," Brokaw says. He cites recent excursions to the
American West, where he heard fishermen and big-game hunters say rising
temperatures are shifting animal behavior.

But  in a struggling world economy, is there the money, energy and political
will to tackle climate change? Yes, Brokaw says. "We don't have to stop dealing
with climate change because of the economy. New industries will grow out of the
need to do something about climate change."

Brokaw interviews several of the world's leading climate experts. NASA's James
Hansen, who was one of the first scientists to raise public awareness about
climate change in the late 1980s, warns in the film that "seven of the eight
warmest years on record have occurred since 2001 and that a global temperature
increase of up to 11 degrees is possible by the end of the century."

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, NBC Universal

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2009 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              21 of 264 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            November 30, 2009 Monday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Change shadows Rocky Mountain National Park;
Officials battle climate change, beetles and time

BYLINE: Bobby Magill

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 755 words


ESTES PARK, Colo. -- John Mack hopped out of his government-issue Ford Escape
one recent November day and confirmed that a lone wind-toppled tree between
campsites at Glacier Basin Campground at Rocky Mountain National Park was a
lodgepole pine killed by pine beetles.

Mack, natural resources branch chief at Rocky Mountain National Park, pointed to
pockets of dead trees amid the lush green lodgepoles uphill of the campground.

The pine beetles, he said, are now eating their way into forests on the east
side of the park after laying waste to forests on its west side.

Just over five years before its 2015 centennial, Rocky Mountain National Park --
nicknamed "Rocky" among park staff -- is in a state of flux as climate change
bears down on it, deferred maintenance projects rack up a price tag greater than
$50 million in the down economy, and industry-tainted air quality becomes a
primary concern among park biologists.

The chemical composition of both tundra soil and mountain lake water is becoming
more toxic for plants and animals because agricultural and industrial pollution
deposit nitrogen in sensitive areas, according to the Colorado Department of
Public Health and Environment.

Populations of pika -- tiny rabbitlike mammals -- are disappearing in the park's
newly designated wilderness.

Challenges and hopes

Glacier Basin Campground is the postcard example of the challenges and the hopes
for Rocky Mountain National Park.

Closed since 2008, the campground has seen half of its trees -- many killed by
the pine beetle -- shorn to the ground. Once-sheltered campsites are exposed to
sunlight and sweeping views of Trail Ridge and snow-clad peaks.

The other half of the campground remains shaded under a dense stand of young
healthy looking lodgepoles, each one sprayed with a chemical to keep the pine
beetle at bay.

There has been no lack of road construction projects at the park in recent
years, each one taking a chunk out of the park's more than $80 million worth of
deferred maintenance projects, park superintendent Vaughn Baker said.

Once the road projects are complete, about $50 million in maintenance projects
will remain, Baker said.

Each year Rocky Mountain National Park receives $6 million to $8 million in
congressional appropriations and entrance fees designated specifically for
maintenance projects, Baker said. If that level of funding continues, the
backlog of maintenance on more than 800 buildings, trails and campgrounds will
take about a decade.

"We've got a ways to go," Baker said.

There's a lot to do: Trails that have hardly been touched in 75 years need to be
reconstructed to allow for proper drainage and prevent erosion. Historic
buildings need to be maintained, and old sewer lines must be replaced.

The park also is considering the potential for a surge in visitors over the next
two decades, when an additional 2 million people are projected to visit
annually, Baker said.

"At what point do you say enough is enough?" he said. "In some areas (other
parks) have limited access to a particular part of the park because of the
fragility of the resources. We haven't come to that here yet. We haven't
established a threshold."

Though the crowds visiting Rocky Mountain National Park's 265,000 acres peaked
in 1999 when 3.18 million people visited, the number has hovered from 2.7
million to 3 million for years, according to Park Service statistics.

Environmental issues

The wild backcountry many come to explore at the park may be changing as rapidly
as the bark beetle is spreading.

Of the five populations of pika known in the park, two low-elevation populations
disappeared this year, said Ben Bobowski, the park's chief of resource
stewardship.

The health of pikas in Colorado has long been known as a possible indicator of
the impact of climate change, but it's premature to say whether climate change
is behind the pika's disappearance, he said.

"It's difficult to say it's a cause and effect," he said. "But it certainly
seems that it's one indicator of change."

Park biologists' observations next summer will provide more clues, he said.

The park is also battling many unknowns, such as the future of the park's
glaciers, Bobowski said.

Unlike other mountain parks across the West, Rocky Mountain National Park's
glaciers aren't rapidly melting -- yet. Many are tucked away in shady nooks
where sub-freezing temperatures most of the year keep them from dripping away.

"We haven't seen anything dramatic as of yet attributed to climate change,"
Bobowski said. But, "we're preparing for them to retreat."

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2009 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              22 of 264 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 11, 2009 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Climate change gets world's attention

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 21A

LENGTH: 576 words


The Jakarta (Indonesia) Post, in an editorial: "The (United Nations Climate
Change) conference brings together representatives of more than 180 countries.
... The outcome of the climate change summit meeting will determine the
follow-up agreement to the Kyoto protocol.  ... To move forward, developed
countries must first breathe in hard and make commitments to offer generous
financial support for developing countries and least developed countries to help
them finance technology changes and adapt to the impacts of global warming. Only
then, can they expect developing countries, especially the big ones like China,
India and Brazil, to commit themselves to major climate mitigation efforts by
voluntarily reducing their greenhouse gas emissions."

The (Taiwan) China Post, in an editorial: "It is in China's national interest to
succeed, judging from the serious environmental degradation its breakneck
economic development has caused in the past three decades. ...  In recent years,
'saving energy and cutting emissions'  has become a catchphrase in China, but
the slogan is yet to be translated into action. ...  It is reasonable to expect
that Copenhagen would get world leaders to recognize the importance of
addressing climate change. Hopefully, they can make some sort of non-binding
commitments to reduce emissions, as many have already pledged. "

The Australian, in an editorial: "There is no possibility such sources
(alternative energy) will completely replace existing, economically efficient
power supplies in the foreseeable future.  ... For all the talk about the evils
of uranium, gas and coal exports, our prosperity depends on the income they
produce, and we have a moral obligation to export our resources to people who
need them. ...  Whatever comes out of Copenhagen, it is pointless to argue
Australia should commit to cutting its energy exports and must radically reduce
its own domestic energy use. While such solutions appeal to activists ...
Australians will not cut their energy use to Depression levels when they know
they produce barely 1.5% of the world's greenhouse gas."

Bjorn Lomborg, director of Copenhagen Consensus Center, in The (Abu Dhabi, UAE)
National: "Providing Vitamin A and zinc to 80% of the 140 million or so
undernourished children in the world would require a commitment of just $60
million annually. For $286 million, we could get iron and iodine to more than
2.5 billion people. The choice is stark: For a few hundred million dollars, we
could help almost half of humanity now. Compare this with the investments to
tackle climate change -- $40 trillion annually by the end of the century
(according to Copenhagen Consensus Center) -- which would save a hundred times
fewer starving people."

The (Tokyo) Japan Times, in an editorial: "The reluctance of both sides to take
serious action has grown in the last year as the global economic crisis has
taken its bite. No government is going to accept a protocol that increases its
costs and undermines its economic prospects. ...  No wonder then that no one
expects the Copenhagen conclave to reach a complete agreement.  ... The trick
... is to recognize that greener growth is not just a necessity, but an
opportunity.  ... Indeed, numerous studies show that transition itself to this
kind of economy can create jobs. Adopting this mind-set -- as well as accepting
some responsibility for the future of the planet -- is key to the eventual
success of any deal."

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Anja Niedringhaus, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2009 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              25 of 264 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          September 23, 2009 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

U.S., China, Japan vow to change

BYLINE: Traci Watson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 393 words


China and Japan promised new action on climate change during a United Nations
climate summit Tuesday, while President Obama said he would work to eliminate
international subsidies on fossil fuels such as coal and oil.

Heads of state from about 100 countries gathered at the summit, which was
convened by U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki Moon. Ban hoped top leaders could
overcome the stalemate that has settled over talks on a new climate-change
treaty to replace the Kyoto Protocol, which expires in 2012.

At a news conference Tuesday night, Ban said the summit "has put fresh wind in
our sails." But he warned that reaching an agreement in Copenhagen in December,
as hoped, "will not be easy. It involves an incredibly ... complex negotiating
process."

What leaders said:

*Obama declared that unless the world acts to slow climate change, "We risk
consigning future generations to an irreversible catastrophe."

In addition to vowing to work on eliminating fossil-fuel subsidies, he also
announced the first U.S. requirement for companies to report emissions.

Obama offered no new initiatives to cut U.S. greenhouse gas emissions, leading
Keya Chatterjee of the World Wildlife Fund, an environmental group, to call
Obama's speech "a missed opportunity."

*President Hu Jintao of China announced new steps to slow emissions growth by
his nation, which is the world's No. 1 greenhouse gas polluter, according to the
U.S. Energy Department. Hu committed China to getting 15% of its energy from
sources other than fossil fuels, such as coal and natural gas, by 2020.

Hu also said China would cut greenhouse gas emissions associated with economic
growth and committed to reforestation, which would help soak up the key
greenhouse gas, carbon dioxide.

Hu's statement "underscores China's seriousness in tackling climate change,"
said Julian Wong of the Center for American Progress, a liberal think tank.

*Prime Minister Yukio Hatoyama of Japan, who has been on the job seven days,
pledged to cut the nation's greenhouse gas emissions 25% by 2020, in keeping
with a campaign promise he made. That's a much steeper reduction than the goal
of his predecessor, who wanted to cut 8%.

Former vice president Al Gore, who was at the U.N., said he was "extremely
impressed" by Japan's new target and by Hatoyama's proposal to make
low-emissions technologies available to developing nations.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2009 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              30 of 264 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             April 27, 2009 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Utilities ante up in climate debate;
Spending surges 30% for lobbyists on issue

BYLINE: John Fritze

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 413 words


WASHINGTON -- Fifty of the nation's largest electric utilities amped up spending
on lobbyists by 30% late last year to influence the debate in Congress just
underway on one of the biggest issues facing lawmakers: climate change.

From Duke Energy, with 4 million customers, to American Electric Power (AEP),
which sells energy in 11 states, the companies spent a total $51 million in the
last six months of 2008, $12 million more than the same period in 2007, a USA
TODAY review of lobbying reports shows.

"It's what industry does with legislation. They make it better for their bottom
line," said John Coequyt of the Sierra Club, an environmental group.

Buoyed by President Obama's support, House Democrats want a "cap-and-trade"
system requiring utilities to cut carbon emissions 20% by 2020 from 2005 levels
or buy credits from lesser-polluting firms to offset emissions above the limit.
Critics, including House Minority Leader John Boehner of Ohio, say those costs
will fall to consumers.

Climate change has become a boon to lobbyists on all sides of the issue, despite
Obama's attempt to lessen the influence of special interests. A Center for
Public Integrity analysis shows interest groups involved with climate change
hired 2,430 lobbyists in the past year, up 300% from five years ago.

Work on the legislation began last October when Rep. John Dingell, D-Mich.,
introduced a similar cap-and-trade bill. Momentum increased after Obama's
election, and in March, two Democrats introduced the current "discussion draft"
bill.

Some utilities, including AEP, say they support cap-and-trade but want to shape
how it will work. A key question is whether the government will initially sell
emission credits  or distribute some free.

Mike Morris, AEP's CEO, called the proposal a good start but said unresolved
details may determine how much electric bills will go up. The company's lobbying
increased to $8.4 million in the second half of 2008, up from $1.4 million in
2007.

"It has everything to do with our customers," said Morris, who said much of the
increase  was due to issues other than climate change. "It has a direct and
immediate effect on my customers."

Duke's lobbying jumped 57% to $3.4 million in 2008, lobbying reports show.
Spokesman  Thomas Williams said the company reported lobbying differently in
2008, throwing off the comparison.

Environmental groups increased lobbying, too, including the Sierra Club, whose
expenses nearly doubled to $450,000 over the same period.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2009 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              60 of 264 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 14, 2009 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Okla. senator plans to rain on climate talks;
Emissions bill is dead, Inhofe says, and he wants nations to know it

BYLINE: Brian Winter

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 639 words


COPENHAGEN -- The final week of the United Nations climate change summit boils
down to a battle between President Obama and the self-described "skunk at the
picnic."

Sen. James Inhofe, R-Okla., who has called global warming a "hoax," plans to
travel this week to Copenhagen. He'll stay just long enough -- as few as three
hours, he says -- to tell heads of state that the Senate will not pass an energy
bill that would limit greenhouse gas emissions.

"We know (the bill) is never going to go to a vote," Inhofe said in a recent
interview. "It's dead. It's gone ... I'm not going to allow them to think
America is going to do something it's not."

Delegates from other countries say that without Congress' support, Obama won't
be able to keep whatever promises he makes when he arrives here Friday to try to
seal a deal on capping emissions. Without the full cooperation of the world's
second-biggest emitter behind China, any broad agreement to address global
warming by the 192 nations gathered in Copenhagen will simply fall apart, they
say.

"Unless the U.S. has the political will to make the necessary sacrifices, none
of this will work," said Sudanese diplomat Lumumba Di-Aping, the lead
representative for more than 130 developing nations at the summit.

Obama has proposed cutting greenhouse gas emissions by about 17% by 2020,
compared with levels in 2005. He says a firm cap on carbon dioxide produced by
U.S. industry, as mandated by a House bill passed in June, will help slow global
warming and provide an incentive for companies to invest in cleaner energy. The
Senate is to debate an energy bill early next year.

"There are many (U.S.) companies and investors ... waiting for Congress to act,
waiting for some certainty before they make these investments," Commerce
Secretary Gary Locke said. He said Chinese companies were moving ahead with
"green" technology: "If we don't watch out ... they'll end up with all those
jobs."

Even Republicans who say global warming may be a problem, including Sen. Sam
Brownback, R-Kan., say a cap on carbon emissions would damage the U.S. economy
by pushing up energy prices. Carbon emitters such as power plants and factories
would have to pay for permits to keep burning coal and oil at the same levels.
The cost, Republicans say, would be passed on to consumers in higher energy
bills.

The U.S. debate is one of many issues unresolved as the summit enters its second
week.

"I think there needs to be more movement from everyone, more imagination, and I
think we will all be striving for that," British Climate Change Secretary Ed
Miliband said Sunday, according to the Associated Press.

Developing nations and China are pushing for the United States to make even more
ambitious cuts to emissions, while refusing to bow to U.S. demands for a
transparent system ensuring they meet their own targets.

China wants wealthier countries to set aside more funds for poorer nations to
deal with the consequences of global warming.

The deadlock over basic issues, as well as the scarcity of money available
during the global recession, has caused some to downgrade expectations for the
summit. Organizers have abandoned their goal of signing a binding global treaty
in Copenhagen.

"It's important to keep the issue alive, to use (Copenhagen) as kind of a
placeholder ... rather than have the issue slip off the table," said Stephen
Porter, a lawyer with the Center for International Environmental Law, which
works with foreign lawyers to strengthen environmental laws.

Chinese Vice Foreign Minister He Yafei cautioned countries against trying to
save face at the summit by agreeing on goals far into the future -- such as in
2050.

"If you cannot deliver on the short term or medium term, you cannot talk about
the long term," the minister said Friday. By 2050, he said, "most of us will not
be here anymore."

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Julie Snider, USA TODAY, Source: International Energy
Agency (Bar graph)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2009 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              76 of 264 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 11, 2009 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

E-mail scandal is diversion from global warming debate

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 19A

LENGTH: 580 words


The global warming debate has been muddied by the emergence of e-mails in which
scientists supposedly used misleading tactics and twisted data to try to prove
that global warming exists ("Groupthink and the global warming industry," The
Forum, Dec. 1)?

Some scientists who argue for the existence of global warming are not saying
that man alone is causing it, but that the earth is warming as a part of a
natural cycle, and that the actions of man are accelerating it.

The argument that we should all adopt a  "greener" lifestyle has merit. By using
renewable sources of energy -- wind, water and the sun -- we will reduce
greenhouse gas emissions and reduce our dependence on foreign sources of fossil
fuels.

Those who rail against global warming should consider not just the cost of
converting and changing our energy consumption habits, but also the cost in
human lives and suffering  caused by coastal flooding and warming trends.

Make no mistake, Mother Nature, in the form of lightning strikes, flooding,
hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes and volcanic activity, is the ultimate
terrorist and does not discriminate because of gender, race, religion or
geographical location. The scientists who advocate for the recognition of global
warming are doing so in the best interests of mankind.

L.D. Clark

Elkville, Ill.

Consider all the facts

In a recent letter, Jeffery Marvin states that "global warming deniers will stop
at no end to tangle their political views with a completely scientific issue"
(Dec. 4).

Does Marvin believe that there is no political agenda on the side of the
scientists who are pushing the global warming agenda?

To "save the planet," some argue we have to legislate change. Someone who is
open-minded and analyzes the issue with no agenda can see that both sides are
being political.

I happen to believe that the climate continues to change. But it has been
changing for thousands of years, before the industrial revolution that long
produced all the devices that are taking much of the blame today. I am old
enough to recall the battle cry of the 1970s that the planet was cooling
dangerously fast.

I don't recall any of the drastic world changes or government interference that
is now being suggested. Yet, the planet warmed up, and now we have a different
problem.

Those who are suggesting that one side is relying on pure science and the other
pure politics should open their minds and look at all the facts.

Kevin Kirkpatrick

Terre Hill, Pa.

Proof it's a non-issue

So organizers of the Copenhagen summit purchased carbon offsets to try to
compensate for all of the energy that will be used and the pollution that will
be produced  during the conference to fight global warming. What a joke.  It is
just one more confirmation of the idea that the laws -- or ideals, in this case
-- don't really apply to those rich enough to buy exemptions for themselves.

The hypocrisy of this act only compounds ambivalence fueled by the "Climategate"
controversy, in which hackers published e-mails of prominent environmental
researchers. Buying carbon offsets is further verification that global warming
is a non-issue. If it were as serious as these folks make it out to be, they
wouldn't be looking for ways to skirt their own responsibilities.

If the so-called problem isn't serious enough for these climate summit folks to
go without a few comforts, then it isn't serious enough for us to foot the bills
that their proposals will invariably produce.

Doug Kuiphoff

Grand Rapids, Mich.

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Sam Ward, USA TODAY (Illustration)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2009 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              77 of 264 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           January 14, 2009 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Chu vows to tackle global warming;
Obama's Energy nominee warmly received on Hill

BYLINE: Traci Watson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 458 words


WASHINGTON -- The Nobel Prize winner nominated to head the Energy Department
said Tuesday that he would focus the department in part on global warming. The
policy would be a sharp departure from the department's priorities during the
Bush administration.

"If we continue on our current path, we run the risk of dramatic, disruptive
changes to our climate," physicist Steven Chu told the Senate Energy and Natural
Resources Committee during his confirmation hearing.

Since 2004, Chu has headed the Energy Department's Lawrence Berkeley National
Laboratory, which he redirected to focus on renewable energy. President-elect
Barack Obama tapped Chu for Energy secretary last month.

At the hearing, Chu, who often rides his bike to work, called for investments in
energy efficiency and renewable energy. At the same time, he presented himself
as a pragmatist who won't reject taking advantage of energy sources just because
they are out of favor with environmentalists.

New nuclear plants, continued reliance on coal-fired power plants and U.S. oil
and gas drilling are all necessary, Chu said. Environmental groups such as the
Natural Resources Defense Council (NRDC)  have urged Obama to move the United
States to 100% renewable electricity from sources such as solar and wind power.

"We need all solutions," Chu said. "We need to make them as clean as possible as
quickly as possible."

The NRDC declined to comment, but one industry group took heart from Chu's
statements. "We were encouraged by what we heard on nuclear and clean coal,"
said Keith McCoy of the National Association of Manufacturers.

Chu seemed headed for an easy confirmation as early as next Tuesday, the day
Obama will be inaugurated, said committee Chairman Sen. Jeff Bingaman, D-N.M.
Chu's qualifications drew praise from committee Democrats and Republicans alike.

"It's great to have somebody of Dr. Chu's intelligence running the Energy
Department," said Sen. Bob Corker, R-Tenn.

On global warming, Chu said the U.S. should lead the way in cutting greenhouse
gases. Chu, the son of Chinese immigrants, said he hopes that China -- the
world's largest source of the main greenhouse gas -- will follow.

President Bush cited inaction by China and India in his opposition to the Kyoto
Protocol, a 1997 global-warming treaty adopted by nearly 200 nations but not the
United States.

The treaty exempted most developing nations, including China, from having to cut
their global-warming emissions.

"The United States should take the first step and hopefully the Chinese will
immediately, very closely follow," Chu said.

That drew a gentle rebuke from Sen. Evan Bayh, D-Ind.

"That approach will not be enacted by the U.S. Congress," Bayh said. A climate
treaty would have to be ratified by the Senate.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Mike Theiler, Reuters

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2009 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              86 of 264 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           February 4, 2009 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

For Obama, nominees' exits take off some of the glow;
Daschle, Killefer tax issues raise questions about vetting process

BYLINE: Mimi Hall, Fredreka Schouten and John Fritze

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 2008 words


WASHINGTON -- Two weeks after he stood before the nation and pledged "a new era
of responsibility," President Obama confronted the biggest crisis of his young
presidency Tuesday as two of his key nominees withdrew over their failure to pay
their taxes.

"I screwed up," Obama told NBC News in one of five network interviews he did
Tuesday as questions swirled about his administration's vetting of nominees and
his judgment. "Part of the era of responsibility is not never making mistakes,
it's owning up to them."

It was a disquieting day for a president who came into office with soaring
approval ratings and a promise to have the most ethical administration in
history.

First, he lost former Treasury official Nancy Killefer, the woman he'd tapped to
root out waste as the government's first chief performance officer. Then, former
Senate majority leader Tom Daschle withdrew from consideration as Health and
Human Services secretary. Obama had wanted Daschle to engineer an overhaul of
the nation's health care system.

"It's a really rocky start," said Melanie Sloan, director of the liberal-leaning
watchdog group Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington. "He said
this would be the most ethical administration ever, but to people outside the
Beltway it looks like it was just words."

Daschle dropped out after revelations that he failed to pay $128,203 in taxes
for consulting income and several years' use of a car and driver provided to him
by a wealthy Democratic contributor after Daschle lost his Senate re-election
bid in 2004. Daschle filed amended tax returns last month and paid the taxes
plus $11,964 in interest.

Killefer withdrew over her failure to pay taxes for household help and a $946.69
tax lien that was placed on her home in an upscale Washington neighborhood in
2005.

For Obama, the departures of Daschle and Killefer became a distraction on a day
when he had planned to use the TV interviews to promote the nearly $900 billion
economic stimulus package he is trying to get through Congress. Also
overshadowed was Obama's latest effort to reach out to Republicans, this time by
nominating Sen. Judd Gregg, R-N.H., as Commerce secretary.

In Congress and on cable talk shows Tuesday, questions about the new
administration dominated the day. Among them: Should Obama's self-described
mistakes be attributed to the usual growing pains of a new White House, or do
they underscore a fundamental weakness that could have ramifications for future
appointments and legislation at a critical time?

"Right now, he looks very much on the defensive," said Merle Black, an Emory
University political scientist. "Anytime you have two people quit on the same
day over tax problems it's a bad day. But the presidency is four years."

'Can't afford glitches'

In a series of mea culpas Tuesday, Obama said he was concerned about how
Americans would view what went on with Daschle's nomination.

"I campaigned on changing Washington and bottom-up politics," he told CNN. "I
don't want to send a message to the American people that there are two sets of
standards, one for powerful people and one for ordinary folks who are working
every day and paying their taxes."

On ABC, he called the tax errors "honest mistakes" but said he "can't afford
glitches" such as those if he is to get his economic stimulus package through
Congress.

They weren't the president's first problems with nominees. New Mexico Gov. Bill
Richardson withdrew his nomination to be Commerce secretary last month because
of an investigation into possible connections between contributions to his
political committees and state contract awards. Treasury Secretary Timothy
Geithner's confirmation was delayed last month amid questions about why he
initially failed to pay more than $34,000 in self-employment taxes.

White House press secretary Robert Gibbs declined to say Tuesday how -- or even
whether -- the vetting process had gone wrong. "I'm not going to spend a lot of
time looking in the rear-view mirror," Gibbs said.

Transition analysts didn't hold back. Some questioned Obama's judgment.

"At first, I thought this was a vetting problem, but now I think it's hubris --
that they somehow think they're so powerful and so popular that the normal rules
don't apply," said Paul Light, an expert on presidential transitions and a
professor at New York University's Wagner Graduate School of Public Service.

Others said such problems were inevitable if Obama is going to look to old
Washington hands for help.

Craig Holman, of the watchdog group Public Citizen, said Obama deserves credit
for trying to set new standards for ethics in Washington. "But as he taps into
appointees that have been spinning through the revolving door in Washington,"
Holman said, "he's going to find people who have been part of the
business-as-usual culture."

Obama also has faced questions about why he's made an exception to his new
lobbying rules by naming former Raytheon top lobbyist William Lynn to serve as
deputy Defense secretary.

The president said an exception had to be made at the Pentagon because Lynn was
the right person for the job. "Now, what I said in appointing Mr. Lynn was that
this, along with maybe a handful, maybe three or four positions, may end up
being so unique that we are going to make an exception," Obama said on CBS
Tuesday evening.

Obama and others in the administration said Geithner's tax problem should be
excused because he was the best person for the job at a critical time for the
economy -- and he was confirmed by the Senate.

Quick action lauded by some

With respect to Daschle and Killefer, some gave Obama credit for moving on
quickly.

"Obama has done something smart here," said Matthew Dickinson, a political
science professor at Middlebury College.  "He hasn't let them dangle in the
wind. ... Every president dating back to Carter has lost a nominee or two. He's
reacted the way you have to react as president."

Whether this has a long-term effect depends on "the performance going forward
and the other nominees that come on board," Black said.

The latest troubles left the White House and Capitol Hill in turmoil Tuesday.

Senators who would have had to vote on Daschle's confirmation expressed remorse
that he had fallen victim to tax errors.

"It was with regret but with respect for his decision that I learned of Sen.
Daschle's request to withdraw his name," said Sen. Max Baucus, D-Mont., chairman
of the Senate Finance Committee, which planned a hearing on the nomination next
week.

Sen. John Kerry, D-Mass., said he was sorry Daschle withdrew. "When the smoke
clears and the frenzy has ended, no one will believe that this unwitting mistake
should have erased 30 years of selfless public service and remarkable
legislative skill and expertise on health care," he said.

Others  complained not only about Daschle's tax problem but his work with a
lobbying firm.

In addition to the taxes issue, Daschle had faced questions about his
relationship with an industry he was asked to reform. He is not a registered
lobbyist but has earned more than $2 million as a policy adviser on health care,
climate change and other issues at a Washington law firm. He also earned nearly
$500,000 for speeches before groups that included insurers and other health care
organizations.

"I don't know how you get paid $2 million by a lobbying firm and not call
yourself a lobbyist," said Sen. John Ensign, R-Nev. "That just seems
disingenuous to me, and I don't think passes the smell test. So I personally
think that Sen. Daschle, you know, was going to face some tough questions and
... I think he saved the president from being embarrassed next week in a public
hearing."

Obama, in the ABC interview, called Daschle's nomination a "self-induced
injury."

Long day at the White House

Shortly after news of Daschle's withdrawal broke, Obama and his wife, Michelle,
paid a surprise visit to a local school.

"We wanted to get out of the White House," Obama told delighted second-graders
at Capital City Public Charter School.

The president woke up Tuesday to editorials in The New York Times and four major
regional newspapers calling on Daschle to step aside. By the time breakfast was
over, the cable TV news shows were featuring commentators who questioned Obama's
commitment to ethics reform.

By midmorning, a YouTube link to a grainy 1986 Daschle campaign commercial was
circulating on Capitol Hill. It showed Daschle, then a House member running for
the Senate, driving through Washington, D.C., in a rusted 1971 Pontiac.

"After 15 years and 238,000 miles, Tom Daschle still drives his old car to work
every day," the narrator intoned. "Maybe he's sentimental or just cheap.
Whatever the case, isn't it too bad that the rest of Washington doesn't
understand that a penny saved is a penny earned?"

At a testy midday briefing for the news media, held as construction crews worked
to dismantle the Inauguration Day parade viewing stand out front on Pennsylvania
Avenue, Gibbs said Obama never thought change would come overnight.

"I think the president would say to you that he didn't believe that we were
going to change the way Washington has worked the past three decades in the
first two weeks of this administration," Gibbs said.

Gibbs said no one in the White House asked Daschle or Killefer to step down. In
a letter to Obama, Killefer wrote that she had "come to realize in the current
environment that my personal tax issue ... could be used to create exactly the
kind of distraction and delay" that would harm efforts to revive the sinking
economy.

She didn't elaborate.

Gibbs said Daschle called and spoke with Obama about his decision to withdraw.

"We had a conversation and obviously that conversation's private, but, it's
frustrating for me and it's something I take responsibility for," Obama told
CBS. "Tom, I think, is an outstanding individual. I am absolutely convinced he
would've been the best person to help shepherd through what's going to be a very
difficult process to get health care for American families."

Obama has said he plans an overhaul that would cut health care costs by $2,500 a
year for the average family and would require health care coverage for all
children.

Obama told CBS he is not frustrated in his efforts to change Washington. "I
never thought it was easy," he said. "Change is hard. ... We're going to make
some mistakes. I'm going to screw up sometimes."

Contributing: David Jackson, Matt Kelley

How tax problems, other issues have clouded Obama's staff selections

Former Senate majority leader Tom Daschle withdrew his nomination Tuesday as
secretary of Health and Human Services over revelations that he failed to pay
more than $128,000 in taxes for consulting income and the use of a car and
driver. Daschle paid the taxes and interest --  a total of more than $140,000 --
last month, several weeks after President Obama had announced his nomination.

Nancy Killefer, a former U.S. Treasury official who oversaw an IRS overhaul,
withdrew her candidacy Tuesday as the U.S. government's chief performance
officer. In 2005, the District of Columbia had filed a $946.69 tax lien on her
home for failing to pay unemployment compensation taxes for a household
employee, according to the Associated Press. Killefer resolved the issue five
months after the lien was filed.

Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner's nomination was delayed after it was
disclosed that he had failed to pay more than $34,000 in self-employment taxes
while working for the International Monetary Fund. Geithner paid the taxes with
interest and was confirmed last week by the Senate on a 60-34 vote.

New Mexico Gov. Bill Richardson withdrew from consideration as Commerce
secretary last month because of a grand jury investigation into state contracts.
The panel is investigating whether contributions of $110,000 to Richardson's
political committees from 2003 through 2005 were related to a 2004 state
contract that earned nearly $1.5 million in business for a donor's firm,
according to the Associated Press. Richardson has said he expects to be cleared.

Source: USA TODAY research

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Color, Larry Downing, Reuters
PHOTO, Color, Reuters
PHOTO, Color, AP
PHOTO, Color, AP (4)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COVER STORY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2009 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              89 of 264 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 21, 2009 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Conference ends in failure

BYLINE: James Inhofe

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16A

LENGTH: 400 words


The case for the U.S. entering into an international global warming treaty took
a significant blow at the latest failed United Nations climate conference in
Copenhagen. Not only did the conference fail to reach a meaningful agreement,
but that failure will further jeopardize any action on global warming by an
already skeptical U.S. Senate. In 1997, the Senate voted that any climate treaty
would have to guarantee no harm to the American economy and similar emissions
cuts from nations such as China and India.

In fact, the administration may have further undercut its position at home by
proposing in Copenhagen that U.S. taxpayers hand over billions of dollars to
help developing nations.

As the conference opened and leaders from around the world, ultimately including
President Obama, descended on Copenhagen, some believed that a last minute
agreement could be hammered out. But as reality took hold, the same obstacles
that have persisted for the past decade remained. In the end, the Copenhagen
"agreement" provides no binding agreement at all, no new targets or timelines,
and no way to verify or enforce any type of emission cuts.

Even more troubling are significant concerns behind the science of global
warming. Shocking leaked e-mails from a British university apparently show the
world's leading climate scientists manipulating data, violating information
disclosure laws and blocking publication of research contrary to their own.
Investigations around the world are already underway, and the top scientist at
the university has stepped down temporarily.

While politicians at the U.N. conference did their best to ignore this scandal,
as George Monbiot, a writer for London's Guardian, blogs, "Pretending that this
isn't a real crisis isn't going to make it go away."

The bottom line is this: The American people have caught on to the significant
flaws of cap-and-trade policy. The Washington Post released a poll on Friday
showing "growing negativity toward the president's handling of the broader
global warming issue." Approval has plummeted from 61% last spring to 45% last
week. Given the state of the American economy, it is hardly surprising that the
American public is growing restless with policies that would put more Americans
out of jobs and raise the cost of energy.

Sen. James Inhofe of Oklahoma is the ranking Republican on the Senate Committee
on Environment and Public Works.

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2009 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              98 of 264 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             May 6, 2009 Wednesday
                                 CHASE EDITION

Celebs use star power to spotlight pet causes;
Environmental issues rate high on activist actors' lists

BYLINE: Seung Min Kim

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 587 words


WASHINGTON -- Britain's Prince Charles, who launched a campaign to save the
rainforest in late 2007, has enlisted Harrison Ford, Robin Williams and soccer
legend Pele to advance his cause in a video.

Charles unveiled his video Tuesday on MySpace and other social networking sites
in an attempt to get "diverse communities to come together."

Celebrities have long made their way to Washington to champion environmental
issues. Most recently:

*Chevy Chase headlined this year's Earth Day festival on the National Mall in
Washington.

*Leonardo DiCaprio met with President Obama that week to discuss environmental
issues.

*Robert Redford held a news conference with members of Congress in December,
urging the Interior Department not to lease land in Utah for oil and gas
drilling.

Celebrities "have a bigger megaphone than we would ever have or ever be able to
buy," says Julia Bovey, spokeswoman for the Natural Resources Defense Council,
which counts DiCaprio, Redford and James Taylor among its trustees. "When we
have celebrities ... talk about what we do and why it matters, we're able to
reach hundreds of thousands, or even millions."

Stars can even sway lawmakers to hold a hearing on an issue that may have
otherwise never occurred, Bovey says. And stars say they hear stories through
their travels that they can relay to policymakers.

"It obviously brings a spotlight to a cause, but the spotlight will quickly go
away if you don't walk the walk," says actor Matthew Modine, who spoke at the
Earth Day event on April 19 about his charity Bicycle for a Day, which
encourages people to improve the environment and their health. "If you don't
practice what you preach, people will turn their backs from you immediately."

Actress Ashley Judd testified before a House panel April 23, urging lawmakers to
spend an additional $7 billion to help pay for damage to ecosystems and wildlife
caused by climate change.

"I understand that I have the opportunity to be seen and heard in perhaps a way
that a more anonymous citizen does not," says Judd, who went to the Hill on
behalf of Defenders of Wildlife. "I'm trusted with people's stories ... and I
consider it a holy quest to take those stories to speak truth to power about
these people's lives."

Judd isn't the only boldface name in recent years who has testified on Capitol
Hill on various environmental issues.

Fight Club actor Edward Norton appeared before a House committee last May on
making green homes for low-income families a priority. Brothers & Sisters star
Rob Lowe testified in July 2007 about the potential of plug-in hybrid cars.

Celebrities can be a mixed blessing, says Marc Morano, who runs
climatedepot.com, a website with a skeptical view of global warming.

A celebrity speaker "gives you an instant VIP speaker even though the speaker
has no expertise on the subject matter," Morano says. "There's a real risk
because it looks a bit vacuous."

At worst, a celebrity spokesperson, he says, "just comes across as very
uninformed ... a cheap publicity stunt."

Meanwhile, the hand-over of power in Washington may attract more celebrities
here to press their pet causes.

Modine calls the new administration and its stances on the environment an
"opportunity to move forward." Judd, who campaigned for Obama, also praises the
new leadership but says she'll nevertheless press the administration on
mountaintop coal mining.

"Like most of America, many (celebrities) were quite swept up that we can change
things," Bovey says. "That makes Washington an exciting, appealing place."

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2009 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              99 of 264 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             August 28, 2009 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Let voters replace Kennedy

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 389 words


Five years ago, Massachusetts' Democrat-controlled legislature did the right
thing for the wrong reason when it stripped the governor of the power to fill a
vacant U.S. Senate seat and mandated quick special elections.

It was the right thing because voters, not governors, should choose who
represents them on Capitol Hill. It was the wrong reason because Democrats
simply wanted to block then-Gov. Mitt Romney from appointing a fellow Republican
if Sen. John Kerry, D-Mass., won the presidential race and vacated his seat.

Today, the governor is Democrat Deval Patrick, and guess what? Unsurprisingly
but hypocritically, the Democratic legislature is considering whether to return
to the governor the power to appoint a senator to fill the seat of the late
Edward Kennedy.

Patrick said Wednesday that he thought it's a great idea.

So did Kennedy. Shortly before he died, the veteran Democratic senator sent the
governor a letter urging such a change and suggesting that whoever was appointed
to the seat should agree not to run for election. Kennedy argued that the state
should be represented at all times by two senators, and that even an accelerated
special election -- the 2004 law calls for one in less than five months -- would
create too long a gap with only a single senator in Washington.

Much as we respect Kennedy's deathbed wishes, we suspect his motive was less
concern for good government than trying to ensure that President Obama has a
crucial 60th Democratic vote in the Senate this fall, when health care reform
and climate-change legislation are likely to come to a head. That sort of
expedient partisanship is a poor reason for reversing the law.

At least 39 states now allow governors to fill vacancies, but crooked or
incompetent state executives have demonstrated repeatedly that the practice
doesn't just cut out voters, it's also ripe for abuse.

Two recent examples occurred when disgraced (and later impeached) Gov. Rod
Blagojevich, D-Ill., tried to sell Obama's former U.S. Senate seat, and Gov.
David Paterson, D-N.Y., made an embarrassing mess of filling Hillary Clinton's
seat when she resigned to become secretary of State.

Massachusetts has a chance to be the example of fairness to voters that Illinois
and New York were not. Sentimentality notwithstanding, the Bay State's
succession law should be left alone.

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, AP

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2009 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              100 of 264 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           September 8, 2009 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Clotheslines a hang-up for many communities;
Eco-friendly way to dry laundry often considered eyesore

BYLINE: Jordan Schrader

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18A

LENGTH: 605 words


CHAPEL HILL, N.C. -- Devin Ceartas would no sooner give up drying his laundry on
a clothesline than he would dig up his spice garden, overturn his rain barrel or
get rid of his compost heap.

Air drying is one of the simple, old-fashioned ways the 42-year-old computer
programmer and his wife try to make their life in a Chapel Hill subdivision
kinder to the environment.

So when their homeowners' association told them two years ago to take down the
clothesline, they organized their neighbors. Today, laundry hangs freely from
the backyard balconies of Village West townhouses, and aesthetic complaints can
be taken up with Ceartas, who last fall became the association's president.

Switching to clothesline and drying racks saves energy, but residents can get in
hot water with associations, landlords or towns that see clotheslines as
eyesores. Now, a growing number of states, from Maine to Hawaii are stepping in
to override local laws and rules.

"What we're talking about here is a cultural shift," says Alexander Lee, founder
of pro-clothesline group Project Laundry List. "It would be nice to go from
community association to community association to have this discussion and
change the rules, but there are 300,000 of them, and we need to hurry along now
if we're going to cope with climate change."

Laws with varying levels of protections for clotheslines passed in May for
Vermont, in June for Maine and in July for Hawaii, joining existing laws in
Florida, Utah and Colorado.

That doesn't sit well with some local associations, who feel states are stepping
into decisions that should be made by local association boards.

Bruce Benton, who serves on the board of the Tamarac subdivision in rural Horse
Shoe, N.C., says property values have dropped in the recession and could sink
more if residents have to watch underwear flap in the breeze.

"People don't want to see somebody, just because they want to do what they want
to do, start breaking the rules," he says. "It starts to look like a tenement."

Benton's neighbor, Bryan Aleksich, assembled a clothes drying rack on his deck
in August, despite an association rule against visible clotheslines.

Aleksich, 81, says he is unconcerned about a potential run-in with his board,
with which he has sparred before over disagreements such as the proper location
for his natural gas tank. He says drying in the sun makes his laundry fluffier
and saves significant energy.

"It's amazing how appearance is paramount in most people's minds," he says.

More than 5% of electricity used in homes goes to power clothes dryers,
according to a U.S. Department of Energy report that looked at energy use in
2001.

Local governments also have prohibitions. The Greenwich (Conn.) Housing
Authority deems clotheslines a hazard, and notified residents of one
public-housing unit in July it plans to remove their line, says authority
Executive Director Anthony Johnson.

Advocates for state action have seen mixed success. Efforts in North Carolina,
Virginia, Maryland and Oregon have not succeeded so far, Lee says.

Colorado's law applies only to retractable clotheslines. The law Maine passed
this year affects covenants, ordinances and leases created after Sept. 30.

The more-sweeping Vermont law overturns bans in covenants such as the ones that
govern the condominium associations Paul T. Carroccio's company manages in ski
areas. Carroccio says  nearly all  such groups have bans, which exist to protect
homeowners.

"When people buy these things ... they're assured the buildings are always going
to look the way they're intended to look," he says.

Schrader reports for the Asheville (N.C.) Citizen-Times.

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Erin Brethauer, Asheville (N.C.) Citizen-Times

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2009 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              104 of 264 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           January 15, 2009 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Designs go for that youthful glow;
Automakers listen to what Gen Y wants

BYLINE: Sharon Silke Carty

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 640 words


DETROIT - You could call them spoiled. Indulged. Pampered. Cosseted.

Generation Y, that group of young 'uns who are just starting to earn enough
money to buy new cars, wants it all. They want vehicles full of gadgets. They
don't want to haggle on price. They want cars with personality, great styling
and cheap prices.

Heck, they even want to be able to easily change the color of their car a year
or two after they bought it.

Call it what you want, but Gen Y - now preteens to 27-year-olds - is going to be
a powerful force in the auto industry. By 2010, they should account for one in
four vehicle sales, according to Deloitte Consulting. So the automakers are
listening.

Last week, just before the North American International Auto Show press preview
began, Deloitte brought in business students from five colleges around the U.S.
to talk about what they think automakers need to do to attract business from
their peers. They developed presentations based off their own work as well as a
survey of their peers by Deloitte.

"We can either be a great opportunity for the automakers, or a threat to their
survival," says Jason Jones, an MBA student from Gonzaga University in Spokane,
Wash. "And Gen Y is already here - they need to start building brand loyalty in
the Gen Y market now."

One of the most disturbing findings for automakers in Deloitte's survey was that
70% of this age group said they'd never work in the auto industry. It will be
harder to get the product and message right if there are few young people
designing and marketing cars.

"Automotive employers . . . have to overcome the very negative perceptions the
auto industry has as being a good career choice," says Leah Reynolds, who
specializes in generational work practices for Deloitte.

Michigan State student Todd Hagopian says Gen Y can sometimes seem hard to
please, because they are ambitious, driven, quirky and infatuated with
celebrities.

"People misunderstand what Gen Y wants," he says. "Just because we have three
piercings does not mean we want something obnoxious. We just want good design."

And the option to change the color, he added.

Some brands are doing things right, appealing to young people with smart
messages and attractive styling. The group rated Mini, Jeep and Scion among
their favorites. Some also gave high marks to BMW, Land Rover, Audi and
Cadillac.

The automakers are already trying to meet some of the incoming generation's
demands. Lewis Booth, executive vice president and chief financial officer at
Ford Motor, sat through the presentations and decided Ford is doing some things
right. Ford's Sync system, developed with Microsoft, integrates music, phones
and entertainment in Ford cars such as the Focus. "I came away thinking we are
on the right track," he says.

Chrysler is tweaking its interiors to allow for more customization. A multimedia
screen on the dashboard could allow drivers to change the appearance and color
of their speedometers and allow them to change the kinds of information
presented.

Mostly, though, younger people want what they want - when and how they want it.
The student researchers discovered their peers want all the packages of options
to be unbundled, meaning they could decide for themselves if they wanted seat
warmers and a sun roof, or just the sun roof and a better stereo.

And they hate to haggle.

Kevin McKay, also from Gonzaga, says prices should be straightforward and
non-negotiable.

"We don't want to spend time haggling over price," he says.

That doesn't surprise Howard Polirer, director of national accounts for online
car marketplace AutoTrader.com. He says many people get aggravated with
haggling, even though the industry hesitates to move away from that model.

"I would like to find the first dealer who negotiated off the sticker price and
hang him," Polirer says, "because he ruined the industry."

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS, B/W, Andrew Harrer, Bloomberg News (2)
PHOTO, B/W, Carlos Osorio, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2009 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              107 of 264 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           January 28, 2009 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Consumers get frugal, so retailers get creative;
Stores are highlighting value, prices and green practices

BYLINE: Jayne O'Donnell and Sandra Block

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 2093 words


For years, dietitians  have urged Americans to practice mindful eating. Eat
slowly. Savor every bite. If eating chocolate cake, make sure it's really good
chocolate cake. Now, as the country slogs through the worst recession in
decades, consumers are increasingly taking a similar approach to spending.

The change shows up every month in retailers' dismal sales. On Tuesday, the
National Retail Federation said retail sales are expected to drop 0.5% this
year, the first annual decline since the NRF started tracking sales in 1995.

"Most of the consumer behavior we saw in 2008 will continue well into this
year," says Rosalind Wells, NRF's chief economist. "Shoppers will be seeking
value and trading down to discount and off-price retailers in order to stretch
their purchasing power."

Even though spending is expected to increase in late 2009, no one's predicting a
return to the devil-may-care shopping from earlier this decade. Now, when
consumers spend, they're paying more attention to what they buy. And this shift
toward more cautious spending is likely to last.

Sales of furniture and clothing have been plummeting, with retailers in those
sectors posting double-digit sales declines. On Monday, Home Depot announced
plans to close its 34 Expo design stores, which sell high-end home decor items.

Essentials, such as food, health and beauty aids are selling, but even there,
consumers are shifting to less-costly store brands. Consumers are still buying
an occasional video game -- an industry that's proved to be largely
recession-proof -- but sales of big-ticket items, such as cars and vacation
packages, have fallen off a cliff.

To survive, retailers are battling to convince these new, mindful spenders that
their products deliver long-term value, not just empty calories.

"How smart you shop has become a new status symbol," says Eric Gustavsen,
co-founder of New York-based design firm Graj + Gustavsen.

While the downturn is cited as the main reason for dreary retail sales, other
factors are also at work. Many have realized that it's not necessary to buy new
vehicles or furniture every few years, unless the car dies or the springs give
out on the couch. With vehicle sales down 18% last year -- the biggest drop
since 1974 -- it's auto repair shops that are expected to thrive. And after
years of recreational shopping, many Americans are starting to realize there's
no more room in their closets.

Christine Jonard, 36, of Columbus, Ohio, meets regularly with local mothers to
swap clothes and toys for her three children, ages 5, 3 and 1. With the
exception of Christmas gifts, she can't remember the last time she bought a toy.
"We have too much stuff," she says. "Plus, we don't have any money, probably
because we have too much stuff."

Katherine Motley, 36, of Phoenix, started organizing clothing swaps in her
community about a year ago because she was looking for low-cost ways to outfit
her seven children. She says she's spent less than $100 on clothes in the past
year. She believes the interest in swaps will outlast the recession: "People who
are like-minded will continue to do these swaps even when the economy recovers."

Speaking before NRF's annual conference this month, Carl Steidtmann, Deloitte
Research's chief economist for consumer business, said the spending slowdown was
predictable. After a spending boom like the one that occurred after the Sept. 11
terrorist attacks, he said, "You always see a return to simplicity."

Many consumers still have money to spend, Steidtmann says, "They just don't have
the will."

Even high-income shoppers are cutting back, as shown by the sharp drop in sales
of luxury items during the holidays, says Jim Harold, retail industry executive
for Acxiom, a consulting firm.

Coach, manufacturer of luxury handbags, reported last week that sales at North
American stores that have been open at least a year fell 13% during the quarter
ended Dec. 27. The company attributed the decline to its decision not to lower
prices on its signature handbags at a time when most other retailers were
slashing prices.

Luxury shoppers aren't just "looking for deals," Harold says. "They're demanding
them."

Consumer spending accounts for about 70% of the economy, up from 66% about 10
years ago, but down from about 72% earlier last year, says Marie Driscoll,
director of consumer discretionary retail for Standard & Poor's Equity Research.
Driscoll predicts spending will continue to fall until it reverts to being about
two-thirds of the economy again.

"We will grow again, but not at the rates we saw before," she says.

How retailers are trying to survive:

Highlighting value

"In 2009, the consumer will act rationally," says J.C. Penney CEO Mike Ullman.
"They will shop for what they need and less for what they want. And they don't
need much."

Cara Putman, 34, of Lafayette, Ind., falls into that category. She's always
looked for sales before paying full price for anything. Now, though, she's less
likely to make a purchase. What has changed, she says, is a new "willingness to
talk myself out of a purchase (and say), 'I don't really need that.' I hope
that's a discipline that sticks. And I honestly think it stems more from a
desire to streamline and move to simplicity than fears about the recession."

To appeal to customers like Putman, retailers need to convince them that their
brand will make life easier or better, Gustavsen says. His firm helped women's
fashion line Rafaella come up with a new direction last year that emphasized the
clothes' functionality, including two-way stretch and "ergonomic" fabric that
moves with the body. The campaign stressed that people shouldn't buy a Rafaella
garment "just because it's pretty," he says. Retailers are also looking for ways
to stand out from the pack. Along with too many stores, the retail business is
crowded with too much merchandise that looks the same, says Macy's CEO Terry
Lundgren.

"We need newness, freshness and unique products that will get people interested
in buying again," he says.

To compete in this environment, retailers need to go back to their roots, says
Janet Hoffman, Accenture's global retail managing partner. That means "knowing
their customers and coming up with a unique offer or product, price or, in some
cases, service," she says.

Offering better prices

After a holiday season in which many consumers waited until prices were slashed
75% or more to buy, marketers are rethinking pricing strategies. The new
directions include adding more lower-cost store brands or products and working
with manufacturers to come up with starting prices that products are more likely
to sell at.

In response to consumer spending trends, retailers are doing their own buying
"with an increased focus on value and price," says Dan Butler, NRF's vice
president of store operations and merchandising. Retailers are working with
apparel makers and other manufacturers to come up with ways of lowering the cost
of products so they can pass savings on to consumers, he says. "It has to be a
relevant price for this economy," says Butler.

The response to lower-priced private-label brands in stores has been
increasingly positive, with consumers buying 8% more in 2008 than in 2007,
according to a report by Sanford Bernstein analyst Ali Dibadj.

"Consumers are figuring out that many private-label products are just as good as
branded products -- just cheaper," Dibadj says.

Still, style consultant and author Sherrie Mathieson says consumers should
remember that sometimes when you pay more, especially with apparel, you're
getting higher-quality clothing that's likely to last longer. And she urges her
clients to keep that in mind in this economy, when a good suit or dress can be a
good investment.

"The modus operandi of shopping wisely will always need to be a mix of trying to
get value at a lesser price and knowing when to go for it," says Mathieson.

Emphasizing local ownership

When design firm FRCH planned the redesign of 56-year-old Massachusetts grocery
chain Roche Bros. in 2006, it decided to emphasize the local heritage and
produce. Customers told store officials in focus groups that those were the two
most important reasons they shopped at the stores. That was good news for a
store run by the sons of one of the founders that competes against several
national chains and discounters including Wal-Mart, which has attracted new
customers during the recession.

"It fit right into who we are," says Arthur Ackles, Roche's director of
marketing. "We're a local company that's very involved in the community."

The five of 18 stores that have been redesigned  highlight the chain's long
presence in their areas, including photos at the checkouts that date back to the
stores' early years. Since the Wellesley, Mass., store was completely
redesigned, the local theme was stressed and product selections expanded last
year, sales are up 40% despite the economic downturn, says Ackles.

A survey of independent retailers in a wide range of categories found that sales
fell an average of 5% in December, vs. a decline of 9.8% for retail sales
overall, according to the Institute for Local Self-Reliance, a non-profit
research organization. Retailers in cities that sponsored "Buy
Independent/Local" campaigns reported an average decline of 3.2%.

Consumers who patronize local businesses instead of big-box stores are
"realizing that cheapness is not the same as value," says Jeff Milchen,
co-founder of the American Independent Business Alliance.

Going green

Last week, PepsiCo announced that Carbon Trust, a U.K.-based organization that
studies climate change, will certify the carbon footprint of several of its
products, starting with Tropicana Pure Premium orange juice. PepsiCo said the
certification will provide a benchmark for the company to use in its efforts to
reduce greenhouse gas emissions.

A January 2008 survey by Information Resources Inc. found that 70% of Americans
are more likely to support companies that are mindful of their impact on the
environment and society. The survey predicted the market for sustainable
products would grow to $410 billion by 2010, nearly double its 2005 level.

To attract a piece of that market, online auction giant eBay launched a
partnership last year with WorldofGood.com, an online marketplace that offers
organic toys, BPA-free water bottles and other products that, the company says,
"have a positive impact on people and the planet."

Selling sustainable products doesn't inoculate companies from the recession.
WorldofGood doesn't break out separate revenue, but in recent months, eBay's
sales have suffered. The company's net income fell 31% in the fourth quarter.

"Consumers are definitely more cautious in how they're spending their dollars
and they're looking for greater value," says Robert Chatwani, general manager
for WorldofGood. "We're not immune to that."

In response, the website has been promoting items that are gentle to both the
environment and customers' bank accounts. It has made it easier for customers to
search items based on price, which provides "more exposure for items that might
be more affordable," says Priya Haji, chief executive of WorldofGood.

Anna Moncharsh, 20, a psychology major at Yale University, says she purchased
most of her holiday gifts from WorldofGood because she supports its mission and
was able to find relatively low-cost items.

"I've always tried to think about what I'm buying, what it's made out of and
where I'm getting it from," she says. "And considering the circumstances
everywhere right now, I think it's made me more aware of how I choose to spend
my money."

Indeed, gone are the days when retailers could convince people they need
something they really don't, says Alexi Sarnevitz, who heads global retail
strategy for business analytics software company SAS. They need to put their
marketing support behind the products consumers really want, he says, and not
focus on creating "artificial demand."

"The changes in consumers' psyches are too pervasive," says Sarnevitz.

Gustavsen says people are looking for a "valid reason to buy something."

"If the reason is authentic, even if it's emotional, that's as good a reason as
any," he says. "What's out is buying just to buy. I guess that's mindless
spending."

FOR FULL TEXT OF GRAPHIC, PLEASE SEE PDF OR MICROFICHE

Retail sales expected to decline

2009 retail sales in the U.S. are projected to fall 0.5

% from 2008. Percentage changes:

'95 4.4%

'99 6.8%

'09 -0.5%

Note: Excludes automobiles, gas stations, and restaurants

1 - preliminary; 2 - forecast

Source: National Retail Federation's Retail Sales Outlook

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Veronica Salazar, USA TODAY, Source: National Retail
Federation's Retail Sales Outlook (bar graph)
PHOTO, Color, Rob Schumacher for USA TODAY
PHOTO, B/W

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COVER STORY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2009 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              109 of 264 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            March 26, 2009 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

TV, films boldly go down scientific path;
Fiction is still fun, but entertainment more often tries to get the facts just
right

BYLINE: Dan Vergano

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 1484 words


So much for gangsters or communists infiltrating Hollywood. The real invisible
menace turns out to be scientists.

"Just a sign of the modern times -- the science has to be there," says director
Roland Emmerich, whose end-of-the-world film, 2012, opens in November. "We are
all looking for great themes out there, and science has those."

Audiences agree.

Knowing, Nicolas Cage's apocalyptic science thriller, surprised critics by
topping the box office with $24.8 million in ticket sales over the weekend.
Angels & Demons star Tom Hanks last month toured Europe's CERN atom-smashing
facility, which also stars in the antimatter mystery movie premiering May 15.

And a spate of other science-themed flicks arrives this year as well. James
Cameron's alien world of Avatar opens in December, and Sony's animated inventor
comedy, Cloudy With a Chance of Meatballs, opens in September.

"It turns out a lot of people in Hollywood think science is cool," says Jennifer
Ouellette, director of the Science and Entertainment Exchange, the Los
Angeles-based outreach office of the venerable National Academy of Sciences.

The exchange, which formally opened in November, pairs up films and shows in
development with scientists. Its goal is to get the science on the screen
straight, the latest example of science's mind-meld (to use some Star Trek
lingo) with the popular imagination.

"Writers and directors have discovered there is a higher tolerance, maybe even
an interest or a demand, for better science," says Angels & Demons director Ron
Howard, who worked with CERN scientists on the film's depiction of the lab.
"Audiences are getting smarter by the minute."

On the small screen, shows such as CBS' The Big Bang Theory and CSI: Crime Scene
Investigation are undoing the legacy of Star Trek's pointy-eared Mr. Spock by
making scientists look almost cool, says media scholar David Kirby of the United
Kingdom's University of Manchester. "We are in a golden age of science on
television," he says.

Shows like CSI and Fox's Bones, in particular, try to get science right, says
Kirby, a former academic biologist. "Science gives these shows certainty in
uncertain times. Even if science, in reality, is all about uncertainty."

It came from outer space

Says sociologist Wesley Shrum of Louisiana State University in Baton Rouge,
"Science in entertainment isn't anything new."  A Trip to the Moon, the
14-minute silent movie regarded as the first science-fiction film, was a hit
after its 1902 release. The Lost World in 1925 featured dinosaurs trying to eat
scientists and stomping city dwellers, almost seven decades before Jurassic
Park.

"Movies change to reflect the society around them, and the way science appears
certainly reflects that," says astronomer and blogger Phil Plait. In the past
century, scientists went from somewhat remote heroes in films, such as 1943's
Madame Curie, to more sinister figures in the Cold War, such as the title
character in 1964's Dr. Strangelove, to more human characters, such as Jodie
Foster's Eileen Arroway in 1997's Contact. Of course, mad scientists have always
been popular, from 1931's Frankenstein to today's Fox show Fringe, blessed with
its own nutty professor who works in a basement lab.

Fringe aside, "the scientists you see today are not Mr. Spock. They're human,
and that's a real change," Plait says, pointing to TV shows such as The Big Bang
Theory. "Even if they are depicted as uber-geeks, they are still interesting
people you'd probably like."

Jurassic Park in 1993 "made the biggest turn" in Hollywood's interest in
science, Emmerich says. The dinosaur-cloning science was part of the film's
appeal, a discovery that raised the credibility requirements for entertainment,
he says. Close Encounters of the Third Kind and 2001: A Space Odyssey had bumped
up science's profile, he says, but reasonable science has been a bottom-line
requirement only in the past two decades.

"We really noticed it doing Apollo 13," released in 1995, Howard says. NBC's ER
was in its first years, and Howard and others were struck by its readiness to
use medical jargon, much of it meaningless to the audience, to add authenticity
to the story. That helped persuade Apollo 13's writers to keep the NASA lingo in
the film, which "helped make it more authentic," Howard says.

A focus on 'credible science'

"Every major film and TV show today has a science consultant," says Kirby,
author of the forthcoming Labcoats in Hollywood (MIT Press), who has studied the
steady increase in the number of science advisers from the dawn of film to
today.

The big change today is the involvement of science advisers from the beginning
of a show's production, Kirby says. "In the past, producers would cold-call
universities for advice on how to fix an already-written script," he says. "Now
you have scientists help maintain a logical consistency to the science, even if
it's unreal, throughout."

Says Caltech physicist Sean Carroll,  "Scientists certainly like it when films
get the equations right, and I think audiences pick up on credible science."

His favorite science movie is last year's comic-book adaptation Iron Man,
"because it has a long sequence of experiments and ideas not working out or
blowing up in the hero's face," Carroll says. "That's the kind of science I'm
familiar with, trial and error, things never quite working out as easy as you
hope."

Shows rarely have time to get to the real meat of the scientific process:
testing ideas with experiments, Plait says. And scientists too often, in his
view, com- plain about little mistakes, missing the broader benefits that a
positive depiction of science brings to the profession.

"OK, we see telescopes stuffed into crowded rooms, but that's a trivial thing,"
he says. "Entertainment is supposed to entertain, but good science can make
stories better, throw up roadblocks, make plots more interesting and involving."

One recent example was the link between Watchmen and University of Minnesota
physicist James Kakalios, who not only helped cook up a quasi-science
explanation for the Dr. Manhattan superhero (a quantum-physics-altering blue man
in shorts played by Billy Crudup), but also discussed the psychology of
researchers with filmmakers.

The success of March of the Penguins in 2006 has revitalized the nature
documentary field as well, a mainstay of science entertainment, says
Jean-Franc¸ois Camilleri of Disneynature in Paris, which premieres nationwide
the nature documentary Earth on April 22, Earth Day. "A lot of the advances in
film allow us to shoot films we never could imagine before," Camilleri says,
pointing to lightweight cameras and faster computer editing.

Some of those same advances enable special effects that almost demand help from
scientists to explain, Emmerich says. "Audiences are jaded and cynical these
days. If they see something that is not credible, they will shut it off."

So how good is the science in today's films and shows?

"Occasionally, you will get a glimpse of real science, ideas being tested by
experiments," Kirby says. One problem is that sitting at a lab bench piping
cells into glassware isn't all that entertaining, he adds. "For the most part,
audiences want the answers quickly."

'It can't all be science'

"There still has to be that fantastic element. It can't be all science," says
Emmerich, whose 2004 film, The Day After Tomorrow, featured an instant Ice Age
that climate scientists say stretched past the tipping point of reality. "We had
a real scientific worry, and we just packed it into a few days instead of
decades or centuries," he says.

More broadly, how science appears in entertainment can change how people see
scientific problems, says Plait. The 1998 film Deep Impact featured some shaky
science in its plot to divert a massive asteroid from Earth with nuclear bombs,
he notes, but is widely credited by astronomers with raising public awareness of
the threat from "Near Earth" asteroids and helping secure funding for asteroid
surveys.

"I would say some representations of science can significantly impact public
understanding," for better and for worse, Kirby says. He views 2000's Mission to
Mars as "harmful," perpetuating a bogus idea in the public mind because the film
depicted as real the geological feature known as the Face on Mars, which
actually is an optical illusion.

"Who knows? The trend toward science in entertainment may fizzle," Kirby says.
"But I would argue that it is here to stay. The heavy focus on science in films
and TV has been cyclical, but always there. People only think it is new."

American Film Institute's top 10 sci-fi movies

Film     Year

1 2001: A Space Odyssey   1968

2 Star Wars Episode IV: A New Hope 1977

3 E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial   1982

4 A Clockwork Orange   1971

5 The Day the Earth Stood Still  1951

6 Blade Runner    1982

7 Alien     1979

8 Terminator 2: Judgment Day  1991

9 Invasion of the Body Snatchers  1956

10 Back to the Future   1985

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, COLOR, Warner Bros. Pictures
PHOTO, COLOR, Vince Valitutti, Summit Entertainment
PHOTO, COLOR, Zade Rosenthal, Sony Pictures
PHOTO, COLOR, Joe Lederer
PHOTO, B/W
PHOTO, B/W, Robert Hanashiro, USA TODAY
PHOTO, B/W, ILM/Universal Studios

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COVER STORY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2009 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              113 of 264 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            October 1, 2009 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Think before you commit to a new pet

BYLINE: Isabelle Hamel

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 4D

LENGTH: 624 words


Acquiring a pet should be life-enriching, but as with any relationship with
long-term expectations, a potential pet owner must take stock of what it takes
to make a perfect match.

What's your motivation?

Pets play many roles in our lives. Think about your reasons for bringing an
animal into your life and make your decisions based on your needs. Here are some
typical situations that offer insights:

*Loss of a loved one or a pet often motivates people to acquire a new pet in an
effort to lessen the impact of the loss. Assess your feelings about what you are
willing to invest emotionally under these circumstances. Appreciate your new
pet's individuality; don't make comparisons.

*Studies show that raising children with pets helps them to be more
compassionate and sensitive. Teach children to respect the animal by interacting
through daily care and appropriate play.  An older pet experienced with children
may be less challenging for a family.

*You want protection. While some dogs can provide a level of security, the
primary role of a pet should be that of a companion.

Think long-term

Acquiring a pet can be a 17-year commitment. Anticipate lifestyle changes that
may present unique challenges for you and your pet and be prepared to make
adjustments:

*Starting out on your own may provide the impetus to acquire a pet, but being
the animal's sole caregiver can be socially and professionally restrictive.  A
potential first-time pet owner can get a feel for this special bond before
committing in various ways -- volunteering at a shelter, fostering an animal or
watching a friend's or relative's pet.

*Moving often triggers temporary behavior problems requiring understanding and
tolerance. You might have  to retrain your pet to adjust.

*A couples' first "baby" is often their pet treated like a child. But behavior
that is acceptable in the absence of children is often problematic when kids
come along. The pet's world changes and, most likely, so do the rules. Dogs are
particularly sensitive to change. Set rules and a routine in the beginning that
won't change even if your family does.

*"Empty-nesters" may feel loss when children leave home. Caring for a pet
provides a sense of purpose but can also impede newfound freedom.

*Retirement provides time to spend with a pet, but consider your plans and
whether a pet can be included. Will you relax at home, travel or possibly
relocate? A small dog is a wise choice for traveling. A husky would be a poor
choice if kenneled often or you relocate to a warm climate.

*As we approach the "golden years," often our spirit is willing, but our bodies
aren't quite up to task. Caring for a puppy or kitten can be exhausting. Seniors
would do well to consider an older or smaller, more manageable dog.

Make the perfect match

Do your research. Consider the age, size, weight, temperament, energy, health
and life expectancy of the new pet and the people in the household.

Assess the size and location of your residence. If you live in an apartment,
consider a cat or a quiet dog requiring minimal exercise. A mastiff or a Great
Dane, although large, needs less activity than a Jack Russell terrier. All pets
require exercise or they can become depressed, overweight or destructive. The
amount depends on the individual. A walk around the block can seem like a
marathon to a bulldog but is just a warm-up to a Labrador retriever.

Breeds have specific traits and tasks for which they were bred.  If the origin
of a mixed breed is unknown, so are the traits, but most bad traits are
extinguished in mixed breeds through natural selection. An animal's personality
is based both on inherent traits and environmental influences.

The perfect match between a pet and owner is precious. It's your job to create
it.

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Color
PHOTO, Color
PHOTO, Color

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2009 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              116 of 264 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             March 5, 2009 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Research pays for itself

BYLINE: Steven Chu

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 363 words


To lift our economy and put Americans back to work, President Obama is making a
major investment in clean energy.

Clean energy is the best opportunity we have to create jobs today and launch the
industries of tomorrow. It's also critical for our security -- to reduce our
dangerous dependence on foreign oil -- and to save our planet from the
potentially devastating effects of climate change.

We have begun the transformation to a clean energy economy through the
president's economic recovery plan. And to truly rise to this challenge,
President Obama has pledged to invest $15 billion a year to develop and deploy
the next generation of renewable energy technology here in America.

As history has shown repeatedly with science funding, this investment will pay
for itself many times over. Americans will save far more on their energy bills
than we spend on research.

At a time of economic crisis, this bold action is absolutely necessary.

Meeting our energy challenge will require a partnership between government and
private sector companies, but the government must lead.

With a network of 17 national laboratories and researchers at 300 colleges and
universities, the federal government knows how to do this work. Public
investment in research has been critical to developing everything from
hybrid-vehicle batteries to lifesaving cancer treatments.

As we have in the past, we will work with the private sector to take
breakthroughs on energy from the research lab to the manufacturing plant to the
retail store.

We will move with the greatest speed, transparency and accountability because we
cannot afford to fail. We will post our progress on www.recovery.gov so you can
know how your tax dollars are being spent.

With these investments, we will unlock the true potential of solar and wind
energy. We will develop advanced biofuels and learn to use coal in a clean way.
We will make highly fuel-efficient cars and trucks. And those are just the
technologies we already know about.

This strategic investment in clean energy will unleash the innovations that will
power our economy for years to come.

Steven Chu is secretary of Energy and a co-winner of the Nobel Prize for
physics.

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2009 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              118 of 264 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            March 12, 2009 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Ozone pollution amplifies risk of fatal respiratory illnesses;
Big-city dwellers face long-term exposure

BYLINE: Liz Szabo

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 6D

LENGTH: 554 words


For the first time, a large study shows the deadly effects of chronic exposure
to ozone, one of the most widespread pollutants in the world and a key component
of smog. The study appears in today's New England Journal of Medicine.

Doctors have long known that ground-level ozone -- which is formed when sunlight
interacts with pollution from tailpipes and coal-burning power plants -- can
make asthma worse. This study, which followed nearly 450,000 Americans in 96
metropolitan areas for two decades, also shows that ozone increases deaths from
respiratory diseases.

This ground-level ozone has very different effects than the ozone layer high
above the Earth, which helps filter out harmful ultraviolet radiation, says lead
author Michael Jerrett, an associate professor of environmental health sciences
at the University of California-Berkeley.

Although Jerrett found there was no safe level of ground-level ozone, some
cities fare worse than others. People in Riverside, Calif., the highest ozone
city, were 32% more likely to die in a given year of respiratory diseases
compared with people in San Francisco, the city with lowest average annual ozone
concentrations.

Ozone pollution likely translates into thousands of additional deaths every year
across the USA, Jerrett says. About 240,000 Americans a year die of respiratory
illnesses.

Controlling ozone -- one of the main greenhouse gases involved in global warming
-- may both save lives and fight global climate change, Jerrett says.

The study shows yet another way that air pollution can harm public health, says
Janice Nolen, assistant vice president of national policy and advocacy for the
American Lung Association.

"It doesn't have to be a peak ozone day to be a problem," says Nolen, who wasn't
involved with the new study. "If you're breathing it day in and day out over a
longer period of time, the risk of premature death increases."

The study also suggests the Environmental Protection Agency may need to
reconsider its safety standard for ozone, Nolen says. Instead of looking at just
the effect of being exposed to peak ozone levels, the agency may need to look at
long-term exposure to lower levels of the gas.

Last year, the EPA changed its air quality standards for ground-level ozone from
an average of 84 parts per billion to 75 parts per billion over an eight-hour
period, although the agency's scientific advisers had urged an even tougher
standard of 60 to 70 parts per billion.

One in three Americans lives in a city that's in violation of the EPA's current
ozone standard, Jerrett says.

President Obama's new EPA chief, Lisa Jackson, told USA TODAY last month that
the agency should reconsider the ozone standard. "We need to go back to the
basics here: science and the law," she said.

Contributing: Traci Watson

The highest levels

An 18-year study finds that long-term exposure to ozone raises the risk of dying
from respiratory problems. Of 96 metro areas studied, those with the highest
levels (in parts per billion):

Rank  Cities     Ozone levels

90 San Diego           66

91 Trenton, N.J.           66

92 Charlotte-Gastonia, N.C .         66

93 San Buenoventura (Ventura), Calif.        75

94 Fresno            76

95 Los Angeles-Long Beach         91

96 Riverside-San Bernardino-Ontario, Calif.      104

Source: Michael Jerrett, University of California-Berkeley

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2009 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              126 of 264 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          September 9, 2009 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

As history shows, Congress can seal a president's fate

BYLINE: Ross K. Baker

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 663 words


Most sessions of Congress are quite unremarkable, but  this session -- already
amped up with President Obama's address to a joint session tonight -- could be
one for the record books. Several significant pieces of legislation await
congressional action, and what transpires could become either the crowning
achievements or the sad finales of the first year of the Obama administration.

Of the issues, including a climate change bill and immigration reform, none
rises to the level of the importance of a national health care measure. Whether
Obama and his Democratic-controlled Congress is successful in passing a health
care bill will depend, history suggests, on some factors in the president's
control -- and some that are not.

Sometimes emergencies drive Congress into a flurry of activity, such as the
session that resumed just a few days before the attacks on Sept. 11, 2001. In
the aftermath, anti-terror legislation  was quickly packaged into the USA
Patriot Act and passed, some would say hastily.

Certainly, Obama's stimulus package, budget legislation and the plans to rescue
GM and Chrysler  were enacted in an atmosphere of unusual urgency given the goad
of a threatened financial meltdown. But the newly elected Obama also enjoyed the
traditional willingness of Congress to go along, for a time, on a presidential
honeymoon trip.

In some instances, the outcome of a session is pre-ordained. Lyndon Johnson,
assuming the presidency after the assassination of John Kennedy, vowed to get
Congress to pass a civil rights bill that eluded Kennedy. And when the 89th
Congress convened on Jan. 4, 1965, voting rights legislation was at the top of
the agenda. By  August, the bill had withstood filibusters by segregationist
senators to become the landmark piece of civil rights legislation.

In other instances, presidents can push Congress too far. In 1937, after
Franklin D. Roosevelt had vanquished the GOP nominee Alfred Landon in 46 of the
then-48 states to win a second term, FDR made his fateful move to increase the
number of justices on the U.S. Supreme Court.

During his first term, the high court had ruled unconstitutional a number of New
Deal programs.  After his re-election, Roosevelt announced on Feb. 5  that he
would seek to add an additional justice for every sitting judge older than  70.
Besides a storm of predictable protest from Republicans, the Roosevelt plan also
drew fire from lawyers' groups and from members of Congress in  his own party.
In this case, FDR misread his Democratic support, and Congress in turn handed
him a stinging defeat.

Sometimes, though, developments are beyond the control of even a president.
FDR's point man on the court expansion, Senate Majority Leader Joseph Robinson,
died suddenly in July 1937, leaving the president without his  most effective
congressional advocate.

In a similar manner, President Obama has suffered a loss of his key ally, Sen.
Edward Kennedy, in his quest for national health insurance reform. So is Obama,
like FDR, doomed to failure?

Perhaps too much emphasis has been placed on the  powers of the late senator to
engineer compromises, and what had been seen this spring as a more auspicious
atmosphere for compromise could have been just  wishful thinking. The plan might
have been  doomed from the start.

Win or lose, the events that transpire in this Congress  will go far in
determining how the Obama administration is judged by history. As a candidate,
Obama made reform of the health care system a centerpiece of his campaign. And
he must redeem, if only partially, his pledge to broaden medical insurance
coverage.

His and the previous administration's heroic, and apparently successful, efforts
to rescue the nation from financial collapse will be noted favorably by
historians of the future, but Obama will be judged most stringently by the
marker he himself laid down.

Ross K. Baker is a political science professor at Rutgers University. He also is
a member of USA TODAY's board of contributors.

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W (illustration)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2009 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              131 of 264 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          December 23, 2009 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Green efforts spring from Chinese desert;
Farmers raise plants as part of energy initiative though region still runs on
coal

BYLINE: Calum MacLeod

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 726 words


Farmers raise plants as part of energy initiative though region still runs on
coal

ORDOS, China -- He has never heard of global warming or Copenhagen, where
leaders from 193 countries gathered for a major climate change summit last
weekend.

But Ulandalai, 43, a farmer in one of China's most isolated desert regions, says
he's doing his part to help the environment anyway.

As part of a clean energy initiative partly sponsored by the Chinese government,
Ulandalai, who uses just one name, planted sand willows three years ago on land
where he used to graze sheep.

There are several benefits to the switch, he says.

First, the large shrub-like plants help hold down the soil, which Ulandalai and
other locals say has reduced the intensity of sandstorms and made the area more
hospitable to wildlife.

Second, the sand willows can be harvested and burned to generate electricity, a
process that produces fewer greenhouse gases than other energy sources such as
coal.

A nearby power plant built to burn the willow has paid Ulandalai $2,600 annually
to plant and manage the crop, and he could receive double that amount when the
first batch of sand willows is harvested next month.

That has led to the third and final benefit: Compared with some of his
neighbors, especially those who once criticized his decision, Ulandalai is
getting rich.

"They said, 'We Mongolians rely on our sheep and other animals. How can you live
without them?' " Ulandalai recalls. "Now my neighbors want to plant sand
willows, too."

Coal remains king

Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao told world leaders in Copenhagen that China, the
world's largest emitter of greenhouse gases, is moving more quickly than any
other nation to adopt new and renewable energy sources.

The project in Inner Mongolia shows how the Chinese government and private
investors work together on clean energy initiatives. It also illustrates some of
the sector's shortcomings.

Despite all the "green" efforts, coal remains king in Ordos. The city is home to
Shenhua, the world's largest coal company.

The heavily polluting but cheap energy that coal provides and the ready
availability of other natural resources nearby have helped make Ordos one of
China's most prosperous cities.

It has a per capita gross domestic product of almost $14,000 -- more than triple
the $4,000 national average, the city government says.

The Maowusu biomass thermal power plant, where Ulandalai sells his sand willows,
needs substantial government subsidies to get by. The power plant says that for
every 4 cents it costs to generate electricity there, it receives 5 cents in
subsidies so it can compete with the lower cost of coal-fired power.

Li Jinglu, a former real estate mogul who has invested $51 million in the power
plant, sees enough environmental benefits to make it worthwhile. He says he
hopes to turn a profit within two years and eventually build and inspire 2,000
similar plants across the Chinese desert.

"We can not only fight desertification, but produce clean energy to replace
coal-produced power," says Li, 54.

His plant has contracted 1,000 local farmers to grow sand willows and 150
full-time workers at the site. "We really can turn a disaster into a blessing,"
he says.

'Next revolution'

The Maowusu project "represents what's happening in China right now" with clean
energy efforts, says Tim Clissold, CEO of Peony Capital, which manages a fund
aimed at reducing China's greenhouse gas emissions.

China says it spends about $9 billion a month on clean energy development.

The government plans to make renewable energy account for 15% of its fuel by
2020.

"The Chinese want to own the technology for this next revolution in new
technology -- clean energy," Clissold says. "When the oil runs out, China will
be in a strong position."

The Ordos area is also home to wind and solar projects.

Arizona-based First Solar recently signed a deal to build the world's largest
solar farm here. When it's completed in 2019, it will be roughly the size of
Manhattan and produce enough electricity for 3 million homes, the company says.

Clissold says clean energy projects will become more viable once richer
countries agree to provide more financing -- a goal the Copenhagen summit fell
short of reaching, he says.

Ulandalai is among those who see a prosperous future in green energy.

"We know we can earn money from controlling the desert," he says.

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, USA TODAY (Map)
PHOTOS, B/W, Photos by Calum MacLeod, USA TODAY (3)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2009 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              143 of 264 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 10, 2009 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Poor blame rich at climate talks;
Diplomat accuses nations of hogging world's resources

BYLINE: Brian Winter

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 530 words


COPENHAGEN -- Tensions spilled over at a global warming summit Wednesday as the
leading delegate for poor countries accused the United States and other nations
of using colonial-era tactics to "preserve their dominance."

Sudanese diplomat Lumumba Di-Aping said proposals made in Copenhagen to cut
emissions of greenhouse gases are insufficient. Di-Aping, speaking on behalf of
a 135-nation bloc of poorer countries -- of which China includes itself --
accused wealthier countries of trying to hoard economic resources for
themselves.

"One could say that 'the empire' has been doing that since the 16th century,"
Di-Aping told a news conference. "The new global resource is atmospheric space."

His comments reflected a divide between rich and poor nations at the conference,
where 192 countries are trying to forge a global agreement to reduce greenhouse
gas emissions. Their pleas come as donor countries are recovering from the worst
worldwide economic slump since the 1930s.

Todd Stern, a lead negotiator for the U.S. delegation, said the United States
was willing to pitch in an unspecified share of the funds that will be sent from
rich nations to poor ones. He said the total amount could reach $10 billion a
year right away.

Stern said China should not be among the recipients because its economy is
prospering.

Countries with relatively healthy economies such as Brazil and China say they
shouldn't have to limit their economic growth because of past emissions by the
USA and Europe. Richer nations say their greenhouse gas emissions have started
to drop, and most of the growth in emissions will come from poor nations
starting to industrialize.

Ambitions here have been downsized amid global economic turmoil and political
disputes, Stern said. Instead of a binding global treaty, which was the summit's
official goal as recently as a month ago, Stern spoke of Copenhagen as a "first
step" toward reducing greenhouse gas emissions.

Stern said China, in particular, needs to offer more ambitious targets for
emissions cuts. He noted a recent study by the International Energy Agency,
which said about half of growth in greenhouse gas emissions could come from
China as its economy develops. Stern rejected arguments made by Di-Aping and
others that the United States should pay "reparations" for the greenhouse gases
it emitted in decades past.

The Obama administration's ability to make promises at the summit has been
limited by Congress, where an energy bill that would cap carbon dioxide
emissions has been stuck in the Senate since the spring. Obama has proposed
cutting U.S. greenhouse gas emissions 17% by 2020 from the levels seen in 2005.

The loudest call for more ambitious emissions targets came from the South
Pacific island nation of Tuvalu.

"Our future rests on the outcome of this meeting," Tuvalu delegate Ian Fry said.

The Tuvalu delegation proposed amending the United Nations climate treaty to
require a greater effort by rich nations.

Connie Hedegaard, the Danish official leading the conference, denied the
request. Shortly thereafter, a crowd of about 150 protesters gathered outside
the conference center chanting, "Tuvalu! Tuvalu!"

Contributing: The Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Larsen Claus Bjorn, AP
PHOTO, B/W, Keld Navntoft, AFP/Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2009 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              150 of 264 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             January 2, 2009 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Businesses' green opportunities are wide, but complex;
Efforts must be credible and make financial sense

BYLINE: Kerry Hannon

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 1055 words


It's not surprising that the pages of Joel Makower's latest book, Strategies for
the Green Economy, are printed on paper made from 100% post-consumer, de-inked
fiber. That's paper that has been used by consumers and collected through
various recycling programs.

Makower, editor of GreenBiz.com, practices what he preaches. He's spent the last
20 years advising companies on green strategies and marketing, and has written
books such as The Green Consumer and The E-Factor: The Bottom Line Approach to
Environmentally Responsible Business.

Makower has woven together a series of short, factoid-laden, wit-tinged
chapters, which ramble through a variety of green-centric topics such as the
many shades of green consumers to the lowdown on labels to the new "energy"
companies. He provides insights into efforts by Coca-Cola and Levi Straus to
Timberland, General Electric and others that show us what they've done right and
lessons learned.

And he poses a lot of questions along the way, such as:

*How do you make sense of a world in which green hopes far outweigh green
habits?

*Should you focus on what looks good to outsiders or what really matters in
terms of your company's impact and potential to create value?

*Do you cater to short-term expectations or dig in for the long term, even if
you have to take some financial hits along the way?

The green opportunities for businesses of all sizes are numerous, but it's a
complex playing field that hasn't found its footing since the hoopla that
surrounded the first Earth Day -- 18 years ago.

Back then, "it seemed like a floodgate of greener products was about to open,"
Makower writes. "Large consumer product companies such as Procter & Gamble and
Unilever were dipping their corporate toes into the green waters, with the
expectation they would eventually dive in."

Fully 26% of all household products introduced in 1990 boasted a green claim,
according to the Marketing Intelligence Service, which tracks product launches.
"We could smell change coming," Makower remembers.

It didn't. One problem was that many of the products didn't live up to their
hype, he writes, and labeling claims were found to be inaccurate, unverifiable
or simply meaningless, he recalls.

Ouch. Part of the problem, of course, was that many of the terms being used --
safe, Earth-friendly, non-toxic, organic and natural -- had no legal or
generally accepted definitions.

That's still a drawback. "The lack of a uniform standard, or set of standards,
defining environmentally responsible companies means that anyone can make green
claims, regardless of whether their actions are substantive, comprehensive, or
even true," Makower writes. That's made consumers cynical and made it hard for
companies that really are environmental leaders.

Pocketbook environmentalism, for instance, is powerful, Makower writes. If
marketers can help consumers understand the hidden costs in products and
services that are not environmentally friendly, such as incandescent light bulbs
or inefficient cars, they can grab consumers' attention.

It's possible these days to steer clear of re-inventing the green wheel. "Over
the years, I have been struck by companies' willingness to share what they've
learned, even among competitors," he writes.

For the core elements of how to create a green strategy, Makower taps the wisdom
of his colleagues at GreenOrder, a sustainable business strategy firm,  whose
clients have included GE, Office Depot and Pfizer.

Some basic steps include showing credibility by backing up your company's
performance with provable facts and figures that match its green rhetoric. It
doesn't need to appear in ads, product labeling, or point-of-purchase
information, but it should at least be on product fact sheets or websites.

Interestingly, he notes that one of the main reasons to do this is for your
employees. "They're the first group that needs assurance that any claims you
make hold water," Makower counsels.

Next, green initiatives aren't worth a thing if they don't make business sense.
"Often, green is the first thing to go when times get tough," Makower writes. Be
sure to show that sustainability initiatives have reduced costs and boosted
revenue by creating new markets, adding new products and deepening loyalty with
customers.

A company needs to demonstrate that its green efforts somehow set it apart from
its competitors. Admittedly, it's getting harder than ever to differentiate as
more companies have green projects underway.

That said, you don't have to be doing more than anyone else, but rather
something that is distinct, Makower explains. A small company might be able to
do this with a single action, such as locating in a certified green building.

It's not just the climate that's pressing for serious environmental changes in
the way businesses operate.

"A host of other issues -- the availability of water, toxic ingredients in
consumer products and the rampant growth of electronic waste, to name just three
-- will continue to plague companies and society for decades," Makower points
out.

Moreover, around the world, political leaders are realizing that this isn't a
topic that will go away --  it's gaining ground rapidly.

More suppliers are being pressed to take green action. Wal-Mart, for example, is
"pushing its 60,000 suppliers to perform all sorts of sustainability
somersaults," he reports.

"Corporations and institutional buyers of a wide range of products are looking
upstream for solutions, asking suppliers to, variously, reduce packaging,
eliminate hazardous materials, use more organic or bio-based ingredients and
take other measures to green up their products and operations."

Finally, the clean-tech boom is making it easier for companies "to transform
their products, processes and performance to use more renewable energy,
bio-based or lightweight materials and fewer toxic ingredients," he writes.

As they roll out, that will make possible a wide range of green business
opportunities.

Do consumers really care? They do, Makower insists. Bridging the gulf, however,
between green concern and green consumerism -- that's the test of success.

Kerry Hannon is a freelance writer based in Washington, D.C.

Strategies for the Green Economy: Opportunities and Challenges in the New World
of Business

By Joel Makower

with market research by Cara Pike

McGraw-Hill, 290 pages, $27.95

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W

DOCUMENT-TYPE: BOOK REVIEW

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2009 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              152 of 264 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             January 9, 2009 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

USA cools off

BYLINE: Doyle Rice

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 92 words


The contiguous USA's 2008 average temperature of 53 degrees was the coolest
since 1997, federal climate scientists announced Thursday. Central and Southern
parts of the country had below-long-term-average temperatures, while
above-average temperatures were felt in the West, Southwest and Northeast.

Although cool compared with recent years, the nation's temperatures were still
0.2 degree above the long-term average, making 2008 the 12th consecutive
warmer-than-average year. Only three out of the past 23 years have been
cooler-than-average in the USA.


LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2009 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              154 of 264 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            January 20, 2009 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Obama takes oath amid great pride, promise, problems

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 880 words


Today's inauguration has generated extraordinary excitement, even among the
jaded, and a palpable sense of optimism at a time of deep national uncertainty.

The once unthinkable -- an African-American president -- is about to become the
new reality, a symbol of America's racial progress and a reaffirmation of its
place as a land of opportunity. Barack Obama's soaring oratory and improbable
life story have deeply moved millions around the nation and the world.

Faith in Obama's ability to deliver change is so high that, asked about 10
campaign promises ranging from tax cuts to getting out of Iraq, a majority of
respondents in a USA TODAY/Gallup Poll last week said he would make good on all.

Therein lies a danger. The challenges Obama inherits -- from a global economic
meltdown to nuclear proliferation, terrorism, two wars and climate change -- are
so daunting and intractable that great expectations could be followed by
crushing disappointment.

Obama knows that John F. Kennedy's stirring inaugural oratory was followed in
short order by the Bay of Pigs fiasco, a failed effort to depose Cuba's Fidel
Castro, and he has been offering cautionary notes. On election night and again
at Sunday's Lincoln Memorial concert, Obama said the road ahead would be long
and the climb would be steep.

So what can realistically be expected from this new president? What can
reasonably be accomplished in his four-year term?

Job one, of course, is righting the staggering economy. A year from now, Obama
will no doubt be judged politically by whether the shaky banking system has
stabilized, companies are hiring people rather than laying them off, home prices
are recovering and the nation's economic output is rising.

He has a running start with the second half of the $700 billion financial rescue
fund at his disposal. On top of that, he is asking Congress for more than $800
billion to stimulate the economy and reinforce the social safety net. But, in
truth, that is the easy part.

There already are indications that even those capital infusions will not be
enough -- that banks, whose return to health and sound lending are the essential
starting point for any recovery, will need more. All the money will have to be
borrowed, and no one knows the implications of such massive borrowing.

Harder still is building a foundation for lasting prosperity, to ensure that the
response to this crisis doesn't sow the seeds of the next calamity.
Trillion-dollar federal budget deficits carry the potential to create ruinous
inflation or dangerously high interest rates. This is why the new president has
begun talking about curbing government entitlement programs such as Medicare and
Social Security, which threaten to bankrupt the nation as the Baby Boom
generation retires.

A serious effort to rein in those programs will force Obama to spend some of his
political capital and take hits to his approval rating, now at 78%. But to
govern is to choose, and Obama will be judged four years hence on whether he has
been able to persuade the nation to trade its borrow-and-spend ways for older
American virtues that demanded tough choices and short-term sacrifice for
long-term gain. To succeed, he will need to rebuild confidence, much as Ronald
Reagan did a quarter-century ago, but in even tougher times. It would be a huge
plus if Obama could set and meet an audacious national goal, be it energy
independence or reducing the number of people without health insurance.

Internationally, a responsible departure from Iraq, one that leaves behind a
stable and self-sustaining nation, was a prime Obama campaign plank that he can
be measured by during his term. After that, however, the foreign policy terrain
gets murkier.

While Obama's immense popularity overseas is an asset, it will go only so far.
The Taliban is gaining ground in Afghanistan, radical movements threaten to
destabilize nuclear-armed Pakistan, the Middle East remains in turmoil, Iran
appears bent on building nuclear weapons, and the threat of terrorism at home
lingers. Obama's plan to close the prison camp at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, while
symbolically important and necessary, raises hugely complicated issues about
what to do with the most dangerous detainees.

So how to judge success? In the broadest sense, Obama will be measured on his
ability to keep America safe without compromising civil liberties or U.S.
standing in the world, and by his success at restoring the nation's economic
well-being.

Beyond the predictable list of domestic and international problems, an
unanticipated crisis, something barely discussed in the 2008 campaign, could
test the new president as well. When George W. Bush was sworn in eight years
ago, he didn't envision being a war-time leader or a terror strike involving
jetliners flown into symbols of U.S. financial and military might.

All in all, Obama is not in an envious position. But historic opportunities are
born in crisis. For all the nation's problems, this inauguration stands as a
moment of promise. Americans of all races, whether they voted for Obama or not,
can take pride in what his election says about the nation's ability to correct
its flaws. A country that can move in 40 years from segregation to electing a
black president is surely one that can meet the challenges of today.

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2009 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              156 of 264 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            February 2, 2009 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Even the wealthy feel tapped out;
Those who serve and sell to them feel the pinch

BYLINE: John Waggoner

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 1245 words


The rich may not be quite so different than you and me these days: They, too,
have less money.

Their fortunes have fallen along with the prices of stocks, oil and real estate.

Luxury condos on Florida beaches languish; champagne sales are down; private
jets sit idle.

Times may be tough for the wealthy, but they're tougher for those who serve and
sell to them.

"Business may be a bit off this year," allows Doug Turner, president of
Millionaire's Concierge in Fort Lauderdale, which offers everything from VIP
concert tickets to $13,000 rides in fighter jets for the wealthy. The rich are
cutting non-essential items, and that hurts his business. "Everything I sell,
you don't need," he says.

Just what defines "wealthy" is subject to debate. The Securities and Exchange
Commission defines a high-net-worth person as someone with $750,000 or more in
investible assets. Under President Obama's tax plan, people earning $250,000 or
more annually are wealthy enough to get a tax increase -- and those people are
in the top 2% to 5% of all income levels.

By most accounts, the wealthy have done well. Those in the top 10% of income
have seen their income rise 34% after inflation since 1979, according to the
Federal Reserve, vs. 4% for those in the bottom 10%. Their gains have spawned
thousands of businesses whose employees pamper, prop up and please the very
rich. Those workers are the builders of the vacation condos, the delivery
drivers of champagne, the pilots of private jets.

And while the luxury industry isn't anywhere near as big as the market for
everyone else, it's still a significant part of the economy (1.2 million luxury
cars sold last year alone) -- and one that won't recover until the recession is
well over.

High-end pain

Make no mistake: The recession is easier to bear if you have a few million in
your wallet.

And people with a great deal of money are still going to spend it. For example,
the Ritz-Carlton hotel in Washington, D.C., offered a four-night package that
included two tickets to the Inaugural Parade, two tickets to an Inaugural Ball
and Gucci luggage. A well-heeled President Obama supporter paid $12,000 a night
for it.

Nevertheless, the wealthy are cutting back. Bentley, the British automaker, says
sales are down 32% in North America. And a 1947 Matisse cutout at auction at
Christie's in December went without a single bid.

"It's conspicuous non-consumption," says David Wyss, chief economist for
Standard & Poor's.

And retailers who cater to the wealthy are slashing prices. In tony department
stores such as Bergdorf Goodman during Christmas, shoppers could find handbags
marked down 40% or more. Big chains such as Saks Fifth Avenue and Bloomingdale's
were chopping prices 50% or more.

"It was unbelievable," says Faith Hope Consolo, chairman of the Prudential
Douglas Elliman Real Estate's retail sales and leasing division. "Luxury never
had sales before Christmas before."

They had little choice. For retailers, inventory is a wasting asset: No one
wants winter clothes on the rack in the spring. But many luxury retailers are
finding that shoppers are still cutting back.

One strategy retailers are trying, Consolo says: Rolling out lower-price luxury
lines that will appeal to the slightly less affluent, thereby increasing their
potential market. High-end designer Roberto Cavalli, for example, has launched a
line called Roberto Cavalli at H&M, the hip yet far less luxe outlet than, say,
Cavalli's line for Saks, where dresses range from $2,195 for a silk halter gown
to $575 for a diamond-chain-print tee.

Yet, some luxury items hold up well no matter the economic climate, Consolo
says: "Anything that makes them feel good or look good." A client who will no
longer buy a $3,000 bag, for example, might splurge instead on a $30 lipstick.

Luxury-home builders have been hit even harder than luxe retailers. A survey by
the National Association of Home Builders found that sales of homes in the
$250,000 to $1 million price range declined 80% last year from 2007. Sales of
homes priced more than $1 million fell 70%, says Gopal Ahluwalia, vice president
of research for NAHB.

Low-end suffering

High discounts and low sales have meant financial woes for companies -- and that
means layoffs.

Neiman Marcus, citing a tough sales climate, said this month that it would cut
375 jobs, or 3% of its workforce. Macy's said it would close 11 stores. Gadget
purveyor Sharper Image filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy in 2008. And in Florida,
two affiliates of Ginn Cos. filed for bankruptcy as two of its high-end housing
developments ran into trouble.

Unemployment in luxury retail and the construction industries is soaring. The
unemployment rate in the construction industry is 15.3%, vs. 9.4% in December
2007. For those in the restaurant business, unemployment has shot to 9.8% from
7.8% a year earlier.

Even casinos are feeling the pain. At the Silver Club Hotel & Casino in Sparks,
Nev., 200 workers were laid off in December when banks refused to fund a buyer.
The Stations Casinos in Las Vegas said in December that, as a cost-cutting
measure, it would stop matching worker 401(k) contributions.

"Layoffs have been significant, and they will be even more significant in the
weeks and months ahead," says Bruce Raynor, general president of Unite Here, the
union that represents hotel and restaurant workers. "Las Vegas has been hit
particularly hard."

Hotel workers in Hawaii and Puerto Rico have been hurt because those areas cater
mainly to tourists rather than business travelers, Raynor says.

Then there's the yachting industry. The market for 450-foot ships called
gigayachts is relatively unchanged, says Kristen Cavallini-Soothill, director of
the American Yacht Institute, a Fort Lauderdale school for stewards and
stewardesses. But sales of yachts in the 60- to 110-foot range are suffering,
she says. "Even the Russians are slowing down."

Those who are hiring interior crews for yachts are being more discriminating,
and those who get jobs are trimming their salary demands, Cavallini-Soothill
says. Crew members don't demand $4,000 a month anymore.

"They're going to get paid $2,500 a month," she says, adding that crew members
do get free board and meals prepared by a chef.

In Vail, Colo., the luxury ski resort, lodging occupancy is down over previous
years, says Chris Romer, vice president of sales and marketing for the Vail
Valley Partnership. But many of the bookings were made at the last minute, in
large part because of special offers: lower prices, extra days, free meals. And,
he says, family restaurants are packed at Vail, while average tabs at luxury
restaurants have fallen. For the first time, the town of Vail has started its
own marketing campaign to lure skiers.

When will the luxury market come back?

It depends, to some extent, on public attitudes toward wealth. At Symbolic Motor
Car Co., which sells Bentley, Rolls-Royce, Lamborghini, Lotus and  Spyker,
business is slow, says general manager Graham Cox. To some extent, that's to be
expected in a slow economy. "We're not on the list of everyone's priorities."

But the slowdown may be due, in part, to a recognition that this economic
slowdown seems worse than most. After all, the wealthy can still afford fancy
cars. But going luxe may be seen as declasse in an ailing economy, Graham says.

"The wealthy still have the wealth," he says. "It's the image you project in a
bad economy of driving a nice car when your friends or colleagues may be losing
their businesses."

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Color, Illustration by Jim Sergent
photo resource by Tim Loehrke, USA TODAY
PHOTO, B/W, Gary Malerba, AP
PHOTO, B/W, Susan Tusa, Detroit Free Press

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COVER STORY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2009 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              160 of 264 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             March 5, 2009 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

EPA considers tougher mileage rules today;
Upping requirement could raise car prices

BYLINE: James R. Healey

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 564 words


A simmering fight over auto emissions flares anew today, and the outcome could
boost the price of your next new car.

The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency begins hearings today to decide whether
to reverse its 2007 decision blocking proposed California clean-air regulations
that would have the effect of a dramatic rise in fuel economy requirements.

Revisiting the Bush-era decision was among the first orders from President
Obama.

If the California rules limiting what are called greenhouse gases (ghg) are
allowed to take effect, they would apply in that state, as well as in 13 others
and the District of Columbia, which have adopted its rules. Together they
account for about 40% of new vehicle sales. Seven states say they are near
adopting California's rules or soon will be.

Reducing ghg emissions requires using less gasoline or diesel fuel. To meet
California standards, an automaker's cars and small SUVs would have to average
about 40 miles per gallon in 2015. For larger SUVs, minivans and full-size
pickups, they call for the equivalent of about 25 mpg.

By contrast, new federal fuel economy requirements contained in the 2007 Energy
Bill mandate a 35 mpg industry average for cars and trucks by 2020.

The California system "allows companies to 'over-comply' in trucks and swing
credits over to cars," which would help Detroit makers, who sell more trucks, to
comply, says Roland Hwang, vehicles policy director at the Natural Resources
Defense Council. NRDC favors imposing California rules nationwide.

The Union of Concerned Scientists, which backs the California rules, says
current technology, such as continuously variable transmissions and variable
engine valve timing, can help meet the standards but could add $700 to $1,400 to
the price of a car or truck.

Mark Cooper, research director of the Consumer Federation of America, argues
that the price increases won't matter because cars will have to burn less fuel
to meet the rules, so fuel costs will go down: "The monthly bill, the cost of
owning and operating the automobile, can be lower."

Dave McCurdy, president of the industry's 11-member Alliance of Automobile
Manufacturers, said in a statement Wednesday: "The alliance supports a single,
nationwide program that is administered by the federal government, that bridges
state and federal concerns, and that moves all stakeholders towards an
aggressive, national, fuel economy/greenhouse gas emissions program."

In remarks prepared for the hearing, Eric Fedewa, vice president of consultants
CSM Worldwide, said: "Allowing California to regulate CO{-2} emissions, and thus
fuel economy, will further damage companies that are struggling, like GM, Ford,
Chrysler and much of their supply base."

Dealers worry that automakers would force them to take cars and trucks meeting
the California standard rather than what their local markets demand. Then
dealers would have to cut into their profits to unload the cars at discounts.

California has for decades been allowed to set its own clean-air rules under the
conditions that they be at least as tough as federal rules, they address a
problem specific to the state (such as smog) and they allow the affected
industries enough time to gear up technologically to comply with the rules.

The state says it met those criteria in asking for the tighter ghg emission
standards that were blocked by the EPA.

Contributing: Jason Paul

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Rich Pedroncelli, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2009 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              179 of 264 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             January 2, 2009 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Transformative travel

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 1692 words


While most New Year's resolutions fall as flat as a day-old glass of Champagne,
those that revolve around travel can have a more lasting influence -- not only
on travelers, but on those they encounter along the way. USA TODAY asked readers
to share a life-changing journey. The responses may inspire your own trip in
2009. Bon voyage!

Volunteering changed her world

It was the eve of 1999, and I made three New Year's resolutions. I can't
remember two of them, but the third resolution was to do something I was always
afraid of doing -- taking a vacation by myself.

Sitting alone on a beach seemed lonely, so I applied with Global Volunteers to
work in a day-care center for indigent, handicapped kids in Quito, Ecuador. I
packed my bags -- alone -- that July.

The entire course of my life changed after those two weeks. For the first time
in my life, I felt useful -- and realized that each of us is born with an
inherent desire to serve. If each of us can tap into what type of service we are
born to do, we will clear space in our life to do it -- and ultimately leave
this world better than when we found it.

Since then, I have done much to sustain and promote that belief. In 2002, I
developed, produced and hosted a public-access television show for Fairfax
County, Va., called Get Out and Give Back that aired for 18 months, featuring
volunteers from various non-profits in the greater Washington, D.C., area. In
January 2005, I began writing a blog and newspaper column called "Get Out and
Give Back" (getoutandgiveback.com), where I encourage readers to find their
service passion.

-- Jane Hess Collins, Alexandria, Va.

Orphans gave him gift of perspective

My wife, Jan, and I were part of a 26-person team committed to helping a small
orphanage on the outskirts of Cape Haitian, Haiti. It was the first time we had
been outside the USA. I had no idea of the need; after all, the evening news
doesn't provide the smells and gravity of being in a Third World country.

We were at the orphanage for nine days. We built an outhouse. I helped a well
driller in Sainte-Suzanne put in the first freshwater well in the history of the
small mountain village. We carried a dying man with AIDS to a local American
nurse in the middle of the night.

We had hoped to make a difference for the kids, but there was so little we could
provide.

Sunday morning, all the children put on their best clothes and make their way to
a local church. The same kids who have one meal a day of rice and peas, who
sleep on concrete or broken-down bunks, who have no mother, no father, and no
apparent future -- these kids were singing in four-part harmony: "We've got so
much, so much, so much, so much to be thankful for! We've got each other to be
thankful for. We got our Jesus to be thankful for. We've got so much, so much,
so much, so much to be thankful for!"

It has been 22 years since we made that trip. I see myself, my family, my
country and my life completely different. Even the simplest things have a new
perspective. I made no impact on the children of Cape Haitian, Haiti, but they
sure changed me with a single song.

-- Roger Dean, Canton, Ga.

He was in over his head -- and loving it

I learned scuba diving at the request of my daughter Philipa when I was 60 years
old and fell in love with it. As a thank you, I invited her on a cage dive to
see great white sharks at the Pacific island of Guadalupe, Mexico, with
sharkdiver.com. Standing in the cage, I saw my first shark swimming by, so close
that I could almost touch him. I was 64 years then and I never imagined how this
trip would give my life a totally different direction.

When I sold my ranch in upstate New York a couple years later, I started to book
dive trips where sharks were included. My first shark dive without a cage was in
the Bahamas. Jumping into the ocean, knowing that there were at least a dozen
Caribbean reef sharks down there, was a bit weird. But I jumped in anyway.

The sharks were inquisitive but never aggressive. I fell in love with those
beautiful, amazing and highly developed animals. I started to read every book I
could find and started my own website, sharkprotect.com. I am now an avid shark
protector and am now on the Board of Trustees of the Shark Research Institute in
Princeton, N.J. I give presentations about sharks in schools and colleges to
tell as many young people about the importance of sharks in our oceans.

After 120 shark dives, I am still in love with sharks and take every opportunity
I get to dive with them.

-- Jupp Kerckerinck zur Borg, Millbrook, N.Y.

A wish upon a starry night comes true

I will never forget the moment I stepped on the sand of Wailua Beach in Kauai.
It was night, the air was balmy and smelled like gardenias. There were so many
stars, it seemed we were really on the edge of the universe.

It was a welcome respite from the Utah winter cold, where my father battled
pancreatic cancer and I was in the middle of a painful custody battle for my
4-year-old daughter. I remember thinking what a miracle it would be to one day
live in such a place.

Several years later, after my father passed away and I obtained full custody of
Kate, I got a call from a recruiter looking for a medical social worker in
Kauai. The memory of standing on the beach gave me the courage to sell all of
our things and pack up a few suitcases. We now live moments from that same
beach, caring for our cats, chickens and each other.

That journey gave me hope for a better life and a wish that finally came true.

-- Ingrid Maria Middleton, Kapaa, Hawaii

A visit to Switzerland melts his heart

While traveling in 1993, I went to Neufchatel, Switzerland, with a friend to
visit a family that had hosted foreign exchange students. The house was a
nestled in some beautiful rolling hills outside of the city, situated among
farmhouses. The family welcomed us with Champagne from the region and showed us
where to ditch our backpacks.

Around 6 a.m., the father tapped on my bedroom door to ask if I would help him
get the morning milk from the local dairy. We loaded four empty milk pails onto
our bikes and pedaled to the city center. There, we dipped the pails into the
vat filled with the day's warm milk and headed back to the house. I rode as
steady as I could not to spill a drop, the steam rising from the pails.

The next night, I watched as the family prepared the fondue for the night. The
smell of garlic, cheese, spices, wine and homemade baked bread filled the air.
The eight of us sat around the table and I took my long fondue fork and skewered
a piece of fresh rye bread and dipped it into the cheese. I spun the melted
cheese around the fork and dipped it into one of the many spices and put it into
my mouth. As a non-cheese lover, I was transformed. The blended tastes of nutty
Gruyere, Swiss and Emmenthaler made each bite an explosion of flavor that I had
been missing out on for years.

A few years and a new bride later brought me back to Switzerland. We ate all the
cheese and chocolate fondue Lucerne had to offer and wished that somewhere back
in Kansas City where we lived, there was a place that we could continue our
passion for fondue. In 2001, three years after our Lucerne trip, we opened a
Melting Pot fondue restaurant, where I work to this day.

-- Greg Hughes, Overland Park,

Kan.

A walk bridges the gap between past and present

I was born and raised in Twinsburg, Ohio, in a segregated neighborhood, although
I attended an integrated school. My parents were both from Alabama, and we would
visit relatives in Selma during our summer vacation -- until 1965, because of
the civil rights unrest. I was 12 years old then and always wondered what we
would have seen if we had gone.

Fast-forward to 1989. My father and mother had divorced, and he returned to
Selma to take care of his elderly aunt, Aunt Abbie, the daughter of a former
slave. I came to Selma to help. During my two-month stay, I crossed the Edmund
Pettus Bridge -- the site of the "Bloody Sunday Massacre" -- several times a
day.

One day, I decided to get out of my car and to walk in the footsteps of those
marchers who had been beaten and trampled by horses on their way to Montgomery.
As I walked across the bridge, I was "overcome" by some unseen/unheard spirit
that brought tears to my eyes. I "heard" voices that seemed to be telling me to
do "something" in my life to make a difference.

I returned to Ohio and ran for public office. I returned to Selma in 1997 to
take care of Aunt Abbie, who lived to be 112 years old. After my aunt's death, I
became involved in the HIV/AIDS issue and will likely spend the rest of my life
addressing this problem.

My walk on the Edmund Pettus Bridge changed my life for the better and I am so
proud to be called a community activist. My journey to Selma was indeed a road
that I was predestined to take.

-- Hubert Brandon, Mobile, Ala.

U.K. visit opens a host of opportunities

In 1982, I called my travel agent and told him to book our family of three to
Hawaii. He suggested the British Isles instead.

Once there, we rented a car and began to tour the countryside. Almost
immediately we began to see signs for bed and breakfasts. Never having seen any
in America, we weren't quite sure what it meant. For almost three weeks, we
spent each night in a different bed and breakfast.

By the third night, our son Michael suggested that we do our own bed and
breakfast. He had taken the guest books to bed and was fascinated with the
different countries represented on the pages. "There are people who have come
from Kenya, New Zealand, Australia, all over the world. We can have these
experiences, too."

His suggestion began to take root. We watched our host and hostess very closely.
Michael paid attention to the innkeeper's children if there were any.

Had we gone to Hawaii in 1982 instead of the British Isles, I am quite certain
we wouldn't be where we are right now: owners of Chestnut Hill on the Delaware.
I cannot tell you what a joy it has been to be an innkeeper. I truly feel
blessed every day of my life. I love what I do, greeting guests from all over
the world, to enjoy the Delaware River Valley and sign our guest books.

-- Linda Castagna, Milford, N.J.

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, Color, Sam Ward
GRAPHIC, Color, Sam Ward
PHOTO, B/W, Paul Spielvogel
PHOTO, B/W
GRAPHIC, B/W, Sam Ward
GRAPHIC, B/W, Sam Ward

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COVER STORY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2009 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              182 of 264 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             March 27, 2009 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Cuban, seafood and BBQ too;
Tampa

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 5D

LENGTH: 822 words


Cost-conscious travelers can enjoy bountiful pleasure at mealtime if they choose
their itinerary carefully and order smartly. To help with the planning each
month,

USA TODAY's Jerry Shriver offers a menu of suggestions from a major destination:

Down-home dining

Profiles of cheap-eats classics.

1. Ted Peter's Famous Smoked Fish

1350 Pasadena Ave. S., South Pasadena

727-381-7931

For more than a half-century, beachcombers, snowbirds and road-food fans have
followed their noses to this bare-bones, cash-only shack where every year,
100,000 pounds of salmon, mackerel, mahi-mahi and mullet ($13.49-$18.99) are
filleted and slowly smoked over red oak. The process turns the skin a gorgeous
mahogany while leaving the meat juicy and only lightly impregnated with smoke.
The fish are accompanied by cole slaw and warm German potato salad, dill pickles
and thick-sliced tomatoes and onions. The smoked fish spread ($4.59) is highly
touted, but go with the fillets on a first visit.

*Top treat: Smoked mullet, $13.49

2. Las Palmas Cafe

19651 Bruce B. Downs Blvd., Tampa;

813-907-1333; laspalmascafe.net

While traditional Cuban food is getting harder to find in tourist-oriented Ybor
City, the "real" stuff is more easily found in tiny, family-run places like
this, located on the outskirts of town. Slow-roasted meats in savory sauces are
the standouts, and the $10.99 "Taste of Ybor" sampler offers three: ropa vieja
(shredded flank steak in a sweet-ish tomato-wine sauce); lechon asado (pork
marinated in sour oranges, garlic and herbs); and picadillo (beef hash with
olives in a spicy tomato sauce). Wash it down with house-made sangria served in
a mug with a sugar-cinnamon rim.

*Top treat: Lechon asado (Cuban-style roast pork), $9.99

3. Big John's Alabama BBQ

5707 N. 40th St., Tampa

813-620-0603

Tampa has never been an essential stop on the barbecue circuit, but the area
boasts at least a half-dozen joints that serve a mighty fine meal. The late Rev.
John A. Stephens founded this spot in 1968, and now his family keeps the flame
alive, serving numerous generously portioned combos ($6.50-$10.50) of oak-smoked
ribs (both center-cut and thin-cut), sausage, pulled pork, beef and chicken. The
"Alabama-style" sauce is tomato-based, medium thick and spicy, not sweet; the
traditional side dishes are standard-issue. All that's missing are sweet tea and
collard greens.

*Top treat: Pulled pork, $7

Easy splurges

Low-cost dishes at the hot new places.

4. Sidebern's

2208 W. Morrison Ave., Tampa

813-258-2233; sideberns.com

This companion to one of the country's most famous steakhouses, the nearby
Bern's, has carved out its own stellar reputation by serving creative American
and Mediterranean dishes based mostly on ingredients drawn from area farms.
Executive chef Chad Johnson changes the menu (heavy on organic produce, game and
wild-caught fish) frequently, and judiciously employs modernist touches such as
foams and artfully composed plates to keep things interesting.

Cheapest dinner appetizer:  Farm crudite salad with mustard seed vinaigrette,
$7. Others, $8-$19.    Cheapest dinner entree:  Beet risotto with vadouvan
spice-roasted vegetables and pistachio-spinach essence, $25. Others, $26-$35,
plus $70 tasting menu. Worth  trading down?    Yes.  The crudite salad, a $7
Jerusalem artichoke soup and the risotto all were representative of the
restaurant's farm-to-table approach

Worth trading down?

Yes.

The crudité salad, a $7 Jerusalem artichoke soup and the risotto all were
representative of the restaurant's farm-to-table approach

5. Aquaknox

The Westin Tampa Bay Airport

7627 Courtney Campbell Causeway, Tampa

813-675-8700; aquaknox.net

The luxurious waterfront hotel and its showcase seafood concept restaurant both
opened on the eve of the Tampa-hosted Super Bowl. Imported from Las Vegas
(there's also an Atlanta branch), this outpost's glitzy decor, highlighted by a
water-encased walk-in wine tower and an open kitchen, was inspired by The Strip.
The approach is labeled "global water cuisine," meaning that the seafood is
prepared in Asian (sweet or spicy sauces), Italian (atop pasta) or local (simply
grilled) styles. The most thought goes into higher-price dishes (in the
mid-$30s), so budget travelers should stick to lunch.

Cheapest dinner  appetizer: Manhattan seafood chowder, $8. Others, $9-$19
Cheapest dinner  entree: Seafood orecchiette with chef's seafood selection,
zucchini and chili essence, $18. Others, $22-$40. Worth trading down?    No. Try
raw oysters ($3 each) instead for an inexpensive appetizer. Zucchini was more
prominent than seafood in the boring orecchiette entree, so the $25-$30 entrees
probably are a better bet.

Worth trading down?

No.

Try raw oysters ($3 each) instead for an inexpensive appetizer. Zucchini was
more prominent than seafood in the boring orecchiette entrée, so the $25-$30
entrees probably are a better bet.

Next month: Cleveland

Have a favorite of your own? Send it to jshriver@usatoday.com

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, Color
PHOTO, Color, E Brands Restaurants
PHOTO, Color, Bonnie Rudge
GRAPHIC, Color
PHOTO, Color

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2009 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              188 of 264 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           September 22, 2009 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Pittsburgh's heart of steel still beats amid transformed city;
Once-dominant industry reforges itself through science, technology

BYLINE: David J. Lynch

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 1836 words


PITTSBURGH -- President Obama is scheduled to welcome world leaders to the G-20
summit here with an opening dinner Thursday at the celebrated Phipps
Conservatory. The botanical gardens' eco-friendly sheen underscores the
president's summit message: This former heavy industry mecca retooled after hard
times with "green" pursuits that offer the world a path out of the current
economic downturn.

"As a city that has transformed itself from the city of steel to a center for
high-tech innovation -- including green technology, education and training, and
research and development -- Pittsburgh will provide both a beautiful backdrop
and a powerful example for our work," the president said earlier this month.

As Pittsburgh prepares for its moment in the global spotlight, the industry that
once defined this region finds itself an unacknowledged guest. About as close to
center stage as Big Steel is likely to get during the two-day summit is this
low-profile link: The conservatory is named for Henry Phipps, who established
the institution in 1893 with part of the fortune he made alongside his business
partner, steel tycoon Andrew Carnegie.

"There's a certain irony. ... It's OK.  We're somewhat used to all that, and
we're pretty thick skinned. We're pretty content with who we are, and we'll be
pleased with whatever little recognition we might receive," says Carnegie's
modern successor, John Surma, CEO of U.S. Steel.

Steel's current presence here represents only a sliver of the role it once
enjoyed, but the industry is far from inconsequential. U.S. Steel, the world's
eighth-largest producer, still makes its headquarters downtown. The company's
sprawling Edgar Thomson mill, established by Carnegie in 1875 a few miles
outside the city, produces steel that's used to make refrigerators, washing
machines and dishwashers. Nearby, metallurgists, engineers and chemists brew up
new steels at a research center on the site of a legendary 19th-century labor
dispute.

Until the financial crisis hit last year, U.S. Steel was enjoying the strongest
financial performance in its 108-year history.

"There's really no reason why we can't be very competitive here for a long, long
period of time," Surma says. "The experts that say we should all be massage
therapists and retail store greeters and all that -- you know, that's really a
road that has a very sad ending to it."

Steel-lined technology

While the major mills that once lined the city's riverbanks have been replaced
by stylish new baseball and football venues, Pittsburgh also retains a rich
cluster of steel industry suppliers. More than 320 specialized firms, such as
mill services provider Tube City, serve steelmakers in the U.S. and beyond.
Their current payroll is unknown, but in 2003, they employed about 12,000
people, according to the Center for Industry Studies at the University of
Pittsburgh.

"These are high-wage jobs, so they're very attractive in terms of the new
Pittsburgh," says Frank Giarratani, the center's director.

Today's U.S. Steel relies on Ph.D.s probing new materials with electron
microscopes, as well as heavily muscled workers employing brute force on the
floor of smoky mills. Quiet calculations at computer terminals are as essential
for modern steelmaking as the fiery rivers of molten metal streaming from 75-ton
cauldrons.

"When you go into a modern steel mill, it's as high-tech as NASA," says Leo
Gerard, the president of the United Steelworkers Union.

Surma, 55, a former Price Waterhouse accounting partner whose grandparents
emigrated here from Slovakia early in the last century, says he helms a
"technologically oriented business." The grades of steel his mills produce for
General Electric's Profile series of appliances, for example, didn't even exist
five or 10 years ago, he says.

"I don't think we should be viewed as being out of style or old-fashioned or
anything like that," he says, gazing from his 61st-floor conference room down
river to his grandparents' old neighborhood.

The summit's anything-but-steel marketing pitch, however, isn't just White House
spin. Today, the Pittsburgh-area steel industry directly employs just 6,900
workers, and the 6.8% decline in that figure in the past year is more than twice
the overall decrease in area non-farm employment, according to the state
Department of Labor & Industry.

Long synonymous with steel, Pittsburgh in the past decade remade itself into an
acknowledged center for health care, higher education, robotics, financial
services and so-called green technology. The biggest employers now carry names
such as University of Pittsburgh Medical Center and Carnegie Mellon University,
a far cry from the city's heavy-industry origins. The summit is being held on a
former riverfront industrial site at the David L. Lawrence Convention Center,
the first such facility boasting the Leadership in Energy and Environmental
Design (LEED) seal of approval.

"I don't even identify Pittsburgh with the steel industry," Mayor Luke
Ravenstahl says.

The 29-year-old mayor is too young to remember either the industry's post-World
War II glory days or its collapse amid the recession of the early 1980s. From a
peak of around 90,000 jobs, the area's steel mills retreated under competition
from foreign producers and smaller mini-mills, which use electric furnaces to
melt scrap metal rather than convert iron ore. By 2000, roughly 80% of the
city's peak steel workforce was gone.

In a way, steel died so that Pittsburgh's transformation could occur. The city's
image as a gritty, dirty town was earned in the early and middle  20th century,
when the pollution belched out of local steel mills obscured the sun and,
famously, required the street lights to be turned on at midday, says economist
Lester Lave of Carnegie Mellon University's Tepper School of Business.

New jobs sprouted in clean industries such as education and health care, luring
well-educated professionals to the city nestled at the confluence of the
Monongahela, Allegheny and Ohio rivers. "Yuppies don't live in polluted places.
If Pittsburgh had not cleaned up, this transformation would not have happened,"
Lave says.

In the 1980s, U.S. Steel lost its original focus, acquiring oil, energy and
other businesses and morphing into the diversified conglomerate USX. After 15
years, USX reversed the process, spinning off its steelmaking business into a
reborn U.S. Steel.

But in the years leading to the financial crisis, U.S. Steel rebounded. From
2004 through 2008, it posted steadily increasing sales and robust profits.
Advanced technologies made operations more efficient, while the company's
researchers invented a steady stream of innovative metals. Its Gary, Ind., mill
churned out steel for automakers, while the Edgar Thomson plant filled orders
for Whirlpool, General Electric and Amana, carried aloft by the housing wave.

"In the first half of 2008, everything was running at capacity. Orders were
good. Our financial performance was record-breaking," says Dave Lohr, U.S.
Steel's senior vice president for strategic planning and a 35-year industry
veteran.

Then the economy lurched to a halt amid the worsening credit crunch. In the
ensuing months, U.S. Steel's major customers slashed new orders as they
concentrated on whittling away at gathering inventory backlogs. Mills slowed
until they were operating at Depression-era levels of around 30% of capacity,
vs. a long-term average of about 85%.

Entire facilities were idled. Thousands of workers were laid off. Hiring
stopped. Pay was frozen on the plant floor this year while Surma voluntarily
absorbed a 20% cut in his $1.2 million salary, and eschewed any long-term
payments, which provided almost half his $13 million in total compensation in
2008.

Through the first half of this year, the crisis dealt U.S. Steel a beating.
Second-quarter sales fell to $2.1 billion from more than $6.7 billion during the
same period last year. The company lost $392 million for the three months that
ended June 30, vs. a $668 million profit in 2008's second quarter.

Compounding the effects of the economic collapse, what Surma calls unfair
competition from China is eroding U.S. Steel's market position. From almost
nothing a decade ago, China now produces 48% of world steel output. In April,
U.S. Steel complained to Washington about what it said were illegally subsidized
Chinese imports of oil and gas tubes.

Inside the Edgar Thomson mill on a recent workday, workers are surprisingly
scarce. That's a reflection of the leap in productivity that the industry has
enjoyed since the dark days of the early 1980s. At that time, producing a ton of
steel required about 10 man-hours. Today, it takes a little more than an hour.

The advance cuts two ways. It's great news for profits, not so good news if
you're an unnecessary laborer. But a generous profit-sharing plan has taken some
of the sting out of the labor-saving automation. Last year, the average USW
member at the Edgar Thomson mill got about $10,000 from the plan. Union boss
Gerard says today's mill environment places new demands on workers. "They used
to want you to bring your arms, back and legs to work and leave your brains at
the gate," he says. "Now, our members are able to bring their brains to work."

On a platform overlooking a torrent of molten iron flowing with the consistency
of warm water, Lev Krizmanich has to yell to be heard over the din. Flames dance
above a sparkling yellow-orange river that is mesmerizing in a sort of
industrial-age beauty. The air shimmers in the heat. Everything here is on a
Brobdingnagian scale: the overhead hook-cranes that effortlessly hoist 75 tons
of scrap and 200 tons of iron; the giant ladle holding 250 tons of steel.

In an air-conditioned control room nearby, a team of technicians monitors an
array of screens, showing video images from various vantage points and detailed
data on the industrial alchemy underway on the mill floor.

Positive changes

Nobody from the G-20 will see any of this, but Krizmanich doesn't feel that his
city's metamorphosis has been at his expense. "Most people see it as a necessary
evolution. For our children, I think it's a good thing," he says. "Our children
are going to have opportunities beyond industrial (jobs)."

In recent weeks, the steel business has shown welcome signs of life. The
government's cash-for-clunkers program caused automakers' assembly lines to
stir. And shell-shocked consumers began spending a bit more on the appliances
dependent upon Edgar Thomson's output. But it's way too soon to celebrate.
"We're improving off a very, very low base," Surma says.

Surma says his major customers tell him they're getting their inventories back
in line with existing demand, but aren't able to forecast much beyond November.
It seems clear that the frothy pre-crisis economy isn't coming back. But Surma's
confident that whatever the new normal turns out to be, U.S. Steel will be
positioned to capitalize.

"We've been fighting that battle since 1902. ... We're not prepared to surrender
or retreat," Surma says.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Color, Jason Cohn, Edgar Thomson mill
PHOTO, B/W, Kevin Lorenzi, Bloomberg News
PHOTO, B/W, Mark Lennihan, AP

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COVER STORY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2009 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              189 of 264 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            October 12, 2009 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Republicans both assail, applaud Nobel award;
Some see opening to rally base; others call it honor for U.S.

BYLINE: Kathy Kiely

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 588 words


WASHINGTON -- To Republican National Committee Chairman Michael Steele,
President Obama's Nobel Peace Prize is an opportunity to exploit conservative
outrage and raise funds. To John McCain, the GOP's 2008 presidential nominee,
it's cause for national pride.

"Americans are always pleased when their president is recognized by something on
this order," the Arizona senator said Sunday on CNN. William Kristol, editor of
the Weekly Standard, is not among them. On Fox News Sunday, he said Obama should
have turned down a prize from "an anti-American committee."

The sharply different GOP responses to Friday's surprise announcement reflects
deeper divisions within a party that must decide whether to cooperate with Obama
as he faces tough decisions about Afghanistan and health care -- or press its
political advantage. Recent public opinion polls by Gallup show a majority
approve of Obama's handling of foreign affairs but rate him lower on the economy
and health care.

On one side, conservative hard-liners: Talk show host Rush Limbaugh's website
featured the headline "Our president is a laughingstock" and portrayed Obama as
the darling of "European leftist elites."

Steele echoed that notion in a letter sent within hours of the Nobel
announcement that mockingly announced Obama won for "awesomeness."

"Democrats and their international leftist allies want America made subservient
to the agenda of global redistribution and control," Steele wrote in an e-mail
that invited contributions of up to $1,000. "And truly patriotic Americans like
you and our Republican Party are the only thing standing in their way."

Joining McCain at the other end of the GOP spectrum: former secretary of State
Henry Kissinger. A 1973 Nobel Peace Prize winner for his efforts to end the
Vietnam War, Kissinger offered "warm congratulations" for the award, "which,
beyond the tribute to your person, honors America and the cause of peace."

Sen. Lindsey Graham, R-S.C., also refused to criticize Obama. "If he can
successfully turn around Afghanistan, deter Iran from getting a nuclear weapon,
I will build a bookcase for him to put it in," Graham said of the president's
Nobel Prize on NBC's Meet the Press.

Staying out of the fray were Senate Republican leader Mitch McConnell and his
House counterpart, John Boehner. Neither issued a statement on the award.

Their silence may have been strategic. Although attacks on Obama may get GOP
conservatives to open their wallets, "the independent voters that Republicans
covet think the appropriate response is congratulations," said Jack Pitney, a
political scientist at Claremont McKenna College near Los Angeles.

Strategist Mark McKinnon, who worked on President George W. Bush's two
campaigns, sharply criticized Steele for playing "to the basest instincts of the
GOP base" but added, "Polarization works in the short term."

"This is not Obama's fault," said Ari Fleischer, a former Bush spokesman, noting
that the president did not seek out the Nobel Prize. Fleischer argued it's fair
game for Republicans to question an award for a president who so far appears to
be "all show and no substance."

Outraged Democrats are linking conservative critics to the USA's international
opponents. Last week, Democratic Party spokesman Brad Woodhouse said the GOP was
taking the same position as the Taliban and Hamas, terrorist groups that
denounced the award.

Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez, a vocal U.S. critic, said Sunday that he
doesn't think Obama deserved the prize.

Contributing: Fredreka Schouten and Mimi Hall

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Gerald Herbert, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2009 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              191 of 264 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           October 29, 2009 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Martinez relishes New York stage

BYLINE: Jorge L. Ortiz

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 4C

LENGTH: 651 words


NEW YORK -- During Pedro Martinez's start in the National League Championship
Series, Los Angeles Dodgers outfielder Manny Ramirez had some advice for his old
pal when he came to the plate.

"You guys better not miss your spots," Ramirez told Philadelphia Phillies
catcher Carlos Ruiz.

Martinez hardly missed in that Oct. 16 game, throwing seven scoreless innings
while allowing two hits and no walks. The Dodgers came back against the
Phillies' bullpen to win their only game of the series, but Martinez showed he
had enough left to succeed in the playoff heat.

Tonight he faces the ultimate challenge in his adjustment from once-dominant
pitcher to crafty veteran, as he starts Game 2 of the World Series against the
New York Yankees in the Bronx.

This borough has been the site of memorable encounters in the Yankees-Boston Red
Sox rivalry, with Martinez playing the role of villain for seven seasons as
Boston's ace. He once shoved onrushing Yankees coach Don Zimmer to the ground
during a benches-clearing incident in the 2003 playoffs at Fenway Park.

Fan reaction to him figures to be loud and not exactly warm.

"Whatever comes, if it's a boo, it's out of respect. If it's a clap, it's out of
respect," Martinez said.

Crowds used to serenade Martinez with chants of "Who's your daddy?" after he
acknowledged in 2004 that the Yankees had his number -- although he's 11-11 with
a 3.20 ERA in the regular season against them.

But Martinez is quick to point out his history in these parts was established at
the old Yankee Stadium across the street, where he had a lifetime mark of 8-4
with a 2.95 ERA, and he has never pitched in the new one.

Besides, he has long been comfortable on the big stage, which is partly why
Phillies manager Charlie Manuel tabbed him for the assignment.

"Coming to Yankee Stadium for somebody like me who has, as we say, frog's blood,
it doesn't mean much more than 27 outs and nine innings," Martinez said.

"When I was younger, you could have expected a more volatile reaction, but now
I'm like a war veteran who's not fazed by bullets whistling by his ears."

Or line drives. At 38 and with a history of shoulder woes, Martinez is far
removed from the days when he won three Cy Young Awards (1997, '99, 2000) in
four seasons. He went 5-6 with a 5.61 ERA with the New York Mets last year, when
injuries limited him to 20 starts.

This season Martinez did not pitch until signing a prorated one-year, $2 million
contract with the Phillies in mid-July. He had a 5-1 record and a 3.63 ERA in
nine starts.

In his heyday, Martinez could blow 97-mph fastballs past hitters. Now that he
tops out in the low 90s, he has to pick his spots.

"He relies on people to get over-amped and expand the zone," Yankees hitting
coach Kevin Long said. "He'll tease you just enough with his fastball, and then
he's going to go to his changeup. And when he thinks you're on his changeup,
he's going to try to run a fastball in on a right-hander's hands, or keep the
ball away to a lefty."

Said Yankees first baseman Mark Teixeira, who is 1-for-6 in his career against
Martinez: "Pick out a pitch to hit, and, if he gives it to you, don't miss it."

Martinez said the time away from the game allowed him to help his mother deal
with the loss of his father, Paulino, who died of brain cancer in July 2008. In
his final days, Paulino urged his son to return to the mound healthy and excel
again.

After looking sharp in the World Baseball Classic,  Martinez sifted through
offers until finding a team with legitimate playoff hopes.

He has a chance to burnish a postseason resume that features a 6-2 record,
including a win in the 2004 World Series with Boston, but a 1-2 ledger and a
4.72 ERA against the Yankees.

"When my dad asked me to go play baseball, his purpose was to see me in this
kind of stage," Martinez said. "Who knows? This might be my last game in a big
stage. I'm going to enjoy it regardless of what happens."

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Robert Deutsch, USA TODAY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2009 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              198 of 264 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            January 27, 2009 Tuesday
                              Correction Appended
                                 FINAL EDITION

Which of these could fuel a jet?;
Answer: All three could. They might also be a solution to cutting flying costs
and carbon footprints.

BYLINE: Dan Reed

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 1703 words


HOUSTON -- Chickens can't fly very far. But chickens -- or the fatty parts left
after processing -- could be powering jet flights across the country and around
the world in the next few years.

Or maybe it'll be algae, essentially pond scum, fueling them. Or jatropha, a
smelly and poisonous subtropical plant with nicknames such as "black vomit nut"
or "bellyache bush." Or liquid fuel converted from coal or natural gas, using a
technology pioneered by Adolph Hitler's Nazi war machine.

Airlines, airplane and engine makers, the fledgling synthetic and biofuels
industry, the U.S. government, environmentalists and even the big oil companies
are working together to develop alternative fuels from these and other sources.
Their goal: to replace a significant portion of the 19 billion gallons of
kerosene that U.S. carriers burn in their planes each year and to do it by the
end of the next decade. If they succeed, airlines will reduce their carbon
footprint -- and save big money that could possibly help hold down fares.

The U.S. Air Force also is pushing development. By next year, it wants all of
its planes certified to operate on a 50/50 mix of conventional jet fuel, known
as Jet A, and alternative fuel. Air Force generals don't want their planes
grounded by a geopolitical event that pushes oil prices through the stratosphere
or stops the flow of foreign oil.

The alternative fuel industry only now is beginning to move beyond the
research-and-development stage into commercialization. Yet, enough progress is
being made that it's safe to say it won't be long before Air Force pilots and
commercial travelers will be flying in planes powered, in part or entirely, by
synthetic or biofuels.

"We're looking at five-year time horizons, not 20-year time horizons," says
Continental Airlines CEO Larry Kellner. "This isn't going to happen in 2010, but
it needs to happen before 2020."

The International Air Transport Association, the trade group for airlines around
the world, has  a goal of replacing a quarter of airlines' oil-based fuel
consumption with bio or synthetic alternatives by 2025 and a third of it by
2030.

Earlier this month, Continental took a Boeing 737 up for the USA's first test
flight of a jet burning a mixture of conventional jet fuel and biofuels. The
test featured a 50/50 mix of Jet A and a biofuel in one  engine. It was the
fourth such test in the world in the last 12 months. It was the first using a
plane with just two engines, and the first in which the alternative fuel was
partially derived from algae. On Jan. 30, Japan Airlines will send up a jet
using fuel that includes camelina, a weed sometimes called "false flax."

In touting their test flights, Kellner and other airline executives emphasize
they're doing their part to address climate change by reducing the carbon
dioxide, nitrous oxide and particulates discharged from their jet engines.

Burning  biofuel made from plants and even synthetic fuel made from liquefying
coal and gas can cut a jet's carbon emissions. Although they emit carbon dioxide
when burned, biofuels leave in the atmosphere only what the plants they're made
from had absorbed. Synthetics also leave smaller carbon footprints than pure Jet
A fuel. They also emit less nitrous oxide and particulate pollutants.

What the airlines don't talk much about is the big money they could save by
turning to alternative fuel. Results of the Houston flight are still being
evaluated. But Continental test pilot Richard Jankowski reported that during
the 80-minute flight, the plane's right engine   burned noticeably less fuel
than the left, which  ran on pure Jet A.

Burning less fuel translates into big dollar savings.

For example, in 2008 the big U.S. airlines burned about 19.6 billion gallons of
jet fuel and paid an average price of $2.98 a gallon for it, according to
estimates from the Air Transport Association, the trade group for U.S. carriers.
That's nearly $58 billion spent on fuel. A 5% reduction in fuel burned at last
year's prices translates into $2.9 billion in savings.

How big is that? U.S. airlines have reported net annual profits of $2.9 billion
or more only six times in their history. Even at today's lower, and probably
temporary, prices of about $1.51 a gallon, a 5% reduction in fuel consumption
would generate about $1.5 billion in annual savings.

Biofuels offer other potential savings.

The European Union has pending legislation that would require airlines that fly
there to pay through a pollution-allowances trading system if they emit too much
greenhouse gas. Continental won't say how much it could save if burning
alternative fuels can help it reduce its emissions and avoid paying European
penalties. "We really haven't studied that yet," Kellner said before the test
flight.

But Barry Cohen, who heads the National Algae Association, a new trade group
promoting algae production, says it's plenty. "It's in the hundreds of millions
of dollars a year, per carrier, potentially," he says. Such penalties, on top of
high fuel prices, threaten airlines' financial survival, he says.

Closer to market

Some alternative jet fuels are closer to market than others. Synthetic fuel
already is tested and available. It's been around since the 1930s, when the
Nazis began converting coal into gasoline using a method invented by German
scientists Franz  Fischer and Hans Tropsch.  Sasol, a South African company,
began producing Fischer-Tropsch synfuels in the 1950s and beefed up production
in the 1980s to help the nation cope with trade embargos for its former
apartheid policy.

Syntroleum, a firm based in Tulsa, supplied the Air Force with 100,000 gallons
of synthetic fuel for flight testing in 2006. Beginning in 2016, the service
plans to buy 400 million gallons of it annually -- enough to power a quarter of
all its domestic U.S. flights in a year.

The biofuel closest to market is animal fat, including that from chickens.

Dynamic Fuels, a partnership between Syntroleum and meat-processing giant Tyson
Foods of Arkansas, broke ground in October on a $138 million refining facility
in Geismar, La. The plant will turn chicken fat, beef tallow, pork lard and
grease into liquid fuel. It is expected to begin production in 2010 and turn out
about 75 million gallons of fuel a year, says Ron Stinebaugh, Syntroleum's
senior vice president of finance.

Animal fat isn't the best long-term solution for deriving fuel from a renewable
resource, says Jennifer Holmgren, head of the Renewable Energy and Chemicals
business at UOP. Now a division of Honeywell, UOP developed most of the chemical
processes used in refining today's petroleum fuels. Holmgren's unit is charged
with doing the same thing for alternative fuels.

"You aren't going to start raising animals for energy,"  Holmgren says.

Better options are non-food crops, such as jatropha, camelina and algae, she
says. Fuel from jatropha and camelina will be on the market within three to five
years, she says. Fuel from algae is eight to 10 years away because research on
it began later.

There's not likely to be a single winner among the various alternative fuels
that will be adopted for use by all the world's airlines, says Sebastien Remy,
head of alternative fuel research for European airplane maker Airbus. "But there
will be one specification for the quality of the fuels to come from these
various alternative sources," he says. "The engines should not be able to tell
the difference between conventional jet fuel and whatever alternative fuels
airlines choose to use in the future."

Which  fuel is best for an airline may depend on location, he says. In Asia,
camelina is abundant. In Australia, Mexico and parts of South America, where
conditions for growing jatropha are ideal, it likely will be the primary source
of alternative fuels, Remy says. In North America, synthetic fuel may make more
sense because coal and natural gas are abundant.

Longer term, algae may be what fuels  the engines in U.S. airline jets. It  can
be produced in high volume, and the USA has plenty of space  to grow it.

"Jatropha and other grains will be on the market sooner, but only in the tens or
hundreds of millions of gallons," says UOP's Holmgren. "Algae will be produced
in the billions of gallons a little bit further down the road."

Algae is among the fastest-growing organisms on Earth. It takes up little space
relative to its production capacity. Some strains can go from incubator to
harvest in 14 days. And it grows best in brackish water, either in ponds, in a
high-tech greenhouse environment known as a bioreactor, or on "algae farms,"
where nutrient-filled water flows through miles of tubes winding around a few
acres of land.

"You get an awful lot of productivity out of 1 acre of algae when compared with
1 acre of just about any other crop," says William Thurmond, a  bio-energy
researcher  affiliated with the National Algae Association.

That kind of large-scale production is necessary to get the cost of algae fuel
down enough to compete with conventional fuels. But it's doable, says Cohen of
the National Algae Association.

Three years ago, a gallon of algae fuel cost about $300. Today, it's $10 to $20
a gallon. Cohen says the cost of producing  unrefined algae crude could be less
than $1 a gallon in a few years as technical problems are solved and as
production is ramped up to industrial levels. But that will require significant
investment.

Cohen, citing government estimates, says about $66 billion will be needed to
meet demand by 2025. However, he says, that's far less than the $1 trillion
invested in U.S. oil production, refining and distribution infrastructure.

Tim Zenk, vice president  at Sapphire Energy, the San Diego start-up that
produced the algae fuel used in the Continental flight, says his company's
investors are motivated in part by environmental concerns.

But that's not the only reason. Investors led by Microsoft co-founder Bill
Gates' Cascade Investments and by the Rockefeller Foundation's venture-capital
arm funded Sapphire to the tune of $100 million because they also think algae
production will be a great investment.

"We think we'll get 3,000 gallons (of biocrude) a year per acre," Zenk says.
"You're going to see very large scales of production."

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: January 29, 2009



CORRECTION: In a story about alternative fuels published in Tuesday's domestic
edition and Friday's international edition, USA TODAY incorrectly stated the
International Air Transport Association's goal for using synthetic or biofuel in
commercial aircraft. The goal is that alternative fuel provide 10% of the needs
of airlines around the world by 2017.

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Sam Ward, USA TODAY, Sources: Valcent, National Algae
Association (illustration, bar graph)
PHOTO, Color, Engine photo by Bloomberg News
PHOTO, Color, Mary Schwalm, AP
PHOTOS, Color (2)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COVER STORY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2009 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              201 of 264 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            February 9, 2009 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Starbucks hopes food perks up sales;
Struggling chain unveils menu deal to halt slide

BYLINE: Bruce Horovitz

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 409 words


Struggling Starbucks is about to seriously enter the "value" zone.

Today, the gourmet coffee chain that's been losing business at quite a clip of
late, will unveil plans for its first value menu: $3.95 will get you a latte
with coffee cake or drip coffee with hot sandwich.

That's right, food and drink at Starbucks for less than the $4 the chain is
often accused of charging for a cup o' joe. Consumer savings, in some cases,
will exceed $1.20 per order. Yes, change from a $5 bill at Starbucks.

The food and drink "pairing" program -- which Starbucks actually refuses to call
a value menu -- rolls out March 3. It will be offered all day at company-owned
U.S. stores. It will be marketed as: "Hello to a New Day."

The move -- something CEO Howard Schultz vowed he would never do -- comes at a
time when the coffee giant is spiraling down. Starbucks, once the model of the
New Economy, has been concurrently hit hard by three powerful forces: a
recession, changing consumer habits and growing competition from fast-food
chains.

The $3.95 deal includes one of four hot sandwiches -- currently sold at half of
Starbucks' U.S. locations -- and a tall, drip coffee. Also offered for that
price is a tall latte and either a slice of cinnamon swirl coffee cake or a bowl
of oatmeal.

The move by Starbucks is glaring evidence of how retailers and marketers have
been forced by the economy to rethink game plans and long-held strategies.
Additional price-cutting is expected at Starbucks soon.

"The most important definition of value is the one our customers have," says
Terry Davenport, marketing chief at Starbucks. "In this environment, it's about
everyday affordability."

Hard to imagine these words coming from the kingpin of pricey gourmet coffee.
But the times demand it, says KD Paine, a marketing consultant.

"Starbucks doesn't have a choice," Paine says. "If you don't have a stimulus
program built into your marketing, you're in big trouble."

The business environment is unlike any Starbucks has ever experienced. In late
January, the chain said that sales at U.S. stores open at least a year fell a
stunning 10% in its first fiscal quarter, while net income dropped 69%. It also
announced plans to shutter 300 additional stores and cut as many as 6,700 jobs.

McDonald's, which has McCafe coffee bars at half of its U.S. stores, says it's
bemused at Starbucks' value move. "Value has, and will always be on the menu at
McDonald's," spokeswoman Danya Proud says.

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2009 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              206 of 264 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            February 13, 2009 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Clinton heads to East Asia on first State trip abroad

BYLINE: Ken Dilanian

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 513 words


WASHINGTON -- Hillary Rodham Clinton departs Sunday on her first foreign  trip
as secretary of State, a visit to four Asian capitals that will feature talks on
climate change, the economic crisis and the North Korean nuclear threat.

Clinton's eight-day mission will take her to Japan, Indonesia, South Korea and
China. The Far East "was a logical choice for her to focus on," and "signals
that the U.S. recognizes the growing importance of Asia," said Paul Stares,
senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations.

It also made sense, Stares said, because other senior Obama administration
officials have already traveled to Europe, the Middle East and South Asia.

In Indonesia, the world's most populous Muslim country where President Obama
lived as a child, Clinton may lay the groundwork for a presidential visit later
this year, Stares said. Visiting Jakarta is also "part of this attempt to
reshape the United States' image in the Muslim world, said Rodger Baker,
director of East Asian analysis at Texas-based Stratfor, an intelligence
company.

In China, Japan and South Korea, Clinton will focus on the future of the
"six-party" talks about North Korea's nuclear program, said Michael Green, a
former senior director for Asian affairs in the Bush administration's National
Security Council. Russia and North Korea round out the six nations in the talks.

"I think it's very important that she's on listening mode," said Green, who was
among experts briefing Clinton at a dinner Feb. 4.

Clinton will hear that Tokyo and Seoul, in particular, are still dismayed by
what Green says was the Bush administration's "dramatic shift from a very
hard-line policy" to a gentler approach, with little to show for it.

The governments of Japan and Korea "believe that we just don't think we can
denuclearize North Korea and we'll be happy to contain the problem," he said.
"That's a serious matter."

However, Clinton said during her Senate confirmation hearings that the Obama
administration's goal was to "end the North Korean nuclear program" and "end
North Korea as a proliferator."

"It is our strong belief that the six-party talks, particularly the role that
China is currently playing, along with our close allies South Korea and Japan,
is a vehicle for us to exert pressure on North Korea in a way that is more
likely to alter their behavior," she told senators.

North Korea agreed two years ago to dismantle its nuclear weapons program in
return for promises of aid, diplomatic ties with the United States and a formal
peace agreement to end the 1950-53 Korean War. But the deal has stalled as North
Korea refused to let inspectors collect soil and nuclear waste samples needed to
verify its compliance.

North Korea has also recently threatened to "wipe out" South Korea's government
and repudiated a 17-year-old North-South non-aggression pact. Recent satellite
images suggest North Korea is preparing for a ballistic missile test,  Stratfor
says.

Clinton this week cited "North Korea's attitude in the last weeks" and said her
talks will help "determine the most effective way forward."

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, USA TODAY, Source: State Dept. (Map)
PHOTO, B/W, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2009 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              209 of 264 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          February 25, 2009 Wednesday
                                 CHASE EDITION

Excerpts from his speech

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 399 words


I asked this Congress to send me a recovery plan by Presidents Day that would
put people back to work and put money in their pockets. Not because I believe in
bigger government -- I don't. Not because I'm not mindful of the massive debt
we've inherited -- I am.

We are creating a new lending fund that represents the largest effort ever to
help provide auto loans, college loans, and small-business loans to the
consumers and entrepreneurs who keep this economy running. ... This plan will
require significant resources from the federal government, and yes, probably
more than we've already set aside.

The only way this century will be another American century is if we confront at
last the price of our dependence on oil and the high cost of health care, the
schools that aren't preparing our children and the mountain of debt they stand
to inherit.

We will double this nation's supply of renewable energy in the next three years.
... We will soon lay down thousands of miles of power lines that can carry new
energy to cities and towns across this country.

To truly transform our economy, protect our security and save our planet from
the ravages of climate change, we need to ultimately make clean, renewable
energy the profitable kind of energy. So I ask this Congress to send me
legislation that places a market-based cap on carbon pollution and drives the
production of more renewable energy in America.

We can no longer afford to put health care reform on hold. ... Our recovery plan
will invest in electronic health records and new technology that will reduce
errors, bring down costs, ensure privacy and save lives.

We know that our schools don't just need more resources. They need more reform.
That is why this budget creates new incentives for teacher performance, pathways
for advancement and rewards for success.

I know that the price of tuition is higher than ever, which is why if you are
willing to volunteer in your neighborhood or give back to your community or
serve your country, we will make sure that you can afford a higher education.

We are now carefully reviewing our policies in both wars, and I will soon
announce a way forward in Iraq that leaves Iraq to its people and responsibly
ends this war.

To overcome extremism, we must also be vigilant in upholding the values our
troops defend. ... That is why I have ordered the closing of the detention
center at Guantanamo Bay.

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2009 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              212 of 264 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             March 3, 2009 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Economy, corporate 'fat cat' label hit aircraft makers hard;
Businesses put off buying jets in today's Spartan climate

BYLINE: Dan Reed

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 1596 words


Commercial aviation manufacturers are rediscovering the truth behind the tragic
Greek myth of the Flight of Icarus: When you soar too high, the inevitable
descent can be frightfully steep.

Propelled by a roaring U.S. economy and booming demand from oil-rich Middle
Easterners and newly rich Russians and Eastern Europeans, the makers of
corporate jets and other business aircraft set sales records every year from
2003 to 2007.

But global recession, constricted credit markets and the public flogging of
corporations that spend lavishly to fly top executives on corporate jets have
sent the sales of general aviation aircraft into a hair-raising nose dive.

Jim Schuster, CEO of Hawker Beechcraft, estimates that sales and the value of
planes sold are off more than 30% industrywide since last fall. Existing orders
are being deferred or canceled at alarming rates.

Aircraft makers such as Hawker Beechcraft are loath to cut the price of their
new planes for fear of devaluing those sold in recent years. But the few used
planes that are finding buyers these days are selling at prices 30% or more
below what the models sold for just a year or two ago. In the last six years,
general aviation aircraft makers worldwide sold 21,531 new planes, up 35.2% from
the 15,927 sold in the six previous years.

In 2008, sales fell 7% as a result of record high fuel prices in the first half
of the year and the swelling economic crisis in the second. Still, the
industry's total billings hit a record $24.8 billion.

In 2007, plane makers delivered a record 1,138 business jets and a record 4,272
total general aviation aircraft worth $21.2 billion, according to the General
Aviation Manufacturers Association. And in 2008, they delivered a record 1,315
business jets, thanks to a three-year backlog in orders.

Not a normal downturn

But now, like Icarus, who against his father's warning flew so close to the sun
that the wax holding his wings together melted, general aviation is melting down
at an  alarming rate -- and not  just because companies have stopped buying new
planes.

"This industry has seen lots of downturns in the past," Schuster says.
"Typically in a downturn, companies would just stop buying planes. But they
wouldn't actually shed planes. What we're seeing this time is companies actually
shedding their airplanes."

Brian Foley, a veteran industry consultant, says business aviation "takes a
mighty fall in any downturn as companies cut back their capital expenditures.
... Buying anything that is not an absolute necessity is being deferred for as
long as possible."

But there's more to the current collapse in sales than a mere downturn in
economic cycles.

Richard Aboulafia, an aviation analyst with Teal Group, noted in January that
finding financing for new corporate aircraft has grown much tougher.

Lenders with limited resources and grave concerns about the value of assets on
their books now have to choose carefully what they'll finance.

Typically, Aboulafia says, lenders view business jets as "only slightly more
appealing ... than luxury homes and boats."

'Fat cat' image hurts

Schuster readily admits that the troubled economy is responsible for the biggest
drag on sales.  But he and others in the tight-knit general aviation community
are angry that the situation is being exacerbated by criticism from Congress and
media commentators that characterizes people who use business aircraft in tough
economic times as out-of-touch "flying fat cats."

That perception, burnished in December when all three Detroit automakers' CEOs
flew to Washington on corporate jets to beg for federal bailout dollars, isn't
just wrong, Schuster says. "It's one of the most ironic circumstances I could
imagine."

It led, he says, to Congress seeking to restrict the use of company-owned or
-leased aircraft by executives of financial companies receiving bailout money
from taxpayers.  That provision was removed from the Troubled Assets Relief
Program, or TARP, bill. But the message sent was there's something wrong about
flying in private aircraft, Schuster complains.

"There's just one industry left in this country that employs Americans, has a
dominant world market position, is a large exporter and employs lots of people
in high-paying, advanced technology jobs," Schuster says. "So why is it that
general aviation is the foil for everyone's complaints about flying fat cats?
Why do they want to handcuff an industry that has 1.2 million workers and $150
billion annually in economic impact?"

Bob Stangarone, vice president at rival aircraft maker Cessna, agrees. "We'd
seen the market declining for several months before December, but the three
automakers certainly didn't help things when they flew to Washington in separate
jets to seek a bailout," he says. "Before the downturn we were expecting to
deliver 535 planes in 2009. That number has been adjusted down to 375 now."

Taking the offensive

The industry is starting to fight back. Cessna and Hawker Beechcraft have
launched a PR campaign in defense of their products, their customers and their
industry. In a newspaper ad  last month, Cessna goads companies contemplating
selling their corporate planes or canceling orders for them by saying "true
visionaries will continue to fly."

Hawker Beechcraft's campaign takes a different approach. Its ads feature the
Beechcraft King Air 350, a nine-passenger turboprop that is the current version
of the best-selling business aircraft in history. It's portrayed as a sensible
alternative to much more expensive corporate jets. Hawker Beechcraft makes jets,
too, but featuring the King Air allows it to attack the notion that business
aviation is all about excess.

"I'm not going to defend every company, or every CEO or every person out there
and say that some of (their planes) haven't gotten too extravagant," Schuster
says. "You can debate the size (of corporate planes) and amenities. But that
doesn't negate the basic economic premise of the value of business aircraft to
many, many companies."

Eighty-five percent of companies that use business aircraft aren't corporate
giants. They're small and midsize companies, according to the National Business
Aviation Association, a trade group that represents business aircraft users and
makers. And 86% of those on board those planes are non-executive employees.
They're salespeople, technical experts or repair people traveling to remote
business locations not easily reached via commercial airlines.

In many cases, the association says, business planes are used to deliver
urgently needed parts or equipment to customers or operators in the field.

The decision to fight back has paid off, at least a little. A provision was
added to the economic stimulus legislation signed last month by President Obama
that grants a 50% bonus depreciation or, in some cases, a $250,000 one-time tax
deduction on certain general aviation planes purchased in 2009.

Graef Crystal, an executive compensation consultant-turned-columnist, is a
well-known critic of executive excess. But even he says there are legitimate
reasons for companies to own or lease business aircraft.

"I was a consultant in the '70s and '80s to (diesel engine maker) Cummins ...
in Indiana," he says. "They were in an out-of-the-way place, and their factories
were all in out-of-the-way places. They had a small jet that was used by their
chairman and other executives to get between those places quickly. It made
sense."

When senior executives choose to fly on company planes, Schuster says, the
decision should be a "function of the cost of their time," not their egos,
personal tastes or desire to avoid mixing with the hoi polloi flying
commercially.

"What makes a business competitive isn't necessarily squeezing every dime out of
a transportation budget, but getting the most out of the people it employs," he
says.

CEOs and senior executives flying on corporate aircraft can make productive use
of their time aloft by discussing sensitive or private business issues with
colleagues or customers, he says. They can use phones and other communications
tools to stay in touch and manage operations or crisis situations from 40,000
feet. They usually can't do that on commercial aircraft.

What's too much?

Cessna CEO Jack Pelton argues that lavish corporate jets are a small percentage
of the world's fleet of 235,000 general aviation aircraft. There are more than
10,000 corporate jets in the world, most of which, he says, "are fairly Spartan,
designed for business, with a cabin about the size of a minivan or SUV
interior."

Crystal counters that while "there's some justification for corporate jets," it
too often "gets erased by the luxury."

As a compensation consultant for most of his career, Crystal says he's been on
many corporate jets. "They often don't spare any expense ... the finest wines
... good food," he says. He says corporate leaders could achieve the same
business results using less luxurious, less expensive jets.

Schuster says his buyers demand that planes be handsomely equipped, though most
aren't as lavishly outfitted as the jet former Citigroup CEO Sanford "Sandy"
Weill used in December, at the company's expense, to take his family to a
$10,000-a-night resort in San Jose del Cabo. The top-of-the-line, 18-seat Global
Express  made by Canada's Bombardier was finished with $13,000 carpets, Baccarat
crystal glasses, Christofle sterling silver flatware and pillows made of Hermes
scarves.

"But everybody's planes are nice on the inside," Schuster says. "We compete on
that basis. If you asked for a Plain Jane interior you'd have a really hard time
finding that."

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Alejandro Gonzalez, USA TODAY, Source: General Aviation
Manufacturers Association (line graphs)
PHOTO, Color, Craig Hacker for USA TODAY
PHOTO, Color, PR Newswire
PHOTO, B/W, Craig Hacker for USA TODAY

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COVER STORY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2009 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              223 of 264 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             April 20, 2009 Monday
                                 FIRST EDITION

An evangelical's plea: 'Love the sinner';
For a rising generation of Christians, the conversation about homosexuality is
changing. Not that same-sex relationships jibe with biblical teachings, but that
a rhetorical onslaught isn't very Christian, either.

BYLINE: Jonathan Merritt

SECTION: EDIT; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 1254 words


One of the mantras of evangelicalism over the past quarter-century regarding gay
men and lesbians has been "hate the sin, love the sinner." If, however, you
Google the public statements made by evangelicals regarding our gay neighbors,
you'll uncover a virtual how-to manual on hating sin and little if anything
about loving sinners. To wit:

*In 1993, fundamentalist televangelist D. James Kennedy reacted to the notion of
gay men and lesbians in the military with a letter asking, "Honestly, would you
want your son, daughter, or grandchild sharing a shower, foxhole, or blood with
a homosexual?"

*In 1994, founder of the Christian Broadcasting Network Pat Robertson declared
that for him, "(Homosexuality) is sodomy. It is repugnant."

*In 2001, the late Jerry Falwell, founder of the Moral Majority, blamed lesbians
and gay men for 9/11.

*In 2002, Ten Commandments crusader and Alabama Chief Justice Roy Moore called
homosexuality an "abhorrent, immoral, detestable ... crime against nature" that
should be punishable by law.

As an unashamed Southern Baptist and graduate of Falwell's Liberty University, I
have seen this disparity up close. Evangelical opposition to anything even
remotely concerning "the homosexual agenda" has often been vitriolic and
unbalanced by a message of love for our gay neighbors. Thus, it is
understandable that people have incredibly negative perceptions of Christians.

A 'confusing' message

This picture was painted in painful Technicolor in the best-selling book
UnChristian: What a New Generation Really Thinks About Christianity. The book by
Dave Kinnaman and Gabe Lyons was based on a study from The Barna Group, which
found that 91% of non-Christians ages 16-29 describe present-day Christians as
"anti-homosexual."

The same study found that 80% also describe Christians as "confusing." Perhaps
this is because many recognize the difference between the life of Jesus Christ
and the lives of those who claim to follow him. Most people know Jesus was
amazingly compassionate toward marginalized sinners. Prostitutes, drunks and,
worst of all, tax collectors -- they were some of Jesus' closest friends. And
while the religious aristocracy of Jesus' day was finding new ways to express
sin-hate, Jesus was busy loving every sinner he could find.

The contrast between 21st century Christianity and the Jesus of the Bible is
stark. This Jesus -- the compassionate, loving, "friend of sinners" -- is
difficult to reconcile with an often disconnected, insular, us-vs.-them
Christianity.

Many Christians today live in opposition to the teachings of our Lord. They use
harsh language when speaking to, or more commonly, about their gay neighbors.
Sadly, this doesn't just emanate from the "God Hates Fags" crazies, but from
everyday Christians in everyday churches. Evangelicals often speak of lesbians
and gay men as if they have some sort of medical disease that we experts have
diagnosed and can easily cure with a simple, biblical prescription.

The most robust description of love in all of Scripture comes from 1 Corinthians
13, which says, "Love is patient and kind. Love is not jealous or boastful or
proud or rude. It does not demand its own way. It is not irritable, and it keeps
no record of being wronged." If Christians' language were marked by these
characteristics -- humility, kindness and grace -- it would  ease tensions and
open up avenues for dialogue. It is time for evangelical Christians to reform
our rhetoric.

This means doing away with cliches such as the infamous "God created Adam and
Eve, not Adam and Steve." Self-gratifying monologues are neither helpful nor
loving. These slogans make good bumper stickers, but they're lousy conversation
starters. We must begin talking with our gay and lesbian neighbors in meaningful
ways.

And it doesn't end with dialogue. Let us not forget that love is not only a
noun, but also a verb. Love is an action. Our assertions that we love our
neighbors must be accompanied by visible expressions of that love. Therefore, we
need to begin looking for ways to affirm, rather than undermine, our claims to
love our gay neighbors.

As Christians, we clearly won't be able to support any and everything. For
example, our biblical convictions prohibit a redefinition of marriage. Yet,
there are other areas where we may be able to offer support. We should support
protecting our gay and lesbian neighbors from discrimination in the workplace
and cleaning up the legal cobwebs that govern hospital visitation rights and
inheritance for same-sex couples.

Scripture says the spirit of the law, not the letter of the law, gives life. A
spirit of love in public policy is one that all Christians can support.

Unfortunately, some evangelical groups, such as the Family Research Council and
Vision America, oppose even minor concessions, claiming we should not
"normalize" homosexuality in our culture. But, these groups seemingly fail to
realize that our role as Christians is not to delegitimize the existence of
those who do not share our beliefs. Our job is to mirror Christ by loving people
in spite of our differences and advocating for our culture's disenfranchised
groups. Only then can we effectively share with them the reasons that we believe
our beliefs are most compelling.

We don't have to compromise our convictions to do this. As Christians, we remain
committed to the truth. Failing to speak the truth is both disingenuous and the
antithesis of love.

God's model is a lifelong, monogamous, heterosexual union, but we must balance
this message with the scriptural understanding that we are all sinners.
Individuals who have decided to follow Christ have not ceased to be sinners; we
are simply sinners who have taken advantage of God's gracious gift of salvation.

Changing the conversation

According to Public Religion Research, 37% of evangelicals ages 18-34 have a
close friend or relative who is gay. Only 16% of evangelicals 35 and older can
say the same. That is why rising generations of Christ-followers are uniquely
prepared to infuse love and grace into this debate without compromising their
Christian values. Truth is most effectively communicated within the confines of
a healthy relationship.

As a 26-year-old, I feel a lot like others within my generation. I have deep
sympathy for my friends who are gay. They often suffer as societal pariahs at
the hands of misinformed Christians who believe that gays have chosen their
sexual orientation. Though I unashamedly believe that God desires a better path
for their lives, I also understand that my obligation to love them is not
dependent upon their capitulation to a particular belief system.

When I hear younger evangelicals address homosexuality, they speak with
compassion, sympathy and love that have been uncommon among the Falwells and
Robertsons. But this change in tone isn't surprising because rising generations
are twice as likely to be in close community with someone who is gay. It is a
lot easier to fight a faceless "agenda" than it is to war against a friend.

Now is the time for those who bear the name of Jesus Christ to stop merely
talking about love and start showing love to our gay and lesbian neighbors. It
must be concrete and tangible. It must move beyond cheap rhetoric. We cannot
pick and choose which neighbors we will love. We must love them all.

Jonathan Merritt is a faith and culture writer who serves as national
spokesperson for the Southern Baptist Environment and Climate Initiative. He is
writing a book on a Christian approach to environmental problems.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2009 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              235 of 264 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              June 8, 2009 Monday
                              Correction Appended
                                 FINAL EDITION

Lobbyists unlimited in honoring lawmakers;
Special-interest money flows around gift ban

BYLINE: Fredreka Schouten and Paul Overberg

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 2268 words


WASHINGTON -- On a mild evening last September, Citigroup lobbyists mingled with
South Carolina Rep. James Clyburn at a rooftop reception -- complete with
miniature putting greens -- as the company hosted a party to honor the third
most powerful Democrat in the House and raise money for one of his favorite golf
charities.

Health insurers and hospitals, meanwhile, are donating millions to help build an
institute in Boston to celebrate the career of Sen. Edward Kennedy, D-Mass., who
is attempting to overhaul the nation's health care system.

Despite a ban on gifts to lawmakers and limits on campaign contributions,
lobbyists and groups that employ them can spend unlimited money to honor members
of Congress or donate to non-profits connected to them or their relatives. The
public -- until now -- had little insight into the scope of this largely hidden
world of special-interest influence.

Under ethics rules passed in 2007, lobbyists for the first time last year had to
report any payment made for an event or to a group connected to a lawmaker and
other top federal officials.

USA TODAY undertook the first comprehensive analysis of the lobbying reports and
found 2,759 payments, totaling $35.8 million, were made in 2008. The money went
to honor 534 current and former lawmakers, almost 250 other federal officials
and more than 100 groups, many of which count lawmakers among their members. The
total cost is roughly equivalent to what the U.S. government spends to operate
Yellowstone National Park each year.

Most of the money -- about $28 million -- went to non-profit groups, some with
direct ties to members of Congress. In two cases, USA TODAY found, the donations
to non-profits associated with a member of Congress came in response to a
personal appeal for funds from the lawmaker.

"It's another example of the many pockets of a politician's coat," says Ellen
Miller of the Sunlight Foundation, a watchdog group. The spending amounts to an
"end-run" around campaign-finance laws "that are designed to limit the
appearance of undue influence," she says.

The money came from companies, trade associations and labor groups that lobby
Congress and the government on a range of issues, from seeking a share of last
year's $700 billion financial bailout package to trying to shape the debate on
climate change.

The donations cover various activities -- from a golf tournament that raises
money for a lawmaker's non-profit to gifts to the alma mater of a powerful House
committee chairman.

"You can still have a gala or something or the other for a charity and earn some
favor with members of Congress, which is what the gift ban was put in place to
avoid," says Dan Danner, CEO of the National Federation of Independent Business
and a veteran Washington lobbyist.

The spending demonstrates the subtle ways that special-interest groups try to
sway lawmakers, without making "something as crass as a payoff," says Kenneth
Gross, a former Federal Election Commission official.

He credits Congress for mandating the disclosure of the gifts and giving the
public another view of the relationships between lobbyists and lawmakers.

Invitation to access

The lobbying reports were required by Congress after former lobbyist Jack
Abramoff admitted in 2006 that he provided gifts, including a luxury golf trip
to Scotland, to then-representative Bob Ney and others in exchange for favors.
It is illegal to provide gifts to federal authorities in exchange for official
actions, and both Abramoff and Ney, an Ohio Republican, went to prison.

What is more common -- and legal -- are donations such as the $40,000 AT&T gave
in December to the Blanchette Rockefeller Neurosciences Institute, which
researches Alzheimer's. Sen. Jay Rockefeller, D-W.Va., founded the non-profit,
which is named for his late mother, and he is the honorary chairman of its
board.

These are "not run-of-the-mill charities," says Steve Ellis, vice president of
Taxpayers for Common Sense, a watchdog group. "These gifts are another way to
gain influence with lawmakers."

Last year, the telecommunication industry gave more than $72,000 to non-profits
and charities in honor of Rockefeller, who advocated legislation to provide
legal immunity to phone companies that participated in the government's
anti-terrorism eavesdropping program. The largest donation came from AT&T. At
the time, Rockefeller chaired the Senate Intelligence Committee and helped
broker a deal on the bill, which passed last year.

Rockefeller oversees the telecom industry as chairman of the Commerce, Science
and Transportation Committee.

Claudia Jones, an AT&T spokeswoman, declined to comment.

Interviews show the West Virginia Democrat made a direct appeal to another
company for a donation to the institute. Consol Energy gave $25,000 to the
institute in October after Rockefeller sent a fundraising letter to CEO J. Brett
Harvey, says Thomas Hoffman, Consol's senior vice president. The company
operates coal mines in West Virginia.

"It would be foolish to think we don't take note of the fact when a member of
Congress says, 'Hey, I think this is something you ought to support,' " Hoffman
says.

Rockefeller spokeswoman Jamie Smith declined to discuss the solicitation but
says there is no connection between the gifts and the senator's official
actions.

"If some in Washington think giving to a cause Jay Rockefeller cares about will
affect his policy views, they surely don't know him," she said in an e-mail.
"His policies are based on the merits of an issue and on what's good for West
Virginia and the country -- period."

Rep. Joe Barton of Texas, the top Republican on the House energy committee,
asked an energy company to donate to a foundation that bears his name. His
daughter-in-law, Amy Barton, is the unpaid director.

Utility giant Exelon gave $25,000 to the non-profit last June and $50,000 in
2006, according to federal records and interviews with company officials.

Barton wrote to Exelon CEO John Rowe, seeking the money, says David Brown,
Exelon's top lobbyist. The company is one of the nation's largest producers of
nuclear energy. Barton has long advocated on the industry's behalf, pushing for
the opening of a nuclear-waste repository at Yucca Mountain, outside Las Vegas.

Barton said he did nothing inappropriate. "There's no personal benefit," he said
in an interview. "The money doesn't go to me."

He said he was "very proud" of the foundation's work. The foundation, which
funds non-profit groups in his congressional district, donated $375,000 for a
$1.2 million Boys & Girls Club in Corsicana, Texas, says Sylvia Waters, a club
director. "The bottom line is that there wouldn't be a Boys & Girls Club in
Corsicana today if it wasn't for the Joe Barton Family Foundation," Barton said.

Lobbyist ties remain

Despite a pledge by congressional leaders to sever ties between lawmakers and
special interests, the reports show lobbyists often give to non-profits
associated with the lawmakers who regulate their industries.

Health care groups, for instance, give millions to the planned Edward M. Kennedy
Institute for the United States Senate in Boston. Pharmaceutical giant Amgen
wrote the biggest check -- $5 million in December -- to the institute, which
will honor Kennedy's more than four decades in Congress and promote the study of
the U.S. Senate.

Aetna insurance company donated $50,000.

Kennedy, who is battling brain cancer, chairs the Senate's health and education
committee and is at work on comprehensive health care legislation. Aetna has
engaged in private talks with Kennedy aides on the bill, Aetna spokesman Mohit
Ghose says.

Ghose says the donation was unrelated to those negotiations and instead
"advances our goal of continuing to take a leadership role in public policy."

Kelley Davenport, a spokeswoman for Amgen, says the donation reflected the
company's interest in lauding Kennedy's long career and in helping "young people
to become engaged in public service and public policy."

Kennedy, the records show, was the most honored member of Congress, with a total
of nearly $6 million. Most of the money went to the Kennedy institute.

Kennedy spokeswoman Melissa Wagoner and institute trustee Paul Kirk say the
Democratic senator has steered clear of potential conflicts of interest with his
official duties by not soliciting donations. In total, the organization has
collected more than $20 million, according to a January institute news release.

"The principal reason fundraising is going so well is that there is an enormous
outpouring of appreciation for Sen. Kennedy's public service," Kirk says.

Amgen spent the most in honor of members of Congress last year, the analysis
found. It was among 20 corporations and unions responsible for $17.6 million --
or nearly half -- of the spending in honor of lawmakers and federal officials
last year, the USA TODAY analysis shows. Those groups spent a total of $137.5
million to lobby Congress and federal agencies last year.

Amgen also donated to the Frontier Foundation in honor of Rep. Steve Buyer,
R-Ind., who is on the House panel that regulates the drug industry.

The foundation, which provides college scholarships and once was headed by
Buyer's daughter, received $385,000 in donations from pharmaceutical companies
from 2005 through 2007, according to its IRS filings.

Buyer, who has worked on health policy in Congress for years, helped kill a
provision in 2007 opposed by drug companies and broadcasters that would have
imposed a three-year ban on advertising new drugs, congressional records show.
Consumer advocates, including the Consumers Union, pushed the measure, arguing
that aggressive drug pitches unduly sway patients to seek treatment from drugs
before their safety records have been established.

During debate by a commerce subcommittee, Buyer co-sponsored an amendment that
stripped the advertising ban from a larger bill overhauling the Food and Drug
Administration.

In an interview, Buyer says "there is no connection" between his legislative
actions and donations to the foundation. "I'm not an officer. I'm not a board
director," he says of his role in the non-profit. "Do I help the foundation?
Yes, I do. Do I help other charity groups? Yes, I do."

He referred other questions to foundation officials.

The charity's IRS filing covering the year 2007, the most recent available,
listed Buyer's daughter, Colleen, as its unpaid president. Stephanie Mattix,
listed as the group's paid secretary/treasurer, is executive director of Buyer's
political action committee, Storm Chasers, according to Federal Election
Commission filings.

Mattix and Buyer told USA TODAY that Colleen Buyer had left the group and
referred questions to its president, Brenda Olthoff. Olthoff did not respond to
e-mails and calls. Colleen Buyer did not return telephone calls.

The National Association of Broadcasters contributed $25,000 in honor of Buyer
to the foundation last year. Amgen donated $15,000.

"I don't think there is a link between a specific vote on drug legislation and
contributing to kids going to college in Indiana," says Dennis Wharton, the
broadcasters' executive vice president. "We look at where we think it's a worthy
cause."

Davenport, Amgen's spokeswoman, says the gift matched the company's
"philanthropic mission to improve education."

'Putting and politics'

The donations are a path for lobbyists and company executives to mingle in more
intimate surroundings with lawmakers during weekend golf outings and
invitation-only dinners.

Last year, lobbyists and the companies that employ them gave more than $802,000
to non-profit groups in honor of Rep. Clyburn, the USA TODAY analysis shows.
Those non-profits included the James E. Clyburn Research and Scholarship
Foundation and the First Tee of Washington, D.C., which introduces minority and
low-income children to golf.

It was First Tee that benefited from a "Putting and Politics" reception for
Clyburn and Sen. Saxby Chambliss, R-Ga., on the rooftop of Citigroup's
Washington offices in September. The company has received $45 billion in federal
bailout money.

Nick Calio, Citigroup's top lobbyist, attended the reception but declined to
comment. Gretchen Hamm, the non-profit's executive director, says Citigroup has
donated $75,000 over the past three years.

Clyburn, an avid golfer, is a longtime supporter of First Tee. Two years ago, he
inserted $3 million into a spending bill to expand the national program at
Defense Department facilities. "Why shouldn't children of military families have
access to this program as well?" Clyburn spokeswoman Kristie Greco asks.

Each year, Clyburn presides over a golf tournament that raises money for the
scholarship program that bears his name. The former schoolteacher created the
charity more than 20 years ago to "help deserving students afford a college
education" Greco says. It is managed by an independent board and "Congressman
Clyburn does not solicit donations," she adds.

But top executives and lobbyists from companies that contribute to the charity
can join Clyburn for two days of golfing in South Carolina. Participants have
included executives from Duke Energy and Dell, which donated more than $115,000
worth of computer equipment to students in Clyburn's program last year.

"It's not unusual that our folks in government affairs would play golf with
members of Congress and support these causes," says Tom Williams, a spokesman
for Duke Energy, which gave $5,000 to Clyburn's foundation last year. "It's part
of the political process, and it's well within the law."

Contributing: Jack Gillum and Seung Min Kim

FOR "LAWMAKERS' FAVORITE CAUSES" CHART, PLEASE SEE MICROFICHE OR PDF.

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: June 12, 2009



CORRECTION: Joe Baca Jr., son of Rep. Joe Baca, D-Calif., is president of the
Joe Baca Foundation. A chart in Monday's editions misidentified the foundation
official.

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, Color, Web Bryant, USA TODAY (Illustration)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COVER STORY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2009 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              243 of 264 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          September 24, 2009 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

A world in pursuit of quantifiable happiness

BYLINE: Lionel Beehner

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 578 words


One way to put a happy face on our recent economic doldrums is to, well, measure
our happiness.

That's the thinking behind a new wave of world leaders and progressive
economists who insist we are way too obsessed with gross domestic product (GDP)
as the be-all-end-all benchmark of measuring economic health.

They claim it puts too much emphasis on deregulated markets and bottom-line
numbers at the expense of weighing "softer" quality-of-life indicators such as
the environment, leisure time, labor protections and health care coverage.

King Jigme Singye Wangchuck of the Himalayan nation of Bhutan introduced the
notion of quantifying a country's happiness in 1972. But French President
Nicolas Sarkozy has given the holistic "gross national happiness" movement some
newfound steam. He recently commissioned a blue-ribbon panel of economists,
including Joseph Stiglitz and Armatya Sen, to study new ways to measure a
society's well-being. He intends to roll out his plan at the Group of 20 meeting
in Pittsburgh, which starts today.

The bigger picture

On one level, it is a laudable effort. GDP is a lousy way to measure a society's
well-being. It does not capture a country's political stability, much less the
health of its citizens or the sustainability of its environment. Nor does it
correlate with a nation's "happiness," studies show. Americans are three times
as wealthy as they were 50 years  ago but not much happier. That goes in spades
for poorer parts of the globe.

What's more, this new  yardstick could prove useful as we look to overhaul our
health care system and tackle climate change -- both of which would put a
sizeable dent in our GDP in the short run, but arguably would provide a boost
for our health and happiness in the long run.

Of course, Sarkozy's "revolution" to calculate his countrymen's happiness is
partly a PR gambit. Economists estimate that under this measure, the GDP per
capita gap between the U.S. and France would be reduced by half. And one can
only imagine how this metric would be misused by pols like him to improve their
image ("Under my leadership, we are a happier society ... ").

A subjective measure

Then there is the obvious: How does one even attempt to measure an abstract
thing such as happiness, especially in multihued societies like France or
America? Wouldn't it depend on a person's race, class, religion or regional
identity?

"It would be a subjectively ethnocentric measure," says Daniel Durkin, a
political development expert at Fordham University. "I'm not sure a universal
measure of happiness would amount to much more than an artificial assessment of
Western capitalist success. Isn't that just spinning GDP with a newly gilded
edge?"

Nor is it obvious what brings societies happiness. Depending on one's
perspective, the French are either admired or maligned for their long vacations,
short workdays and generous welfare system. Yet, according to the Organization
for Economic Cooperation and Development, they aren't the world's happiest
people. That title goes to Denmark. America, home of the Happy Meal, doesn't
make the Top 10.

Still, one year after the worst recession to hit the world since the 1930s, it
is worth re-evaluating the yardsticks by which we measure economic health. After
all, 1.5 million Americans might lose their unemployment benefits by  the end of
the year. That can't be a recipe for happiness.

Lionel Beehner, a New York-based writer, is a member of USA TODAY's board of
contributors.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, AFP/Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2009 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              245 of 264 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           September 25, 2009 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Ex-head of Democratic Party named to Kennedy's seat

BYLINE: John Fritze

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 367 words


WASHINGTON -- Senate Democrats reclaimed a 60-vote majority Thursday after
Massachusetts Gov. Deval Patrick named a former party official to fill a seat
held for nearly five decades by Edward Kennedy.

Paul Kirk Jr., Democratic Party chairman from 1985 to 1989 and a longtime friend
of the Kennedy family, said he will be "a voice and a vote" for Kennedy's
causes. The 71-year-old will hold the seat until Massachusetts conducts a
special election on Jan. 19.

"He often said that representing the people ... of Massachusetts in the Senate
of the United States was the highest honor he could possibly imagine," said
Kirk, who is board chairman of the John F. Kennedy Library Foundation and
executor of Edward Kennedy's will. "It will be my highest honor, as well."

Kirk's appointment once again gives Democrats the 60-vote majority they enjoyed
before Kennedy's death on Aug. 25. Democrats would need all 60 votes to overturn
filibusters on controversial legislation in the pipeline, from health care to
climate change.

Also on Thursday, Sen. Robert Byrd, D-W.Va., 91, was released from the hospital
and said he is "looking forward to engaging in the upcoming debates and votes on
health care."

Kirk, who served as a special assistant to Kennedy from 1969 to 1977, said he
will not run for the seat in the January election.

"Congress is debating our future, right now," said Patrick, a Democrat. "The
issues before the Congress and the nation are simply too important for us to be
one voice short."

The appointment drew fire from Republicans. The Democratic-controlled state
Legislature changed the law to allow for the interim appointment over the
objections of Republicans, who accused the Democrats of hypocrisy. In 2004, the
Democrats changed the state law to deny then-governor Mitt Romney, a Republican,
the ability to fill a Senate vacancy. The state GOP sought a court order
Thursday to block Kirk's appointment, arguing that the law requires Patrick to
wait 90 days before naming a replacement.

Four Democrats and two Republicans have announced their intention to run in the
special election, including Massachusetts Attorney General Martha Coakley, a
Democrat, and state Sen. Scott Brown, a Republican.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2009 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              246 of 264 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          September 30, 2009 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Number, role of Obama's 'czars' ignite debate;
Lawmakers question the purview, constitutionality of special advisers

BYLINE: Mimi Hall

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 900 words


WASHINGTON -- The latest skirmish between conservatives and the Obama
administration -- the proliferation of "czars" named by the president to handle
pressing issues -- is prompting efforts in Congress to put limits on the White
House.

Lawmakers from both political parties agree that the term itself is subjective,
and they acknowledge that they aren't sure how many czars there are -- or
whether some of the special advisers are even czars at all.

"The question is: What do these guys do, and how much are they costing us?" says
Rep. Jack Kingston, R-Ga. He is sponsoring a bill to withhold funding from any
top policy adviser not confirmed by the Senate, which signs off on Cabinet
secretaries and other top officials.

In the Senate, Democrats, such as Robert Byrd of West Virginia, are questioning
the constitutionality of the advisers the White House says it needs to
coordinate policy and advise the president on issues from health care to the
Middle East. Republicans, such as Susan Collins of Maine, are trying to curb
funding for them.

Unlike Cabinet secretaries, who regularly testify before Congress, most special
advisers are accountable only to the president. Some, such as Carol Browner, who
oversees climate change and energy issues, earn $172,200 a year, according to
the White House's report on staff salaries.

Concerns about czars gained momentum in recent weeks when the political activism
of Van Jones, who was in charge of promoting Obama's green jobs initiatives,
came to light. Among other things, Jones had signed a petition for a group
alleging that the Bush administration planned the 9/11 terrorist attacks. He
resigned Sept. 5 and declined to comment for this story.

A central question in the debate: Just how many so-called czars are there?

Conservative commentator Glenn Beck, who has fueled concern about the advisers
by charging that they are another manifestation of big government run amok under
control of the Democrats, puts the count at 32. Politico, a Web-based
publication covering politics, lists 29. Collins' office cites 18, excluding
positions such as the AIDS czar that have existed for years.

Some lists include only special advisers who work in the White House, such as
Nancy-Ann DeParle, who was named to coordinate efforts to revamp the health care
system. Others include some Senate-confirmed officials who work in departments.
The Pentagon's top weapons buyer, Undersecretary Ashton Carter, who reports to
Defense Secretary Robert Gates, is dubbed the "weapons czar" on Beck's list.

There's also debate about what  the advisers should be allowed to do. In 2005,
Sen. David Vitter, R-La., pushed for a post-Hurricane Katrina "reconstruction
czar" to advise the president on the most effective ways to rebuild on the Gulf
Coast. Today, he is pushing to limit such advisers' ability to direct policy or
mandate the use of government money in federal departments. He calls the
appointment of non-confirmed advisers "an end-run around the constitutional
process."

The White House says that's nonsense. Obama's aides say the advisers are needed
to help coordinate policy across departments and advise the president on the
important issues of the day, such as the war in Afghanistan and efforts to save
the auto industry.

The term "czar," often used as a shorthand title by the news media, dates at
least to the administration of Franklin Roosevelt, according to White House
communications director Anita Dunn. Richard Nixon was the first to appoint a
"drug czar," the position most commonly associated with the word. That post --
officially the president's adviser on drug trafficking -- was created by
Congress.

The new advisers -- including the czars for the auto industry, executive pay and
health care -- reflect the crises Obama faced when he took office and his broad
agenda, Dunn says. Other positions, such as the one for closing the detention
facility at Guantanamo Bay, are short-term posts, she says.

Some senators of both parties, however, say they're concerned that the advisers
add to the government bureaucracy, duplicate work being done at departments and
blur the lines of authority with other top officials.

"Little information is available concerning their responsibilities and
authorities," Collins says. "There is no careful Senate examination of their
character and qualifications. And we are speaking here of some of the most
senior positions within our government."

Democratic senators Byrd and Russ Feingold of Wisconsin also want to know about
the number of advisers and question whether their appointments circumvent the
government's system of  checks and balances.

Connecticut Sen. Joe Lieberman, an independent and chairman of the governmental
affairs committee, plans a hearing on the issue on Oct. 7. He says he expects to
introduce "appropriate and thoughtful legislation to deal with this problem."

Some government experts say the flap is misplaced. "I'm underwhelmed with this
particular issue," says Paul Light, an expert on presidential appointments and a
professor at New York University. "At the end of the day, to me a White House
staffer is a White House staffer."

Sen. Dick Durbin, D-Ill., complains the issue has been driven by "partisan
commentators" who are "suggesting this is somehow a new phenomenon that's
threatening our democracy."

The White House's czars, he says, are just expert advisers, not part of a
"Muscovite conspiracy."

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2009 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              251 of 264 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           October 28, 2009 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Obama announces $3.4 billion for 'smart grid';
Funds set aside to update power network

BYLINE: David Jackson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 332 words


President Obama trumpeted plans for renewable energy on Tuesday, announcing $3.4
billion in economic stimulus funding to help upgrade the nation's electric grid.

Obama said grants will be awarded to revamp power lines, generators and meters
in the century-old power network so that it becomes a "smart grid." The federal
government's money will be added to industry funding, so the total investment
will be more than $8 billion, the White House says.

The existing grid "wastes too much energy, it costs us too much money, and it's
too susceptible to outages and blackouts," Obama said after touring the largest
solar energy plant of its kind, in Arcadia, Fla. The grid's deficiencies were
highlighted by a 2003 blackout that affected 50 million people in the Northeast,
Midwest and part of Canada.

Luke Clemente, general manager of General Electric's smart-grid business, hailed
the grants as a key "economic and global competitiveness tool" that will help
consumers "have the power to manage and control their energy use."

Florida Power & Light, which operates the plant Obama visited Tuesday, will
spend its $200 million grant to install 2.6 million smart digital meters. These
meters allow utilities to offer variable prices to reflect wholesale power
costs, with rates that are highest at peak usage times.

Obama also made a pitch for energy legislation pending in Congress. The Senate
Environment and Public Works Committee began hearings Tuesday on its version of
a bill to reduce greenhouse gases that cause global warming and to promote clean
energy alternatives.

The bill will "finally make clean energy the profitable kind of energy in
America," Obama said. The legislation also will "make the best use of resources
we have in abundance through clean coal technology, safe nuclear power,
sustainably grown biofuels, and energy we harness from the wind, waves and sun,"
he said.

Obama also stumped in Norfolk, Va., for Democratic gubernatorial candidate
Creigh Deeds.

Contributing: Julie Schmit

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2009 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              263 of 264 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          December 16, 2009 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Et cetera;
Smart insights on the news of the day

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 349 words


Bethany McLean, article, Vanity Fair: "When I ask Gary Cohn, Goldman Sachs'
chief operating officer, and David Viniar, the firm's chief financial officer,
if, barring a financial Armageddon, Goldman would have survived without all the
various forms of government intervention, Viniar says, 'Yes!' almost before I
can finish the question. 'I think we would not have failed,' says Cohn. 'We had
cash.' ... Maybe it's true that Goldman didn't need the government's help, but,
nevertheless, the firm availed itself of all the help offered. What seems lost
on Goldman executives is that questioning the necessity of that help from the
safety of today's vantage point smacks of trying to have your cake and eat it,
too. And when they claim they would have done things differently had they
anticipated the resulting criticism, it would be tempting to give them a taste
of their own medicine: Goldman Sachs, you're a smart, sophisticated investor --
you did the trade! Now live with it."

William Galston, column, The New Republic: "The president is beginning to
realign his agenda. But he's just beginning. To complete the pivot and make 2010
the year of jobs, two other things must happen. First, the White House must
fully integrate the jobs focus into the president's schedule. ... It wouldn't
hurt to see the president in a hard hat.  ... Second, the legislative agenda for
2010 must reflect and reinforce the renewed focus on job creation. That means
postponing items that the American people are bound to regard as diversionary as
long as unemployment remains high. While action on items such as climate change
and immigration is worthy in principle, the time is not right. If the president
and congressional leaders try to force the pace, they are likely to fail -- and
pay a heavy political price in November. Great presidents from Lincoln to FDR
have understood that 'now or never' is the ultimate false choice in politics.
All too often, now means never. The 'fierce urgency of now' should be reserved
for what is truly urgent. As for the rest, patience is more than a virtue; it is
a necessity."

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2009 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved
