
                               2 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            January 20, 2014 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Warming warning: El Nios could get kicked into high gear;
More extreme weather possible, new study says

BYLINE: Doyle Rice, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 537 words


Some of the worst El Nios, the infamous climate patterns that shake up weather
around the world, could double in frequency in upcoming decades due to global
warming, says  a new study out  Sunday in the journal Nature Climate Change.

During an El Nio, water temperatures in the central and eastern equatorial
Pacific Ocean tend to be warmer than average for an extended period of time --
typically at least three to five months. This warm water brings about
significant  changes in global weather patterns.

The most powerful El Nios  are forecast to occur once every 10 years throughout
the rest of this century, according to the study's lead author, Wenju Cai of the
Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation, Australia's
national science agency.

Over the past 100 years or so, however these "extreme" El Nios occurred only
once every 20 years, he said.

This means that the extreme weather events fueled by El Nios -- such as droughts
and wildfires in Australia, floods in South America and powerful rainstorms
along the U.S. West Coast -- will occur more often.

The most recent El Nio ended in 2010.

The research results came from an aggregation of 20 climate models, which were
used in the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change report. The models found
that this doubling of extreme El Nio episodes is caused by increased surface
warming of the eastern equatorial Cai acknowledges those findings stand in
contrast to previous studies that found no solid consensus on how El Nios will
change because of global warming.

"The question of how global warming will change the frequency of extreme El Nio
events has challenged scientists for more than 20 years," said study co-author
Mike McPhaden of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. "This
research is the first comprehensive examination of the issue to produce robust
and convincing results."

"It looks like a solid study," said meteorologist Michael Mann of Penn State
University, who was not involved in the research. "The authors appear to provide
reasonably convincing evidence that El Nio events are likely to become more
extreme as the climate continues to warm, in turn implying greater future
regional climate/weather extremes than past studies.

However, another expert, senior scientist Kevin Trenberth of the National Center
for Atmospheric Research in Boulder, Colo.,  said some aspects of the study are
not really new, although cast in a new way.

He noted that there remain issues in how well models simulate El Nio events,
which means uncertainty remains on just how El Nio and the climate of the
tropical Pacific will actually change.

"Even if the projection for this increased frequency of extreme El Nios is
correct, there will still be extended periods of infrequent and weak El Nios,
such as has been experienced since the late 1990s (since the last big event of
1997-98)," said Lisa Goddard, director of the International Research Institute
for Climate and Society at Columbia University.

A separate study published in Nature Climate Change in 2013 found that El Nios
appeared to occur a lot more than normal over the last 50 years, just as
temperatures worldwide rose because of global warming, also suggesting a
connection.

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, Color, USA TODAY (Diagram)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2014 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              10 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            April 16, 2014 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

To avoid catastrophic warming, what's next?

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 496 words


A massive shift to clean energy is needed to combat catastrophic global warming,
according to a report released Sunday by the United Nations Intergovernmental
Panel on Climate Change.

I will believe that the forecasters of catastrophic results are serious when
they propose rationing of fossil fuels -- the only guaranteed way to reduce
consumption -- and a Manhattan Project-scope program to build carbon dioxide
scrubber/sequestration devices in all urban areas of the country.

We have known how to remove carbon dioxide from the atmosphere for a century.

Richard Bunce

History teaches us that the Earth has had many massive climatic changes.

A major concern that some have with global warming predictions is that it comes
across as little minds playing guessing games when compared with major events of
the past.

One microscopic virus has more potential to wipe out humanity than our fixation
on climate change.

Wayne De Witt

The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change report is a way forward.

Can we please acknowledge our past and get a move on with fixing things?

@TaniaMacdonald

The U.N. report says we should be looking at clean energy, but exactly what
sources should we be looking at? And who's going to pay for it all?

A big part of the problem are China and India, countries that don't seem to have
any kind of pollution controls at all.

Paule Studzinski

When all of the people who claim to care about the environment so much stop
driving gas-guzzling automobiles, I will take them a little more seriously.
Until then, it's all talk.

Jack McKnight

OK, we have a problem. As a nation, we've been presented with the facts over and
over, but what are the solutions?  Carbon capture and sequestration? A national
water grid? Changes in traffic laws to cut down gridlock? Seems like what we're
getting now is just more talk and more studies.

Edward W Greenlee

LETTERS

Instead of saying that "97% of climate scientists have concluded that
human-caused climate change is happening," as was stated in the column "On
climate change, expect the worst" (USATODAY.com, Saturday), it should have been
100%.

All competent climate scientists know that humans contribute to climate change
through land-use change (e.g., urbanization), and pollution and greenhouse gas
emissions. That is not the issue.

The real question is, are our greenhouse gas emissions going to cause incredibly
dangerous amounts of climate change in the future? No one really knows the
answer to this question; and predictions of high amounts of danger may be
overblown. Only if it will be dangerous should this be a big public policy
concern.

Overconfidence about the future of climate change has resulted in large amounts
of money being spent worldwide to stop things that may or may not happen in the
distant future.

Only a small amount is going to help real people suffering today due to climate
change, however caused. This is the real climate crisis.

Tom Harris

Executive Director

International Climate Science Coalition

Ottawa

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Alejandro Gonzalez, USA TODAY (bar graph)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2014 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              16 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            March 19, 2014 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Obama creates climate tool with Google, Intel, Microsoft;
Databases to share stored information

BYLINE: Wendy Koch, @WendyKoch, USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 349 words


Google plans to create high-resolution drought mapping for the mainland United
States as part of a White House effort -- to be unveiled today -- to give
communities more data so they can prepare for climate change.

Google, one of several corporate participants, will also use federal databases
to build what it says will be the first terrain map of the planet to show how
sea levels and other climate-related changes are occurring.

Rebecca Moore,  of Google Earth Engine & Earth Outreach, says  Google aims to
help people prepare for extreme heat, drought, sea level rise and flooding "as
easily as they use Google maps to get driving directions."

The Obama administration is tapping the expertise and reach of more than a dozen
U.S. companies, universities and private groups, as well as the World Bank for
its "Climate Data Initiative."

Beginning today, a new weblink -- climate.data.gov -- will be the central site
for U.S. government data on climate change.

John Holdren, director of the White House Office of Science and Technology,
says the initiative aims to tap the "ingenuity" of the private sector in
developing user-friendly applications and maps, adding: "It's going to be a huge
asset in preparing communities for climate change."

Microsoft plans to donate a total of 800 terabytes -- nearly one petabyte -- of
cloud storage to 40 climate-change research projects. For communities seeking
help, it will customize its free two-year-old "Fetch Climate" tool, which uses
satellite and other data to show how an area has changed over time.

Intel plans to host three climate-change "hackathons" this year -- in the
Chesapeake Bay, New Orleans and San Jose. It will challenge engineering and
computer science students  to create helpful new apps and tools from existing
federal data.

The new data initiative is "an important step to provide this information to
users," says Vicki Arroyo, executive director of Georgetown Climate Center, a
non-partisan group. Yet, she says while data are necessary,  communities tell
her group that they need data in easily accessible and understandable formats.

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Marcio Jose Sanchez, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2014 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              17 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             June 24, 2014 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

The heat is on: World sees warmest May on record;
And El Nino could keep trend going

BYLINE: Doyle Rice, USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 296 words


Last month was the warmest May for the Earth on record, according to a climate
report released Monday by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
(NOAA).

The heat was fueled by unusual warmth in the oceans, which make up more than 70%
of the Earth's surface.

"The majority of the world experienced warmer-than-average monthly temperatures,
with record warmth across eastern Kazakhstan, parts of Indonesia and central and
northwestern Australia," the report from NOAA's National Climatic Data Center
noted. "Scattered sections across every major ocean basin were also record warm
."

The combined average temperature over the entire globe in May 2014 was 59.93
degrees Fahrenheit, which was 1.33 degrees above the 20th-century average, NOAA
said.

The USA was warm in May, but far from a record. A report last week noted that
May 2014 was the nation's 32nd warmest May on record. Global temperature records
go back to 1880.

May also marked the 351st consecutive month with a global temperature above the
20th-century average.

Last week, separate climate data sets from NASA and the Japan Meteorological
Agency also found that May was the warmest on record.

For the spring 2014 season, defined as the months of March, April and May, it
was the second warmest spring on record. For the year to date, it's been the
fifth warmest on record, so far, the climate center reported.

El Niño, a warming of tropical Pacific Ocean water that affects climate and
weather patterns around the world, was not present yet in May, the NCDC
reported. However, the Climate Prediction Center estimates about a 70% chance
that El Niño conditions will develop this summer and an 80% chance they will
develop this fall and winter.

The two warmest years on record, 1998 and 2010, occurred during El Niños.

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Rob Schumacher, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2014 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              18 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              May 16, 2014 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

What can humans do to slow global warming?

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 428 words


FACEBOOK

Glaciers in Antarctica are irreversibly melting from global warming and ozone
loss, according to new research. This could raise sea levels by 4 feet or more
in coming centuries.

Quite a few people are in denial about climate change. Ask individuals to live
their lives in a slightly more restrained way or to be more conscious of their
impact on the environment, and they are quick to judge and reach for anything to
convince them that what they're doing is really not that bad.

Scientists are just saying  that, as a whole, we need to consider how we affect
the community and our planet.

Mark Mathias

Climate change is a natural process.  The point is, we're doing nothing to help
decelerate the process.  We're accelerating it. Whether our influence is minimal
or great, why is it so hard to say, "Let's do everything we can to make sure it
isn't us."

Stephen Castiglione

I believe the climate is changing, but I don't believe we can stop it. Even if
the U.S. did adopt an energy conservation policy, Russia and China won't. All
that would happen is more Americans would lose their jobs.

Jake Gurley

LETTERS

I don't understand Republican naysayer logic expressed by Sen. John Barrasso,
R-Wyo., regarding the cost of addressing climate change on a federal level ("We
don't need more red tape," Opposing view, Global warming debate, May 9).

Climate change is a national -- actually international -- problem and not just
an issue that requires a piecemeal solution. Is it realistic to think that coal
mining states will put the nation's long-term environmental good before their
short-term economic interests?

George W. Bush is comfortable letting history be the judge of the Iraq War, even
though he will be long gone and unavailable to answer for or suffer any
consequences.  People like Barrasso are suggesting the same thing in regard to
climate change. It seems to be enough if his constituents are happy.

This is selfish given the global consequences if we don't take the lead in this
cause.

Edward Lumas

Grand Rapids, Mich.

TWITTER

Political common ground fades

Both political parties are still searching for the right way to address climate
change. What should it be?

How about doing something about it? Like the rest of the modern world. The USA
is so behind in so many ways.

@twheels1980

No. Only the far left is addressing climate change.

@Jaytotheford

Avoid the climate change issue altogether.

@U_KNOW_JUAN

Tell people that if we don't start to reverse it, they will die and their kids
will die.

@tburke291012

For more comments, follow @USATOpinion or #tellusatoday on Twitter.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2014 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              21 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           September 22, 2014 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Companies to make climate pledges at U.N. summit;
Investors' voices join chorus calling for action on emissions

BYLINE: Wendy Koch, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 972 words


Touted as the world's largest gathering ever on climate change, this week's U.N.
Climate Summit  will be as much about business as politics.

Major companies, including Big Oil, will pledge to help fight global warming by
cutting their heat-trapping carbon dioxide emissions, protecting forests and
reducing methane leakage from fossil fuel production.

They're getting nudged to act, not just by tens of thousands of climate marchers
who clogged Manhattan streets Sunday -- some dressed as polar bears and others
carrying signs that read, "Go Solar," "Fracking=Death" and "There Is No Planet
B" -- but by investors demanding action.

The result will be a climate extravaganza unlike any before. "This is very
different. It's not just policy leaders," says Mindy Lubber, president of Ceres,
a non-profit group that promotes sustainability. There's an "unprecedented"
number of companies, investors and finance ministers involved, she says.

"It's a very, very positive sign," Todd Stern, U.S. special envoy for climate
change, said in a White House briefing last week.  "Business is increasingly
focused on trying to, in some cases, be part of the clean energy revolution."

Today, one day before the summit, Archbishop Desmond Tutu is slated to announce
new fossil fuel divestment. Hundreds of wealthy individuals and at least 50
foundations will pledge to divest any holdings in the world's top 200 oil and
gas producers, including ExxonMobil, BP and Chevron.

"It's a snowballing movement," says Stephen Heintz, president of the Rockefeller
Brothers Fund, which is signing on. His fund is controlled by a family whose
fortune was made in the oil industry.

That's not all.

About two dozen large companies will join environmental groups and 24 countries
to stop deforestation, which can exacerbate global warming by releasing more
heat-trapping carbon dioxide into the atmosphere. They'll commit not to source
products -- including palm oil, soy and beef -- from land where forests have
been recently or illegally cut down.  They'll join Nestle, Kellogg's, Hershey's
and General Mills, which have already pledged action.

"It's a good news story I never would have predicted," says Charles McNeill, a
senior policy adviser for the United Nations Development Program.

Six of the world's largest oil and gas companies will commit, via a new
partnership with the Climate and Clean Air Coalition, to take steps to reduce
methane leaks in fossil fuel production.

"This is an enormous opportunity" for the industry, says Nathaniel Keohane of
the Environmental Defense Fund, a private group. He says emissions of methane, a
potent greenhouse gas, account for 25% of global warming.

World Bank President Jim Yong Kim will unveil a growing list of companies and
cities that, like his organization, support a price on carbon. Advocates say
that taxing fossil fuels such as oil and coal, which emit carbon when burned,
will increase investments in energy efficiency and renewable power.

Last week, more than 340 global institutional investors with at least $24
trillion in assets -- including Swiss Re and the Unitarian Universalist
Association -- called on government leaders to adopt carbon pricing. The
European Union has done so, but the United States has not.

We Mean Business, a coalition working with thousands of companies and investors,
will launch with a report on increasing business support for low-carbon energy.
It holds a discussion today between top U.N. climate negotiator Christiana
Figueres and the leaders of two companies that have pledged to get all their
power from renewable sources: Apple's Tim Cook and Ikea's Peter Agnefjäll.

Dozens of climate-related events will take place this week in the Big Apple, but
the summit itself occurs Tuesday at U.N. headquarters. President Obama and
leaders from more than 120 countries are likely to announce climate initiatives,
and company CEOs will participate in talks or make their own commitments.

"We're taking this summit seriously, both to show that the United States is
committed to leading the fight against climate change and to call on other
leaders to step up to the plate," says John Podesta, Obama's counselor.

He says Obama will outline U.S. efforts but will not make a new
emissions-cutting pledge until early next year.

In 2009, at U.N. climate talks in Copenhagen, Obama pledged to reduce U.S.
emissions by 17%, from 2005 levels, by 2020 -- a goal the country is largely on
course to meet.

The leaders of China and India, the world's first- and third-largest emitters of
carbon dioxide, will not attend.

Podesta says China's vice premier and India's prime minister will meet with
Obama a few days later in Washington.

The summit will get a dose of Hollywood. Actor and environmentalist Leonardo
DiCaprio, chosen as a U.N. Messenger of Peace, will speak.

"I feel a moral obligation to speak out at this key moment in human history," he
said in a statement.

Though the event is not part of formal U.N. climate negotiations, it's aimed at
creating momentum for a new global accord to be signed next year in Paris. Prior
U.N. agreements have not reduced global carbon emissions, which continue to rise
mostly because of economic development in Asia.

Figueres, the U.N. negotiator, says net carbon emissions will need to be slashed
to zero in the second half of this century to keep a global temperature rise
under 2 degrees Celsius (or 3.6 degrees Fahrenheit).

Heintz says his fund, the legacy of John D. Rockefeller, may signal a shift in
U.S. attitudes. It  devotes half its grants to promoting renewable power and
climate research.

He says Rockefeller believed in innovation and in founding Standard Oil, he put
an older industry -- whale oil -- out of business. "I'm convinced that if he
were alive today," Heintz says, "he'd be looking out to the future and investing
in clean energy technology."

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo TIMOTHY A. CLARY, AFP/Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2014 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              22 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             April 1, 2014 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Cage global warming deniers?;
Skeptics getting a lot of hot air from activists

BYLINE: Jonah Goldberg

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 786 words


Finally, someone has come up with a way to settle the debate over climate
change: Put the people on the wrong side of the argument in cages.

A writer for the website Gawker recently penned a self-described "rant" on the
pressing need to arrest, charge and imprison people who "deny" global warming.
In fairness, Adam Weinstein doesn't want mass arrests (besides, in a country
where only 44% of Americans say there is "solid evidence" of global warming and
it's mostly due to human activity, you can't round up every dissenter).
Fact-checking scientists are spared. So is "the man on the street who thinks
Rush Limbaugh is right. ... You all know that man. That man is an idiot. He is
too stupid to do anything other than choke the earth's atmosphere a little more
with his Mr. Pibb burps and his F-150's gassy exhaust."

But Weinstein's magnanimity ends there. Someone must pay. Weinstein suggests the
government simply try the troublemakers and spokespeople. You know, the usual
suspects. People like Limbaugh himself as well as ringleaders of political
organizations and businesses that refuse to toe the line. "Those malcontents
must be punished and stopped."

Serious debate?

Weinstein says that this "is an argument that's just being discussed seriously
in some circles." He credits Rochester Institute of Technology philosophy
professor Lawrence Torcello for getting the ball rolling. Last month, Torcello
argued that America should follow Italy's lead. In 2009, six seismologists were
convicted of poorly communicating the risks of a major earthquake. When one
struck, the scientists were sentenced to six years in jail for downplaying the
risks. Torcello and Weinstein want a similar approach for climate change.

This is a great standard for free speech in America. Let's just agree that the
First Amendment reads, "Nothing in this clause shall be considered binding if it
contradicts legal practices in the Abruzzo region of Italy."

The truth is this isn't as new an outlook as Weinstein suggests. For instance,
in 2009, New York Times columnist Paul Krugman insisted that "deniers" in
Congress who opposed the Waxman-Markey climate change bill were committing
"treason" while explaining their opposition on the House floor. (That same year,
Krugman's fellow Timesman Thomas Friedman wrote that China's authoritarian
system was preferable to ours, in part, because it lets "enlightened" leaders
deal with climate change.)

"The fact is that the planet is changing faster than even pessimists expected,"
Krugman insisted. How fast the earth is changing is open to all kinds of debate,
but short of an asteroid strike it won't change as fast as the global warming
pessimists have claimed. For example, in 2008, Al Gore predicted that the North
Pole Ice Cap would be  ice free by 2013. Arctic ice, which never came close to
disappearing, has actually been making a bit of comeback lately.

Gore hyperbole

Gore's prediction -- echoed by then Sen. John Kerry and countless others -- was
always ridiculous hyperbole. But even most serious, non-hyperbolic,
computer-modeled predictions have overestimated the amount of warming we've
experienced. The United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change has
had to retract several histrionic predictions, such as its erroneous prophecy
that the Himalayan glaciers would be gone by 2035.

Its new report, out on Monday, contains a new raft of dire prophecies requiring
trillions in new spending. If I greet it with skepticism, shall I pack a tooth
brush for my trip to jail?

Climate change activists insist that in science, revisions are routine, and that
such corrections prove the good faith of scientists. Even if that's true, one
might still note that incentives are unhealthily arranged so that even
well-intentioned researchers are encouraged to exaggerate the dangers of climate
change and discouraged to criticize hyperbole. Moreover, were it not for the
skeptics and deniers, many such corrections would never have been brought to
light. (My own view is that man plays some role in warming, but the threat is
overblown and the popular remedies range from trivial to unaffordable to
ridiculous.)

The real problem is that political activists and many leading institutions,
particularly in the news media and academia, are determined to demonize any kind
of skepticism -- about the extent of the threat or the efficacy of proposed
solutions -- as illegitimate idiocy.

That attitude is unscientific and undemocratic enough. But it sure beats calling
for your opponents to be thrown in the gulag for disagreeing with you.

Jonah Goldberg, fellow at the American Enterprise Institute and National Review
contributing editor, is also a member of USA TODAY's Board of Contributors.

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Olivier Hoslet, epa Global warming activists protest in front of
the European Commission headquarters in Brussels in January.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2014 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              30 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            August 28, 2014 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

U.S. eyes 'name and shame' on climate change

BYLINE: Wendy Koch, @wendykoch, USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 330 words


The Obama administration is likely to use upcoming climate talks to push for a
treatyless accord that would "name and shame" countries into reducing
heat-trapping carbon emissions.

Faced with a Congress that has balked at fighting climate change, U.S.
negotiators are not expected to seek a  legally binding treaty  requiring Senate
ratification. Instead, they're more apt to seek emission-cutting pledges from
major polluters such as China.

"I believe there will be a pledge-and-review agreement" that would be
politically but not legally binding, says Paul Bledsoe, a senior climate change
official in the Clinton administration who has talked to the Obama White House.
"It's kind of what the U.S. has done the last five years," says Bledsoe, now a
senior fellow in climate and energy issues at the German Marshall Fund of the
United States. In 2009, President Obama made an international pledge to cut U.S.
emissions 17% from 2005 levels by 2020.

The United Nations is holding a climate summit Sept. 23 in New York  to advance
another round of U.N. talks in December in Lima, Peru, that are slated to yield
a  climate agreement next year in Paris. As part of the negotiations, the Obama
administration will sidestep Congress by seeking a political accord rather than
a global treaty, The New York Times reported Wednesday, saying it wants to avoid
another Kyoto failure. In 1997, the U.N. signed a climate  treaty in Kyoto,
Japan, that the U.S. Senate never ratified.

State Department spokesman Jen Psaki declined to describe the U.S. approach.
"Not a word of the new climate agreement currently under discussion has been
written, so it is entirely premature to say whether it will or won't require
Senate approval," she said.

Yet, climate experts say Obama has little choice. "Realistically what else is he
going to do?" says Vicki Arroyo, executive director of the non-partisan
Georgetown Climate Center, noting his inability to get the two-thirds majority
needed to ratify a treaty.

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2014 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              31 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              May 20, 2014 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Climate change could wipe out many landmarks;
Floods, storms, fires endanger historic sites

BYLINE: Doyle Rice, @USATODAYweather, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 417 words


Climate change is putting historic and cultural landmarks around the USA at
risk, according to a report released today by the Union of Concerned Scientists,
a non-profit science advocacy organization based in Washington, D.C.

"Sea-level rise, coastal erosion, increased flooding, heavy rains and more
frequent large wildfires are damaging archaeological resources, historic
buildings and cultural landscapes across the nation," says the report, National
Landmarks at Risk.

The report, which was not a peer-reviewed study, includes 30 at-risk locations,
including places where the "first Americans" lived, the Spaniards ruled, English
colonists landed, slavery rose and fell, and gold prospectors struck it rich.

Locations include the Statue of Liberty; Jamestown, Va.; the Cape Hatteras
(N.C.) Lighthouse; and the Kennedy Space Center.

"You can almost trace the history of the United States through these sites,"
says Adam Markham, director of climate impacts at UCS and report co-author.

Sea levels already have risen 1 to 2 feet across portions of the East and Gulf
Coast, USA TODAY reported last year, and global sea levels will rise about 1
foot to slightly more than 3 feet by 2100, according to this year's Fifth
Assessment Report by the United Nations' Intergovernmental Panel on Climate
Change.

Many at-risk sites are national parks, including Mesa Verde, Bandelier, Cape
Hatteras and the Everglades. According to the National Park Service, 96% of park
service land is in areas where global warming has been observed in the past
century.

According to the UCS report, one historic site -- Jamestown, the first permanent
English settlement in the Americas --will likely be underwater by the end of the
century.

The Kennedy Space Center and surrounding Cape Canaveral area in Florida, site of
the Apollo launch, are threatened by storm surges that regularly breach dunes
near the launch pads.

In the West, climate change is increasing the risk of large wildfires in places
such as California's Sierra Nevada, the report says. Across the region, wildfire
season lasts two months longer than in the 1970s.

"There is a tendency to confuse the impacts of climate with the impacts of
human-caused climate change," says Chip Knappenberger of the Cato Institute, a
libertarian think tank in Washington.

"This most certainly is taking place in the UCS report. Most of the examples in
the report are located in areas where the extremes of the natural climate pose
significant threats and expose vulnerabilities," he says.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo 2009 usa today photo

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2014 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              38 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            January 31, 2014 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Baby, it's cold outside, but yes, the globe is warming

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 495 words


Call it the polar vortex. Or the arctic invasion. By whatever name, January is
ending as one of the most frigid months in decades in parts of the north-central
and eastern United States.

Tuesday's weather map in USA TODAY looked like a Democrat's dream: 48 of the 50
states had shades of blue. By the time President Obama got to the climate change
portion of his State of the Union Address that night, a rare snowstorm in the
Deep South was spawning an epic traffic jam in Atlanta, paralyzing Birmingham,
whitening Myrtle Beach and icing Pensacola.

So does all this suggest global warming is, well, a crock?

No, but it does provide fodder for comedy, not to mention denial and skepticism.
Sen James Inhofe, R-Okla., said this month's cold spell "has to make everyone
question ... whether global warming was ever real." Donald Trump tweeted that
"this very expensive GLOBAL WARMING bull---- has got to stop."

Such ignorance would be easy to dismiss if polls didn't show that the number of
Americans who believe the world is warming has declined, from 85% in 2006 to 73%
in 2013. Another survey shows that an unusually hot or cold season can shift
public opinion on climate change.

So here are some things to keep in mind as you try to square your frozen
driveway with a warming world:

Local isn't global. This month's severe cold isn't affecting the whole planet,
or even the whole USA. The same weather pattern that has funneled frigid air
into Chicago and Minneapolis has brought unusual warmth to Alaska and severe
drought to California. Even more to the point, the USA covers just 2% of Earth's
surface. Australia had its hottest year on record last year and experienced
temperatures this month as high as 118.

Weather isn't climate. Weather is what happens moment to moment in the
atmosphere; climate is the long-term average of weather over time in particular
places. As an adage puts it, climate is what you expect, and weather is what you
get. Global warming doesn't preclude cold snaps, even severe ones.

The climate trends are overwhelming. Earth had its fourth-warmest year on record
in 2013, and all of the 10 warmest years on record have occurred since 1998, the
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration reported last week.

It is true, as the skeptics like to point out, that long-term climate modeling
remains an inexact science. Some environmentalists hurt their cause by leaping
to blame every extreme weather event on global warming. And a changing climate
produces winners as well as losers.

But climate scientists are 95% to 100% sure that human activity -- emission of
greenhouse gases -- is the dominant cause of dramatic warming. That warming is
already raising sea levels, acidifying oceans, melting glaciers and intensifying
heat waves, downpours, droughts and wildfires.

January's cold snap has caused plenty of misery. The damage will only be
compounded if it becomes an excuse for yet another year of denial and delay in
addressing climate dangers.

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo John Amis, AP

DOCUMENT-TYPE: OPINION

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2014 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              41 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             August 4, 2014 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

America's pain is China's gain

BYLINE: Ed Whitfield

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 369 words


With growing economies and energy demands in China, India and the rest of the
developing world, America's so-called leadership on climate change is highly
unlikely to succeed -- and very likely to backfire. U.S. jobs and economic
opportunity will be lost to countries hungry for affordable energy.

According to the non-partisan Congressional Research Service, climate-related
spending in the U.S. totaled nearly $77 billion across the federal government
from 2008 through 2013. Many federal agencies now have climate offices and
dedicated personnel.

President Obama is seeking to expand this spending and broaden the scope of the
administration's climate activities. The most aggressive of these actions is the
president's proposed clean power plan, which seeks to limit carbon dioxide
emissions from our nation's power plants.

Obama's own Environmental Protection Agency admits it will cost billions of
dollars per year and raise energy prices for consumers. Obliterating the coal
industry will also cost thousands of jobs in Kentucky and across America.

The Obama administration fully understands that unilateral climate action will
have little impact. As former EPA administrator Lisa Jackson told my
subcommittee, "We will not ultimately be able to change the amount of carbon
dioxide that is accumulating in the atmosphere alone."

Current EPA Administrator Gina McCarthy testified last fall that her agency does
not measure whether its regulations will actually affect climate change; it is
simply part of an "overall strategy" to demonstrate global leadership.

While U.S. energy-related carbon emissions have fallen to their lowest level in
nearly two decades, emissions in China are at an all-time high and continue to
rise. In fact, China emits more carbon dioxide in one month than the maximum
amount EPA's proposal would reduce in one year.

In sum, the president's climate plan amounts to all pain for American consumers
and China's gain. While President Obama continues to spend tens of billions of
dollars and seek to hamstring our economy, China and other countries abroad are
poised to take advantage of our competitive weakness.

Rep. Ed Whitfield, R-Ky., is chairman of the House Energy and Power
Subcommittee.

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2014 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              46 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 3, 2014 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

223 firms back EPA power plant rule;
Companies sign letter supporting 30% carbon cut

BYLINE: Doyle Rice, USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 563 words


More than 200 U.S. companies came together Tuesday to support a major reduction
in carbon pollution from power plants proposed by the Environmental Protection
Agency.

"As businesses concerned about the immediate and long-term implications of
climate change, we strongly support the principles behind the draft carbon
pollution standard for existing power plants," states a letter that was sent to
the EPA, the Obama administration and congressional leaders.

Major brand names and Fortune 500 companies -- including Kellogg's, Starbucks,
Ikea, Levi Strauss and Nestlé -- were among the 223 companies that signed the
letter.

The proposed EPA rule aims to reduce carbon pollution from the nation's power
plants by 30% from 2005 levels. It represents one of the most significant
actions ever taken by the U.S. government to fight climate change. The public
comment period for the plan ended Monday, and the EPA should announce a final
rule next summer.

Carbon dioxide from the burning of fossil fuels is the greenhouse gas that's
most responsible for global warming, according to the near-unanimous conclusion
of climate scientists.

"Our support is firmly grounded in economic reality," the letter states. "We
know that tackling climate change is one of America's greatest economic
opportunities of the 21st century, and we applaud the EPA for taking steps to
help the country seize that opportunity."

"These companies recognize that the EPA's power plant rule is a critical step in
mitigating climate risks and accelerating low-carbon technologies that hold
enormous economic promise," said Mindy Lubber, president of the non-profit
sustainability group Ceres, which helped organize the letter.

She added that there are some unfounded assumptions that environmental
regulations are bad for the economy and bad for jobs, but the facts don't bear
that out.

"Achieving the proposed carbon reductions from existing power plants through
energy efficiency retrofits of existing buildings will reduce greenhouse gas
emissions and our impact on the planet, reduce costs for both power companies
and consumers, and help drive the economy by creating jobs," said Dan Probst,
Chairman of Energy and Sustainability Services at JLL, a global real estate
management and investment firm headquartered in Chicago.

As an example, Probst said that retrofitting of old buildings in Illinois alone
should create more than 7,000 jobs.

"We all need to play our part in moving toward a more low-carbon society and
economy," said John Gardner, VP and Chief Sustainability Officer at Novelis, the
world's largest manufacturer of rolled aluminum.

"It's a win economically and win environmentally," he said.

"Nestlé is 148 years old, and we want to be here for another 148 years," said
Tim Brown, president and CEO of Nestlé Waters North America.

"And that's "dependent on a stable environment to operate in."

Other business groups don't see such a rosy picture.

This week, the Competitive Enterprise Institute and 11 other free-market
organizations submitted their own public comments to the Environmental
Protection Agency, saying the Clean Power Plan would increase electricity prices
and raise reliability concerns across the country.

According to CEI senior fellow Marlo Lewis, the Clean Power Plan is illegitimate
and unlawful: "The plan's putative climate benefits are illusory -- the
regulation should be withdrawn."

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo JASON WACHTER, st. cloud times, via AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2014 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              52 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           November 5, 2014 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Let's agree to preserve planet for the future

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 282 words


FACEBOOK

A new United Nations report finds with at least 95% certainty that humans and
greenhouse gas emissions are largely to blame for climate change.

You can kill the messenger all you want, but you can't discredit the message.

It's tough sacrificing some short-term comfort (and profits) for longer-term
environmental sustainability, but we are stewards for future generations.

I'd hate to know how future generations will judge us if skeptics continue to
obstruct needed change.

Steve Chalk

Science shouldn't be a liberal vs. conservative issue. I would expect arguments
about what to do about climate change, with liberals emphasizing a more active
role for government and conservatives emphasizing the abilities of private
industry to come to the rescue.

Unfortunately, primarily in the United States, climate change has become a
political issue to the point where the right denies it despite evidence.

Terry Mayer

The cause of climate change has little to do with what should be done. The real
question is do we want it to happen, and if not, what do we do about it? Many
undesirable things occur that aren't man-made (floods, forest fires, shark
attacks), but that doesn't mean we don't do anything to try to prevent them or
lessen their impact.

Dave Phillips

Could we all possibly agree that the majority of mankind should show some
concern about the only environment we have? This would certainly help foster a
more well-rounded approach to conservation, pollution control, population
management, toxic waste disposal and deforestation.

We really all might like to continue to enjoy the only planet available to us.
What is done today will reap benefits for the future of our world.

Steve Poirier

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2014 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              57 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           November 13, 2014 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

U.S.-China climate accord offers new hope for planet

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 521 words


Global warming is, by definition, a global problem that requires a global
solution. But two countries count more than all the rest: China and the United
States.

Together, they produce almost 40% of the world's greenhouse gas emissions.
That's why Wednesday's announcement in Beijing of a deal to limit those
emissions is such an important step toward averting catastrophic disruption of
the Earth's climate.

Until now, China and the U.S. have been locked in a "you go first" standoff.
China has resisted limits because the U.S. and other nations had a decades-long
head start on industrialization. The U.S has been reluctant to act only to see
increases from China swamp any U.S. reductions.

Wednesday's unexpectedly detailed agreement points to a way out. President Obama
set a new target to cut U.S. carbon pollution 26%-28% from 2005 levels by 2025.
And Chinese leader Xi Jinping pledged -- for the first time -- to cap his
nation's carbon emissions by 2030 and sharply increase its share of non-fossil
fuel energy.

Xi's pledge wasn't prompted by a sudden concern about the fate of polar bears.
China is doing something it has powerful domestic incentives to do anyway. Coal
burned in power plants and factories is a main source of the smog that shrouds
Beijing and other cities, threatening public health and inviting social unrest.
(In a vivid display of how human activity can alter the atmosphere, the skies
were much clearer in Beijing during this week's Asia-Pacific Economic
Cooperation summit after  plants were shut down and traffic was limited.)

As critics were quick to point out, Wednesday's deal won't solve climate change.

China's emissions could keep rising for 16 more years before they peak. And the
U.S. goal is less ambitious than it seems,  because emissions have already been
dropping since the mid-2000s as natural gas displaces dirtier coal.

Despite these caveats, the agreement  is a big deal. Scientists say that while
it might not keep the globe from warming beyond the global target of 3.6 degrees
Fahrenheit, it could prevent a ruinous 7.2 degree-F rise.

The agreement also will give a big boost to United Nations climate talks next
month in Peru and next year in France. With China (24% of global greenhouse
gases) and the U.S. (15%) on board, it will be easier to bring along other big
emitters, such as the European Union (10%) and India (6%).

None of this seems to matter to Congress' head-in-the-sand crowd, which promptly
denounced the Beijing deal and has blocked the best way to cut emissions: Put a
price on carbon to prevent polluters from treating the atmosphere as a waste
dump.

In the new Republican-controlled Senate, coal champion Mitch McConnell of
Kentucky, the incoming majority leader, and climate change skeptic James Inhofe
of Oklahoma, the presumed new chairman of the Environment and Public Works
Committee,  vow to stop Obama's efforts to regulate emissions.

The objections from McConnell, Inhofe and others boil down to this: China should
do  more to curb its emissions. The U.S. shouldn't do anything. It's hard to see
that approach flying in Beijing, or any other world capital.

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Mandel Ngan, AFP/Getty Images

DOCUMENT-TYPE: OPINION

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2014 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              64 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          September 24, 2014 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Don't constrain energy growth

BYLINE: Chip Knappenberger

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 373 words


At the U.N. climate summit, President Obama made the case that all nations of
the world should follow the U.S. lead and establish concrete and ambitious plans
aimed at reducing emissions of greenhouse gases to ensure a more climate
-friendly future.

While this sounds like a noble cause, people around the world desperately want
and need a lot of other "-friendly" things that aren't hemmed in by plans like
these.

In Africa, India and other developing places, 1.2 billion people live without
access to electricity, and many more live without an adequate supply. They want
a more energy-friendly future with "luxuries" such as light bulbs and clean
cooking facilities, not to mention improved sanitation. Energy-starved nations
are not well-positioned to take advantage of economic opportunities, better
living standards and improved human welfare.

With today's technologies, greenhouse gas emissions are closely tied to energy
production, so the president's call for lowering emissions is akin to a call for
constraining energy expansion in these nations. Such an outcome would have
large-scale negative impacts, not only to those directly affected but to the
world as a whole.

In the U.S., where our energy wants and needs are fully met, we have the
"luxury" to worry about how our energy is generated and the potential
environmental consequences. But even here, dealing with climate change
consistently ranks low in priority in opinion polls. Topping the list are
desires for actions that are job-friendly, economy-friendly and national
security-friendly.

The president's touted "successes" in restricting greenhouse gas emissions have
come through Environmental Protection Agency regulations and executive orders,
actions that have bypassed our representatives in Congress. This shows he is
largely acting on his desires, rather than those of Americans at large.

Overall, the world needs more energy, not less. Whatever changes in the climate
that are to come, humanity will be better prepared and more resilient if we are
healthier, wealthier and wiser. Restricting our ability to progress in these
areas is not a good solution.

Paul C. "Chip" Knappenberger is assistant director of the Center for the Study
of Science at the Cato Institute.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2014 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              65 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 30, 2014 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

After Earth's hottest year, a planetary pledge drive

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 511 words


As December draws to a close, 2014 appears on track to be the planet's hottest
year since modern record-keeping began. This is particularly remarkable, and
unsettling, because it is happening even without the kind of full-fledged El
Niño event that shuttles heat from the ocean to the atmosphere.

These record surface temperatures, if they verify, will cap a year during which
evidence continued to mount about melting ice sheets, rising sea levels and
other potentially catastrophic damage caused by emissions of greenhouse gases.

So what are the nations of the world doing to counter this grave threat? Well,
they're talking. And talking some more.

The first United Nations climate change convention took place in 1992. The
hottest 15 years on record have come since the Kyoto talks of 1997. Diplomats
kept on dickering in Copenhagen (2009), in Cancun (2010) and this year in Lima.

About the best that can be said for the accord announced earlier this month in
Peru, after two weeks of talks among nearly 200 nations, is that even a weak
deal is better than no deal.

For the first time, all countries, including developing ones, committed to
reduce the fossil fuel emissions that cause climate disruption. But the
commitments -- due during the first half of 2015 -- won't be legally binding,
and many are likely to be vague.

Put another way, the Lima agreement, designed to set the stage for a global pact
in Paris next year, resembles a planetwide United Way drive. Everyone makes
pledges; the follow-through relies mostly on peer pressure.

In this pledge-drive scenario, the most important commitments come from the top
three emitters -- China, the United States and the European Union. Together,
they account for 52% of current carbon-dioxide emissions and 60% of cumulative
emissions since the dawn of the Industrial Age. Here, there is a little more
room for optimism:

China (28% of current emissions, 11% of cumulative emissions) faces domestic
unrest over poor air quality. It says it will reduce carbon emissions no later
than 2030, make a big investment in renewable energy sources and explore setting
up a nationwide "cap and trade" system that would put a price on greenhouse gas
emissions.

In the U.S. (14% current, 26% cumulative), President Obama has imposed the first
binding limits on emissions from existing power plants, and he has agreed to cut
pollution levels  26%-28% below 2005 levels by 2025. These steps have made the
U.S. less of an outcast at international climate talks, but they are under fire
from Republicans in Congress.

The European Union (10% current, 23% cumulative) has set a goal of cutting its
emissions 40% below 1990 levels by 2030.

These commitments are encouraging steps in the right direction, but still far
from what's needed. The world has dallied so long that the goal of holding
temperatures to 3.6 degrees Fahrenheit above pre-industrial levels might already
be a lost cause.

As the unwieldy U.N. climate negotiations lurch toward the next round of talks
in Paris, the politicians have their timetable. The climate has its own.

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: graphic

DOCUMENT-TYPE: OPINION

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2014 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              82 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              June 3, 2014 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

At last, EPA gets U.S. into the climate game

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 518 words


In recent weeks, the scientific warnings about global warming have been coming
in faster than a line of summer thunderstorms. Authoritative studies have
documented rising sea levels, "irreversible" ice sheet melting, a northward
migration of the tropics and climate-induced conflict.

There's no guarantee that the Obama administration's new limits on carbon
emissions from existing power plants, announced Monday, can reverse these
ominous trends. Global warming is, by definition, a global problem. Even if
America meets the administration's goal of a 30% reduction from 2005 levels by
2030, the U.S. reductions will be swamped by increases elsewhere if other big
polluting nations don't follow suit.

Does this mean the new rules aren't worth the effort? Hardly.

If the plan survives political and legal assaults, it will prevent a
not-inconsequential hundreds of millions of tons of heat-trapping carbon dioxide
from entering the atmosphere. It will make solar and wind power more competitive
with fossil fuels. And it will improve public health at home by reducing other
emissions from coal plants, the largest source of greenhouse gases.

Most important, the proposal will give the U.S., the world's second largest
carbon emitter after China, far more leverage in upcoming international climate
talks. "This is the United States' way to show it is in the game," says David
Doniger of the Natural Resources Defense Council.

Because a head-in-the-sand Congress has refused to put a price on carbon
pollution, the administration opted for the next best approach. The
Environmental Protection Agency is using its authority under the Clean Air Act
to set state standards, based on their energy mixes. States can use a variety of
ways to meet their goals. These flexible rules recognize that total emissions
are more important than how much comes out of each smokestack.

Even before the new EPA rules were announced, they set off the usual flurry of
warring economic prognostications. Business groups warned of skyrocketing
utility bills and job losses. Environmental groups claim electric bills will
drop and new green-energy jobs will flourish.

Who's right? The history of environmental regulations has been that scare
stories haven't panned out. But it's reasonable to conclude that the new rules
will cause electric rates to rise in some regions, particularly in
coal-dependent states such as Kentucky, Wyoming, West Virginia, Indiana and
North Dakota.

Even so, a singular focus on electric bills overlooks the high costs of inaction
for taxpayers everywhere -- in storm damage, sea wall construction and droughts.

There's a tiny chance, of course, that the scientific consensus on climate
disruption is too alarmist. But there's also a chance that scientists are being
overly conservative for fear of being labeled alarmist.

When the fate of the planet is in question, prudent risk management involves
preparing for the worst and hoping for the best. So far, the U.S. has mainly
prepared for the best and hoped against the worst.

The EPA plan marks the start of a far saner approach, one that will resonate
globally.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, Color, Janet Loehrke, USA TODAY (BAR GRAPH)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2014 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              91 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                               May 9, 2014 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Couric film traces roots of obesity;
'Fed Up' says food industry, public policy play role

BYLINE: Karen Weintraub, Special for USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 714 words


A new movie co-produced and narrated by television host Katie Couric accuses the
food industry and federal government of playing a major role in the nation's
obesity epidemic.

Obesity is often described as a personal problem: a lack of exercise and
self-control. But the film, Fed Up, argues that weight gain is also the natural
result of lax public policy and an industry that capitalizes on our biologically
programmed desire for sugar, salt and fat.

"We want people to get literally fed up with the system that has allowed the
food industry to target kids in what we think is a really nefarious way, but we
also want to arm people with the facts so they can take better control," Couric
said about the film, which makes its debut today for a limited run in theaters
nationwide. "It's challenging to be personally responsible when you don't know
the truth, or when you're misled."

Nutrition activists lauded the goals of the film, while industry experts said it
oversimplifies a complex problem and unnecessarily vilifies an industry that
would like to be part of the solution.

"There's a whole orchard's worth of cherry-picking in their claims and
statistics," said Matt Raymond, senior director of communications for the
International Food Information Council, an independent, non-profit education
foundation.

Industry members said the film ignored the positive steps the food industry has
taken to reduce obesity, such as removing full-calorie sodas from schools,
putting nutrition facts on the front of food packages, and cutting more than 6.4
trillion calories from the U.S. marketplace since 2007.

"Rather than identifying successful policies or ongoing efforts to find real and
practical solutions to obesity, (the film) adopts a short-sighted,
confrontational and misleading approach," according to a statement from the
Grocery Manufacturers Association, an industry group.

Couric said she set out to produce a film that would get to the bottom of the
obesity epidemic.

"I had covered obesity and what was happening in the American diet for 30 years,
and I realized nobody really understood the root causes," Couric said.

Those causes, according to the film, include food policy that subsidizes  corn
syrup and unhealthy school lunches, misleading corporate marketing, and lack of
public awareness.

Nevin Cohen, a food policy expert and professor at The New School in New York
City, said poverty is also a major factor in obesity. All parents want to feed
their children well, but when it's a choice between eating something cheap or
nothing at all, health concerns become a lower priority, he said.

"In my opinion, it's criminal to blame parents for feeding their kids unhealthy
food when we organize society to make it so difficult for them to" feed them
well, said Cohen, who is  writing a book about the role urban gardening can play
in healthy eating.

Former Food and Drug Administration commissioner David Kessler said a film such
as Fed Up can help raise public awareness about the dangers of having high-fat,
sugar-laden foods available everywhere at all times of day. Social acceptance
needs to change in the same way that attitudes toward smoking have changed, he
said. But it will be much harder to change attitudes about food, because people
can't give it up entirely.

Kessler, who served under  presidents George H.W. Bush and Bill Clinton, argues
in his 2009 book The End of Overeating that people are biologically programmed
to crave sugar, salt and fat. Instead of satisfying our desire, eating processed
foods stimulates our brain to make us want more, and food companies design
products to maximize  cravings, he said. "There are reasons why we keep eating,"
even if we want to stop, he said. "We're not going to be able to change the way
our brain responds to food, so we're going to have to change our environment or
our social norms."

Some solutions are easy and concrete, Couric said: "Drink water. Eat real food.
Don't bring your kids brownies for halftime at the soccer game."

"We have a lot of work to do, but the solutions are there," added co-producer
Laurie David, who also produced the award-winning climate-change film An
Inconvenient Truth. "How often do you have a complex problem where the solutions
are doable and tangible? I think that's pretty exciting."

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2014 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              92 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            February 21, 2014 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Globe stayed warm in January;
Fourth warmest temps on record

BYLINE: Doyle Rice, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 291 words


The U.S. was odd man out in January. While the country shivered through a
bitterly cold month, much of the rest of the world was warmer than average.

Globally, Earth had its fourth warmest January since record keeping began in
1880,  scientists at the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA)
reported Thursday.

The month was warmer in 2002, 2003 and 2007.

January's global average temperature was 54.8 degrees, or  1.17 degrees above
the 20th-century average of 53.6 degrees. All of the top 10 warmest January
months have occurred since 1998.

Land areas in the Southern Hemisphere had their warmest January on record, while
France and China had their second warmest January, according to the NOAA report.

As for precipitation, the United Kingdom had its third wettest January, leading
to devastating floods. Western Australia had its fifth wettest January on
record.

January "also marked the 38th consecutive January and 347th consecutive month
with a global temperature above the 20th century average," the report noted.

Sea ice levels  were a mixed bag: While Arctic Ocean ice extent was the fourth
smallest on record in January, Antarctic sea ice extent was the second largest.

In the U.S., January was only slightly cooler than average as warm weather out
West offset frigid temperatures in central and eastern states.

The drought in California likely will be the main weather and climate story this
year in the U.S., according to Deke Arndt of NOAA's National Climatic Data
Center in Asheville, N.C.

The U.S. Drought Monitor, a federal website that tracks drought, reported
Thursday that 94.5% of California was in some form of a drought. And 14.62% of
the state -- the west-central part -- is in "exceptional" drought, the worst
level.

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Frank Pompa, USA TODAY (BAR GRAPH)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2014 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              94 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           February 20, 2014 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

High court could put brake on greenhouse gas rules;
Case concerns extent of EPA's regulation of emission sources

BYLINE: Richard Wolf, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 545 words


The Supreme Court will weigh in Monday on one of the most intractable issues of
our time: global warming.

To hear environmentalists tell it, the health and welfare of Americans will be
jeopardized unless the government can continue to combat climate change by
regulating greenhouse gas emissions from all sources.

To hear industry and state government opponents of  regulations tell it,
billions of dollars and thousands of jobs are threatened as a result of a power
grab by the Obama administration.

In truth, both sides may be exaggerating. The  court isn't questioning the
danger of greenhouse gases or the government's first effort to suppress them via
tailpipe emissions. The battle pits President Obama's environmental agenda
against its fiercest critics in a case that could limit the Environmental
Protection Agency's options as it seeks to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from
power plants, industries and other stationary sources.

"It could literally stop the ongoing regulatory thrust of the EPA in its
tracks," says Richard Faulk, an environmental law expert at Hollingsworth and
George Mason University School of Law.

The case is a sequel to those decided by the high court in 2007 and 2011 --
cases that affirmed the government's authority to regulate greenhouse gases from
motor vehicles under the 1970 Clean Air Act. For that reason, "even a narrow
victory for industry would be an important victory," says Jacob Hollinger, a
former EPA lawyer now at McDermott, Will & Emery.

Industries, some  conservative states, GOP lawmakers and others claim the law
doesn't empower the administration to regulate emissions from power plants and
other stationary sources.

They also take issue with the EPA changing a rule in the law: Unlike other air
pollutants, carbon dioxide emissions  are so ubiquitous that the EPA raised the
law's threshold level requiring a permit from 100 tons per year to at least
75,000 tons. Opponents say that amounts to rewriting an act of Congress -- even
though the higher threshold makes it easier for some to avoid the permit
requirement -- and the EPA has no authority to do it.

The administration,  environmental groups and a number of other states including
California and New York, say the Clean Air Act was meant to address all air
pollutants, including greenhouse gases. Once the administration addressed auto
and truck emissions, they argue, the next natural step was stationary sources.

The greenhouse gas case raises several important issues that could have
repercussions, depending on the court's ruling.

First, how much authority does an agency have to change the letter (and in this
case numbers) of a federal law?

Second, will the Obama administration be able to substitute air pollution permit
programs for its failed "cap and trade" effort in 2010 to set an overall ceiling
on greenhouse gas emissions?

Third, will the justices see this case as part of a pattern of executive branch
excess, similar to the current Supreme Court battle over Obama's "recess
appointments"  without Senate confirmation? If so, an industry victory could
have greater political than legal implications.

"Politics matters," says Richard Lazarus, an environmental law professor at
Harvard Law School. "There will be people who will take this as a rebuke."

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: graphic Charlie Riedel, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2014 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              95 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           February 25, 2014 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Smog chokes China as public, experts demand change;
Country hovers at second-highest alert for air pollution

BYLINE: Calum MacLeod, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 442 words


China banned outdoor school sports and cookouts as it grappled with a fourth
straight day of thick, choking smog, a pollution problem that a recent report
says makes Beijing "barely suitable" for living.

Beijing maintained its orange pollution alert Monday, the second-highest level
of an official warning and response system introduced nationwide last October.
The city has been spraying streets with water to reduce dust in a severe smog
attack that has made the Chinese capital's pollution 10 times the level
considered safe by the World Health Organization.

"More forceful measures need to be taken," said Ma Jun, a leading voice on
China's environmental crisis and director of the Beijing-based Institute of
Public and Environmental Affairs.

Other areas in north and central China have been blighted by smog for days. A
report by the Shanghai Academy of Social Sciences concluded that the capital was
"barely suitable" for living.

If officials ever announce the "red" top-level alert, half of Beijing's cars are
supposed to be automatically grounded.

The reliance on cheap high-sulfur coal as China's chief energy source and a lack
of clean-coal technology are blamed for the extraordinary pollution plaguing
China cities.

Ma welcomed a government agreement to disclose discharges by certain plants but
noted that having tough laws doesn't matter if they're ignored by authorities,
as has been the case. "Beijing has a huge budget to deal with the problem, but I
am troubled by the gaps in our management system such as weak enforcement, so
factories can still break discharge standards," he said.

Beijing has not only shuttered barbecues but also restricted production output
at factories and power plants.

In Hebei province,  officials have begun demolishing expendable plants in
polluting industries such as concrete. Despite its distinction as China's most
polluted province, Hebei hopes to host the 2022 Winter Olympic Games along with
Beijing.

A top government adviser said China must cut its reliance on coal, according to
Bloomberg.

"China's pollution is at an unbearable stage," Li Junfeng, director general of
the National Center for Climate Change Strategy and International Cooperation,
said in Beijing. "It's like a smoker who needs to quit smoking at once;
otherwise, he will risk getting lung cancer."

Every morning, Zhang Lequn, mother of a 9-year-old girl, checks her iPhone apps
for the latest warnings on Beijing's air quality. Zhang, 35,  notes that the
U.S. Embassy's online pollution reading is usually higher than the Chinese
government statistic, as it was Monday. "I'd rather believe the worse one," she
said.

Contributing: Sunny Yang

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2014 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              98 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              June 23, 2014 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Eight major cases await Supreme Court rulings;
Abortion, unions, cellphone privacy are among issues

BYLINE: Richard Wolf, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 625 words


The Supreme Court will issue decisions on three days this week as it seeks to
conclude its 2013 term a week from today.

Major cases argued last fall have been decided -- on issues such as political
donations, affirmative action and prayer at government meetings. Rulings on the
most important cases argued since January will be handed down today and over the
next eight days. Here are eight potential blockbusters, in order of when oral
arguments were held:

Presidential powers. This case pits President Obama against Republicans in
Congress while the third branch of government serves as arbiter. It's a
challenge to appointments made by Obama to a federal labor board without Senate
confirmation, because he claimed lawmakers were in recess. The Senate was
meeting every three days in pro-forma sessions.

The ruling  will decide who has the upper hand between future presidents and
Congresses when it comes to filling important executive branch posts.

Abortion clinics. This is a First Amendment challenge to a Massachusetts law
that restricted demonstrators outside abortion clinics by setting up 35-foot
buffer zones. The court upheld an 8-foot buffer zone in Colorado 14 years ago,
but the current court tends to favor free speech rights. During  arguments in
January, most justices wondered whether the Massachusetts law went too far in
keeping protesters  away.

Labor unions. This case is crucial for the nation's public employee labor
unions, which could lose the right to represent workers who don't want to pay
union dues. For decades, the law has allowed unions to collect dues from all
private or public employees.  Eight home-care workers in Illinois are
challenging that law, arguing they should not be required to join even though
the union is required to represent them.

Greenhouse gases. This is the second of three cases testing the limits of
presidential powers. Here, the justices must decide whether the government can
require permits for industries that spew the primary pollutant causing climate
change. At issue is whether the Environmental Protection Agency went too far by
changing the threshold for greenhouse gas emissions in the Clean Air Act.
Billions of dollars and thousands of jobs are at stake.

Securities fraud. The ruling in this case could topple a precedent established a
quarter-century ago -- one that lets investors sue companies for fraud that was
hidden from being reflected in a stock's market price. The business community
says that costs  companies millions in legal fees. Investor groups say any
change would cheat shareholders.

Religious freedom. Obama's health care law mandates that most employers provide
health insurance coverage for contraceptives. For-profit companies with
religious objections are challenging. The administration has exempted churches
and religious non-profits.

TV broadcast rights. The way Americans watch television could be changed if
Aereo, an Internet start-up, wins its effort to continue sending live TV signals
over the Internet to customers for far less money than cable companies charge.
Aereo is able to do it by  assigning to each customer a dime-sized antenna. That
way, a lower court has ruled, the company does not have to pay retransmission
fees to the  major broadcasters. Those fees are crucial to their business.

Cellphone privacy. These two cases are forerunners of a genre that could
dominate the court's docket in years to come: the battle between privacy and
technology. The court must decide whether police acted legally by searching
suspects' cellphones before getting search warrants. Police can conduct a
limited search upon arrest, mostly for personal safety and the safekeeping of
evidence. The question is whether cellphones hold too much private information.


LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COURTS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2014 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              100 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             August 11, 2014 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Liberal Dems in a funk over Obama inaction

BYLINE: Ross K. Baker

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 508 words


With a Democrat in the White House and enjoying a majority in the Senate,
liberals ought to be happy. The president's muscular approach to circumvent
obstruction by House Republicans shows him capable of the toughness they have
sought. Obama, for his part, needs to avoid provoking the kind of liberal
discontent that dethroned Lyndon Johnson in 1968 and Jimmy Carter in 1980, but
is wary of earning liberal support at the price of alienating moderates.

Strife between establishment Republicans and the Tea Party movement should also
buoy the spirits of progressives. Liberals have not mounted any insurgencies,
but their lack of outright rebelliousness masks a sullenness in the party's
progressive wing.

Immigration: Reform seems an iridescent dream despite Obama's Deferred Action
for Childhood Arrivals that shields the "Dreamers" from immediate deportation.
But his reluctance to offer more sweeping relief has resulted in his being
branded as the "deporter in chief" by the head of the largest Hispanic interest
group. Recent polls indicate, moreover, that Latinos  are more than twice as
likely to strongly disapprove of the president than to strongly approve of his
record.

It is unclear whether changes in immigration enforcement rules promised for
later this month will be sweeping enough to mollify Hispanic doubters,
especially if the new rules are narrowed to avoid hurting the re-election
chances of Democratic senators from red states.

Environment: Many environmentalists were appalled by the "all of the above"
energy strategy announced in the last State of the Union address that included
hydrocarbons, which drive climate change. Greens are also fearful that the
Keystone XL pipeline will be approved, especially after former Obama Interior
secretary Ken Salazar endorsed it.

Civil liberties: Many libertarians fail to see much difference between the Obama
anti-terrorism campaign and that of George W. Bush. They deplore his inability
to close down Guantanamo, his aggressive use of drones against suspected
terrorists, and his defense of National Security Agency surveillance programs.
Recent polls suggest less than half of liberals think the country is headed in
the right direction.

Heightening this discontent is the fear that the moment has passed and that the
Democratic torch will be passed to Hillary Clinton, who will be as centrist and
business-friendly as her husband. Obama would like to allay liberal fears, but
he must answer to a broader constituency.

Ideologues, and not just those on the left, always suffer disillusionment when
their champions succumb to the give-and-take of politics. From Franklin
Roosevelt to Ronald Reagan and now Obama, the price of hewing rigorously to a
doctrine leads presidents to places they'd sooner not go. They come to realize
that the cherished goals of the philosophically pure are rarely those of most
Americans.

Ross K. Baker, a political science professor at Rutgers University, is a member
of USA TODAY's Board of Contributors and the author of the upcoming book Is
Bipartisanship Dead?

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2014 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              103 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           February 6, 2014 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Unions, liberals boost super PACs;
Dems' Senate majority at stake in November

BYLINE: Fredreka Schouten, and Christopher Schnaars, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 666 words


Labor unions and deep-pocketed donors promoting liberal causes are flexing their
political muscle and have overtaken conservative billionaires in the race to
fund super PACs, a USA TODAY analysis of new campaign-finance reports shows.

Nearly three dozen individuals and groups made donations of $500,000 or more to
super PACs in 2013, pumping $62.6 million into these super-charged committees
that can spend unlimited amounts to influence elections.

More than 87% of the money flowed from Democrats or donors backing liberal
efforts, such as Keystone XL pipeline foe Tom Steyer, and big labor
organizations, such as the AFL-CIO.

The early gush of liberal money underscores the high stakes of November's
midterm elections. Democrats face a serious threat to their majority in the
Senate, where Republicans need to net six seats to take control of the chamber.
A Democratic super PAC focused on Senate races, the Senate Majority PAC, was
among the big beneficiaries of liberal largesse, bringing in $8.6 million last
year.

Democratic strategists expect to be outspent by conservative outside groups,
such as Americans for Prosperity, and are moving quickly to build their campaign
war chests to support a network of interconnected liberal groups. Americans for
Prosperity, a non-profit affiliated with the billionaire brothers Charles and
David Koch, had spent more than $24 million on ads slamming President Obama's
health-care law through the end of last week. This week, the group announced a
new round of ads targeting three Democrats.

Among liberal groups, the American Federation of State, County and Municipal
Employees has pumped nearly $2.2 million into several closely aligned Democratic
super PACs, including the Senate Majority PAC; the House Majority PAC, focused
on House races; and American Bridge 21st Century, which digs up opposition
research on Republicans.

"By pooling and combining resources, we can try to create a level playing
field," said Brian Weeks, the union's political director.

Labor groups are marshaling their funds for this year's state battles in which
36 governors and a slew of state legislators are up for re-election. Big GOP
wins in 2010 gave Republicans 29 governors' seats and control of both
legislative chambers in more than two dozen states, helping spark a welter of
legislation to limit union clout and to contain the cost of public-employee
pensions as GOP officials sought to rein in budgets.

"We don't want to be as unprepared as in 2010," said AFL-CIO political director
Michael Podhorzer. The union has moved nearly $2.4 million into super PACs and
can spend millions more on outreach efforts outside the campaign-finance system.
"It's important that Republicans not take control of the Senate," he said. "But
every day, there is more damage being done at the state level."

Among the key labor targets: Pennsylvania, where Republican Gov. Tom Corbett,
has said he would sign a pending legislative measure that would end automatic
payroll deductions from public employees' paychecks. Corbett is up for
re-election this year.

No Republicans were among the top five super PAC donors in 2013, a departure
from the previous year when a trio of Republican billionaires -- casino magnate
Sheldon Adelson, Dallas industrialist Harold Simmons and Houston home builder
Bob Perry -- dominated the list. Perry and Simmons died last year after donating
a combined $2.1 million to conservative super PACs.

Instead, California Democrat Tom Steyer tops the new list of super PAC
mega-donors in 2013, pumping more than $11 million into his affiliated super
PACs as he seeks to make climate change a decisive issue in races.

Chris Lehane, a senior adviser to Steyer, said the political team is assembling
its budget and plans for November. "The takeaway from 2013 is that you can use
climate as a political wedge issue to both support those candidates who are
willing to embrace climate and use it in a devastating way against those who
adopt an anti-science position," he said.

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, Color, Janet Loehrke, USA TODAY (bar graph)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2014 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              105 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              May 27, 2014 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Cheers, challenges for class of 2014

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 1270 words


John Kerry, secretary of State, Yale University, New Haven, Conn.: "Every one of
you and your parents have mobile devices here today. They represent a lot more
than your ability to put a picture on Facebook or Instagram. They are one of the
powerful new instruments of change that makes hierarchies uncomfortable because
you can communicate with everybody, anywhere, all the time -- and that's how you
beat conventional wisdom. ... I am convinced if you are willing to challenge the
conventional wisdom ... you can avoid the dangerous byproducts of indifference,
hopelessness and my least favorite: cynicism."

Jill Abramson, former New York Times executive editor, Wake Forest,
Winston-Salem, N.C.: "Some of you -- and now I'm talking to anyone who has been
dumped -- have not gotten the job you really wanted or have received those
horrible rejection letters from grad school. You know the disappointment of
losing or not getting something you badly want. When that happens, show what you
are made of. ... Sure, losing a job you love hurts, but the work I revere,
journalism that holds powerful institutions and people accountable, is what
makes our democracy so resilient. And this is the work I will remain very much a
part of. ... What's next for me? I don't know. So I'm in exactly the same boat
as many of you. And like you, I'm a little scared but also excited."

Susan Mboya, Coca-Cola executive, Meredith College, Raleigh, N.C.: "Your
generation is coming of age at a time when women's empowerment is also finally
coming of age. ... By now it should be clear to you that life is not linear; it
takes many twists and turns. And there is no corporate ladder, rather there is a
corporate lattice for most women, and you must decide when you want to take the
on-ramp back onto a career, or some other satisfying occupation, and when you
want to move sideways rather than up. ... Empowerment is about having the choice
to define for yourselves what your version of success looks like at any stage of
your life."

Charlie Day, actor, Merrimack College, North Andover, Mass.: "You cannot let a
fear of failure or a fear of comparison or a fear of judgment stop you from
doing the things that will make you great. You cannot succeed without the risk
of failure. You cannot have a voice without the risk of criticism. You cannot
love without the risk of loss. ...  I don't think you should just do what makes
you happy. Do what makes you great. Do what's uncomfortable and scary and hard
but pays off in the long run. ... Without that struggle, what is your success,
anyway?"

Glenn Steele, Geisinger Health System CEO, Susquehanna University, Selinsgrove,
Pa.: "There is something special about where we work. ... This power of place
connects the physical qualities of our surroundings with a set of necessary
qualities -- key human values, enough room for the kind of human interaction
that leads to creativity and real innovation, the right balance between energy
and serenity to allow humans to work together, think together and move together
to accomplish things not accomplishable by an individual alone. ...  This
special 'place' ... should stay with you no matter where you go physically.
Remember it. Revisit it."

Mary Eberstadt, author, Seton Hall University, South Orange, N.J.: "It's a
challenging spring to be a commencement speaker. Some campuses seem to want to
tar and feather their invited guests. Meanwhile, pundits keep saying that no one
ever remembers commencement speeches anyway. ... But that's a caricature. I know
that you are listening. (Pope Francis) says that our moral business as human
beings is to see all people, everywhere and at all times, as our brothers and
sisters. ... He doesn't say that everyone wears the face of God 'except for
whoever un-friended you yesterday.' ... He says that every human being wears the
face of God. ... You are all, if you want it, part of the new moral movement
that Pope Francis seems to be calling for between the lines of his speeches.
It's a movement of empathy for everybody."

Bill Nye, University of Massachusetts-Lowell: "Conspiracy theories are for lazy
people, people who don't want to get down to the business at hand, so everybody
please dismiss those ideas. ... We have to engage (those people) so we can get
to work and, dare I say it, change the world. We are at a tipping point, and
with just a little bit more engagement ... and a few more hilarious comedy bits,
people will get to work on climate change. I want you to spark this movement ...
and I want you to change the world."

Mary Barra, General Motors CEO, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor: "Demographers
like to talk about you as if you were one monolithic mass of humanity. Well, I
have two teenagers at home. ... I'm well aware that none of you (are) alike. For
example, not all of you are attached to your cellphones 24/7. About one in five
of you actually manages to sleep without it. And not all of you grew up with
high-speed Internet. Apparently, some of your parents still have dial-up. And
this may come as a shock, but not all of you are millionaires. Not yet. But you
are the richest generation in history, with collective spending power and
influence of almost $1 trillion. ...  Remember, how you get things done is just
as important as getting them done. ... Your integrity is one of the most
valuable possessions you have. Protect it. Cultivate it. Wear it with pride."

Eric Holder, U.S. attorney general, Morgan State University, Baltimore: "Over
the last few weeks and months, we've seen occasional, jarring reminders of the
discrimination -- and the isolated, repugnant, racist views -- that in some
places have yet to be overcome. These incidents have received substantial media
coverage. And they have rightly been condemned by leaders, commentators and
citizens from all backgrounds and walks of life. ... These outbursts of bigotry,
while deplorable, are not the true markers of the struggle that still must be
waged ...  because the greatest threats do not announce themselves in screaming
headlines. They are more subtle. ... In too many of our school districts,
significant divisions persist and segregation has reoccurred -- including
zero-tolerance school discipline practices that ...  affect black males at a
rate three times higher than their white peers. ... In our criminal justice
system, systemic and unwarranted racial disparities remain disturbingly common."

John Legend, musician, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia: "The key to
success, the key to happiness, is opening your mind and your heart to love.
Spending your time doing things you love and with people you love. ... Years
from now, when you look back on your time here on earth, your life and your
happiness will be way more defined by the quality of your relationships, not the
quantity. You'll get much more joy out of depth, not breadth. It's about finding
and keeping the best relationships possible with the people around you."

Andrew Delbanco, Columbia University professor, Marlboro (Vt.) College: "In
today's America, if your family makes more than $90,000 per year, your odds of
getting a college degree by age 24 are roughly one in two; if your family income
is between $60,000 and $90,000, your odds are roughly one in four; and if your
folks make less than $35,000, your odds are one in 17. The only way you can be
satisfied with those numbers is if you believe that intelligence and talent are
distributed in the population in the same way as money. ...  You want to come
back to your ... reunions and be able to say that you're living in a country
with better numbers than that."

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo WireImage

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2014 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              108 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            January 28, 2014 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Obama has opening in State of Union;
With GOP blocking tactics, president should use address to launch 2014 midterm
election campaign

BYLINE: Ross K. Baker

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 656 words


When President Obama delivers his State of the Union address on Tuesday, will
his visions for his final three years in office serve to solidify his legacy, or
will they prove to be mere pipe dreams?

One year ago, in his last address to Congress, the president made a statement
that seemed more hopeful than realistic: "The American people don't expect
government to solve every problem. They don't expect those of us in this chamber
to agree on every issue. But they do expect us to put the nation's interests
before party."

The president greatly underestimated the rockiness that lay ahead and was far
too optimistic about the willingness of many Republicans to put their nation's
interests ahead of the party. Nonetheless, the president's record was not
entirely barren of positive action.

The sequester -- the indiscriminate decapitation of federal programs that were
thought to be so draconian that they would never be implemented -- did kick in.
Thanks to a budget agreement and a spending bill Congress passed late last year,
that cloud has been removed. But let's not cheer too loudly when Congress does
something that the law requires of it.

Prominent in his last State of the Union Address was the president's plea for
tax reform. That is now bogged down in the usual congressional morass.

The corollary of tax reform is entitlement reform -- likewise a non-starter.

Most problematic of all for a polarized Congress was Obama's plea that, "for the
sake of our children and our future, we must do more to combat climate change."
The president probably knew in the depths of his soul that this was going
nowhere.

So, this time around, can Obama hope for better outcomes? Not likely if he
renews his call for some of the same domestic and economic issues as last year:

Immigration reform. If what the president has in mind is a bill that contains a
path to citizenship, success is improbable. If House Republicans were willing to
go so far as to approve a path only to legalization, the president could
proclaim a victory.

Minimum wage. Less likely still is another echo from 2013, his call for an
increase in the federal minimum wage to $9 an hour. Republicans, who have long
seen themselves as the champions of small business, have a litany of objections
to this proposal.

Affordable Care Act. Remarkably, the marquee policy of the Obama administration
was barely mentioned last year. And after the calamitous rollout of the
Obamacare website and his ill-considered promise that those with insurance could
keep their plans, expect his remarks to be brief again.

What should Obama do instead with this year's State of the Union Address?

While harsh partisan rhetoric is usually off-limits in such addresses, the
moment gives the president the opportunity to emphasize themes that will help
his party in the uphill fight to regain the House majority and to preserve it in
the Senate in the congressional elections in November.

At the top of the president's list will be income inequality, including
legislation to extend jobless benefits for the long-term unemployed. If enacted,
it would do very little to narrow the income gap between the richest Americans
and the 99%, but the measure is rich in symbolism.

So too is the issue of food stamps. One of the most contested parts of the farm
bill, now stuck in Congress, has been the enormous discrepancy between the size
of the cuts to the program in the bill produced by the Senate's Democratic
majority and the Republican House version calling for bigger cuts.

Time is running out on Obama, and if he hopes that his remaining time in the
White House won't be barren of accomplishments, the president needs to use his
rhetorical skills to promote issues that will help elect a majority of Democrats
to Congress this year.

The State of the Union message is the logical place to start.

Ross K. Baker, a political science professor at Rutgers University, is a member
of USA TODAY's Board of Contributors.

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Charles Dharapak, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2014 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              112 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             March 24, 2014 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

STATE-BY-STATE;
News from across the USA

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 2036 words


Alabama Florence: Thomas Calhoun of enrollment management at the University of
North Alabama, said a student's high school grade point average, not a
standardized test, is the best predictor of college success.

Alaska Juneau: The House Finance Committee has advanced legislation that would
end Alaska's film tax credit program in 2016.

Arizona Phoenix:  A woman suspected of shooting two men -- one fatally --
outside a sports bar is facing a murder charge. Phoenix police said Jessica
Wood, 29, was booked.

Arkansas Little Rock: The Arkansas Civil War Sesquicentennial Commission has
awarded $8,050 in grants for events commemorating the 150th anniversary of the
Civil War.

California Avalon:  In a bid to revive tourism,  Santa Catalina Island has
undertaken its biggest overhaul in nearly a century. The Los Angeles Times
reported that the harbor town is adding a new museum, hotel, spa and
wine-tasting room in an effort to lure more visitors from the mainland.

Colorado Denver:  Zoo officials said a newborn southern tamandua, a type of
anteater, is doing well after staff initiated around-the-clock care. The Denver
Post reported zoo staff stepped in earlier this month to give supplementary
feedings after noticing the mother was not nurturing her newborn, named Cayenne.

Connecticut New London:  A report to state legislators said New London's police
department does not comply with an updated anti-racial profiling law.  Deputy
Police Chief Peter Reichard said the department has been collecting more data
than what's required.

Delaware Wilmington: State Police are investigating a shooting early Sunday at
the Vibzes Lounge. A 19-year-old man reported  that as he was leaving the
nightclub he heard a gunshot and realized he had been shot in the right leg.

District of Columbia: A Georgetown University student has been charged with
possession of a biological toxin after ricin was found in a dorm room, court
records show. According to the documents, Daniel Milzman, 19, of Bethesda, Md.,
told a resident adviser that he had made ricin in his room.

Florida Tallahassee: The U.S. Department of Education's Office for Civil Rights
has revived a probe into Florida's Bright Futures scholarship program.  The
program has awarded more than $4billion in scholarships.

Georgia Atlanta: The Georgia Department of Veterans Services will hold a
ceremony Tuesday at the State Capitol to individually recognize the state's 12
native sons who were awarded the Congressional Medal of Honor during the Vietnam
War.

Hawaii Honolulu: About 2,600 counselors and students are gathering this week for
the American Counseling Association's conference.  Director Morgan Spurlock will
deliver the opening keynote address Friday at the Hawaii Convention Center.

Idaho Lewiston: Wolf hunting season will be open 365 days a year on private
property the Clearwater Region. The Lewiston Tribune reported that the Fish and
Game Commission made the rule change.

Illinois Champaign: University of Illinois administrators are hoping to attract
students from rural Illinois by offering scholarships to students from counties
that are underrepresented on campus.

Indiana Vincennes: Renovation work at the Knox County Public Library has
unearthed Art Deco stenciling, but efforts to preserve it have been derailed by
budget concerns. Library director Emily Bunyan said the decoration dating from
1919 was found when an old medicine cabinet was removed from a restroom wall.

Iowa Des Moines: A new statue of Iowa's Norman Borlaug will be unveiled in the
U.S. Capitol on Tuesday.  Borlaug was a Cresco native who won the Nobel Peace
Prize in 1970 for his role in combating world hunger.

Kansas McPherson:  Business recruiters here  said there are more jobs than
people to fill them. Recruitment director Kasi Morales said the city has been
able to pull in workers from surrounding areas, but it would be better to
attract more people to live in the community.

Kentucky Louisville: The number of drug-addicted babies in Kentucky who are
hospitalized has increased significantly in a little more than a decade. The
Courier-Journal cited a report from the Kentucky Injury Prevention and Research
Center showing that the number has gone from 28 in 2000 to 824 in 2012.
Preliminary figures suggest that number of newborns treated for addiction rose
in 2013 to more than 900.

Louisiana Kenner: Airport officials hope that the planned new terminal building
at Louis Armstrong New Orleans International Airport will harness enough solar
energy to fully power the airport. The solar proposal is included in the
official cost projections for the $826million airport revamp and is expected to
cost roughly $85million.

Maine Augusta: Nearly 100 sugarhouses throughout Maine opened their doors to the
public for tours and maple syrup tastings. Maine Maple Sunday, held every March,
allows visitors to view the syrup-making process, enjoy syrup and candy samples
and participate in other activities.

Maryland Baltimore: To encourage incoming undergraduate freshmen to graduate
within four years, University of Baltimore officials are promising to pay their
final semester's tuition.

Massachusetts Amherst:  The cost to a pre-St. Patrick's Day celebration that
spun out of control at the University of Massachusetts' flagship campus in
Amherst will likely total more than $200,000 for public safety, consultant fees
and property damage.

Michigan Dearborn: Henry Ford Community College is pondering dropping
"community" from its name to better reflect its reach within and beyond its
community, the Detroit Free Press reported.

Minnesota St. Paul: Coon Rapids-based Parkers Farm Acquisition is voluntarily
recalling some of its peanut butter, cheese, salsa and spreads after authorities
discovered some products contained Listeria.  There have been no reports of
illness. The products are distributed nationwide.

Mississippi Helena:  Work has begun on a $9.2million water treatment plant that
will treat Pascagoula River and groundwater for residents of east Jackson
County. The facility will treat an average of 1million gallons of water per day.

Missouri Jefferson City: Public tours in limited areas of the former Missouri
State Penitentiary are scheduled to resume April21 after being halted last fall
when mold was discovered.  Full walkthroughs of the facility will begin July1.

Montana Helena: A 14-year-old from Dublin, Calif., faces felony intimidation
charges after three bomb threats were phoned into Helena schools last  week.
Court records said the boy told investigators he collaborated on the threats
with a 16-year-old Helena High student he met while gaming online.

Nebraska Lincoln:  Crews are scheduled to begin work today  on U.S. Route 6 west
here.  The $1.9million project includes asphalt overlays, culverts and new
shoulders.

Nevada Reno:  The Regional Transportation Commission will launch weekend bus
service between Reno and Lake Tahoe's Sand Harbor State Park this summer. The
Reno Gazette-Journal reported the bus service will start May 23 and last through
Labor Day.

New Hampshire Greenland:  The latest on local climate change is up for
discussion at the Third Annual Coastal New Hampshire Climate Summit next month.
The summit is scheduled for  April 10  at the Hugh Gregg Coastal Conservation
Center here.

New Jersey Edison: Authorities said a multialarm fire that destroyed James
Monroe Elementary School is considered suspicious. It's not yet known what
sparked the blaze Saturday night.  About a dozen firefighters were treated for
smoke inhalation.

New Mexico Carlsbad:  Jury selection is set to begin in a trial between a
Carlsbad mine and an energy company over trespassing and drilling rights. The
Carlsbad Current-Argus reported jurors will be chosen starting today to hear
arguments in a 2010 lawsuit filed by Mosaic Potash against Devon Energy
Production.

New York New York: John Lennon's drawings and manuscripts are coming to auction.
Sotheby's said a collection of the late Beatles singer's material will make up
the "You Might Well Arsk" sale June4 in New York.

North Carolina Kenansville: Authorities said they removed more than 50 dogs from
a home in Duplin County because they were living in filth and had no access to
food or water.

North Dakota Bismarck:  North Dakota could lose about 210 soldiers under
proposed budget cuts to the National Guard. The proposed budget for the U.S.
Department of Defense for the fiscal year that begins in October calls for a
reduction of about 20,000 soldiers.

Ohio Garretsville: A firefighter was injured and 13 businesses were destroyed by
a fire that swept through a historic downtown block.  Police said dispatchers
received a call around 1:15p.m. Saturday that "Main Street is on fire."

Oklahoma Oklahoma City: Police said officers investigating a man who was
reported to be suicidal shot and killed the man  when he refused to put down a
gun and instead pointed it at the officers. Police said he was in his 70s.

Oregon Portland: Daniel Powers said he found a rat in his toilet bowl during the
middle of the night.  Officials at Multnomah County Vector Control said it
responds to up to 30 calls about rats in toilets every year.

Pennsylvania Hollidaysburg: A central Pennsylvania school district is debating
whether to retain a popular swimming coach after someone complained anonymously
about his job as a bartender at a strip club. Baron Leonard, 29, told the
Altoona Mirror that he works  four jobs, counting his $2,530-a-year part-time
coaching position at Hollidaysburg Area High School and his bartending job at
Club Coconuts in Altoona.

Rhode Island Providence: Rhode Island officials said the state will receive
$7million in federal funding to improve emergency preparedness and recovery.

South Carolina Rock Hill: Family members said a 9-year-old girl who was shot and
killed Friday was at the center of a custody battle involving her maternal
grandparents and her father's side of the family.

South Dakota Sioux Falls: Sid's Crown Liquor, a downtown landmark since 1947,
will close in the next few weeks, the Argus Leader reported.

Tennessee Knoxville: Tennessee Fire Marshal Julie Mix McPeak has issued a
warning about the use of portable oxygen tanks after fire departments across the
state reported 18 fires involving portable oxygen tanks in the past five years.

Texas Longview: The city has paid $16,250 to end contract negotiations with
controversial rocker Ted Nugent, who was under consideration as the headliner
for Longview's Fourth of July celebration. Mayor Jay Dean said Nugent's act
didn't fit with the family-oriented program the city wanted.

Utah St. George:  Officials said a lack of storms this winter has depleted
snowpacks and primed the area for parched conditions as it enters the third
straight year of drought.

Vermont Montpelier:  Biologists from the Vermont Department of Fish and Wildlife
said anyone who wants to learn more about the state's deer and moose herds
should attend one of three upcoming hearings. Hearings are scheduled for March25
in Springfield, March26 in Orleans and March27 in Middlebury. Two more hearings
will be held in May.

Virginia Richmond: State lawmakers are set to begin a special session today in
which they will try to pass a roughly $96billion two-year budget.

Washington Snoqualmie Pass: The King County sheriff's department said the body
of a man killed in an avalanche on Granite Mountain was recovered Sunday.

West Virginia New Martinsville:  Wetzel County Hospital is making cuts in
response to a changing health care landscape. The hospital has eliminated eight
positions and reduced the hours of 15 other workers.

Wisconsin Madison: Wisconsin remains the only state in the nation where a
first-time drunken driving conviction brings a ticket and not jail time, after a
session in which lawmakers failed to toughen penalties despite nearly a dozen
bills before them.

Wyoming Casper: The Wyoming Department of Transportation said the state's
$22.6million snow plowing budget is almost depleted, and the department may have
to dip into a construction budget to keep roads clear during the wettest season
of the year.

Compiled from staff and wire reports by Tim Wendel and Dennis Lyons. Design by
George Petras.  Graphics by Alejandro Gonzalez.

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2014 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              116 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              June 9, 2014 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Retiring coal plants won't do much to clear air;
Slated closures account for little of carbon dioxide

BYLINE: Wendy Koch and, John Kelly, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 364 words


The electric power industry's plan to retire more than 10% of its coal-fired
generators within a decade will do almost nothing to reduce U.S. emissions of
heat-trapping carbon dioxide, a USA TODAY analysis finds.

The 140 slated retirements -- mostly small, old generating units in the Midwest
and South -- account for only 4% of all CO2 emitted last year by U.S. coal
plants. In fact, not one ranks among the top 100 units for carbon emissions, and
only 12 are among the 475 units that comprise the top 10% of emitters, according
to a review of 2013 federal data.

These findings show that cutting carbon emissions enough to meet the
Environmental Protection Agency's 30% national target by 2030 will probably
require many more coal retirements and lock in an energy shift toward natural
gas and renewable power.

Coal-fired facilities are a particular target, because many are old -- the
average age is 42 -- and dirty. They account for three-fourths of all CO2
emitted by U.S. power plants, the largest source of the nation's carbon
pollution.

The EPA proposal unveiled last week, a major part of President Obama's plan to
fight climate change, does not require states to close any particular coal plant
but assumes more retirements.

By 2020, it says, coal facilities could produce 27% less power nationwide and
35% less in Appalachia.

The nation's biggest coal plants are not likely to be closed anytime soon,
because "there just isn't a cost-effective replacement yet," says Jeffrey
Holmstead, a lobbyist for coal-fired power plants at the Bracewell & Giuliani
law firm in Washington.

That's why the EPA expects coal plants will remain a major, though declining,
power provider. By 2030, it forecasts these facilities, which generated 37% of
U.S. electricity in 2012 -- down from 52% in 2000 -- will produce 30% of the
nation's power.

The rule could have a significant impact on jobs. The coal industry could lose
35,000 to 38,000 "job years" -- the equivalent of a full-time job for one year
-- by 2030, but more than 100,000 could be created in the energy-efficiency
sector, according to the EPA's impact analysis. Where in the country these jobs
will be lost or added remains to be seen.

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2014 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              123 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            November 17, 2014 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Actavis may acquire Botox-maker Allergan

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 232 words


Allergan -- the Botox manufactuer that has been trying to stave off a hostile
takeover by Valeant Pharmaceuticals and activist investor William Ackman's
Pershing Square Capital Management -- is poised to make a deal with drugmaker
Actavis  instead, according to reports citing sources aware of the potential
transaction. The Wall Street Journal, CNBC and Bloomberg say an agreement could
be announced as early as today  and for as much as $210 a share in cash and
stock. Representatives of Actavis and Allergan could not be reached for comment.

Number of the day

1.6%

The rate at which Japan said today its economy contracted in the three months
ended Sept. 30. That follows a 7.1% contraction in April-June quarter and
officially puts the world's third-biggest economy into a recession. The
unexpected decline makes it likely Prime Minister Shinzo Abe will postpone a
sales-tax increase.

first words

One major determinant of whether we should approve a pipeline shipping Canadian
oil to world markets, not the United States, is does it contribute to the
greenhouse gases that are causing climate change."

-- President Obama on the Keystone XL pipeline during a news conference Sunday
in  Australia. Separately, Senate Majority Whip Dick Durbin  said on CNN's
"State of the Union" that he expects Obama to veto a bill authorizing the
pipeline if it passes the Senate. A vote is scheduled for Tuesday.

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: MONEYLINE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2014 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              125 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 30, 2014 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Another air tragedy leaves many baffled

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 465 words


An AirAsia jet with 162 on board disappeared in stormy weather Sunday. It was
bound for Singapore from Surabaya, Indonesia.

I can't believe that in this day and age when everyone has a GPS equipped
smartphone tracking their location, that they cannot do the same for an
aircraft!

Surely it would be simple enough to install the equipment needed to do that and
also make it tamper proof. That way, missing planes could be found.  The
technology must exist. It just seems as if no one wants to use it for anything
other than spying.

Shawn Stark

Officials saying the plane is at the "bottom of the sea" doesn't set anyone's
mind at rest and leaves the families of the missing wondering. This is not
acceptable.

We have equipment that can go deep into the oceans and send back pictures. Let's
find these planes so the dead can be accounted for.

Julie Cooper

It takes awhile to make improvements on tracking planes, especially in remote
areas.

Jon Leady

Tracking technology won't keep airplanes in the air; it only helps find the
wreckage and bodies sooner. That doesn't sound very cost effective.

David Stafne

Installing the technology would be cost effective for a recovery effort. Look
how much was spent to keep searching for the missing Malaysia Airlines flight,
not to mention the emotional cost to the families.

Lisa Cohen

These tragedies make me wonder about the quality of the facilities responsible
for maintenance of airplanes in the region.

Russell Thompson

This is very sad.  I cannot imagine what is going on. This is the third airline
catastrophe for the region.

The whole airline industry should definitely take extra care. We need better air
safety.

Shahed Ahmed

List

Air catastrophes

The missing AirAsia jet is the third catastrophe for Southeast Asian airlines
this year:

On March 8, Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 went missing soon after taking off from
Kuala Lumpur for Beijing. There were 239 people on board.

On July 17, another Malaysia Airlines flight was shot down over rebel-controlled
eastern Ukraine. It was en route from Amsterdam to Kuala Lumpur. A total of 298
people on board were killed.

List

Better traiining, equipment needed

Letters

Given the reality of global climate change, which will result in ever-increasing
severity and frequency of challenging weather conditions around the world, air
traffic controllers and pilots must be made more cognizant of and better able to
follow severe weather events in real time ("AirAsia mystery: 'No idea what went
wrong,'" News, Monday).

That way, they can work together to help planes steer clear of trouble. Pilots
must also be better trained to handle severe weather.

There have been far too many crashes likely caused by bad weather, which is
inexcusable in an age of high-tech weather monitoring and quick updates.

Michael Pravica

Henderson, Nev.

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: OPINION

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2014 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              128 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              March 7, 2014 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Commanders retain sex assault cases;
Senate blocks military justice system changes

BYLINE: Tom Vanden Brook, @tvandenbrook, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 326 words


A bid to wrest control of sexual assault cases in the military away from
commanders and replace them with career prosecutors died in the Senate on
Thursday.

Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand, D-N.Y., failed to gain enough votes for her proposal to
strip commanders of the authority to decide whether sexual assault cases go to
trial. She needed 60 votes to overcome a filibuster and received 55.

"I always hoped we could do the right thing here -- and deliver a military
justice system that is free from bias and conflict of interest -- a military
justice system that is worthy of the brave men and women who fight for us,"
Gillibrand said in a statement. "But today the Senate turned its back on a
majority of its members."

Attention to sexual assault in the military spiked last year after a Pentagon
report showed an estimated 26,000 cases of unwanted sexual contact among troops
2012, an increase of one-third compared with 2010. About 3,000 cases of sexual
assault were reported last year, and about 300 were prosecuted.

Other changes include revisions to the military's pretrial process, known as an
Article 32 hearing, to protect alleged victims from prying questions, and
requiring civilian review of decisions by commanders to decline to prosecute
cases. Victims are also automatically assigned an independent counsel when they
lodge a complaint.

Most of those changes tracked with proposals made by Sen. Claire McCaskill,
D-Mo.

On Thursday, McCaskill's bill to enhance those provisions won initial approval.

Chief elements include grading commanders on creating a climate in which sexual
assault and harassment are not tolerated, and eliminating the so-called "good
soldier defense" to mitigate sentences for troops who have performed well on
their jobs.

"This debate has been about one thing -- getting the policy right to best
protect and empower victims, and boost prosecutions of predators. I believe
we're on the cusp of achieving that goal," McCaskill said.

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2014 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              134 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 9, 2014 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

NFL abuse cases take marketing toll

BYLINE: Lindsay H. Jones, @ByLindsayHJones, USA TODAY Sports

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 1072 words


In more than 15 years of setting up her list of NFL clients with marketing and
endorsement deals, Denise White had never heard these sorts of words from
companies on the other end of the phone.

Not this year.

Not right now.

We have to be careful.

White, the chief executive officer of Entertainment and Athletes Group who
represents NFL players such as Chicago Bears pass rusher Jared Allen and Arizona
Cardinals cornerback Patrick Peterson in their off-field endeavors, said
multiple brands pulled back from doing deals with NFL athletes this fall because
of cases of domestic and family violence involving other players.

"A lot of companies don't want to have an affiliation with the NFL, when it
comes to one-on-one, engagements with players. There are big, big companies that
have sort of stopped publicly doing national campaigns with the NFL because of
the landscape," White told USA TODAY Sports. "They will get over this hump, and
after this is over with things will start to die down and things will be better
definitely for next season. But this season, marketing deals have definitely
been affected by the climate out there. How can it not be?"

The low point for White came when a company, which she declined to name, pulled
a campaign for which one of her clients had already been paid to produce.

"They didn't want to publicly associate with NFL players because of the climate
," White said. "It wasn't a bad knock for the player, because he's a great
player, and he's never been in any trouble. The company just felt it would be
better for the company not to do anything publicly right now."

Major endorsements are still out there, especially for the game's biggest stars,
and there are contracts that were signed and ads that were filmed in the spring
and summer, long before the heightened attention to the Ray Rice and Adrian
Peterson domestic violence and child abuse cases, respectively.

Denver Broncos quarterback Peyton Manning is still pushing pizza; Seattle
Seahawks quarterback Russell Wilson is hawking headphones; Houston Texans
defensive end J.J. Watt is selling wireless devices; and Green Bay Packers
quarterback Aaron Rodgers keeps pitching insurance.

But those are the NFL's elite, part of a small group of players with reputations
as pitchmen who will certainly be in demand next spring, when the next
endorsement deals are negotiated.

Changes for future

Matt Delzell is managing director of talent business at the Marketing Arm, where
he helps brands create their marketing strategies, including deciding which
celebrities would be a match. He said tying an advertising campaign to an
individual NFL player might be too big of a risk for many brands in the future.

"A lot of brands, in the sports drink, sports equipment, sports apparel, shoes
-- the ones that depend on athletes to drive the brand and influence consumer
behavior -- they will definitely diversify and not hitch their wagon to one or
two people," Delzell said.

Broncos defensive tackle Terrance Knighton, who appears in commercials for
Bridgestone tires, understands he is among the lucky under-the-radar players to
land a national television deal. Having a massive personality and memorable
nickname, Pot Roast, didn't hurt.

He understands why brands might be wary of relative unknown commodities such as
himself these days.

"You want the guys that have less risk of off-the-field issues," Knighton said.
"There is a reason why you see guys like Peyton Manning in every commercial. You
know you're not going to see him in the media for bad things."

One NFL marketing agent who represents several high-profile players, speaking on
condition of anonymity because he wasn't authorized to discuss his clients'
deals, told USA TODAY Sports he wasn't worried about any of his clients losing
endorsement opportunities in the 2015 advertising cycle. But he said he was
anticipating he would have to answer significantly more questions about his
clients' personal lives before new contracts would be signed -- part of due
diligence on the part of companies wanting to make sure they didn't get
embarrassed.

The marketing agent told USA TODAY Sports some of the questions might be
uncomfortable but the players without off-field baggage could wind up
benefiting.

Another effect could be in the structure of these marketing contracts, with
companies building themselves protection in case they need to  cut ties with a
player.

Delzell, the branding expert, said that could mean shorter contracts and
contracts that include ironclad character clauses.

Building trust

Nike dropped Peterson and Rice from its roster of athletes this season, and EA
Sports scrubbed Rice from the newest version of the Madden NFL video game.
Neither company responded to requests for comment for this story.

At the height of the domestic violence firestorm in September, several major NFL
sponsors, including Budweiser and Visa, issued statements expressing concern
over the league's handling of the cases involving Rice, Peterson and Carolina
Panthers defensive end Greg Hardy. Procter & Gamble pulled its sponsorship from
the NFL's breast cancer initiative, but NFL spokesman Brian McCarthy said that
in the months since the NFL had not lost any other sponsors.

"We have not been impacted at the league level, with partners continuing to
advertise and activate their affiliation with the NFL," McCarthy said. "There
has been some direct impact on the players involved in recent incidents."

George Atallah, spokesman for the NFL Players Association and the union's
marketing arm, NFL Players Inc., has heard those sorts of concerns from business
partners and said there wasn't one fail-safe way to make sure the dozens of
companies partnering with NFL Players Inc. or the league wouldn't get burned by
a misbehaving athlete.

But sponsorship numbers provided to USA TODAY Sports by NFL Players Inc. showed
individual deals were up by 6% this fall, which Atallah attributed to a trust
between partners and the NFL Players Inc. to place the right players with the
right brands.

NFL Players Inc. has signed 25 new licensees this year, compared with 10 in
2013.

"You're never, unfortunately, going to eliminate 100%, the acts of misconduct,
so one of the things that we've really tried to do is gather as much
information, or put a premium on the information and the relationship we have
with players, as a way to instill confidence in the relationship that partners
have with players," Atallah said.

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2014 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              140 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            January 14, 2014 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Ducks enjoying historic start;
Anaheim, 19-0-2 at home this season, finds winning mix

BYLINE: Kevin Allen, @ByKevinAllen, USA TODAY Sports

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 8C

LENGTH: 716 words


When Ducks players talk about the near-perfect climate they have in Anaheim,
they aren't just talking about the weather.

They could be talking about their entertaining blend of veterans and younger
players, their lovable old school coach or the fact they are nearly invincible
at home.

"This has been so fun for me to play in Anaheim," said defenseman Ben Lovejoy,
who arrived in a trade with the Pittsburgh Penguins last season.

What's not to like? The Ducks have the NHL's best record this season (35-8-5),
and they have yet to lose in regulation at home this season (19-0-2). If they
win or at least reach overtime Wednesday, they'll tie the third-longest
season-starting home point streak over the last 40 years.

The Ducks have won 17 of their last 18 games and are on a seven-game winning
streak.

"We have so much talent and depth up front," Lovejoy said. "We have incredible
forwards on all four lines, and right now the defensemen's job is just to play
really good defense."

In a league where only the top teams average three goals a game, the Ducks have
scored five or more goals 12 times this season.

"It makes life easier for a defenseman and a goalie, knowing that if you do make
a mistake we have the firepower to score," Lovejoy said. "When we have been in a
difficult situation, Ryan Getzlaf and Corey Perry have stepped up and scored
that goal every time."

Getzlaf and Perry, both 28, have been offensive soul mates since they were
drafted in the first round in 2003, but they're hitting their prime this season.
Getzlaf, day-to-day with a bruised foot, entered Monday fourth in the NHL with
53 points. Perry was sixth with 49 points. Getzlaf has 23 goals, Perry 25.

"We knew coming into this season that we had a good team and had a chance to do
some things this season," Getzlaf said. "We played pretty well in the shortened
season (in 2012-13), and we all got to know each other pretty well. We expected
to be at the top of the league."

The Ducks began this season with questions on defense, because Sheldon Souray
suffered an offseason injury and Toni Lydman retired.

But 19-year-old defenseman Hampus Lindholm helped the team overcome the
adversity by playing well enough to put himself in contention for rookie of the
year. He was tied for fourth in the NHL in plus-minus rating (plus 23) while
averaging 19 minutes, 23 seconds a game. He wasn't projected to make the team.

Veteran Francois Beauchemin is plus 22 and averages 22:18 a game.

Another change for the Ducks is Lovejoy taking another step in his development
and Cam Fowler playing well enough to land a spot on the U.S. Olympic team.
Lovejoy and Fowler play together.

"We are trying really hard not to get scored on, and Cam and I have made that
our only focus," Lovejoy said. That's a little bit of a change for Fowler, a
marvelous skater with an appetite for offense.

"From the start of the season, Cam made it his goal to be a defensive
defenseman," Lovejoy said. "He is a shutdown defenseman now playing on the best
team in the league. Cam was an offensive defenseman. He judged his game on how
many points he was getting. No matter how he was playing, if he wasn't putting
up points he didn't feel like he was playing up to his ability. He came in this
season wanting to be a defenseman."

He still gets points. "But he hasn't cheated to get them," Lovejoy said.

While Getzlaf and Perry are offensive forces, they have a strong ensemble cast.
Dustin Penner has 11 goals, more than he totaled the last two seasons with the
Los Angeles Kings.

Nick Bonino and Andrew Cogliano have 13 and 15 goals, respectively. Mathieu
Perreault has nine. Secondary scoring makes the Ducks the NHL's second-best
five-on-five team.

"This all kind of dates back to last season when I think it all started to turn
around from a depth standpoint," Getzlaf said. "I think some guys came in this
year ready to play some bigger roles."

The glue holding the team together, and perhaps making it more entertaining, is
coach Bruce Boudreau. He's like everyone's father, a little different, usually
foul-mouthed, often funny and always a disciplinarian.

"He's a fantastic coach," Lovejoy said. "He's so good at putting people in a
position to be successful. He gets the best out of everyone because he puts them
in a position where they are not going to fail."

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Gary A. Vasquez, USA TODAY Sports

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2014 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              145 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          February 12, 2014 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

El Niño can be predicted earlier

BYLINE: Doyle Rice, @USATODAYWeather, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 250 words


Normally the menacing El Niño climate pattern, which influences weather in the
U.S. and around the world, can be predicted only a half-dozen months in advance.
But in  a new study, a group of researchers from Germany, Russia, Israel and the
USA say they can now predict El Niño events more than a year ahead of time --
and they're forecasting one to develop later this year.

This El Niño could push the global temperature to its highest level on record by
next year, surpassing the previous record of 1998, which was set during a strong
El Niño.

The study was published in Monday's Proceedings of the National Academy of
Sciences and was led by Josef Ludescher of the Institute for Theoretical Physics
in Giessen, Germany.

El Niño often brings heavy rain and disastrous floods to parts of the USA and
South America. It can also lead to intense drought across Australia and parts of
Southeast Asia.

"Despite its importance, conventional forecasting is still limited to six months
ahead," the scientists wrote in the study. "Recently, we developed an approach
... which allows projection of an El Niño event about one year ahead."

The scientists found a complex link between current air temperatures  above the
Pacific Ocean to what the ocean temperatures in the El Niño region would be a
year or so later.

"The main advantage of a warning -- as long as it has sufficient reliability --
is for managing water and farming," said Kevin Trenberth, senior scientist at
the National Center for Atmospheric Research.

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2014 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              147 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           February 25, 2014 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Supreme Court skeptical of greenhouse gas permits;
Justices may block requirement for emissions sources

BYLINE: Richard Wolf, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 478 words


The Supreme Court appeared headed Monday toward restricting the federal
government's authority to require permits for major emitters of greenhouse
gases, but it remained a close call.

Such a ruling from the court's conservative wing wouldn't affect an effort by
the Obama administration to regulate the sources of global warming, but it would
eliminate one method of doing so.

At issue is the Environmental Protection Agency's decision to change the
threshold in the Clean Air Act for the amount of emissions from a power plant,
refinery or other stationary source that requires a permit. Liberal justices
said it was a reasonable move to avoid an absurd overregulation of greenhouse
gas emissions, but conservatives said it went too far.

"I couldn't find a single precedent that strongly supports your position,"
Justice Anthony Kennedy, the likely swing vote, told Solicitor General Donald
Verrilli.

Kennedy was in the majority when the court ruled 5-4 in 2007 that greenhouse
gases are an air pollutant and the EPA can regulate their emissions from motor
vehicles. If he switches sides on whether that extends to stationary sources
such as power plants, it could seal the program's fate.

The case focuses on what Verrilli called "an urgent environmental problem ...
one that gets worse with the passage of time." But the court's ruling is likely
to have only limited impact. The government has other ways of regulating
greenhouse gas emissions from stationary sources.

Industry and state government opponents of the regulations argued that
permitting programs used for common air pollutants should not apply to
greenhouse gases such as carbon dioxide, which are emitted in much greater
quantities but have limited impact on local air quality.

Peter Keisler, the attorney for a coalition of industry groups, called the
permitting program run by more than 90 state and local authorities a form of
"command and control."

However, even the opponents didn't question the danger of greenhouse gases or
the government's first effort to suppress them via tailpipe emissions. Those are
matters of settled law.

Unlike other air pollutants, carbon dioxide emissions that contribute to global
warming are so ubiquitous that the EPA raised the law's threshold level
requiring a permit from 100 tons per year to at least 75,000 tons.

The EPA's decision to raise the emissions level was needed to avoid requiring
permits from about 80,000 midsize businesses, hospitals, universities, apartment
buildings and shopping malls. Opponents say the agency rewrote an act of
Congress, albeit to ease the burden on industry.

Several liberal justices said the EPA's decision made sense, because Congress
didn't anticipate the problem of global warming when it passed the Clean Air
Act.

"Statutes all the time have implicit exceptions," Justice Stephen Breyer said.
"That's the most common thing in law."

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Photos by H. Darr Beiser, USA TODAY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2014 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              155 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              July 21, 2014 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Six Californias? Like, whatever dude

BYLINE: Chris Woodyard

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 604 words


As much as it pains me to interrupt my non-stop tanning and surfing, it becomes
necessary to take a moment to respond to a budding movement that would
accomplish the previously unthinkable: break California up into six states.

This is serious stuff, or as at least as serious as things ever get in a state
where washed-up actors become governor, the single nip of a swimmer by a
juvenile shark at the Manhattan Beach pier attracts more attention than a
statewide drought and average people boast of their Kim Kardashian sightings.

A Silicon Valley venture capitalist, Timothy Draper, says he has accumulated
petitions with more than enough signatures to put the breakup proposition before
the voters.

The thought that a California tycoon would spend $4.9 million of his own money
flogging what most would consider a harebrained long shot of an idea, rather
than use that dough to feed the hungry, preserve the redwoods or restock his
wine cellar, pretty much confirms long-held stereotypes about Californians.

I am a native Californian, born and raised in Long Beach, qualifying me to
comment. We few natives never honk.

We refer to freeways by name, not number. We know calling it "Frisco," rather
than San Francisco or The City, risks a fate worse than a week in Flyover
Country.

Californians are receptive to new ideas, so we recognize the notion of breaking
up the state shouldn't be dismissed out of hand. Draper says on his Six
Californias website that the Golden State "needs a reboot."

He points to the numbers, which are basically dismal. "Our public schools have
gone from the top in the nation to 47th. We are ranked 50th out of 50 for the
worst business climate in the United States. We have high unemployment and the
percentage of people living below the poverty line is steadily increasing."

All may be true, but the sun still melts into the Pacific every evening, Dodger
Stadium never runs out of Dodger Dogs, and optimism flows like the gushing
waters of the aqueduct that feeds the Los Angeles metropolis, drought be damned.

Most Americans would be shocked to discover a ballot proposition to break up
their state. Not Californians. Distrustful of their own Legislature, voters here
routinely weigh in on measures with far-reaching implications after little or no
research.

Via proposition, Californians led the nation in rolling back property taxes and
approving medical marijuana. In 2008, voters gave rights to chickens, approving
a measure to outlaw small cages, while taking them away from gays, banning
same-sex marriage.

If a measure to break up California hits the ballot, its fate probably won't
hinge on massive costs associated with creating state governments, building
capitols, hiring legions of bureaucrats and causing general chaos. Rather, it
will be all about the names.

What Draper calls "Silicon Valley" becomes its own state, stretching from
coastal San Francisco to central California. That's one big valley, and we
Angelenos know about those because we once had a TV show called The Big Valley.

The upper third of California is tagged "Jefferson." If Oregon will change its
name to Adams, America's great Northwest will honor our first three presidents,
even if most Californians could never name the trio.

Los Angeles Times cartoonist David Horsey drew his own map, coming up with names
such as "Weed" for the northern dope-growing region and "iState," home to
Silicon Valley nerds. Perhaps most appropriate is the one he picked for greater
Los Angeles County: "Bling."

Makes sense, and a washed-up Kim Kardashian as governor of Bling won't be far
behind.

Woodyard is USA TODAY's Los Angeles bureau chief

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Rich Pedroncelli, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2014 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              160 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          November 12, 2014 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

China, U.S. set climate target;
Obama looks to cut emissions up to 28% by 2025

BYLINE: Calum MacLeod, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 260 words


China and the United States took joint aim at global warming today, revealing
fresh efforts to cut greenhouse gases.

President Obama put the United States on a faster track in cutting pollution,
setting a goal of reducing emissions 26% to 28% by 2025, compared with 2005
levels. The current goal was to cut emissions by 17% by 2020.

Chinese President Xi Jinping elected to set a target for China's emissions to
peak by 2030, without setting specific goals.

News of the greenhouse gas development came after Obama told Xi on Tuesday that
he wants to take U.S.-China relations to "a new level." That comment followed a
summit of Asia-Pacific leaders who agreed to study a Chinese-backed free-trade
pact that reveals Beijing's ambition to shape global commerce.

The United States pushes a rival deal that excludes China.

China last hosted the annual summit of leaders from the 21-member Asia Pacific
Economic Cooperation (APEC) forum in 2001. The past 13 years have seen the
country's GDP almost quadruple to $10 trillion. China seeks to set the rules in
a U.S.-dominated world trading system.

The APEC leaders agreed to launch a two-year study of the Free-Trade Area of the
Asia Pacific. "This is a historic step in the direction of an Asia-Pacific
free-trade area," Xi said at a news conference where, typically for China, no
questions could be asked.

Washington prefers the Trans-Pacific Partnership, which includes 12 countries --
but not China.Obama met with leaders of those countries Monday and reported
progress toward a deal but no early time frame for completion.

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo KIM KYUNG-HOON, AFP/Getty Images

DOCUMENT-TYPE: WORLD

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2014 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              161 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          November 19, 2014 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Salt shortage puts cities in a crunch

BYLINE: Eleanor Mueller, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 414 words


As the weather turns cold, municipalities and suppliers across the nation are
facing a one-two punch of road-salt shortages and higher prices.

The shortages came in the wake of last winter, when much of the U.S. experienced
record-setting low temperatures that drove up demand for the ice-melting
chemical.

"Last winter significantly depleted the road-salt supply even among the very
largest suppliers and mines," said James Brooks, City Solutions director for the
National League of Cities. "So right now you see several factors colliding -- a
weak inventory, larger individual orders and price changes -- because demand is
up."

While Minnesota experienced just a 4% increase in salt prices thanks to
contracts obtained in the spring, other states have not been as lucky. Indiana's
counties are paying  $72 to $106 a ton for their salt -- an average of 57% more
than  last year. Michigan's transportation department has seen a 46% increase
from  2013 to an average price of about $65 a ton.

"Based on last year's usage ... prices are up considerably," said Jeff Cranson,
MDOT's communications director. "It's simple supply and demand."

Municipalities are anticipating another season of extreme weather, and no one's
letting higher prices curb efforts to keep roads safe.

"Forecasts are calling for another severe winter, and we're not cutting back,"
Cranson said. "We're going to do what we have to do to salt the roads and keep
them clear because safety's going to be a top priority."

"We and our customers started the season with essentially zero inventory because
of high usage last year," said Tara Hart, spokeswoman for North American Salt.
"We're working diligently and safely to provide our customers with the salt they
require."

While there are alternative ways to treat frozen roads, such as using beet juice
and magnesium chloride, road salt -- sodium chloride -- is generally favored.

"It's the primary chemical we use to deal with ice because it's the most
effective," said Kevin Gutknect, director of communications for the Minnesota
State Department of Transportation. "There are others we can use, but the best
thing is road salt."

Despite recent unseasonably cold weather, Mike Halpert, director of the Climate
Prediction Center of the National Weather Service, warns against jumping to
conclusions about the overall severity of the season.

"Last winter was very extreme, with really unusual cold," Halpert said. "We
would never expect to see an extreme like that back to back."

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Carlos Osorio, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2014 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              167 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             June 10, 2014 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Some Brazilians choose protests over World Cup;
Critics say social ills need money more than games

BYLINE: Alan Gomez, @alangomez, USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 986 words


When the Brazilian national team kicks off the 2014 World Cup on Thursday as
tournament host for the first time in 64 years, the match will mark the
culmination of years of planning, construction and nervous anticipation for
soccer-crazed Brazilians, who hope to claim a record sixth title.

But when the first match starts, Maria Loudes de Carmo says, she'll turn off her
television, sit her three children down and read them a book about revolution.
During other matches, she'll show them a documentary about the country's poor
who are forced to live in abandoned buildings as she once did.

Then she will join thousands of other Brazilians who will spend the 32 days of
the tournament protesting in the streets rather than cheering on their team.

"We don't have good health care, we don't have good public education, and we
don't have enough public housing, so our priority should not be the World Cup,"
said de Carmo, 39, who sells clothes in Rio de Janeiro's business district.

Brazilians treat soccer as a virtual religion and revere stars from the iconic
Pelé to Neymar, who will lead the 2014 squad.

Yet, the World Cup also is producing an outpouring of anger over the $11.3
billion the government plans to spend on the tournament when the once-booming
economy has slowed, major cities are choked by traffic gridlock, public
hospitals and schools remain underfunded and millions of Brazilians live in
extreme poverty.

"We are like the Romans -- we spend everything on wine and sport," said Luiz
Pellegrini, 60, an artist from São Paulo.

Though the World Cup has become the focus of the protests to get the attention
of 18,000 international journalists covering the tournament, the protesters are
upset about much more.

Last June, more than a million people in dozens of cities around the country
took to the streets to protest an increase in ticket prices for public
transportation.

In recent months, teachers went on strike in Rio de Janeiro, bus drivers went on
strike in São Paulo and police officers went on strike in 14 Brazilian states.

This week, security forces used tear gas to break up a strike of subway workers
in São Paulo.

Different perspective

The government says the criticism has been misguided.

Thomas Traumann, spokesman for President Dilma Rousseff, said the majority of
the billions the government has spent to prepare for the World Cup has gone to
airports, seaports, public transportation projects and other infrastructure
improvements that will benefit all Brazilians long after the World Cup is over.

Traumann said the demonstrations have grown calmer and smaller; there hasn't
been a demonstration of more than 10,000 people since the protests June 2013.

"Does that mean there won't be protests during the World Cup? No. We are quite
sure there will be," he said. "But our information tells us that there won't be
massive protests."

Even so, the government isn't taking any chances. It has to secure 12 host
cities that are very far apart, given the huge size of Brazil. (A flight from
the northernmost World Cup host city of Manaus to the southernmost host city of
Porto Alegre takes more than six hours.) Rousseff has mobilized nearly 57,000
military personnel.

That has been another cause of tension. More than 1,000 people, surrounded by
police in riot gear, protested outside Rio's City Hall on May 30, singing, "We
want an end to the military police."

The protesters stopped traffic that night at the peak of rush hour by walking
through one of the busiest streets in the city. While walking along, history
teacher Renata Tavares said  such protests were merely warm-ups for what will
come during the World Cup.

"It's going to grow," she said. "They'll get bigger."

Source of ire

Two issues are the main source of the protesters' anger:

The first is the staggering income inequality that permeates the nation of 200
million.  The country's income inequality is the 17th highest in the world, as
measured by the CIA's World Factbook.

The other is what experts see as an unrealistic expectation that Brazil's
economic miracle of past years will continue unhindered.

For the past decade, Brazil's overall economy exploded. Countries such as China
gobbled up the minerals, agriculture and other products coming out of Brazil,
which insulated the country from the recent global economic crisis and helped
propel more than 40 million Brazilians into the middle class.

That led to what Marcelo Neri, a Brazilian economist who is Rousseff's minister
of strategic affairs, described as the "aspiration effect." Now that Brazilians
have more money, they demand more from the government.

That helps explain why some Brazilians, such as Suraia El-kaddoum, won't watch a
single World Cup match. The 58-year-old has been on strike with her fellow
teachers since May 12 as they fight for changes to their contract.

"It's not a question of how much money was spent on the games," she said. "Our
problem was that the money was spent and wasn't discussed with us. This model
does not involve the poor sector of the society. It only involves the
businesspeople."

For most Brazilians, however, soccer is still king.

Maria Regina de Oliveira lives in one of the poorest slums in Brazil, a "favela"
called Rocinha. Her home is steps away from one of the open ditches that flow
with raw sewage. The walkway outside her tiny home is draped with yellow and
green streamers, tiny Brazilian flags hanging from them.

"We have problems, yes. But we're a cheerful people," said de Oliveira, 45, a
mother of two who works in a hospital nearby. "The protests are ugly. They give
a bad image of our country. There are much better things to do."

Ocimar Santos, 47, who runs a community website in Rocinha, agrees with de
Oliveira. "Once the games begin, the national pride is going to take over, the
love for the country is going to take over," he said, "and people are going to
be drinking and cheering."

Contributing: Sam Cowie in Rio de Janeiro

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Lianne M Milton for USA TODAY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2014 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              171 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             January 3, 2014 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Passengers on icebound ship rescued inAntarctica;
Russian crew of 22 will remain on board

BYLINE: John Bacon, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 363 words


The 52 passengers on a Russian-flagged research ship stranded in ice off
Antarctica since Christmas Eve were evacuated by helicopter to an Australian
icebreaker ship Thursday.

The Australian Maritime Safety Authority (AMSA), which led the rescue effort,
said a helicopter from a Chinese icebreaker shuttled the passengers in groups of
12 to an ice floe. The passengers then were taken by small boat to the Aurora
Australis.

"Aurora Australis has advised AMSA that the 52 passengers from the Akademik
Shokalskiy are now on board," the authority tweeted at about 6 a.m. ET.

The helicopter came from the Chinese icebreaker Xue Long (Snow Dragon), which
along with the Aurora had tried for days without success to reach the Akademik
Shokalskiy. The Aurora now will shuttle the passengers on a two-week trip to the
Australian island state of Tasmania.

"We've made it to the Aurora australis safe & sound. A huge thanks to the
Chinese & @AusAntarctic for all their hard work!" expedition leader Chris Turney
tweeted.

The Akademik Shokalskiy's passengers were tourists, scientists and explorers --
most of them Australians. The ship, with a crew of 22 Russians, left New Zealand
Nov. 28 on a research voyage to honor the 100th anniversary of the expedition of
Australian scientist Douglas Mawson.

The crew was not airlifted and will continue efforts to free the ship from ice
more than 10 feet thick in some places.

The cruise ship, stuck about 1,700miles south of Hobart, Tasmania, was not
damaged, and the ship had ample provisions.

Turney, a professor of climate change at Australia's University of New South
Wales, wrote in blog posts that morale had remained high and that the group kept
busy with scientific work as well as classes in "knot tying, languages, yoga,
photography and many others."

The search-and-rescue operation began on Christmas morning after Britain's
Falmouth Maritime Rescue Coordination Center received a distress message via
satellite from the Akademik Shokalskiy.

Turney had hoped to continue the trip if an icebreaker could free the ship.

"I'm a bit sad it's ended this way," he said. "But we got lots and lots of great
science done."

Contributing: The Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Zhang Jiansong, Xinhua News Agency, via AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2014 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              172 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           January 8, 2014 Wednesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Deep freeze just gets deeper in Midwest, East

BYLINE: John Bacon and Doyle Rice, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 597 words


Records are falling, power grids are straining, and travel remains a snarled
mess in many states as a brutal mass of Arctic air continues its crawl across a
large swath of the nation.

More than 20 deaths have been linked to the bitter chill and snowstorms rolling
from the Midwest to the East. Dozens of temperature records fell Tuesday. It has
gotten so cold that an escaped prison inmate in Kentucky, where the wind chill
dipped to 20 below, turned himself in to escape the deep freeze.

But there were also signs that better days may be on the way.

"The big story today is it's still bitter cold across the Great Lakes and the
East, but we are already seeing moderate air pushing into North Dakota,"
AccuWeather senior meteorologist Tom Kines said.

Getting through these frigid days is no small order. The subzero temperatures
have forced school closings across dozens of states, kept people home from work,
jammed up travel and made stepping outside a risky proposition.

Scores of record-low temperatures were reached Tuesday morning in the South,
East and Midwest, the Weather Channel reported. Among them: New York City (4
degrees), Philadelphia (4 degrees), Baltimore (3 degrees), Cleveland (minus 11
degrees), Detroit (minus 14 degrees), Atlanta (6 degrees) and Charlotte (6
degrees).

New Yorkers who saw temperatures above 50 degrees Monday were dealing with 4
degrees Tuesday -- with a wind chill deep into negative numbers. Some roads were
closed in the western and central parts of the state.

Gov. Andrew Cuomo urged New Yorkers to use sensible judgment and stay home if
temperatures were extreme. "Anyone who must travel should exercise extreme
caution," he said.

Energy demand in a 13-state region from Michigan to Virginia shattered a
seven-year record Monday night, drawing a rare winter call for consumers to
conserve. PJM, the regional transmission organization, recommended setting
thermostats lower, postponing use of major appliances and turning off idle
electrical devices and appliances.

Air travel, all but impossible Monday, saw a similar trend early Tuesday. More
than 3,100 scheduled commercial flights were canceled by noon ET Tuesday, with
4,600 more delayed, Flightstats.com reported. On Monday, more than 5,000 flights
were canceled and more than 10,000 more were seriously delayed.

More than 500 Amtrak passengers spent the night stranded on three trains headed
for Chicago because blowing and drifting snow blocked the tracks in
north-central Illinois. Spokesman Marc Magliari said all the passengers,
traveling from Los Angeles, San Francisco and Quincy, Ill., had been evacuated
from the trains and would reach their destinations either by train or bus later
Tuesday.

In Cincinnati, security guard Cassandra Lenzley was patrolling outside three
downtown high-rises early Tuesday. The temperature dipped to 7 below, with a
wind chill of minus 26.

"It's stinging cold," Lenzley said. "Your skin burns if you are out too long.
You can feel it through your clothes, and I have on three layers."

Tuesday was the second day of bitter cold in the Midwest. On Monday, Chicago saw
a record low of minus 16, and Quincy, Ill., tied a record at minus 9. Wind
chills across the Midwest were 40 below and colder.

Calculating for the wind effect, Comertown, Mont., saw minus 63 and Rolla, N.D.,
saw minus 60 wind chills.

Contributing: William M. Welch, USA TODAY; Jennifer Edwards Baker, The
Cincinnati Enquirer; Jens Manuel Krogstad, The Des Moines Register; Jeff
Montgomery, The (Wilmington, Del.) News Journal; Meghin Delaney,
pressconnects.com; The Pensacola News Journal staff

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Mark Black, (Arlington Heights, Ill.) Daily Herald, via AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2014 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              184 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             March 6, 2014 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

'Cosmos' returns with a big bang;
Scientists and entertainers team up to keep it universal

BYLINE: Bill Keveney, @billkev, USA TODAY

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 3D

LENGTH: 898 words


Here's a thesis at the heart of Cosmos: A Spacetime Odyssey: Science is engaging
and entertaining.

An eclectic group that includes astrophysicist Neil deGrasse Tyson, Family Guy
creator Seth MacFarlane and Ann Druyan, who co-wrote 1980's Cosmos: A Personal
Voyage with her late husband, Carl Sagan, will put that theory to the test. A
13-part journey through the universe and beyond kicks off Sunday (9 p.m. ET/PT)
on 10 networks, led by Fox and National Geographic Channel.

"The goal is to convey why science matters to the person, to our society, to us
as shepherds of this planet," host Tyson says. "It involves presenting science
in ways that connect to you, so Cosmos can influence you not only intellectually
but emotionally, with a celebration of wonder and awe.

"Science should be part of everybody's life. The prerequisite is not that you
become a scientist. It's that at the end of the series, you will embrace science
and recognize its role in who and what you are."

Tyson traveled to several locations around the world as part of the big-budget
production, but he ventures much farther on-screen via The Ship of the
Imagination, a souped-up, modern version of the vehicle in astronomer and author
Sagan's original Cosmos on PBS. This ship can go near, as in a nine-minute
voyage to the bottom of a dew drop; far, as in the Kraken sea on Saturn's moon
Titan; and even farther, as Tyson speculates about the Multiverse, an infinite
sea of universes.

Seth the Science guy?

Tyson credits MacFarlane, a science enthusiast who enjoyed the original Cosmos,
for taking the production somewhere he didn't originally expect it would go: a
big, commercial broadcast network, where it might reach beyond core science fans
who would watch on a more narrowly focused cable channel. (Episodes will air
weekly on Fox, followed by a repeat broadcast with bonus material Monday at 10
p.m. ET/PT on National Geographic.)

Fox executives Peter Rice and Kevin Reilly "both liked the idea of doing
something that no one had ever done before. There's really no way of telling how
it's going to do. It could be a disaster, or it could be a huge hit, or
somewhere in between," says MacFarlane, who likes having the time slot after
Family Guy.

"The fans of animation, there's a big crossover (with science), so it's
obviously not a hard leap to something like Cosmos."

He suggested using animation, with a graphic-novel look, instead of stuffy,
real-life re-enactments with bewigged actors to tell the stories of scientific
heroes, "the men and women who helped us find our bearings in space and time,"
Druyan says. Many are not well-known, including Giordano Bruno, a 16th-century
Dominican monk who was burned at the stake for a theory of the universe that
contradicted church teachings.

The new Cosmos shares the DNA of the original, Druyan says.

"Both series combine rigorous scientific skepticism with a soaring sense of the
romance of life in the cosmos. We tell different stories in the new series, and
we have greater capabilities in terms of how much more visually stunning we can
make the experience than we could back then."

Besides the ship, the new production brings back the Cosmic Calendar, which
tries to put the unfathomable 13.8-billion-year history of the universe in the
context of a year, with all of recorded history taking up just the last 14
seconds of Dec. 31.

Showmanship can enhance material that is inherently interesting but often
presented in a dry way, MacFarlane says, but Cosmos does not "dumb down" its
science. A mix of real images and high-tech special effects includes
contributions from Matrix and Spider-Man 2 cinematographer Bill Pope, Star Trek
series producer Brannon Braga and The Avengers composer Alan Silvestri.

"The best teachers I had in school were the ones who found creative ways to
present the material and communicate their own enthusiasm in inventive ways,"
MacFarlane says, praising Tyson's communication skills and Druyan's narrative
style. "It's a show that's supposed to be exciting. When the original Cosmos
came out, Carl Sagan said (he wanted) it to be entertaining and flashy, that
people who have no interest in science (would) watch just for the spectacle. One
of the things that requires is a flashy production style."

There's politics, too

Cosmos does not shy from topics that have become politically controversial in
some circles, such as climate change and evolution. In the premiere, Tyson notes
how forests that grew 300 million years ago became the coal we burn "to power
and imperil our civilization."

He asks: "Is it political if I tell you that if we burn coal, you're going to
warm the atmosphere? Or is that a statement of fact that you've made political?
It's a scientific statement. The fact that there are elements of society that
have made it political, that's a whole other thing," Tyson says. "We're telling
you what science tells us about the world, and what you do with that
information, that's what you do. But I worry that people are making decisions
about the world under-informed about what science has to say about the world."

Sunday's premiere opens with Sagan's recorded voice from the original series,
which will be woven into episodes along the way, Druyan says. "It's one more way
for me to affirm my profound love and respect for him and to continue what he
was trying to do, to (share) the knowledge he treasured with everyone."

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Daniel Smith, Fox

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2014 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              190 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             March 31, 2014 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Kerry: Russia bullying Ukraine;
Meets with foreign minister in Paris

BYLINE: William M. Welch, and John Bacon, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 486 words


Secretary of State John Kerry says the Russian buildup of troops on its border
with Ukraine is creating a climate of fear and intimidation in that country.

Kerry spoke after meeting Sunday night in Paris with Russian Foreign Minister
Sergey Lavrov and said he told Lavrov that Ukrainians must be allowed to decide
their own future.

"The United States is consulting with Ukraine at every step of this process, and
we will not accept the path forward if the legitimate government of Ukraine is
not at the table," Kerry said.

Kerry described his talks with his Russian counterpart as "a frank conversation"
about Russia's moves in Crimea and the large gathering of troops along the
border with Ukraine.

"I made clear the United States still considers the Russian actions to be
illegal and illegitimate," Kerry said.

Lavrov called the meeting "very, very constructive," but he said Ukraine cannot
function as a "unified state" and should be a loose federation of regions
choosing their own economy and language.

Lavrov also made the case in a Saturday interview on Russian-controlled TV,
saying a federation is the only way to guarantee Ukraine's neutrality.

"We can't see any other way to ensure the stable development of Ukraine but to
sign a federal agreement," Lavrov said in the interview. He reiterated Russian
claims that the deployment of tens of thousands of troops near the Ukrainian
border was solely to conduct military exercises.

"We have absolutely no intention of, or interest in, crossing Ukraine's
borders," Lavrov said.

U.S. officials have insisted that any changes to Ukraine's governing structure
must be acceptable to the Ukrainians.

Ukrainian officials are wary of decentralizing power, fearing that pro-Russia
regions would hamper its Western aspirations and potentially split the country
apart. However, they are exploring political reforms that could grant more
authority to local governments.

Kerry had been headed home from Saudi Arabia on Saturday when he abruptly headed
to Paris after a refueling stop in Shannon, Ireland.

Also Saturday, Ukrainian Prime Minister Arseniy Yatsenyuk told Fox News there
remained "a huge possibility that Russia could invade and seize Ukrainian
territory."

Yatsenyuk also told Fox that there was reason for optimism after an hour-long
phone call between President Obama and Russian President Vladimir Putin on
Friday. "Diplomacy is always the best way forward," he said.

Steven Pifer, a Russia expert at the Brookings Institute and a former U.S.
ambassador to Ukraine, said Kerry's U-turn back to Europe was a good sign, but
he expressed skepticism about Russia's moves and motives.

"It's a good thing that there's a conversation going," Pifer said.

However, he noted that "we continue to see the Russian massing of forces along
the eastern Ukraine border. The question will be, does Lavrov have something new
to say?"

Contributing: Richard Wolf in Washington; the Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2014 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              195 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             June 5, 2014 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Russia at fore of G-7 summit;
Though out of sight, Putin on everyone's minds

BYLINE: David Jackson, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 409 words


The Group of Seven may have kicked Russia out, but members still have to deal
with Vladimir Putin.

As President Obama and G-7 allies meet today  -- a get-together once scheduled
for Sochi, Russia -- at least three G-7 members have scheduled private meetings
with Putin over the next two days, generating the potential for weekend talks
about a peace deal between Russia and Ukraine.

Their goal: getting the Russian president to talk with Ukrainian President-elect
Petro Poroshenko about a possible agreement to de-escalate violence in Ukraine.

Obama, who is not scheduled to meet Putin this week but spoke with Poroshenko on
Wednesday, said the Russian leader needs to support Poroshenko's efforts to
broker "a process whereby Russia no longer is financing or supporting or arming
separatists on Ukraine's sovereign territory."

Putin is scheduled to meet President Fran¸ois Hollande of France, a G-7 member,
today  in Paris. Two other leaders of G-7 nations -- German Chancellor Angela
Merkel and British Prime Minister David Cameron -- will meet with Putin on
Friday, on the sidelines of ceremonies for the 70th anniversary of the D-Day
landings in Normandy, France.

Russia's incursion into Ukraine and its annexation of the Crimea region dominate
the G-7 summit, which began Wednesday with a working dinner among members. Most
of the work centered on foreign policy and Ukraine.

Energy, economy, free trade and climate change are on today's agenda, but many
international relations analysts said the most important item is the symbolism
of Russia's absence.

"The meeting was designed to show that the other seven weren't going to go to
Russia," said James Goldgeier, dean of the school of international service at
American University in Washington, D.C.

After the Russian takeover of Crimea, Obama and allies canceled the Sochi
meeting of what was then known as the G-8.

That action and economic sanctions were designed to isolate Putin, though some
G-7 members are now making diplomatic overtures to the Russian leader.

Poroshenko, who will be inaugurated as Ukraine's president Saturday, will also
attend the D-Day ceremonies Friday and hopes to meet with Putin to discuss a
peace plan.

There will be at least one American-Russian contact: Secretary of State John
Kerry will speak with Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov in Paris today.

As for Obama and Putin, the American president said, "I'm sure I'll see him" at
D-Day -- but no formal discussion is planned.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo SAUL LOEB, AFP/Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2014 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              197 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            June 11, 2014 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Latin America's la vida buena lures seniors;
Pleasant climate, lower costs draw retirees south

BYLINE: Nanci Hellmich, @nancihellmich, USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 789 words


Tarin Cardamone, 67, and her husband, James, 71, retired to Sierra Vista, Ariz.,
seven years ago, but now they want to move to a country in Central or South
America for "a different lifestyle -- something that's more exciting and
adventurous than going to the local grocery store or taking a trip to Tucson,"
Tarin says.

They went on a retirement tour of Nicaragua last year, and they plan to take a
tour of Ecuador in 2015, with the goal of moving by 2016.

Joseph Riden, 69, of Seattle, decided to spend his golden years in a "paradise"
where he could have a good quality of life on his income from Social Security.
Two years ago, he took a tour of Costa Rica designed for people who wanted to
move there. "By the end of the trip, I had a clear idea of my choices," Riden
says. "Costa Rica is one of the most beautiful places on Earth."

The number of people who are considering Latin America is growing as more Baby
Boomers begin retiring, says Suzan Haskins, co-author of a new book, The
International Living Guide to Retiring Overseas on a Budget: How to Live Well on
$25,000 a Year, written with her husband, Dan Prescher. They live in Ecuador and
are senior editors at InternationalLiving.com, which offers 2½- to 3½-day
informational conferences ($600 to $1,000) in countries that are popular
retirement locations.

Retirees are attracted to Latin America because "they are looking for places
where their money will go further and where there's better weather," Prescher
says. Plus, these countries are close to the USA, so it's relatively easy to get
back.

It's difficult to say exactly how many Americans are retiring to Latin America,
but Mexico is the most popular retirement destination, Haskins says. Some people
take specially designed retirement tours to explore living in these countries.

In Costa Rica, most people are attracted to the Central Valley for the great
weather (an average temperature of 72 degrees), proximity to private hospitals,
entertainment and better shopping, says Christopher Howard, owner of Live in
Costa Rica Tours (liveincostarica.com), which offers a 10-day group tour for
$2,100 a person, $2,900 for a couple, which includes hotels, most meals and
transportation around the country, but not airfare.

Both medical care and domestic help are much less expensive in Costa Rica, he
says. About 20% of the people on his tours decide to move there, says Howard,
author of The New Golden Door to Retirement and Living in Costa Rica. "It's not
for everybody. It's a big change."

Howard, who has written guidebooks about several other Latin American countries
including Nicaragua and Panama, says, "The bottom line is if you have $1,000 to
$1,500 a month to live on, then you need to go to a place like Nicaragua and
Panama to save money."

Tanya Hartill, owner of NicaTour Group (nicatourgroup.com), estimates that
retirees can live well in Nicaragua for about $900 a month. Many people on her
tours have visited other countries and are being very deliberate in their
decision-making, says Hartill, who offers an eight-day tour for about $1,375 a
person, excluding airfare.

People can retire in Ecuador "very comfortably for about $25,000 a year,"
Haskins says. Cities always cost more than small villages," she says. "Your
experience will be so much richer if you can speak the language."

The medical care in major cities in many Latin American countries "is excellent,
top quality," and it's very affordable as compared with the U.S., she says.

You can become a resident of another country and not lose your U.S. citizenship,
he says. You still file taxes in the U.S., can vote and collect Social Security,
he says. "You can have your Social Security check deposited in many qualifying
banks around the world."

Prescher suggests living in a new country for six months before committing to
moving there.

Tarin says she and her husband plan to rent a place for six months and keep
their home in Arizona, in case things don't work out. And if the first country
they try doesn't suit, they might move to another  and try living there for six
months, she says.

Riden says the tour of Costa Rica gave him the confidence to take the plunge and
move there. He now rents an 800-square-foot stucco house in Grecia, a
medium-size town in the Central Valley, for $525 a month.

He loves living there, but there are a few downsides, including a "tremendous
bureaucracy. I've spent three days trying to open a checking account."

He spends half the year living near Seattle and the other half in Costa Rica.
Moving to this Central American country was the right decision, Riden says.

"When you come here, everything slows down, and you begin to appreciate the
simple things in life. All day long, you get to hear constant bird song."

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo

DOCUMENT-TYPE: RETIREMENT

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2014 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              198 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              June 13, 2014 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Race for Tesla plant looks neck and neck;
Texas, Nevada look like leading contenders

BYLINE: Jason Hidalgo, and Anjeanette Damon, Reno Gazette Journal

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 705 words


The battle for electric-car maker Tesla Motors' multibillion-dollar battery
plant is supposed to be a four-way race.

Some site-selection experts, however, believe the fight for the so-called
"Gigafactory" likely boils down to one heavyweight and a plucky upstart.

In one corner is San Antonio, a city located in a big state with big pockets to
invest in economic development.

In the other corner is Reno, which has less than a fifth of San Antonio's
population and even fewer resources for incentives.

"A case can be made for both Arizona and New Mexico ... and you have to give
them credit," said John Boyd, a principal of Princeton, N.J.-based
site-selection firm The Boyd Co. "But the two leading contenders are Reno and
San Antonio."

Tesla says it likely won't announce a final site for the Gigafactory before the
end of the year. In the meantime, it will break ground in two or even three
states while it makes its decision -- a move that site-selection experts
described as unusual.

"I think it's just a matter of Tesla saving time on the development process once
it picks a site," said Dennis Donovan, a principal with New Jersey-based
site-selection firm Wadley Donovan Gutshaw Consulting. "(Concurrent development)
is actually not that bad for those communities, even if the company goes
somewhere else, because the site infrastructure will be valuable."

Boyd, on the other hand, thinks that the multi-pronged development approach
helps Tesla maintain secrecy. It's also an excellent way for the company to
leverage many incentives from all states involved, including its desire to
change the franchise model for car sales, Boyd added.

A tale of two cities

For areas that seem quite different on the surface, the similarities between The
Biggest Little City and the Alamo City are what make them the top Gigafactory
contenders for site selection, according to experts such as Boyd.

For starters, both are in right-to-work states, Boyd said. Tesla has firsthand
experience with the higher labor costs associated with manufacturing in
California, which is not a right-to-work state. You can bet that this is one
lesson Tesla CEO Elon Musk would rather not repeat -- making it bad news for New
Mexico, Boyd said.

Arizona, meanwhile, recently failed to pass a bill that would have allowed Tesla
to bypass dealerships in the state and sell its cars directly to consumers.
Although some analysts labeled the development as the death knell for Arizona's
chances to land the Gigafactory, it is not the deal breaker that some are making
it out to be, Boyd said. Instead, Arizona's challenge in landing the
high-profile plant lies elsewhere.

"Arizona has a very positive business climate, but at the end of the day, it has
that corporate income tax," Boyd said.

The aforementioned advantages dovetail nicely with other factors deemed
essential for a facility such as the Gigafactory. Nevada and Texas have a solid
labor pool of semi-skilled workers to draw from, as well as a strong utility
infrastructure with access to alternative energy sources such as solar and wind,
Donovan said.

"In terms of shipping products by truck or rail, Reno and San Antonio are also
very, very strong," Donovan added.

Both sites are also a relatively short distance from major ports -- Houston in
the case of San Antonio and Oakland for Reno. These would be key advantages if
Tesla and Panasonic expand their partnership for battery products and ship to a
global market. The company has said that it wants to begin operations in China
within five years, Boyd said.

Differences may decide

Despite the similarities between Reno and San Antonio, however, Tesla's decision
will ultimately boil down to their differences.  Texas has stronger workforce
development and already has a precedent for auto manufacturing. Reno, meanwhile,
has its proximity to Tesla's headquarters in the Bay Area as well as potential
lithium resources.

One thing is for sure, according to Boyd and Donovan. Tesla will be a game
changer for the area that lands it. The benefits even go beyond the 6,500 jobs
and $4 billion to $5 billion investment for the facility.

"It would go on in the annals of site selection as one of the biggest economic
development wins," Donovan said. "It's that huge."

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo H. Darr Beiser, USA TODAY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2014 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              223 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           November 13, 2014 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

To close diversity gap: Back minority-owned business

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 461 words


I am an African- American tech entrepreneur and co-founder of Tuloko, an
Internet business.  Our firm has been featured on CNN, recognized by Harvard
Business School and invited to take part in business incubators ("How to close
the diversity gap," Money, Monday).

Despite the accolades, we have to be creative in raising capital because the
investor community and the major Silicon Valley firms haven't strongly supported
African-American founders. Black founders received only a small percentage of
venture capital/angel funding in 2010,  according to a CB Insights report.

Here's an opportunity for Facebook, Google and Apple to manage or allocate money
to a venture capital fund to specifically invest in women- and minority-owned
technology firms. Imagine if women and minority founders got the necessary
capital and resources from investors to grow and expand their companies.

A minority tech founder will be more inclined to hire other women and
minorities. Subsequently, they will exit their company, set up investment groups
and help more underrepresented founders. This approach would change diversity in
the tech industry.

Duane Johnson

Minneapolis

In reading your article "How to close the tech diversity gap," I was surprised
that it did not even make a passing reference to the disproportionately high
percentage of Asian workers at several of the high-tech companies in the table
that accompanied the article.

In the spirit of a fair and balanced presentation, it would have been
instructional for the report to have researched what opportunities Asians have
that the other minorities featured in the article do not have.

Robert Lee

Greensboro, Ga.

Facebook

Education is only part of the answer

A USA TODAY/Stanford Diversity in Tech summit last week included Jesse Jackson
and executives from Google and Facebook.

Jesse Jackson should be given credit for getting the discussion about diversity
in the tech workforce out in the open. With that being said, he must know the
problem lies with education, especially in public schools. Start from there with
math and science. It's not Google's responsibility to make sure minorities  get
a better education from public institutions.  In my opinion, it is parents'
responsibility to get their children prepared.

Rick Yant

Congratulations to Google for recruiting in non-traditional areas. When those
efforts bear fruit, other tech companies will follow.

Ed Montvidas

If more minorities want to work in technology, more have to pursue technical
degrees.  If minorities don't have the required qualifications for the tech
jobs, they can't get the tech jobs.

Jon Fye

Many people are missing the main point: It's not about being qualified. Even
when minority candidates are, they're not getting the opportunities.

Patricia McCants

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: OPINION

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2014 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              224 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            November 14, 2014 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Next for Obama, G-20 summit in Australia;
Plan to boost global GDP by 2% in 5 years will be a main topic

BYLINE: Barry D. Wood, Special for USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 487 words


President Obama wraps up his week-long overseas trip this weekend at the Group
of 20 economic summit of world leaders meeting in Australia.

The G-20 is a gathering of the world's 20 largest economies, which include the
United States, China, Russia, Germany and Australia. The countries collectively
account for 85% of global output, 75% of trade and 60% of world population.

A main topic of the two-day summit that starts Saturday is approving what's
called the Brisbane Action Plan, aimed to boost world GDP  by 2% above current
projections over the next five years, the equivalent of more than $2 trillion.

There are so many world leaders present -- including Russian President Vladimir
Putin, Chinese President Xi Jinping and German Chancellor Angela Merkel -- that
talks could include climate change, the deadly Ebola outbreak in West Africa and
ways to fight Islamic State militants in Iraq and Syria.

Even Pope Francis has weighed in, sending a letter this week to Australian Prime
Minister Tony Abbott asking that the world leaders remember the plight of the
poor and be "examples of generosity."

Abbott and Australian summit planner Martin Parkinson said they want the
meeting to concentrate on economic growth and trade. Abbott said he wants the
summit to be more than a stage-managed "talk fest."

Abbott said each G-20 country will outline its measures for growth, which will
be monitored as they're implemented by the International Monetary Fund and the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.

"Each nation's domestic growth strategy will have been peer-reviewed and
published for the world to see," Abbott said.

Forging an agreement on economic matters with all G-20 participants can be a
challenge.

The group includes Argentina, which recently defaulted on some of its debt.
Growth trajectories for Brazil and South Africa are slowing down, and Europe is
teetering near recession while growth in the USA is picking up. Western
sanctions punishing Russia for its intervention in Ukraine are depressing the
economies in Europe and Russia.

The summit comes on the heels of three Asian economic summits this week in China
and Burma  that included Obama, Abbott and other world leaders.  For Australia,
the G-20 will help showcase the country's growing economic ties with Asia; 80%
of Australian exports go there.

China and Japan are Australia's biggest trading partners. Minerals and
agricultural products go north, while consumer goods flow the other way.

Australia's economic links to China will expand under a bilateral free-trade
agreement, whose key elements are to be unveiled Monday, when China's Xi speaks
before Australia's Parliament.

In Brisbane -- Australia's third-largest city with 3million people -- Obama will
address students Saturday at the University of Queensland about America's hopes
to boost trade with Asia. Sunday, he will participate in a news conference
before returning to Washington.

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Saeed Khan, AFP/Getty Images

DOCUMENT-TYPE: WORLD

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2014 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              225 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            November 17, 2014 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

GOP battles await Obama's return;
Republicans ready to fight 'tooth and nail' on immigration, Iran

BYLINE: David Jackson, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 463 words


President Obama, who has made aggressive moves since Democratic losses on
Election Day, faces more battles with newly empowered Republicans after he
returns from his foreign trip Sunday.

In the wake of recent announcements about climate change and Internet policy --
both of which drew criticism from the GOP -- Obama faces contentious calls over
immigration and Iran.

Obama and congressional Republicans will also fight over the Keystone XL oil
pipeline and a new spending plan designed to take effect when the current one
expires Dec.11.

While Republicans won control of the Senate and expanded their House majority in
the Nov.4 elections, Obama vowed to avoid claims he has become a lame duck.

"The president has indicated that he's going to use all of the authority that's
vested in the executive branch of the United States to take action that would
benefit the American people," said White House spokesman Josh Earnest.

While traveling this past week to economic conferences in China, Burma and
Australia, Obama made clear he plans to take action on the most contentious
issue of all: immigration.

The president, who left Australia early Sunday for the return flight to
Washington, plans to meet with advisers in the coming days on the details of new
immigration executive orders that could grant legal status to millions of
undocumented immigrants. A formal announcement could come anytime over the next
several weeks.

Congressional Republicans said Obama's "executive amnesty plan" would poison
relations on immigration and a variety of other issues.

"We're going to fight the president tooth and nail if he continues down this
path," said House Speaker John Boehner, R-Ohio. "This is the wrong way to
govern. This is exactly what the American people said on Election Day they
didn't want."

Some Republicans have suggested they may block approval of a new spending plan
if Obama goes forward with his immigration orders. That sets up the possibility
of a government shutdown when the current one expires Dec. 11.

The Obama administration's negotiations with Iran over its nuclear program could
also produce a flashpoint with Republicans. The U.S., its allies and Iran face a
Nov. 24 deadline for talks on a deal in which the U.S. coalition would reduce
sanctions on Iran if it agrees to forgo the means to make nuclear weapons.

Obama and the Republicans are also on track for a more immediate dispute over
the Keystone XL pipeline, which would carry oil from Canada to the Gulf of
Mexico. Republicans have long supported the project, calling it an economic
boon. Democrats who had opposed the Keystone project on environmental grounds
are now supporting a vote this week. One reason: The fate of pro-Keystone Sen.
Mary Landrieu, D-La., who faces a runoff election for her job Dec. 6.

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Pablo Martinez Monsivais, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2014 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              226 of 231 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           November 18, 2014 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Poll: More say no to executive order;
U.S. wants Obama to wait for new Congress

BYLINE: Susan Page, @susanpage, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 431 words


President Obama's plan to sign an executive order on immigration as early as
this week will meet more resistance than support, a USA TODAY Poll finds. Close
to half of those surveyed, 46%, say he should wait for the new
Republican-controlled Congress to act, and one in 10 are unconvinced either way.

Forty-two percent of Americans say the president should take action now,
findings that reflect a familiar partisan divide between Democrats and
Republicans. The president is considering an order that would prevent as many as
5 million people from being deported.

On some other issues, the poll finds  consensus in an electorate that isn't
firmly tied to either party. By more than 2-1, those surveyed side with Obama on
a  climate deal with China,  and with Republicans on approval of the Keystone XL
pipeline.

They are more likely to identify themselves as independents than anything else;
34% say they aren't aligned with either party. Even after sweeping GOP gains in
this month's midterms, just 24% identify themselves as Republicans; 32% say
they're Democrats.

In the poll, those surveyed:

By 60%-25% say Congress and Obama should approve construction of the Keystone
pipeline, which would carry oil from Canada through the Midwest to refineries in
Texas.

The House passed a bill approving the pipeline Friday, and a Senate vote is
scheduled for today. Obama has indicated he is considering a veto.

By 63%-28% support a U.S.-China agreement unveiled last week during Obama's
visit to Beijing that calls for a reduction in carbon emissions, including by
more than 25% in the USA by 2025.

The incoming Senate majority leader, Republican Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, has
blasted the deal as one that will cost jobs.

By 62%-30% say Obama needs authorization from Congress for the use of force
against the Islamic State radical group. The administration has dispatched
troops using the authorization passed more than a decade ago before the invasion
of Iraq in the wake of the Sept. 11 attacks.

On one more issue, Americans are in agreement: The midterms won't make
Washington work better.

Just 15% predict Obama and the new Congress will work together more closely.  A
53% majority say nothing will change; 27% predict it will get worse.

IMMIGRATION DIVIDE

Should President Obama take executive action this year todeal with illegal
immigration or should he wait until January for the new Republican Congress to
pass legislation on this issue?

Act now 42%

Wait 46%

Don't know/refused 12%

Source USA TODAY Poll of 1,000 adults by Princeton Survey Research Nov. 13-16.
Margin of error

±4 percentage points.

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: graphic, color, JULIE SNIDER, USA TODAY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2014 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved
