
                               3 of 193 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            August 16, 2011 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Cities combat climate change;
'Adaptation' is name of game in fighting adverse effects

BYLINE: Wendy Koch, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 823 words


In Chula Vista, Calif., new waterfront buildings will be required to have higher
foundations because of an expected rise in sea levels.

In Chicago, where flooding is predicted to worsen, residents can get rebates for
putting rain barrels, compost bins and native plants in their yards.

And in New York City, where rising tides are also projected, wastewater
treatment plants will elevate their pumps.

While some members of Congress debate the scientific validity of climate change,
these U.S. cities are going beyond efforts to mitigate it with lower greenhouse
gas emissions. They're at the forefront of an emerging trend: adaptation.

"It's a new field," says Brian Holland, director of climate programs at
ICLEI-Local Governments for Sustainability USA. His association launched a
Climate Resilient Communities program last year to help cities study effects of
climate change and finance ways to adapt.  Nearly 600 local governments,
representing one-fourth of the U.S. population, have signed on.

As extreme weather continues to sweep the nation and Americans struggle to deal
with heat waves and flooding, Holland says many are convinced they need to act.
"We're already seeing consequences of climate change," he says, "and those will
only intensify."

An increasing number of cities have begun vulnerability assessments, and some --
notably Chicago -- are already taking steps to counter adverse effects.

"We're mostly at the study and planning phase," says Michelle Mehta, co-author
of the "Thirsty for Answers" report this month by the Natural Resources Defense
Council (NRDC), which looks at how a dozen U.S. cities will be affected.

The NRDC report says coastal cities such as New York and San Francisco
anticipate "serious challenges" from sea-level rise, while Southwestern cities
such as Phoenix will face water shortages and Midwestern cities, including
Chicago and St. Louis, can expect more intense storms and flooding.

Climate change skeptic David Kreutzer, a research fellow in energy economics at
the conservative Heritage Foundation, says there have always been "variations in
weather" so it makes sense to prepare for storms. But he says cities may waste
money if their regulations are based on "hysterical" projections of sea-level
rise.

Scott Huth, public works director for Coronado, Calif., a beach town of 25,000,
says the planning is  not about politics or being liberal or conservative, it's
simply about taking seriously "our duty to make sure that we're informed for
things that might potentially happen."

Mehta says some projects meet immediate needs but will also help cities cope
with problems exacerbated by climate change. Among them are elevating homes and
rebuilding levees in New Orleans, which is steadily sinking. Other projects are
more tailored to climate change:

Seattle has developed a climate tool,  now being tested, that allows users to
input variables such as the location and timing of a proposed project to learn
how it will be affected.

San Francisco plans next year to build devices in three locations to prevent
salty bay water from overflowing into the city's combined storm-water and
wastewater system. Rising sea levels already cause four to seven overflows each
year that harm water treatment, says David Behar of the San Francisco Public
Utilities Commission. "We expect a nuisance will become a problem," he says,
adding: "Sea-level rise is inexorable."

Chicago is planting trees and replacing impervious surfaces such as concrete
sidewalks with permeable materials to allow rain to seep into the ground. It has
more than 600 green roof projects completed or underway.  "We're making the city
resilient to climate changes right away," says Karen Weigert, the city's chief
sustainability officer.

Chula Vista approved a climate plan in May that calls for more shade trees and
"cool" or reflective roofs. Citing a study that sea levels -- already up 6
inches since 1900 -- will rise 12 to 18 inches more in the next 40 years, it
also requires  that new waterfront projects account for this projected increase.

Norfolk, Va., is doing a feasibility study on measures such as dam structures to
deal with the area's 14.5-inch rise in sea level over the past 80 years --
whatever the cause. "The city is trying to be as proactive as possible without
engaging in the hyperbole of climate change arguments," says John White, the
city's engineer for storm-water systems.

New York City is not only planting a million trees, it also has a $1.5 billion,
20-year plan for green infrastructure to help manage storm-water runoff from
increasingly powerful storms.

Financing such projects is a challenge now for local governments, but not all
needed changes require extra cash, says David Bragdon, director of long-term
planning and sustainability for New York City.

"It's altering the way we're doing things," he says. "It's building something to
fit the likely conditions of the future."

Contributing: Elizabeth Weise

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              10 of 193 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             October 7, 2011 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Taste this: Climate change may redraw wine regions;
Rising temps could affect where best grapes grown

BYLINE: Elizabeth Weise, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 356 words


To the litany of changes being wrought by global warming, we may be able to add
one more: where wine grapes can and can't be grown.

Within 30 years, the areas where California can grow fine-wine grapes could
shrink  because of climate change, while little-known growing regions such as
Seattle's Puget Sound and Oregon's Willamette Valley see growth, according to
one controversial study.

A federal agency report in 2009 found that average U.S. temperatures could
increase 2 to 4 degrees  by 2020 compared with the 1970s' average. That's not
huge, but the best grapes "grow in a narrow geographic range that exhibits a
narrow climate envelope," says Noah Diffenbaugh, a climate scientist at Stanford
University.

Warming overall has meant that areas not generally associated with wine are
becoming bigger players in the industry. Among them:

Southern England, Tasmania in Australia, New Zealand's South Island and Canada's
Okanagan Valley in British Columbia,  says Gregory Jones, a research
climatologist and wine-grape expert at Southern Oregon University in Ashland.

Puget Sound, near Seattle, where wine-grape growing only became possible
beginning in the 1970s, he says.

The Finger Lakes wine country in Upstate New York, where the wine industry has
taken off since the 1970s,  says David Wolfe, a specialist in agricultural
climate change at Cornell University in Ithaca, N.Y.

In California, a paper suggesting that 50% of the state's premium
wine-grape-growing areas could become too hot to grow high-quality grapes by
2039  stirred debate among grape growers. It was published this summer in the
journal Environmental Research Letters.

"Climate change can and will affect all fine wine-growing regions worldwide, but
the results will not necessarily be a blanket effect," the Napa Valley Vintners
said in a statement.

Other scientists are more concerned with wide swings in temperatures and timing
of seasons.

"We're in a much more variable climatic structure right now," Southern Oregon's
Jones says.

"The pace of change projected for this century is far beyond what previous
generations of farmers have had to face," Cornell's Wolfe says.

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              13 of 193 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            August 11, 2011 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

What's going down? Not temperatures, or your AC bill

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 667 words


This summer's record-shattering heat wave brings to mind the lyrics of an old
Buffalo Springfield song: "There's something happening here. What it is ain't
exactly clear."

What's happening is extraordinarily hot weather, centered in the Southern
Plains. Oklahoma's average temperature in July (88.9 degrees) was the hottest
for any state for any month on record. Dallas is closing in on its record of 42
consecutive days of 100-plus degree weather. Newark set an all-time high of 108
on July 22. Washington, D.C., has had 24 days at 95 degrees or above,
approaching the record of 28. Nationally, last month was the fourth hottest July
on record, with communities in all 50 states setting high temperature records.

What's not exactly clear is why this is happening. Is it just a freakishly hot
summer resulting from an unusual, Dust Bowl-type weather pattern? Or, more
ominously, does it reflect the impact of heat-trapping gases being pumped into
the world's atmosphere at a rate of tens of millions of tons a day?

While scientists caution that no individual extreme weather event can be
conclusively linked to global warming, this summer is consistent with
computer-model predictions of hotter days, warmer nights and more severe
droughts.

Here's one way to think of it: The atmosphere is juiced like athletes on
performance-enhancing drugs. During baseball's steroid era, steroids didn't turn
singles into home runs. But what used to be fly balls to the warning track ended
up over the fence.

Similarly, climate change and urbanization don't cause heat waves and droughts
so much as intensify them. So what used to be a 95-degree day can become a
100-degree day. Or what once was a 75-degree nighttime low can turn into an
80-degree night.

Opinions expressed in USA TODAY's editorials are decided by its Editorial Board,
a demographically and ideologically diverse group that is separate from USA
TODAY's news staff.

Most editorials are accompanied by an opposing view -- a unique USA TODAY
feature that allows readers to reach conclusions based on both sides of an
argument rather than just the Editorial Board's point of view.

Opponents of efforts to combat global warming talk about the price of putting a
tax on carbon or creating a market-based system to reduce greenhouse gas
emissions. The leading "cap and trade" bill in the Senate, for example, would
cost an estimated $350 in 2025 per four-person household.

But the climate change skeptics and deniers -- many of whom hail from Texas and
Oklahoma, the epicenter of this summer's misery -- rarely discuss the price of
inaction. If you accept that climate change is occurring, such costs are
reflected in higher air conditioning bills and wilted crops.

According to a study by Tufts University researchers for the Natural Resources
Defense Council, climate change will cost the average four-person household an
additional $340 in energy costs in 2025, plus $2,950 for hurricane damages, real
estate losses and water-supply costs.

Given the threats from global warming, a prudent society would begin moving
aggressively to reduce carbon emissions and to develop cleaner energy sources.
It would lead a global effort to reduce greenhouse gases because unilateral U.S.
action won't accomplish much unless it's accompanied by reductions in developing
nations such as China and India.

Some 98% of climate scientists agree that global warming is real and is very
likely caused primarily by human activity. The evidence continues to mount: Nine
of history's 10 hottest years have occurred in the past 13 years. In the USA,
new high temperature records outnumbered low temperature records by more than
2-to-1 over the past decade. And the volume of Arctic sea ice reached record
lows for July.

Too often, climate change is discussed as something to be worried about far off
into the future, so far that it dims in importance compared with more pressing
concerns. Both the latest global data and the USA's sweltering summer suggest,
however, that the future might be now.

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Tony Gutierrez,, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              20 of 193 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              May 16, 2011 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Climate study gets pulled over plagiarism

BYLINE: Dan Vergano, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 531 words


Evidence of plagiarism and complaints about the peer-review process have led a
statistics journal to retract a federally funded study that condemned scientific
support for global warming.

The study, which appeared in 2008 in the journal Computational Statistics and
Data Analysis, was headed by statistician Edward Wegman of George Mason
University in Fairfax, Va. Its analysis was an outgrowth of a controversial
congressional report that Wegman headed in 2006.  The "Wegman Report" suggested
climate scientists colluded in their studies and questioned whether global
warming was real. The report has since become a touchstone among climate change
naysayers.

The journal publisher's legal team "has decided to retract the study," said CSDA
journal editor Stanley Azen of the University of Southern California, following
complaints of plagiarism. A November  review by three plagiarism experts of the
2006 congressional report for USA TODAY also concluded that portions contained
text from Wikipedia and textbooks. The journal study, co-authored by Wegman
student Yasmin Said, detailed part of the congressional report's analysis.

"Neither Dr. Wegman nor Dr. Said has ever engaged in plagiarism," says their
attorney, Milton Johns, by e-mail. In a March 16 e-mail to the journal, Wegman
blamed a student who "had basically copied and pasted" from others' work into
the 2006 congressional report, and said the text was lifted without
acknowledgment and used in the journal study. "We would never knowingly publish
plagiarized material" wrote Wegman, a former CSDA journal editor.

Plagiarism can result in research sanctions from federal funding authorities,
says federal Office of Research Integrity's John Dahlberg. He would not say
whether ORI was investigating the researchers.

The congressional report, requested by global warming skeptic Rep. Joe Barton,
R-Texas, and the study concluded that climate scientists favorably publish one
another's work because of too-close collaboration. They suggested this led to
the consensus that the Earth is warming.

A 2009 National Academy of Sciences report found that climate studies show
average global temperatures have increased 1.4 degrees in the past century, for
example.

The  study  concluded that top scientists shouldn't collaborate. Instead,
studies where a "principal author tends to co-author papers with younger
colleagues who were his students"  would produce less-biased results. Barton
reiterated his support for the report last fall.

Computer scientist Ted Kirkpatrick of Canada's Simon Fraser University, filed a
complaint with the journal after reading the climate science website Deep
Climate, which first noted plagiarism in the Wegman Report in 2009. "There is
something beyond ironic about a study of the conduct of science having ethics
problems," Kirkpatrick says.

Azen says the study seemed novel and important at a time when social networking
studies were "hot." Johns says his clients "stand by their work" despite the
retraction.

George Mason University said in 2010 that it was investigating the charges of
plagiarism. University spokesman Dan Walsch says the study retraction was a
"personnel matter" and declined to comment.

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Pietro Terna

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              21 of 193 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 2, 2011 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Gingrich endures shifts in policy;
Candidate sees no backlash from base

BYLINE: Jackie Kucinich, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 844 words


Former House speaker Newt Gingrich has criticized former Massachusetts governor
Mitt Romney for inconsistent comments on conservative issues, although
Gingrich's record shows that he, too, has been inconsistent on many of the same
issues.

As Gingrich has risen in the polls from an also-ran to a top contender, his
contradictory positions on several issues have come under increased scrutiny.
Those include his support for the individual health care mandate that he now
describes as "unconstitutional;" his long relationship with housing lender
Freddie Mac during a time when he was critical of politicians for propping up
the government-sponsored enterprises and his view on the impact of climate
change.

Unlike Romney, however, Gingrich has not seen a backlash with the base. Instead
his stock among conservatives has recently experienced a resurgence. Several
former aides say that's because of his long record in conservative circles and
others to the passing fancy of the right wing of the Republican Party.

"I don't know that it will last forever," former Gingrich aide and Republican
strategist Rich Galen said of the current conservative honeymoon. "He's probably
steeled himself to the (old attacks) but challenges to his positions are
something he may not be as ready for, because he may see them as challenges to
his intellectual honesty."

One Republican contender, Rep. Ron Paul of Texas, has released an opening salvo
against him with an ad questioning Gingrich's "serial hypocrisy" and quoting
newspaper articles, pundits and  conservative talk radio host Rush Limbaugh to
illustrate Gingrich's numerous policy changes.

"No candidate in the race has achieved more conservative reform of government or
spent more time and energy championing the cause of the conservative movement
than Newt Gingrich, which is why voters across the country are choosing Newt
over Mitt Romney," Gingrich spokesman R.C. Hammond said in a statement
responding to Paul's ad.

The Paul ad begins with a commercial Gingrich shot with Speaker Nancy Pelosi,
D-Calif., in 2008 promoting bipartisan solutions to climate change.

In his 2007 book, A Contract with the Earth, Gingrich and his co-writer Terry
Maple wrote that they "recognize climate change is supported by a wealth of
scientific data derived from a diversity of measurement techniques" and said
they "cannot be certain about the variance introduced by distinctly human
activities."

In a recent interview with Fox News, Gingrich called his 2008 ad a "stupid"
misstep and reiterated his belief that "the evidence is not complete" on the
subject.

During the last few debates, Gingrich has bristled at moderators and fellow
candidates who have questioned his policy shifts on everything from foreign
policy to health care to his relationship with Freddie Mac, the federally backed
housing lender.

Gingrich bristled at a question about his perceived flip-flop on Libya during an
Aug. 11 debate in Iowa. He had first supported a no-fly zone and later said he
would not intervene.

At the debate, Gingrich  called it a "gotcha question," saying  he was taken out
of context and changed his answer after President Obama changed his policy.
Gingrich said the situation in Libya had changed between the two comments, so it
was not a flip-flop.

During a CNN debate in October,  Romney told Gingrich the idea for his state's
requirement that residents buy health insurance came from Gingrich. Gingrich,
who supported such a mandate, said the idea  came from the conservative Heritage
Foundation.

In a recent interview with CNN, Gingrich said he could have handled the exchange
better. "If I would have been clever, I would turn and say, 'I've admitted I was
wrong. I've learned, and I've changed my mind. Why haven't you?'" he  said.

Such flexibility makes Gingrich a better candidate, says Tony Blankley, a GOP
strategist, former Gingrich aide and current supporter.

"I think there is a sense that people understood that Newt was going for what he
thought was right," Blankley said. "Romney has given the impression, maybe
falsely, that he's going for what he thinks is useful for him."

His relationship with Freddie Mac before the collapse of the mortgage industry
in 2008 has been a tougher issue for Gingrich to explain.

Gingrich has acknowledged reports that he received $1.6million in consulting
fees from Freddie Mac between 1999 and 2008. In an April 24, 2007, interview
posted on Freddie Mac's website, he said  Freddie Mac and other
government-sponsored enterprises (GSEs) made it easier for people to buy homes.

His explanations for his work for Freddie Mac have shifted. He said at a  debate
in November that he gave Freddie Mac executives advice as a historian, told them
their business model was "insane" and that the housing market was a giant
bubble.

Former  representative Bob Walker, a Gingrich adviser, said the idea that
Gingrich was "out shilling" for Freddie Mac was false.

"They were looking into how to get more conservative support, they chose not to
(take his advice)," he said. "That happens a lot in corporate America."

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              22 of 193 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             May 26, 2011 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Ragweed, molds top allergy culprits;
And people's sensitivity is on the increase, too, large-scale study shows

BYLINE: Mary Brophy Marcus, USA TODAY

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 7D

LENGTH: 463 words


Allergies are on the rise, and ragweed and molds top the list as the biggest
culprits, a study by one of the USA's largest labs says.

In the Quest Diagnostics study, results of close to 14 million blood tests from
more than 2 million patients  over a four-year period were evaluated. The  tests
looked for high levels of sensitivity to 11 common allergens, including ragweed,
mold, two types of house dust mites, cats, dogs and five foods.

Sensitization to common ragweed increased 15% from 2005 through 2008, and for
mold it increased 12%. Sensitization to the 11 allergens combined increased
5.8%, says study author Stanley Naides of Quest Diagnostics' Nichols Institute
in San Juan Capistrano, Calif.

"The level of sensitization to these common allergens is increasing. These kinds
of studies where we have access to large databases are very helpful in defining
questions for further studies," he says. Numbers may be even higher because many
people with allergies never get tested, Naides says.

The researchers also ranked the 30 most populated cities for sensitization to
ragweed. Phoenix and Las Vegas top the list. "The highest areas are in the
Southwest, and one has to raise the question of whether weather is contributing
to this," Naides says. "We believe this is the first large national study to
show that the growing prevalence of allergies, suggested by other studies, is
largely due to increases in environment-based allergens previously associated
with climate change." He says more research is needed to confirm such theories.

A study published in March in the Proceedings of the National Academy of
Sciences found that the ragweed season was nearly a month longer in 2009 than in
1995 in northern areas of North America, possibly as a result of climate change.

"It's hard to say that it's 100% climate change," says Princess Ogbogu,
assistant professor of medicine and pediatrics  at The Ohio State University.
She says a decades-long study would shed more light on the question. She also
notes that the researchers did not test for tree pollen and grass sensitivity.

Susan Schuval, a pediatric allergist at Cohen Children's Medical Center in New
Hyde Park, N.Y., says the study is impressive in size and scope and confirms
what allergists are seeing   a rise in all types of allergic diseases. "No one
really knows quite why this is happening," she says.

She cautions that  the study looks only at blood testing, which she says has
about a 15% to 20% false positive rate. "Another way to test is skin-prick
testing, which is sometimes more accurate than blood testing," she says.

---

Worst cities for ragweed

1. Phoenix

2. Las Vegas

3. Kansas City

4. Riverside-San Bernardino

5. Dallas

6. Chicago

7. Sacramento

8. Philadelphia

9. Denver

10. Washington

Minneapolis/St. Paul (tied)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              25 of 193 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             March 25, 2011 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

All military retirees merit respect for service

SECTION: EDIT; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 337 words


I take great offense  to USA TODAY's  editorial "Perks for uniformed personnel
strain government budgets," especially the comment  that  "veterans who do
multiple tours in combat zones (should) be treated more generously than those
who don't come within thousands of miles of a battlefield" (Our view, Retirement
benefits debate, March 17).

I am a retired Marine Corps colonel, who served 31 years and retired from active
service due to service constraints and medical issues in 2003. I did not serve
in a combat zone, as was the case for many of my peers  who served from
1972-2003.

Several times during my career, the military was engaged in combat. No one who
served during that time chose where they were assigned, or the jobs they were
assigned.  Headquarters directed our assignments. If someone was in an
operational unit when the conflict occurred, then he was sent to the combat
zone. Those like me  who did not serve in a combat zone think you owe us an
apology for denigrating our service. If you question our service, then I think
you should join the military.

By the way, I graduated from college with a bachelor's degree in chemistry
before joining the military and went on to obtain two master's degrees while in
the military. Many of us could have made more money in the private sector but
chose to serve our country.

Neil T. Hartenstein

Coatesville, Pa.

Climate change doubters

In discussing with friends the issues raised in the Forum piece  "How to help
scientists and the public see eye-to-eye," especially global climate change,
apparently part of the problem is politics. Conservatives toe the party line.
The party line seems to be that global warming doesn't exist (March 14).

Another significant part of the problem is head-in-the-sand syndrome. People
don't want to believe that global warming is really happening, and if it is,
that  mankind's actions are causing it. Addressing the issue would  change our
lifestyle. Many people will not be convinced until it is too late.

Larry Lockhart

West Branch, Mich.

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              28 of 193 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            January 24, 2011 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

States take lead in efforts to fight climate change;
They're joining forces and spending more, but higher costs are a worry

BYLINE: Wendy Koch

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 599 words


Now that 2010 has gone down as one of history's hottest years, many states are
choosing not to wait for Congress to tackle global warming and are taking their
own steps to slash greenhouse gas emissions.

States are increasingly adopting stricter, energy-saving building codes;
spending more money (partly federal) on energy efficiency; and prodding
polluters to cut heat-trapping emissions.

"This is groundbreaking work the states are doing to provide leadership," says
Kevin Kennedy of the California Air Resources Board, a state agency that
approved rules in December to cut the state's carbon dioxide emissions 15% by
2020. This month, California began to require new TVs be more energy efficient,
to phase out incandescent light bulbs (one year ahead of the national phaseout)
and to enforce a green building code.

These efforts come as last year's Democratic-controlled Congress failed to
approve a climate change bill and the new Republican-led House of
Representatives seeks to stop the Environmental Protection Agency from
regulating emissions.

States nearly doubled their spending on energy efficiency from 2007 to 2009, and
twice as many -- now at least 20 -- have proposed or adopted energy-saving
building codes since 2009, according to a study in October by the American
Council for an Energy-Efficient Economy, a non-profit group.

States are acting individually and collectively:

*Massachusetts announced last month that it will cut greenhouse gas emissions
25% from 1990 levels by 2020. "It's very doable," says Richard Sullivan, the
state's secretary of energy and environmental affairs. "When you focus on energy
efficiency, you can go a long way."

This year, the state will help fund ultra-efficient retrofits for some homes and
give them a miles-per-gallon type of efficiency label. It's working to allow
auto insurers to base their rates partly on a car's annual mileage.

*Three regional groups, representing at least 22 states, agreed last year to
work together on "cap-and-trade" programs. The programs cap total emissions but
allow businesses that pollute a lot to buy emissions credits from those that
pollute less.

The regional groups include the Midwestern Greenhouse Gas Reduction Accord,
signed by 10 governors, and the Western Climate Initiative, in which California,
New Mexico, British Columbia, Ontario and Quebec are slated next January to
begin a cap-and-trade program.

They're following the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative (RGGI). Since 2009, 10
Eastern and Mid-Atlantic states have required power plants to buy allowances for
emitting CO

, raising $777 million and reinvesting 80% of that in clean energy.

"You can reduce greenhouse gas emissions without having a significant impact on
ratepayers," says Jonathan Shrag, the group's executive director, noting the
average monthly bill rose 73 cents.

RGGI's consumer costs will escalate when carbon dioxide cuts are fully phased
in, says David Kreutzer of the Heritage Foundation, a conservative think tank.
He says such programs will slow economic growth and raise energy costs --
arguments that helped torpedo Congress' cap-and-trade bill. Kreutzer calls state
efforts to cut greenhouses gas emissions "anemic and sporadic."

Some states, notably Texas, are bucking the EPA's efforts to regulate emissions,
and several new governors, including Susana Martinez, R-N.M., have balked at
cap-and-trade plans.

States, emboldened by Congress' inaction, will increasingly pick up the slack,
says Dale Bryk of the Natural Resources Defense Council, an environmental group.
She predicts, "We will see a lot more action this year."

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Veronica Salazar, USA TODAY, Source: American Council for
an Energy-Efficient Economy (Map)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              31 of 193 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              July 22, 2011 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Mosquitoes increase exotic disease threat;
Travel, climate are affecting population

BYLINE: Doyle Rice, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 493 words


Mosquitoes are more than just an annoyance for the itchy red bites they leave on
our skin. They increasingly raise the prospect of spreading deadly diseases
normally not found in the USA, experts warn.

The risks include  dengue fever, usually found in South and Central America, the
Caribbean, Southeast Asia and sub-Saharan Africa, but which was reported in Key
West in May 2010, and in Hawaii earlier this year.

The USA is increasingly at risk from these and other diseases "as world travel
increases, public health and control programs fail, and climate change alters
mosquito ecology and habitats," cautions Laura Harrington, an entomologist at
Cornell University in Ithaca, N.Y.

Diseases transmitted by mosquitoes, such as malaria and dengue, affect more than
350 million people worldwide each year, Harrington says, leading to more than 3
million deaths. There is no vaccine and no treatment for dengue.

Chikungunya (CHICK-en GUN-ya), a little-known but deadly mosquito-transmitted
virus,  has yet to hit the USA but could soon make its way here from Africa and
Asia, Harrington says.

The threats  are on the rise for the USA because of the introduction of the
Asian tiger and African bush mosquitoes, which are transmitters of at least 22
different viruses that affect human health, including West Nile,  dengue fever
and encephalitis, she says.

Entomologists at Cornell are seeking funding from various federal agencies to
help investigate  new strategies to control diseases from mosquitoes. They're
looking at  ways to reduce  egg production and curb the female mosquito's
appetite for blood. Also, they're developing forecasting models to study how
climate change will impact mosquito-borne diseases.

The parts of the country most at risk from disease-carrying mosquitoes, says
Harrington, are the Mid-Atlantic and South.

"Once you get into the drier parts of the country, we don't see the species that
are key to the transmission of these pathogens."

What's more, this week's intense heat and high humidity across the central and
eastern USA is likely helping mosquitoes to breed, experts say, leading to what
could be a banner late-summer for the outdoor pests.

Higher temperatures, coupled with rain, are the best weather conditions in which
mosquitoes can breed, Harrington says.

Even in the absence of rain, humidity can also boost infestations.

"Humidity helps mosquitoes; it's better for their survival," Harrington says.

In addition, Cornell-affiliated researchers warn that  infestations of bedbugs,
which also enjoy the warmth, tend to increase in the summertime. Bedbugs are
infesting homes, hotels, dorms, labs and airports worldwide.

Although they are not known to transmit any diseases to humans, "they play with
our emotions," reports Jody Gangloff-Kaufmann, an urban entomologist with the
New York State Integrated Pest Management Program in Babylon, N.Y.

"The stress of dealing with them, and the depression and isolation that comes
with them."

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: graphic By James Gathany, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
Introducing new viruses: The the Mid-Atlantic and South are at the most risk
from disease-carrying mosquitoes.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: NATION

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              33 of 193 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             August 19, 2011 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Higher temps push species northward or to higher ground

BYLINE: Elizabeth Weise, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 558 words


Increasing temperatures are pushing plant and animal species to move uphill and
northward at much faster rates than scientists realized.

A study published in today's edition of the journal Science finds that, overall,
species are moving to higher elevations at 36 feet per decade  and higher
latitudes at 10.5 miles per decade. The rate is two or three times faster than
when it was last measured, in 2003.

"The climate is shifting everything toward the north and higher altitudes," says
Chris Thomas, senior author on the paper and a professor of conservation biology
at the University of York in the United Kingdom. Animals, plants and insects
closer to the equator or at lower elevations "are starting to find it too hot
and are retreating upwards."

The study was a meta-analysis of studies covering 764 species moving north or
south depending on which hemisphere they were in, and 1,367 species moving in
elevation. Although each species moved at different rates and some even moved
towards the equator or downhill, overall the strong trend was toward the poles
or toward higher elevations.

For the most part, it's not that animals are walking, hopping  or winging their
way north, Thomas says. Rather, individuals at a species' southernmost range are
breeding less successfully while individuals in that same species' northernmost
range are breeding more successfully. The result is that the entire species
moves north, or up, if they're in mountain country.

"There is practically no basis to doubt the proposition that species are
shifting as a function of rapidly changing climate," says Jeremy Kerr, a
professor of biology at the University of Ottawa in Canada, who did not
participate in the study.

One species Kerr studies is the bog copper, a "beautiful little butterfly that
appears to practically be on an expressway to the North Pole." It has moved more
than 90 miles north in the past decade.

For farmers, what crops they grow and livestock they keep is also beginning to
shift "due to changes in temperature but also shifts in rainfall patterns," says
Philip Thornton, an agricultural economist with the International Livestock
Research Institute in Nairobi, Kenya.

In Africa, small farms are changing the kinds of animals they keep. Thornton is
hearing anecdotal evidence of farmers switching from cattle to goats, because
they're more resilient. In Northern Kenya, there is a move "in some places away
from the traditional cattle to camels, which are more drought resistant,"  says
Thornton, who is affiliated with the University of Edinburgh in Scotland.

"The price of adult camels there is increasing quite rapidly," he says.

---

Who's moving and where

A look at some of the animals on the move because of climate change:

Comma butterfly, in Britain, has moved 135 miles northward, from central England
to Edinburgh, over the past 20 years.

Cetti's Warbler, formerly never seen in Britain, has become established in at
least 100 miles of southern England over the past 20 years.

Golden-winged Warbler, in the USA and Canada, has expanded its range northward
by at least 125 miles in the past 20 years.

Pika, a small mouse-like rodent in Yosemite national park, has moved 1,600 feet
uphill in the past century.

Atlas moth, on Mount Kinabalu in Borneo has moved 220 feet uphill over the past
40 years.

Source: Chris Thomas, University of York, U.K.

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Color, Laurie S. Johnson, Michigan Technological University via
AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              43 of 193 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             August 22, 2011 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Perry stances hurt GOP, Huntsman says

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 437 words


Republican presidential candidate Jon Huntsman is pounding away at rival Rick
Perry's skepticism of man-made global warming and criticism of the nation's
central banker, saying those stands hurt the GOP and make the Texas governor
come off as a not-so-serious national figure.

Huntsman, a former Utah governor who was President Obama's first ambassador to
China, has trailed in early polls nationally and in early-voting states, leading
his campaign to pledge more aggressive attacks on the top candidates.

Perry, who recently entered the race and has surged to a prominent role, has
provided Huntsman with an ample opening to take shots.

Perry said in New Hampshire this past week that he didn't believe in man-made
global warming, branding it an unproven scientific theory. He defended the
teaching of creationism in schools because evolution "has some gaps to it."

"When we take a position that isn't willing to embrace evolution, when we take a
position that basically runs counter to what 98 of 100 climate scientists have
said, what the National Academy of Science has said about what is causing
climate change and man's contribution to it, I think we find ourselves on the
wrong side of science, and, therefore, in a losing position," Huntsman told
ABC's This Week.

Huntsman said he couldn't remember a time when "we actually were willing to shun
science and become a party that was antithetical to science. I'm not sure that's
good for our future, and it's not a winning formula."

Huntsman also ridiculed Minnesota Rep. Michelle Bachmann's claims that she could
bring gasoline prices below $2 if elected president.

"I just don't know what world that comment would come from. ... That is
completely unrealistic," he said.

Huntsman spoke optimistically about his chances in 2012. He predicted he would
do well in early voting in New Hampshire and South Carolina, and "then we're
going to bring it home in Florida."

Campaigning in Rock Hill, S.C., Saturday, Perry didn't back down, saying he
believes the Earth's temperature "has been moving up and down for millenniums
now, and there are enough scientists out there that are skeptical about the
reasons for it."

Perry also has taken on the Federal Reserve and its chairman, Ben Bernanke.

He said the central bank's leader would be committing a "treasonous" act if he
decided to "print more money to boost the economy." Such action, Perry told a
crowd in Iowa, would amount to a political maneuver aimed at helping President
Obama win re-election.

"These sideshows," Huntsman said, take "us that much farther off the ball" from
the focus of fixing the economy and creating jobs.

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              48 of 193 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             April 7, 2011 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Americans lobby Hill for their piece of pie

BYLINE: Fredreka Schouten

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 740 words


WASHINGTON -- Prayers and hunger fasts. E-mail-writing campaigns. Frantic
conversations with congressional staffers and celebrity-studded rallies.

Thousands of Americans implored Congress this week to save their programs from
deep cuts, as Republicans and Democrats clashed over the size of the federal
budget and brought the U.S. government to the brink of its first shutdown in 15
years.

The focus: budget cuts and policy provisions House Republicans approved this
year, such as slashing money for Planned Parenthood, international food aid and
public broadcasting, along with measures to limit the Environmental Protection
Agency's regulation of greenhouse gases from power plants.

Environmental groups, for instance, have flooded the White House with more than
300,000 e-mails, urging the administration to keep any budget deal free of
restrictions on the EPA's authority, said John Coequyt, director of the Sierra
Club's international climate-change program.

The future of those controversial measures and dozens more remains unclear as
the administration and congressional leaders continue tense, closed-door
negotiations to keep the government running beyond midnight Friday when the
current budget authority expires.

On Wednesday, President Obama said a deal has eluded negotiators because of the
fights over "policy riders." "Some folks are trying to inject politics in what
should be a simple debate about how to pay our bills," he said. "They're
stuffing all kinds of issues in there, abortion and the environment and health
care."

House Speaker John Boehner, meanwhile, pledged to fight for big spending cuts
"and the policy riders that were attached."

Abortion is among the biggest battles. Today,  Planned Parenthood, NARAL
Pro-Choice America and others will stage a Capitol Hill rally to protest a
measure sponsored by Rep. Mike Pence, R-Ind., that would eliminate the $317
million federal family planning program, known as Title X. Speakers include
Connie Britton of NBC's Friday Night Lights.

The Pence measure, included in a spending bill that passed the GOP-controlled
House in February, also would bar sending any taxpayer money to Planned
Parenthood, which provides medical care, contraception and abortions at more
than 800 clinics.

Former president Bill Clinton joined the fray Wednesday, saying Pence's plan
would "cost more than it saves" because it would end family planning and
preventive health care for millions. He also argued that the measure would have
the unintended consequences of increasing the number of abortions performed in
the USA.

Planned Parenthood said no U.S. funds are used for abortions, but Pence
spokesman Matt Lloyd said it's wrong for "America's largest abortion provider to
also be the largest recipient of federal funding under Title X."

In one of the more dramatic actions, more than 25,000 people have fasted to
protest budget reductions for food aid programs. David Beckmann, head of Bread
for the World, said nearly 18 million would lose access to international food
aid under the proposed cuts.

"It's not just Republicans and Democrats wrangling over how deep to cut," said
Beckmann, who spent seven days on a water-only fast. "The U.S. budget is a moral
document," he said. "We are deciding what kind of country we want to be."

Other groups lobbying to save programs from the budget ax include a new
coalition, Save Service in America, whose members made more than 4,000 calls to
Congress on Monday to protest a House plan to eliminate funding for the
Corporation for National and Community Service.

On Tuesday, 200 public TV executives visited Capitol Hill to fight a plan to ax
U.S. funds for the Corporation for Public Broadcasting, which helps fund public
TV and radio. It is slated to receive $430 million this year.

Steven Bass, president and CEO of Oregon Public Broadcasting, was among those
knocking on lawmakers' doors. He said his network of 20 radio and TV stations
receives $2.4 million annually in federal funds -- about 9% of its budget. A cut
of that size could hamper his network's ability to serve rural areas. "A
transmitter costs hundreds of thousands of dollars whether it's in a populated
area or in a rural area," he said.

Pete Sepp of National Taxpayers Union, said some programs simply have to be cut
to rein in the deficit, projected to hit a record $1.6 trillion this year. "The
notion that compromise involves 99 winners, and one loser -- the taxpayer -- has
to change."

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Color, Chris Bergin, The Star Press, via AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              50 of 193 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             April 26, 2011 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Families clash at funeral for N.Y. kids

BYLINE: John Bacon with staff and wire reports

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 624 words


Tensions erupted Monday between families at a funeral service for three children
who died when their mother drove into the Hudson River.

Gwendolen Green, a second cousin of the mother, LaShanda Armstrong, said too few
of Armstrong's relatives were allowed in to the service in Spring Valley, N.Y.
"This side of the family matters," Green said.

Armstrong, 25, loaded her four children into a minivan on April 12 after an
argument with the father of the three youngest. She drove down a boat ramp in
Newburgh, N.Y., into the river. The oldest child, 10-year-old La'Shaun
Armstrong, crawled out a window and survived.

Armstrong's funeral was Thursday. A joint funeral had been planned, but the
father, Jean Pierre, said last week that he would hold a separate service for
the children.

Damaged jet's rivets draw scrutiny

Federal investigators studying a Southwest Airlines jet that peeled open in
flight this month have found rivet holes too big for the rivets and misshapen
from wear, the National Transportation Safety Board said. The rivets hold
sections of the Boeing 737's skin together.

The board didn't offer any conclusions, and its probe is continuing. The plane
was 34,000 feet over Arizona with 118 people on board on April 1 when a 5-foot
hole opened, forcing an emergency landing. No injuries were reported.

Future looks dry for the western U.S.

Water supplies that already are scarce in the western U.S. are likely to dwindle
further due to climate change, exacerbating problems for millions of water
users, the Interior Department said in a new report. The report said annual
flows in the Colorado, Rio Grande and San Joaquin river basins could decline by
up to 14% over 40 years. The three rivers provide water to eight states.

The declining water supply comes as the West and Southwest continue to gain
population. Interior Secretary Ken Salazar said small changes in snowpack and
rainfall levels could have a major effect on tens of millions of people.

FDA backs down on e-cigarettes

The Food and Drug Administration said it will regulate smokeless electronic
cigarettes as traditional cigarettes and won't try to regulate them under
stricter rules for drug-delivery devices.

The news is a victory for makers of e-cigarettes -- plastic and metal devices
that heat a liquid nicotine solution in a disposable cartridge to create vapor
the "smoker" inhales. A tiny light on the tip glows like a real cigarette. First
marketed overseas in 2002, e-cigarettes became easily available in the USA in
late 2006. Now, the industry claims several million global users, with tens of
thousands new e-smokers every week.

Michael Vick blasts 'Dog Wars' app

Michael Vick and the Humane Society said  an application built to run on
Google's Android software glorifies dogfighting. The cellphone app, called Dog
Wars, lets players feed, water, train and fight their virtual dogs against
others.

"I've come to learn the hard way that dogfighting is a dead-end street," Vick
said in a statement  on the Humane Society's website.

Vick, now a  quarterback for the Philadelphia Eagles, was arrested in 2007 and
convicted on dogfighting charges, serving 18 months in federal prison. Google
did not  immediatley comment.

Bomb likely not linked to Columbine

An apparent attempted bombing at a Colorado shopping mall likely was not related
to the 12th anniversary of the shootings at nearby Columbine High School, the
FBI said.

Investigators have found a motive but aren't releasing additional information,
FBI Denver spokesman Dave Joly said. The agency on Sunday alerted field offices
nationwide  to be on the lookout for Earl Moore, 65. He  was named as the
suspect in Wednesday's fire  about four miles from Columbine, where 12 students
and a teacher were killed in 1999.

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              52 of 193 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              June 10, 2011 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Study of northern Rocky snowpack indicates drier future;
Climate change shifts patterns

BYLINE: Dan Vergano, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 478 words


Northern Rocky Mountain snowpack levels over the past five decades are sharply
down compared with the past eight centuries, federal researchers reported
Thursday.

Despite this year's wet weather replenishing mountain snow, the finding suggests
drier times are ahead for the West. In particular, the northern Rockies'
snowpack feeds the Columbia, Colorado and Missouri rivers, now the primary water
sources for 70 million people.

The historical snowpack reconstruction results, dating to the year 1200 and
released by the journal Science, suggest that global warming has broken the
normal seesaw pattern of snowpack in the region, in which a down year in the
northern Rockies will be offset by a higher snow year in the southern Rockies.

Overall, the average yearly snowpack across the northern Rockies  directly known
from snow records to have dropped 30% to 60% in the past 50 years  has fallen
more sharply in that time than for  any period in the past 800 years, the study
shows.

"Temperature is the driver here," says study lead author Greg Pederson of the
U.S. Geological Survey's Northern Rocky Mountain Science Center in Bozeman,
Mont. "It doesn't take a rocket scientist to know that if temperatures get
warmer, snow and ice melt sooner."

In the study, researchers used 66 collections of federal tree growth-ring
records gathered across Western states to reconstruct year-to-year snowpack
sizes. Trees grow every year to an extent that depends on water. By comparing
growth rings from large numbers of dead and living trees, the study scientists
developed a record of how much water was available, an amount driven by
snowpack, going as far back as about 1200.

"The most important part is this puts the observations of snowpack declines
we've seen for a while into the long-term picture," says atmospheric scientist
Philip Mote of Oregon State University in Corvallis, who was not part of the
study team.

"We can now say the decline really hasn't happened before and now we have tens
of millions of people depending on the snowpack for water," Mote says.

In 2009, the U.S. Global Change Research Program estimated average temperatures
have risen 1.5 degrees Fahrenheit in the Northwest, over the past century.

Water melts at 32 degrees, and small shifts in temperature can drive widespread
early melting of the snow that yearly refills rivers, Pederson says, leaving
less for summer months.

The Northern Rockies stretch from Washington state to Montana. The study records
show two-decade-long drops in snowpack across the northern Rockies in the 1300s
and 1500s that resemble the decline seen in the 20th century, but those declines
lasted for shorter periods of time and came when far fewer people were dependent
on the snowpack.

"Water demand, as much as supply, is the problem," Pederson says. "We have a lot
of fisheries and hydropower relying on this water as well."

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: NATION

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              55 of 193 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            November 7, 2011 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

He's back, with a plan to help boost the economy;
Bill Clinton

BYLINE: Susan Page, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1733 words


Bill Clinton has an idea.

A few dozen ideas, in fact, about ways large and small to get unemployed
Americans back to work -- from granting property tax breaks for investments that
create jobs to painting every flat tar roof in U.S. cities white for the energy
savings. The former president also has some thoughts on the next steps the
Occupy Wall Street movement should take, by the way.

And about whether President Obama will win re-election.

Clinton acknowledges that no modern president has won a second term when the
jobless rate is as high as even White House economists predict it will be on
Election Day 2012.

"Well, that's what the Republicans are banking on," he told USA TODAY. "But the
American people have a funny way of figuring. If they decide that the
unemployment rate is that high because the Congress refused to work with the
president and their numbers remain markedly lower than his, he might win anyway.
I still think he's in pretty good shape."

In his first published interview about his book Back to Work, Clinton is, well,
classically Clintonesque as he discourses on politics and policy.

He presided over boom times and made an oft-repeated promise in his 1996
re-election campaign to build a bridge to the 21st century. Now the 21st century
is here, and for many Americans that bridge seems to have led to a dead end that
has cost millions of workers their jobs and a generation of young people their
highest aspirations.

Clinton says he wrote the 196-page book in the space of a few months because he
was dismayed by the hopelessness he heard as he made 130 campaign appearances
across the country during the 2010 midterm campaign season. The subtitle is Why
We Need Smart Government for a Strong Economy -- a pushback against what he
calls "30 years of bipolar, anti-government politics (that) have given us a
severe case of collective attention deficit disorder."

As the only Democrat to win two terms in the White House since Franklin
Roosevelt, William Jefferson Clinton retains considerable credibility when it
comes to politics and economics.

"The purpose of this book is to say you're always better off doing something,"
he says. "When people are in trouble, action is better than inaction."

Is his message aimed at an audience of one -- that is, at Obama?

White House efforts to pass a big jobs bill have been stymied. Only in recent
weeks has Obama begun announcing the sort of small-scale executive actions on
students loans and home mortgages that were a signature of Clinton's tenure.

Clinton, whose relationship with Obama has sometimes been sensitive, doesn't
respond directly to the question.

First, he says Obama has done a better job than he's credited with in handling
an economic catastrophe. "I don't want him to get discouraged," Clinton says.
Then he quickly adds, "and it's obvious he's not."

The talking points

Still, it's clear that Clinton has been frustrated by the difficulty he has had
in getting the White House to hear his advice, or at least with his failure to
persuade leading Democrats to follow it.

Consider the case of the talking points.

In the closing days of the 2010 election, Clinton writes, "Vice President Biden
and I tried to get the Democratic National Committee to send out a centralized
set of talking points to its large e-mail list so Democratic foot soldiers would
at least have some good ammunition for their phone and door-to-door campaigns.
We couldn't persuade the decision-makers to do so."

How could a vice president and former president fail to persuade party
"decision-makers?"

"It was bizarre," Clinton says with exasperation. "Biden and I actually wrote
these seven talking points," laying out what Democrats stood for and contrasting
it with the Republican agenda.

"They said that House Democrats would just have to be on their own because they
had too many differences on health care and climate change," he says. Senate
Majority Leader "Harry Reid was fine about it. It was all about the differences
in the House."

Even so, Clinton argues that more united House Democrats than divided them. Even
those who had voted against Obama's health care overhaul could argue they wanted
to reform it, not repeal it. Even those who voted against the bill to address
climate change could agree that Democrats believe in protecting the environment
and encouraging new sources of energy.

The failure to make that argument with clarity cost some Democrats their seats,
Clinton says -- and perhaps even control of the House.

"If they had had an advertising campaign that talked about the differences (with
the GOP) like we did in '98, in 2002 and 2006  I think they would have still
lost 30 seats and saved enough to maintain a small majority in the House," he
says. "I may be wrong, but that's what I think."

Instead, Democrats lost more than 60 House seats, the most for any party in a
midterm election since 1938, giving Republicans control. The DNC and Biden's
office declined to comment on Clinton's account.

Clinton sees parallels with his own disastrous first midterm elections, in 1994,
when Democrats lost control of the House and Senate.

"What really happened, in my opinion, in 2010 is what happened in 1994," he
says. "People -- they don't want too much government, but they want enough. If
they think the Democrats are giving them too much, they'll vote for the
Republicans to get a little less.   They looked at the stimulus and the
financial rescue and the auto bailout and all that stuff that happened, and they
said: 'A little too much; we want a little less.'"

In Clinton's time, Republicans led by then-House speaker Newt Gingrich
overreached, leading to two government shutdowns and a public-relations disaster
that wound up helping Clinton. The next five years were marked by bipartisan
compromises that led to welfare reform and a balanced federal budget.

That sort of progress could happen again if the congressional "supercommittee"
now trying to reach an accord on deficit reduction succeeds, he says. Its Nov.
23  deadline is looming.

"If they can reach an agreement that the president can sign, we may be into 1996
and afterward -- that is, a period of real bipartisan cooperation, where the
election can then unfold in an environment where the voters can decide in the
races for the Congress and the Senate and the White House who's got the best
ideas," Clinton says.

Unfortunately, there are few signs the supercommittee is making  progress.

Could he help Obama in 2012?

The 42nd president is trim in a tailored navy blue suit, crisp white shirt and
bright blue striped tie. He is strikingly thinner than he was during his tenure
in the White House, the result of the heart-healthy vegan diet he now follows.
(He had blueberries and a protein drink mixture for breakfast on this morning.)
At 65, he looks older and less robust than when he was the dominant figure in
American politics two decades ago.

Ranging far and wide, he defends Texas Gov. Rick Perry's support of in-state
college tuition rates for illegal immigrants, not that his defense would help a
Republican presidential contender. Clinton also urges fellow Democrats to
"saddle up" on tough budget issues such as roping in Social Security and
Medicare spending.

As he launches a publicity tour for his new book -- he'll have a "conversation"
about it Tuesday with daughter Chelsea at the New York Historical Society --
some in the White House  worry that the specter of an older, two-term president
giving advice and sometimes criticizing Obama underscores the current
president's struggles.

In his book, Clinton nicks Obama for not raising the federal debt ceiling in
late 2010, when Democrats held both houses of Congress. (The White House says
the votes weren't there in the Senate.)

In a USA TODAY/Gallup Poll taken in September, Americans were inclined to rate
Obama as a better president than George W. Bush -- but by nearly 5 to 1, they
rated Clinton as a better president than Obama.

The relationship between the two men was contentious during the 2008
presidential primaries, when Clinton stumped for wife Hillary Rodham Clinton
against Obama for the Democratic nomination.

After she joined Obama's Cabinet as secretary of State, their ties became closer
-- and more complicated.

In 2012, Clinton could be helpful, especially with the white, working-class
voters in key industrial states such as Ohio and Michigan who haven't warmed to
Obama. Clinton's ability to connect with audiences and his standing on the
economy could help make the president's case.

"Perhaps no one is better positioned to remind America who and what policies
created the fiscal mess President Obama inherited, as well as how empty the
claim is that a balanced deficit-reduction plan with spending cuts and some
high-income revenues will somehow be a 'job-killer,'" says Gene Sperling, once a
top economic aide to Clinton and now a senior adviser to Obama.

"On our biggest economic issues -- American Jobs Act, balanced deficit reduction
that includes high-income revenues, and defending health care reform -- he's
way, way in our corner."

Clinton is free with advice for others as well.

Take the Occupy Wall Street movement that has held protests from New York to
Oakland. "They have an amorphous set of resentments for which I sympathize," he
says. "I don't think Americans can continue this level of income inequality."

But the protesters need an agenda, he says. "They need to have some idea of what
they want the country to do. If I were in their position, I would invite
politicians down to talk to them. I'd invite (New York) Gov. (Andrew) Cuomo down
to talk to me. I'd invite the mayor down to talk to me in New York."

He likened their challenge to that faced by Arab Spring protesters in Tunisia
and Egypt who brought down authoritarian governments but now need to connect
with established networks.

He sees big challenges ahead for the USA as well. "We're in a mess now," he
writes in the book. In the interview, he compares today's turmoil with an
earlier period. "It has a disturbing feel like the bad recession we had at the
end of the 19th century, when there was a lot of partisan discord."

The Panic of 1893, marked by bank and railroad failures that fueled social
unrest and the Progressive Era, undermined Democratic President Grover Cleveland
and led to 16 years of Republican control of the White House.

"But I still believe we can get out," Clinton says.

He has an idea how.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              58 of 193 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          December 21, 2011 Wednesday
                               e_edition EDITION

Blizzard kills 6 in Southwest, Plains

BYLINE: John Bacon with staff and wire reports

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 601 words


An intense but short-lived blizzard walloped portions of the Southwest and
Plains on Tuesday, killing six people and closing roads and schools.

More than a foot of snow fell in parts of New Mexico, Colorado and Kansas,
AccuWeather meteorologist Bill Deger said. He said the storm forced portions of
Interstates  25 and 70 to close. One spot in New Mexico  had 2 feet of snow, the
National Weather Service reported. Wind gusts above 50 mph also caused
snowdrifts  up to 10 feet in  the open western Plains.

The remains of the storm will move today into the eastern USA but will be mostly
rain. A new storm is forecast to bring snow to the northern and central Rockies
today and into Thursday.

An uncommon December tornado  ripped off part of a hospital roof in DeQuincy,
La., causing several patients to be evacuated but no injuries.--Doyle Rice

Five die in plane crash on N.J. highway

A small plane hurtled out of control and crashed onto a northern New Jersey
highway, killing all five people aboard, authorities said.

National Transportation Safety Board spokesman Robert Gretz said the
single-engine plane came down on Interstate 287 near Morristown minutes after
the pilot called in icing conditions. Gretz described the call as "not a
distress call, but as more of a conversation." He said it was not clear whether
ice caused the plane to spin out and break up in the air. A family of four and a
man were killed, and debris from the plane was scattered along a half-mile path.
No one on the ground was injured, Gretz said.

--Abbott Koloff, Daily Record of Parsippany, N.J.

Veteran gets 32 years for planting bomb

An Army veteran with extensive ties to white supremacists was sentenced to 32
years in prison for planting a  bomb along a Martin Luther King Jr. Day parade
route in Spokane, Wash.

Kevin Harpham, 37, tried unsuccessfully to withdraw his earlier guilty plea
before getting the maximum punishment from  Judge Justin Quackenbush. Harpham
told the judge he only agreed to the deal in September to avoid a  life
sentence.

"I am distressed that you appear not the least bit apologetic," Quackenbush
said.

Panel clears Army of blame in flooding

The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers did what it could with the record flooding on
the Missouri River this year, although proposed changes could help avoid a
disastrous repeat, an expert panel said in a report.

The panel, which included hydrologists from the U.S. Geological Survey and the
National Weather Service, said "climatic extremes" appear to be getting "bigger
and more frequent." The panel called for updated flood probability models and
procedures. It did not cite climate change as a factor, saying the issue was
"beyond the scope of this report." The corps has said that the floods caused
$630 million in damage to the levees, dams and channels built to control the
river.

Defense up next in WikiLeaks hearing

The prosecution rested its case at a military hearing for an Army intelligence
analyst blamed for what prosecutors called the biggest leak of U.S. classified
information in American history.

Adrian Lamo, described as a former hacker, testified that the depth of Pfc.
Bradley Manning's confession in Internet chats compelled him to alert
authorities. Manning is accused of providing a massive trove of U.S. secrets to
the WikiLeaks website. The defense opens its case today at the preliminary
hearing to determine whether Manning, 24, should face a court-martial.

Also

BOSTON -- Tarek Mehanna, 29, was convicted of four terror-related charges and
three charges of lying, accused of conspiring to help al-Qaeda and plotting to
kill U.S. troops in Iraq.

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              68 of 193 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            February 8, 2011 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Obama sets new tone with business leaders;
President gets mostly good reviews on his first speech to U.S. Chamber of
Commerce

BYLINE: Paul Davidson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 501 words


WASHINGTON -- There was awkward humor aimed at defusing the tension. Nervous
laughter. Even a tentative embrace in the form of a polite standing ovation.

President Obama's first-ever speech to the U.S. Chamber of Commerce Monday had
all the earmarks of a peace offering to a former ally. And when it was over,
some of the 200 company chieftains and industry officials in the audience said
the president largely achieved his goal of at least setting a new tone with
America's business community.

"I think he really understands you have to cooperate with business and can't do
it on your own," said Ernest Green, CEO of E&E Enterprises Global, a 40-employee
information technology company in Hampton, Va.

Obama's criticism of the chamber's lobbying tactics and his lambasting of Wall
Street bankers as "fat cats" made him few friends in executive suites. Business
officials are still chafing over financial and health care legislation and
looming climate-change rules, which they say create regulatory uncertainty while
saddling them with new costs and paperwork.

Noting he understands business leaders must answer to stockholders, Obama said,
"I get it." He also said his administration and businesses "must work together"
to create jobs and improve U.S. competitiveness. He reiterated his agenda, which
includes building transportation and communication networks, improving
education, doing away with outdated business regulations, and lowering the
corporate tax rate while erasing loopholes.

Citing the $2 trillion in cash on corporate balance sheets, Obama asked company
heads to return the favor and "invest in America" by hiring to lower
unemployment and in turn, boosting consumer spending. "I want to encourage you
to get in the game."

Harry Alford, head of the National Black Chamber of Commerce, said, "He's
treating businesses not as something to be run over. I don't think he understood
it two, three years ago."

Matthew Shay, president of the National Retail Federation, said hiring "is going
to be driven by 70% of the economy that is consumption." He added, "Retailers
saw (sharply rising sales) at the end of last year, and that's enough to get
retail businesses to make investments."

Juliana Zoto Efessiou, owner of Z Partners, health supplement consultants in
Vienna, Va., liked Obama's vow to scrap a burdensome new bookkeeping rule for
small businesses.

"He realizes you can't over-regulate and overtax business and expect them to
expand and hire," she said.

Some are still wary. Green wants Obama to do more to prod banks to lend to small
firms like his. "We can't do much hiring if we don't have capital," he said.

Others were unconvinced of Obama's claim that the health care law's tax credits
would save small businesses $40 billion over a decade.

"There is a great deal of skepticism," says Michael Hershman, head of Fairfax
Group, which advises businesses about regulatory compliance. "Others have said
the opposite."

"His intentions sound great," Efessiou says. "It's the implementation of it."

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Carolyn Kaster, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              70 of 193 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             March 22, 2011 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Science and belief possess different roots

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 464 words


USA TODAY's Forum  piece "How to help scientists and the public see eye-to-eye"
addresses an important issue but misses the fundamental point (March 14).

Science does not have a "public persuasion problem," as the piece argues, and
people do not believe things because they are confused  or ill-informed. Like it
or not, we must accept that science in our society, generally called "Western
science," is science, while beliefs are beliefs.  The two phenomena are based on
different aspects of the human experience. They are not related and do not need
to be reconciled.

Western science's rules involve formulating hypotheses and new ideas that are
drawn from what has been observed. Those rational hypotheses are then tested
with experiments and statistical analysis. Science does not have the
responsibility to disprove ideas that  many people believe, such as the efficacy
of nutritional supplements and alternative therapies, or the absence of global
climate change.

Beliefs have always been part of being human. Provided that they do not harm or
restrict others, they should be respected. Moreover, many scientists -- myself
included -- have deeply held beliefs that, to believers, are not only valid and
important, but often are also  sacred. This age-old issue will not be solved by
training scientists to be better communicators.

John C. Baldwin

Lubbock, Texas

High marks are possible

I completely disagree with John Tanner, an education consultant, who was quoted
as saying, "When 100% of the kids end up at the top of the distribution is the
moment you have a very bad test" ("The search for a new way to test schoolkids,"
News, Friday).

If the purpose of the test is to sort students, then this might be true. But if
the purpose  is to find out what they know and understand,  then it is not.

If students have been taught well and have all learned well, there is no reason
they could not all be at the top of the distribution.

Ken O'Connor

The Villages, Fla.

Emphasize reading skills

Thank you for the continuing series on America's search for the best way to test
schoolkids.

In life, the simple answer often is best. In education, the simple answer is to
be sure the kid can read well. If the student can read well, everything else is
much more likely to work out.

I suggest we test students on reading ability, the skill most needed for adult
life. Sit the student down for one hour with a certified reading professional.
Read several passages from various genres. The professional would then rate the
student on reading fluency, responses to various questions of all levels of
thinking, and any other criteria deemed appropriate.

This method would be especially beneficial because it would communicate to
students the paramount importance of  this skill.

Mark Ellenberger

Lakewood, Ohio

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              71 of 193 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             May 12, 2011 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

GoodGuide app helps out right on the spot

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 352 words


When University of California-Berkeley professor Dara O'Rourke started
GoodGuide, a website for seeking out green products, the iPhone hadn't been
invented yet.

"The science didn't exist for aggregating sources," he says. "Now, everyone's
got a supercomputer in their pocket, and they're able to produce more
information than any consumer could have gotten before."

His GoodGuide app went to the iPhone in 2008, and it's one of the biggest
successes among green apps, with 600,000 downloads to date.

With GoodGuide, you open the app in a store, take a photo of a product's bar
code and instantly discover information about how green the product is.

"The future for us is location-based information that's fully personalized," he
says. "Apps about what you care about  climate change, health issues,
cholesterol. Point the phone and instantly find out anything you want to know."

For now, this process is based on photographing bar codes, but O'Rourke thinks
the advent of such technologies as RFID tags  receivers that go onto products
that smartphones will be able to read  will make the process faster and easier.

"I can see a red light going on for the consumer saying, 'This isn't for you,'
or a green light that says 'Yes, you should buy this.'"

His favorite green app comes from the Monterey, Calif., aquarium, and it's a
guide to what fish are in season and from which areas.

"It helps me pick the right seafood," he says. "This is leveraging the power of
consumers to improve social issues."

He also likes Routesy, which puts information about public transportation in the
San Francisco Bay Area at your fingertips. "It has real-time feeds of when a bus
will show up."

He believes that we're at the very beginning  "the tip of the iceberg"  in using
technology to help people go green. "Information is only one part of changing
their decisions," he says. "We're going up against billions of dollars of
marketing. The environmental movement usually leads with facts  negative facts
about what could happen. The exciting potential of the future is to turn that
information into a more positive and engaging experience."

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              78 of 193 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            August 3, 2011 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Going meatless is good for you -- and for the planet

BYLINE: Kim O'Donnel

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 3D

LENGTH: 607 words


By now, many of you (50% of Americans, according to recent market research) have
heard of Meatless Monday, the non-profit campaign that advocates a day off from
meat for  health and the environment. The campaign, which got its start in 2003,
is capturing the nation's attention, from school districts and legislatures to
chefs and celebrities, including Oprah Winfrey. (It is also what inspired this
columnist to write a similarly themed cookbook last year.)

A new report from The Environmental Working Group (EWG) is encouraging Americans
to push things one step further and take a weekly break from cheese as well.
Released last month, the EWG's Meat Eater's Guide to Climate Change and Health
analyzed the farm-to-fork (and garbage can) carbon footprint of 20 kinds of
protein from animals and plants alike.

In the No. 1 and No. 2 slots for environmental impact are lamb and beef (86.4
and 59.6 pounds of carbon dioxide equivalents for every 2.2 pounds consumed,
respectively). But what took this cheese lover by surprise is the third-place
carbon load of curds and whey (29.7 pounds of CO per 2.2 pounds eaten). That
said, Kari Hamerschlag, author of the study, reminded me that the serving
recommended by the U.S. Department of Agriculture is 1.5 ounces.

Whether or not you're ready to take a day off from meat and/or cheese, here's
something we can all stand to do, vegetarians and meat eaters alike: Eat down
our fridges and pantries before stocking the larder. "Waste was definitely one
of the most surprising and important findings in the study," Hamerschlag says.
The food we throw away accounts for an average of 20% of food-related emission,
according to the report.

Meanwhile, join me for supper. These chickpea "crab cakes" are meat- and
dairy-free but, more importantly, seriously good chow you can sink your teeth
into (and won't ditch in the garbage).

---

Chickpea 'crab cakes'

Ingredients:

1 cup dried chickpeas, soaked for about 8hours and drained

1½ cups yellow onion, roughly chopped (not quite 1 large onion)

2 cloves garlic, crushed

½ cup fresh cilantro and/or parsley, roughly chopped

½ tsp. baking powder

2 tsps. Old Bay seasoning

1/4 tsp. cayenne

½ tsp. dry mustard

½ tsp. salt

¼ tsp. ground black pepper

½ cup vegetable oil

8 soft hamburger buns or English muffins

Method:

In a food processor, pulverize the soaked and drained

chickpeas using the "pulse" function until beans form a

paste that sticks together when you squeeze it in your

hand. Be careful not to overprocess; if it's too smooth, the

batter will fall apart when cooking.

Add the rest of the ingredients (except the oil) and combine

using the "pulse" function approximately 12 times;

batter will be somewhat grainy and speckled with herbs.

Shape into patties using a scantz-cup measure (for large)

or ¼-cup measure (for sliders) and refrigerate until firm,

about 30 minutes.

Preheat the oven to 350°F.

In a shallow 12-inch skillet, heat¼cup of the oil over

medium-high heat. Gently place the patties into the hot oil

in small batches and fry the first side until golden brown,

about3minutes.

Gently turn onto the second side and cook for an additional3minutes.

Transfer patties to a baking tray to finish

cooking in the oven for8minutes.

(Before frying the next batch, heat remaining oil.)

Serve on a bun with cocktail sauce or your favorite

condiment.

Servings: Makes 8 entrée-size patties or 12 sliders

Nutrition per patty: 343 calories, 39g carbohydrates, 9g protein,

17g fat (2g saturated), 0mg cholesterol, 5g fiber, 542mg sodium

Source: From The Meat Lover's Meatless Cookbook by Kim O'Donnel. Excerpted by
arrangement with Da Capo Lifelong,amember of the Perseus Books Group.
Copyright©2010.

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              82 of 193 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            October 14, 2011 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Perry pins far-reaching energy plan to job creation

BYLINE: Susan Page, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 486 words


Perhaps it should be no surprise that Texas Gov. Rick Perry chose energy policy
for the first major address of his presidential campaign. The oil and gas
industry is iconic in the Lone Star State, providing many of the 1 million jobs
created during his tenure that have given Perry political bragging rights.

"As governor of a rather substantial energy-producing state, I understand the
impact that this can have on job creation," the Republican said Thursday in a
phone interview with USA TODAY. He estimates his plan would create 1.2 million
jobs nationwide by expanding oil and gas exploration and curtailing
environmental regulation.

Some of his proposals would require congressional action, but a fair number are
things presidents can do "as soon as they're sworn in," he says.

If elected, Perry says he would move to:

Open federal lands to more energy exploration and production, including the
Arctic National Wildlife Refuge in Alaska and lands in the Mountain West. More
offshore drilling would be permitted in the Gulf of Mexico and off the southern
Atlantic coast.

But he would continue to bar drilling in the Florida Everglades, a fragile
ecological area located in what happens to be a key electoral state.

Approve pipelines to facilitate new energy fields, including the Keystone XL
Pipeline. The controversial project, which would carry crude oil from Canada to
refineries as far south as Texas, is now stalled in a State Department review.

Suspend and reconsider many of the Environmental Protection Agency's recent
mandates and regulations, including rules designed to improve air quality. He
wants to repeal the EPA's authority over CO and other greenhouse gases linked to
climate change.

Curb the ability of environmentalists and others to slow down projects through
the courts. He would establish litigation deadlines to expedite lawsuits and
consider establishing special federal environmental courts with expertise that
presumably would allow them to reach decisions more quickly.

End the practice of federal agencies reaching consent decrees with advocacy
groups, a step that would force them to pursue expensive lawsuits.

Phase out subsidies and tax incentives that benefit specific kinds of energy.
Some favor the oil and gas industry; others were  to encourage development of
such renewable energy sources as wind power. He would retain a research and
development tax credit available to all types of energy producers.

Perry insists he's not rattled by the campaign's ups and downs, though his lead
in polls has been taken over by rivals Herman Cain and Mitt Romney.

"Eight weeks now and the fundraising side of it was exceptional," he said of the
$17 million he raised in the first six weeks. "Americans are now starting to
really look at substance. At the end of the day, I'm confident they'll make the
right decision. They'll want a president who can put America back to work."

Unveiling the plan, 1A

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              84 of 193 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            January 24, 2011 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Southeast endures drought conditions;
A La Nioa climate pattern produces records, restrictions

BYLINE: Doyle Rice

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 405 words


Although much of the South has made news for being  unusually cold and snowy
this winter, it has also been extremely dry, especially in Florida, where almost
90% of the state is experiencing drought conditions.

More than half of the southeastern USA is in a drought, according to the U.S.
Drought Monitor, a federal government website that's updated weekly.

A storm moving through the South today and Tuesday, while far from a
drought-breaker, will provide some much-needed rainfall to parts of the region,
said meteorologist Chris Dolce of The Weather Channel.

Highly populated South Florida just had  its driest October to December since
records began in 1932, according to the South Florida Water Management District.

Rainfall in West Palm Beach is a foot below normal since Oct. 1.

"The below-average rainfall during the wet season (mid-May to early October) and
the lack of rainfall during the current dry season has caused groundwater and
surface water levels to decline significantly," said Tommy Strowd, the water
management district's deputy executive director of operations and maintenance.

Several wells in Miami-Dade and St. Lucie counties are registering critically
low water levels, the district reports. The dryness has caused the district to
enact water restrictions and conservation efforts.

The lack of rainfall also triggers wildfire concerns: "A lot of the vegetation
in Florida has dried out, leading to a high fire danger," said Brian Fuchs, a
climatologist with the National Drought Mitigation Center in Lincoln, Neb.
February tends to be wildfire season in Florida.

Why so dry? Blame La Nioa: "It's typical of the La Nioa climate pattern, which
tends to bring unusually dry conditions across the southern tier of the USA,"
Fuchs said. "La Nioa -- the cooling of tropical Pacific Ocean water -- shifts
weather patterns in the USA."

He said this La Nioa is forecast to extend into the spring and summer.

"The speed with which the drought developed across the southern United States is
rather unusual considering that just last year, El Nioo dominated the region
with abundant precipitation," said Bill Proenza, director of the National
Weather Service's southern region. "Then it was as if a switch was flipped
during the summer, changing to La Nioa conditions."

Other Southern states are also hard-hit by the drought. In Arkansas, the drought
monitor says, 97% of the state is in a drought; in Louisiana, it's almost 80%.

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Julie Snider, USA TODAY, Source: U.S. Drought Monitor
(Map)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              85 of 193 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            January 25, 2011 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

A look back at goals from a year ago

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 890 words


The annual State of the Union Address to Congress gives the president a chance
to lay out his agenda for the coming year. As President Obama prepares to
deliver his second State of the Union Address tonight, USA TODAY's Mimi Hall and
Richard Wolf take a look at 10 goals he set last year and how he fared.

Jobs: Mixed record

What he said: "Jobs must be our No. 1 focus in 2010, and that's why I'm calling
for a new jobs bill tonight. ... People are out of work. They're hurting. They
need our help. And I want a jobs bill on my desk without delay."

What happened: Congress passed three small jobs bills: $18 billion in March to
give companies a tax break for hiring unemployed workers, $26 billion in August
to help save the jobs of teachers and state government workers and $30 billion
in loans and other tax incentives for small businesses in September. All three
are dwarfed by the $814 billion economic stimulus law enacted in 2009.

Health care: Succeeded

What he said: "After nearly a century of trying -- Democratic administrations,
Republican administrations -- we are closer than ever to bringing more security
to the lives of so many Americans. ... Let's get it done."

What happened: On March 23, Obama signed the Affordable Care Act, extending
health insurance coverage to a projected 32 million more Americans, making
coverage mandatory for most and requiring insurers to cover people with
pre-existing conditions. It was the biggest piece of social legislation approved
by Congress in decades. The Republican-controlled House of Representatives voted
to repeal the law last week, but the Democratic-led Senate has no plans to
follow suit.

Financial overhaul: Succeeded

What he said: "We need to make sure consumers and middle-class families have the
information they need to make financial decisions. We can't allow financial
institutions ... to take risks that threaten the whole economy."

What happened: On July 21, Obama signed the biggest overhaul of financial
regulations in decades. It created an independent consumer watchdog agency to
protect borrowers and gave the government new powers to seize or shut down
troubled financial companies.

Tax cuts: Mixed record

What he said: "To help working families, we'll extend our middle-class tax cuts.
But at a time of record deficits, we will not continue tax cuts ... for those
making over $250,000 a year. We just can't afford it."

What happened: Obama promised in his 2008 campaign to end George W. Bush's tax
cuts for top earners. But he didn't have the votes, so he agreed to extend the
cuts for two years in exchange for middle-income tax breaks and extended
unemployment benefits.

Energy and climate change: Failed

What he said: "It means passing a comprehensive energy and climate bill with
incentives that will finally make clean energy the profitable kind of energy in
America."

What happened: In July, the Senate gave up efforts to pass legislation aimed at
capping industrial greenhouse gases that contribute to global warming. The House
of Representatives passed legislation in 2009, but now proponents must start
over.

Deficit reduction: Mixed record

What he said: "I've called for a bipartisan fiscal commission. ... The
commission will have to provide a specific set of solutions by a certain
deadline."

What happened: Obama created the panel in February to propose ways to control
the nation's soaring national debt, at $9 trillion. In December, the panel
recommended steep spending cuts and tax increases but without enough votes to
force congressional action.

Afghanistan and Iraq: Mixed record

What he said: "In Afghanistan, we're increasing our troops and training Afghan
security forces, so they can begin to take the lead in July of 2011. ... We will
have all of our combat troops out of Iraq by the end of this August."

What happened: Obama made good on his Iraq pledge, though about 50,000
servicemembers remain to help train and support Iraqi forces. The Afghanistan
date still applies, but U.S. combat troops will be needed there for years.

Nuclear arms treaty: Succeeded

What he said: "Even as we prosecute two wars, we're also confronting perhaps the
greatest danger to the American people -- the threat of nuclear weapons."

What happened: At a summit Obama hosted in April, leaders from 47 countries
signed a non-binding agreement to secure all vulnerable nuclear material by
2014. In December, he won Senate ratification of the New START arms reduction
treaty with Russia.

'Don't ask, don't tell': Succeeded

What he said: "I will work with Congress and our military to finally repeal the
law that denies gay Americans the right to serve the country they love because
of who they are. It's the right thing to do."

What happened: Last month, Congress repealed the ban on gays serving openly in
the military, and Obama signed the legislation Dec. 22. It will take effect
after the military certifies it is prepared to end the policy.

Immigration: Failed

What he said: "We should continue the work of fixing our broken immigration
system -- to secure our borders and enforce our laws and ensure that everyone
who plays by the rules can contribute to our economy and enrich our nation."

What happened: Congress didn't pass legislation dealing with about 12 million
illegal immigrants. A measure on citizenship for those brought to the USA as
children died in the Senate in December.

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              88 of 193 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            April 27, 2011 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Branson doesn't want to grow up;
Aviation entrepreneur has plans for oceans, too

BYLINE: Charisse Jones, USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 676 words


There's not much left for Richard Branson to conquer.

The British entrepreneur, visionary and founder of the Virgin Group, started a
record company that became one of the world's biggest. He launched an airline,
Virgin Atlantic, before he turned 40. Virgin Galactic, one of more than 300
companies under the Virgin umbrella, soon could become the world's first
commercial space airline.

And, oh yes, he's also been knighted.

"Peter Pan is my favorite character, and I don't really want to grow up," says
Branson, 61. "I'm just ridiculously lucky and just love to live my dreams."

The adventurer, who in 1986 sailed across the Atlantic faster than anyone before
and the next year became the first to cross the Atlantic in a hot-air balloon,
is making space and ocean depths his latest challenges.

His Virgin Galactic company is developing two vehicles, SpaceShipTwo and
WhiteKnightTwo, designed to fly tourists into space. Branson plans to be on the
first official trip.

"I wouldn't miss the inaugural flight," says Branson, who plans to be
accompanied by his mother, his two children, and Burt Rutan, the developer of
the spacecraft technology.

He says he's had a desire to break the bounds of Earth since watching the first
moon landing but says his desire for flight was perhaps fed by a more personal
connection.

"I think my mother was once a stewardess back in the '50s when you had to put an
oxygen mask on to fly over mountains, and I heard a lot of fairly glamorous
stories from her about flight," Branson says. "And I think that maybe rubbed off
on me somewhat."

An exciting foray

While Branson calls the foray into space tourism "one of the most exciting
things we've ever done," his curiosity also extends to the bottom of the oceans.

On April 5, he launched Virgin Oceanic, which has the goal of sending a
submarine to the deepest reaches of the world's oceans for the first time to
unearth what lives and is buried there.

"What an adventure, to try to go to the bottom of the seas," he says, noting
that scientists believe most of Earth's species have yet to be discovered
because they live miles below the ocean's surface. "We hope to build submarines
in the future that will create lots of 'aquanauts,' who can go map out our
oceans and map out valleys and mountains under the seas and discover new species
and discover new wrecks. They say that there's more gold in ships at the bottom
of the sea than there's gold in mines left."

While the Virgin Group's companies tackle a range of interests, a desire to keep
searching and building seems to be the thread that connects them all. "The
interesting thing about exploration is ... you never quite know what you're
going to discover," Branson says.

For all the focus on his adventures, Branson says he's most gratified by
tackling climate and humanitarian challenges.  Among his efforts: the Carbon War
Room, which takes action on climate change, and The Elders, a group of people
such as Nelson Mandela, Desmond Tutu and Jimmy Carter who "address some of the
global problems in the world using their moral authority."

Launching an airline

He's not one to shy from an idea some deem far-fetched. Like when he decided to
launch an airline in the mid-1980s.

"I had a record company... and I went to ... my partner, and I said, 'I'm fed up
flying on these awful airlines,'" he recalls. "'You get a lump of chicken dumped
on our laps. We have no entertainment. The cabin crews don't smile. The seats
are horrendous. The lighting is horrible, and I want to buy a secondhand 747 and
start an airline.' And the record company executives groaned.

"And so every time I've come up with a reason like that ... the people running
the current companies want to send me off to a shrink and have my head seen," he
says. His idea became Virgin Atlantic, launched in 1984.

His advice for young people starting to chart their professional paths: "Don't
take no for an answer. And don't try to start a business because you think you
can make money. Start a business because you really want to. And do it with a
smile all the time."

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Reed Saxon, AP
PHOTO, B/W, Darrin Bush, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              97 of 193 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            March 24, 2011 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

What 'Earth Hour' backers don't have: a real vision

BYLINE: Bjorn Lomborg

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 815 words


Copenhagen's central square hardly competes with New York's Times Square for
glitz, but it is prime commercial space in my home of Denmark. Now there's a new
advertiser among the neon signs: a brightly lit billboard exhorts everyone to
participate in "Earth Hour," the 60 minutes on Saturday night in which the whole
world is urged to dim the lights to cut greenhouse emissions.

There is a certain irony in renting brightly lit advertising space to exhort us
to save electricity for one hour -- but this is apparently lost on the
organizers. Dimming the lights is promoted online as a "vote for mother Earth"
that will reveal "the impact we have on the environment." Actually, the only
real result will be to make it harder to see. The environmental effect of the
past three annual lights-out hours has been negligible. If everyone in the world
participated in this year's Earth Hour, the result would be the same as turning
off China's carbon emissions for roughly 45 seconds.

When we switch off the electricity, many of us turn to candlelight. This seems
natural and environmentally friendly, but unfortunately candles are almost 100
times less efficient than incandescent light bulbs, and more than 300 times less
efficient than fluorescent lights. Using one candle for each extinguished bulb
cancels the CO2 reduction; two candles emit more CO2.

Millions of well-intentioned people will take part in Earth Hour. I commend the
efforts by organizers to encourage participants to continue engaging in
environmentally friendly choices such as recycling or saving energy after the
hour has actually ended. But I fear that the campaign is symptomatic of an
environmental movement that has become too focused on hollow, feel-good actions
that at best only inch us in the right direction.

In a bid to cut carbon emissions, the environmental movement has pushed for
"green" alternative energy to be used around the world. Many countries now
provide financial support to solar panels and wind turbines. But this technology
is still inefficient, so the environmental results are negligible.

Solar subsidies

Germany is a good example. Despite being a fairly cloudy country, it has led the
world in solar panel subsidies, spending $75 billion putting inefficient,
uncompetitive solar technology on rooftops. This delivers a trivial 0.1% of
Germany's total energy supply, and will postpone the effects of global warming
by just seven hours in 2100. With the financial crisis, Germany and others have
to rein in lavish subsidies. It is easy to forget that while sunlight is
renewable, subsidies certainly aren't.

Similarly, many environmentalists enthusiastically endorsed government financial
support for biofuel as a silver bullet to cut carbon emissions. The subsidies
are now massive and entrenched, and one-sixth of the world's corn supply is
burned just to help fuel America's cars, contributing to the highest-ever food
prices and increasing starvation.

As other countries race to create more food, forests are being razed for
agriculture, causing more emissions than will be saved from biofuels over the
next hundred years.

It's easy to feel as if we're helping the planet if we have a government-funded
solar panel on the roof, or fill our car with fuel from a tank adorned with
green slogans -- but the reality is that we're doing no such thing.

'Feel good' policies

It is time to look to a smarter solution to global warming that would do more
than just make us feel good about ourselves. We will not make a sustainable
shift away from dependence on fossil fuels so long as the alternatives remain so
expensive. Solar panels are still about 10 times more costly than fossil fuels
in terms of cost per unit of energy output. That's the reason only well-heeled
Westerners (being paid significant subsidies by their governments) can afford to
install them.

Consider how this would change if our innovation made solar cells or other green
energy technology cheaper than fossil fuels. Everyone would shift to the cheaper
and cleaner alternatives, including the world's developing nations, who cannot
afford to engage in today's hollow, "feel good" policies.

Much more investment in research and development is needed to bring about
game-changing breakthroughs for alternative-energy technologies -- something in
the order of 0.2% of global gross domestic product, or $100 billion annually.

The harsh reality is that the shift away from fossil fuels will not be easy.
Reducing carbon emissions is a lot more difficult than dimming the lights for an
hour. It requires genuine willpower and investment. Instead of just dimming our
lights, we need to get much brighter about solving global warming.

Bjorn Lomborg is the subject of the film COOL IT, out on DVD March 29. He is
also the author of The Skeptical Environmentalist and Cool It, and director of
the Copenhagen Consensus Center at Copenhagen Business School.

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Brendon Thorne, Getty Images for WWF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              102 of 193 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              May 23, 2011 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

In GOP race, could Huntsman be a player?;
One hurdle: His time in Obama's administration

BYLINE: Susan Page, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 2287 words


Jon Huntsman Jr. is hoping for lightning to strike.

Just three weeks after he left the job of ambassador to China in the Obama
administration, the former governor of Utah is on a five-day swing through New
Hampshire, heading from house party to college commencement to gun shop as he
weighs a campaign for the Republican nomination to oppose his former boss.

Even as another prospective Republican contender, Indiana Gov. Mitch Daniels,
announced Sunday he won't run for president, Huntsman is moving toward the race
with the apparent enthusiasm of his wife, Mary Kaye, who was at every stop with
him. Daniels' demurral could boost Huntsman's standing as a potential
alternative to GOP front-runner Mitt Romney.

"Politics is a surprising business," Huntsman, 51, says in one of several
interviews with USA TODAY between campaign stops this weekend. "People can come
in with the right message and capture the zeitgeist of the public and they're
off and running. It's catching lightning in a bottle."

He'll need it: At the moment, only one in four Republican voters nationwide has
any idea who Huntsman is, according to a Gallup Poll this month in which he had
the support of 2%.

When voters do meet him, one of the first things they'll learn is that, until
recently, he worked for President Obama.

Would Republicans, fractured on some issues but united in their fierce
opposition to Obama, be willing to nominate a challenger who served in his
administration for nearly two years?

For some, it could be disqualifying.

"If you're a Republican, you say, 'I kindly defer to somebody else'" if a
Democratic president calls with a job offer, says Bob Richard, 63, a former
Marine having a beer at VFW Hall 1631 in Concord when Huntsman and his entourage
walk in to shake hands and chat. Richard disparages what he calls "RINOs," an
acronym that GOP conservatives use against party moderates: "Republicans In Name
Only."

"The question is, why would he do it?" demands George Kidd, 73, who came to a
meet-and-greet session in Hancock. He scoffs at the explanation Huntsman has
just given to the group that crowds into Bobbie Coffin's family room  that
Huntsman felt obliged to serve when a president asked.

"You don't get that sort of call" without reaching out for the job first, Kidd
says.

Earlier, Kidd, a retired president of Tiffin University, a small private college
in Ohio, had asked Huntsman a blunt question: "Who are you and what have you
done?"

"If you want to understand who I am, I am first and foremost a dad who cares
about his family," Huntsman responded, looking a bit taken aback.

He mentioned in passing his family business  left unmentioned is the fact that
his father is billionaire industrialist Jon Huntsman Sr.  and his career in
government. "So it's been balancing my career in public and private life all the
while trying to raise a responsible family."

The next day, Huntsman recalls the exchange during a drive from his Manchester
hotel to a photo opportunity at Riley's Gun Shop in Hooksett.

"When you have somebody stand up and say, 'Who are you? Who are you?' I think
that's very refreshing," he says, laughing. "Having come from two years in
China, where the thought of walking into somebody's home with media who can
write and comment any way they want and no one is going to interfere, and to
have citizens just show up randomly and to be able to get in our face and ask
about this or that or the other, about anything  I mean, I wanted to cry" with
pride in American democracy.

If that's the sort of back-and-forth he savors, the primary campaign is likely
to give him more of it.

Differences with Obama

Huntsman rarely mentions Obama by name, but he has begun to criticize the
president's policies, sometimes in unexpected ways.

Most Republicans support the Afghanistan war, for example, but Huntsman says the
conflict has gone on too long and involved too many American "boots on the
ground"  a commitment he says is out of synch with the country's budget
constraints and core interests. He sees a faster withdrawal than Obama's
timetable to have most combat troops out by 2014.

"A drawdown is inevitable, and I think the sooner the better," he says. "I'm
hard-pressed to see that on-going  is a good use of taxpayers' dollars or,
beyond what has been done, vital to our national security interests."

In Libya, he says he wouldn't have intervened to enforce a no-fly zone because
the U.S. budget and armed forces have been stretched too thin  a position that
puts him at odds with such Republican leaders as Arizona Sen. John McCain.

The desire to prevent a foreign government from killing its civilians isn't
enough, he says: "We could be responding to corners of the world constantly if
that were the motivating criteria."

And on China, when asked how his policy would differ from Obama's, he says the
United States needs to adopt a "very strong offense" to "infuse shared values in
a relationship that from the beginning, for 40 years now, has been based on
shared interests." He cites issues such as political pluralism, human rights,
press freedom and Internet openness.

Today, Huntsman will meet with another former U.S. envoy to China, one who
managed to move on to the White House. He and his wife will have lunch with
former president George H.W. Bush and Barbara Bush at the Bush compound in
Kennebunkport, Maine, to discuss their experiences in Beijing  the two families
lived in the same residence there  and perhaps Huntsman's potential run.

He presents himself as a business-savvy leader who as president would focus on
reducing the national debt and creating jobs. He calls the new health care law
"top-heavy" and says the government's regulatory burden is too high.

He touts his record as governor from 2005 to 2009, bragging that during his
tenure the non-partisan Pew Center on the States named Utah the "best managed
state."

He is considering a presidential campaign, he says, because the nation is at "an
inflection point" that will determine its future. Asked to make the case for him
as president rather than Obama, he cites their different "world views."

"We have a generational opportunity to balance the books and to get us on a
growth trajectory. Both of those on the economic side are probably going to have
two very different world views coming at them in terms of solutions," he says.
"We also have a generational opportunity to reset our position in the world. I
think that, too, is going to require two different world views."

Before having a chance to run against Obama, however, he would have to navigate
the Republican presidential field.

Huntsman doesn't mention former Massachusetts governor Romney or the other
Republican contenders by name, though he calls former Minnesota governor Tim
Pawlenty a friend for the days both led their states. Huntsman describes himself
as unexpectedly pulled toward the 2012 contest because of broad dissatisfaction
with the current choices.

"Nature abhors a vacuum and so does politics," he says.

Does that reflect Romney's vulnerabilities as a candidate? "I don't know if it
is anti-anything or anyone as much as it is a desire for the party to see who
might get in, what they might bring with them," he says.

He has a classic long-shot's strategy: Concentrate on New Hampshire, where there
are fewer of the evangelical Christians who dominate the opening Iowa caucuses
and where more moderate independents can vote in the primary. Then use a victory
in the Granite State over the favorite to propel his candidacy through South
Carolina, Florida and future contests.

It is the approach McCain used to win the past two contested New Hampshire
primaries over George W. Bush in 2000 and Romney in 2008. Huntsman is surrounded
by McCain veterans, among them strategist John Weaver.

If he runs, Huntsman says he will take out a personal line of credit of several
hundred thousand dollars to finance the early stages of a campaign, but he would
rely on fundraising rather than his own resources for the campaign.

"Self-funded candidates don't win," he says, calling support from donors one
important test of a candidate's appeal.

Mary Kaye Huntsman says she is ready for the race. (Gov. Mitch Daniels cited
reservations by his family as a reason not to run.)

"He says nobody can tell you to run; nobody can tell you not to run," she says
her husband shakes hands at a house party in Keene. "But if it's right here"
she touches her heart. "And he's got the fire to do it."

The Romney alternative?

Huntsman and Romney are almost eerily similar.

"There's another rich, good-looking Mormon already in the race," says Stuart
Rothenberg of the non-partisan Rothenberg Political Report, questioning the
opening for Huntsman. Both Huntsman and Romney are telegenic former governors
with prominent fathers and personal wealth. They are, in fact, distant cousins.

In some ways, Huntsman seems like Romney's cool younger brother, 13 years his
junior.

Huntsman dropped out of high school to play with a rock band, the Wizard.
Touring a motorcycle shop in Manchester, he bemoans the lack of time he's had to
ride his beloved 1999 Harley-Davidson cross-country.

He slips into  Mandarin as he briefly addresses the 150 Chinese exchange
students at commencement ceremonies Saturday at Southern New Hampshire
University, then smilingly declines to translate to the crowd.

"I said, 'To all my friends from China, I want to offer congratulations,'" he
says later. "Your families are not here. You're graduating from a great
university. And all I would ask is that you take what you have learned and you
apply it productively and helpfully to building and helping the U.S.-China
relationship."

Tim Chambliss, a University of Utah political scientist who knows both Romney
and Huntsman, says Huntsman can be a more likable figure.

"He's just one of those men who, when he walks into the room, the temperature
changes," Chambliss says.

And Romney? "Mitt has a tendency to lecture," he says.

Even so, Chambliss says, Romney is more popular among voters in Mormon-dominated
Utah, especially since Huntsman in interviews has seemed to dodge questions
about his faith.

"I am a Mormon," Huntsman tells USA TODAY, but he continues to be less direct
when asked whether he is active in the religion. "I'm a spiritual person ...
from a diverse family." The Mormon community itself is "diverse," he says.

During a string of New Hampshire house parties, he faces other questions  for
one thing, about his past support of cap-and-trade legislation that would limit
CO2 emissions to address climate change. He has backed away from the idea, now
opposed by most Republicans, because he says the economy is too fragile and the
problem too global to be addressed in that way at this point.

He supports civil unions for gay and lesbian couples, although he opposes
same-sex marriage. And as governor, he backed allowing illegal immigrants who
had been brought to the United States as children and graduated from Utah high
schools to pay lower, in-state tuition at state colleges.

He draws respectable turnout from New Hampshire voters and a huge entourage of
reporters and photographers for his opening campaign tour, which ends today.

At the first stop, in a back room at Jesse's Restaurant in Hanover, he launches
pre-emptively into an explanation about his ties to Obama.

"Let me just say, we've been asked occasionally, 'Well, you served President
Obama,'" he says. "I did serve President Obama. I served my president. My
president asked me to serve. At a time of war, at a time of economic difficulty,
when asked by my president to stand up and serve my country  when asked, I did."

In an interview, he describes his relationship with Obama as limited, saying the
only times they had personal contact was during Obama's visit to China in 2009
and Chinese President Hu Jintau's visit to Washington in January. "It's not like
we were burning up the phone lines," he says.

Still, Hari Sevugan, a spokesman for the Democratic National Committee, notes
that Huntsman once called Obama "a remarkable leader" in a letter and accused
him of trying to "run away" from his record.

"Jon Huntsman is about to launch a great debate  with himself," Sevugan says.

Obama has signaled he could have some fun with a Huntsman candidacy.

"As his good friends in China might say, he is truly the yin to my yang," the
president told the Gridiron Club at the Washington press group's annual dinner
in March. "And I'm going to make sure that every primary voter knows it. If you
see me on the streets of Nashua, wearing my parka and waving a sign, give me a
honk for Huntsman."

---

The Huntsman file

Jon Meade Huntsman Jr.

Age: 51; born March 26, 1960, in Palo Alto, Calif.

Family: Married to Mary Kaye Cooper; they have seven children, including
daughters adopted from China and India. His father is billionaire businessman
and philanthropist Jon Huntsman Sr.

Education: Attended the University of Utah; graduated from the University of
Pennsylvania

Career: Staff assistant, Reagan White House; deputy assistant secretary of
Commerce, George H.W. Bush administration; deputy U.S. trade representative,
George W. Bush administration.

Elective office: Elected governor of Utah in 2004 and re-elected in 2008.
Resigned in August 2009 to become ambassador to China.

Diplomatic resume: Ambassador to Singapore, 1992-93. Ambassador to China,
2009-11. Spent time in Taiwan as a Mormon missionary; speaks Mandarin Chinese
and Taiwanese Hokkien.

Speech on the national political stage: Nominated Alaska Gov. Sarah Palin for
vice president at the 2008 Republican National Convention

Standing in latest Gallup Poll of the GOP field: Ranks 9th, at 2% approval. Only
25% of Republicans recognize his name.

Ties to GOP front-runner Mitt Romney: They're distant cousins.

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Color, Josh T. Reynolds for USA TODAY

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COVER STORY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              107 of 193 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              June 27, 2011 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

A growth plan that's on Target;
CEO steers chain on an ambitious course

BYLINE: Jayne O'Donnell, USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 1612 words


What slowing economy?

In this exclusive interview, Target CEO Gregg Steinhafel shows it's almost
full-speed-ahead for the chain, in contrast to the jitters at many other
retailers. He's presiding over the company's record number of remodeled
locations this year (about 400), the opening of smaller urban stores, plans for
an expansion into Canada and an overhaul of its website, which will soon operate
independently of Amazon.

Consumers can look forward to more fresh food and new higher-end clothing and
houseware designers  including Missoni  offered on a limited-time-only basis.
But those who rely on after-Christmas sales for their holiday decorating and
sweater needs may be disappointed. He's cutting inventories to reduce the need
for post-holiday markdowns.

Steinhafel, 56, started as a "Buyer in Training" at Target in 1979. He was named
president in 1999, president and CEO in May 2008, and chairman of the board in
January 2009. He continues to hold all three titles.

Retail strategist John Long says Target is better positioned than most in this
economy. "More than any other mass retailer, there's still something chic
associated with shopping at Target," says Long, of retail consulting firm Kurt
Salmon. But he says it's unclear whether that gives Target greater pricing power
with the higher inflation many expect this fall.

Here's Steinhafel's outlook, edited for clarity and space.

Q: What's your economic outlook for the rest of the year?

A: Target's a growth company, and we perform well in virtually any environment.
We haven't seen a material change in the business climate, really, from the
beginning of the year until now. Business softened up as we headed into the
fourth quarter. As we reported in our first-quarter results (May 18), our sales
were slightly below our expectation. We expect unevenness in the economy as we
look forward. We think it will be a series of ups and downs, with more
volatility than we've been accustomed to in the past. But our "Expect more, pay
less" brand promise and strategy should perform well in this economy or any
other economy, for that matter.

Q: What has changed at Target because of the softening economy?

A: We're taking a cautiously optimistic point of view. We'll ensure that our
inventories are appropriate, but disciplined. We're really not looking to trade
anyone down. We've always offered a great assortment of opening price point
merchandise.

Q: What about high-end shoppers?

A: We will also be offering "better" and "best" in many categories. We are
making slight adjustments to our mix and where we place our emphasis.

Q: What's new with the designers Target features?

A: Last year, we began to expand our limited-time designer partnerships to
multiple categories throughout the store, offering our guests new ways to enjoy
these great collaborations. Liberty of London for Target launched in March 2010.
Calypso St. Barth for Target launched in May 2011. Missoni for Target launches
Sept. 13. It is Target's largest designer collection to date and includes more
than 400 products across categories including women's, men's, girls' and baby
apparel, and accessories and home furnishings and dcor. Prices range from $2.99
to $599.99, with most items  less than $40.

Q: How about the holiday season?

A: Holiday will be promotional. It will be aggressive, just like it always is.
But we have some great plans, and we believe that we're going to win the holiday
season. We will take a slightly more conservative posture with inventory in
categories that peak in the fourth quarter and don't really exist in the first
quarter, like fall or holiday apparel, trim, home decorating, trees, cards and
Christmas lights. We want to capture as many sales as we can, but we don't want
to have a liability at the end of the season and have to mark down. Since 2008,
we've seen some  seasonal categories decline. We're not expecting a decline, but
they may just not grow at the rate some of our other businesses might grow this
holiday.

Q: What's your take on inflation?

A: We do have more inflation this year than we've seen in other years. We're
already seeing prices mitigate for fourth quarter, so the merchandise we'll be
delivering in the fourth quarter and the first quarter will be less inflationary
than what we experienced in the latter half of the second quarter going into the
third quarter. Cotton continues to be the primary area of concern.  Prices were
going up rapidly nine months ago, peaked awhile back, and now, we're starting to
see cotton prices go down and be more stable. We're also seeing pressure due to
labor rates and energy costs.

Q: How is Target dealing with higher commodity prices?

A: During these tougher economic times, the consumer is not going to be
receptive to price increases. We look at trying to absorb some of those price
increases, we look to defer or to delay some of those price increases, and we
look at re-sourcing products or moving our sourcing, or re-engineering the
products to be reflective of some of the costs. Ultimately, after we've done all
of that and we're not able to shift or defer, then we pass along some of that in
the form of price increases. We have to adjust some of our unit buys downward to
take into account that some of the merchandise we sell will be at slightly
higher prices than in the past.

Q: Are customers cutting back because of the higher prices?

A: Where we have pushed through increases, the consumer has adjusted accordingly
and has purchased those products at the same rate they had in the past. We're
not talking about large-percentage price increases. We're talking about things
that are understandable to the consumer and really doesn't overstress their
budgets.

Q: Does Target really have to have prices as low as, say, Walmart?

A: On any like or similar item to our primary competitors in the marketplace
typically, Walmart is the price leader  we are going to be priced very
competitively with them in stores that are within local markets.

We have approximately 30,000 items in our store that we shop on a very regular
basis in the marketplace. We're constantly shopping Walmart and our other
competitors.

Some (customers) are very value-focused, some are feature- and product
attribute-focused, and some are quality focused. We have to deliver the
portfolio of goods and services that resonate with a broad consumer base. We
look to be price competitive on those non-discretionary items that our guests
expect to be priced right 100-ounce liquid Tide, food items, those kinds of
commodities. The price of entry is to be competitive on those kinds of items.

Q: What are your top priorities for the second half of this year? Have those
changed since you began getting results for the new fiscal year?

A: Our key priorities still center on our growth initiatives. We are focused on
generating top-line growth through our 5% rewards program (the discount on
Target credit and debit card purchases), through our PFresh remodel program,
through  planning efforts behind our City Target introduction for 2012 and our
Target Canada initiative for 2013, and  multi-channel initiatives as we switch
to the Target (website) platform. We're also looking to build new stores.

Q: What's PFresh?

A: PFresh is a comprehensive remodel within our stores' environment that does a
number of things. It adds a much larger assortment of dry, dairy and frozen,
then we add fresh perishables to the grocery mix, which is something we haven't
had in the past. While we're in and remodeling, we update the entire store and
add new visual elements throughout, update apparel racks, add a new shoe area,
add new beauty and skin care areas and update our electronics area. Essentially,
when we're through with the remodel, we have a brand-new Target store. We're
transforming the experience in these stores so that we can provide a more
comprehensive one-stop destination. We didn't have a broad enough assortment of
groceries. Our prices are ultra-competitive, and in most cases, they are below
the local grocer retail prices.

Q: What are your plans for new stores?

A: We're in the neighborhood of 20 gross new stores and with relocations and
closings, it's going to be around 15 this year.

Q: People often talk about the competition between Walmart and Target;  is that
your main competition?

A: Walmart would be the one competitor that competes broadly in the same kinds
of categories that we have. When we talk about apparel, accessories and home, we
would also look at Macy's, J.C. Penney and Kohl's as our primary competitors.
When we look at what we're trying to deliver in terms of groceries, we would
look at Walmart, Safeway, Kroger and other national chains. As we look at our
health and wellness and pharmaceuticals, we're focused on CVS and Walgreens.

Q: Does it bother you that Target is often compared with Walmart?

A: Walmart is a very formidable competitor, and I think it's appropriate to
compare Walmart and Target across the enterprise. But we believe our retail
experience all in is unlike any other competitor's. It's not a zero-sum game
between us and Walmart. They can gain share and Target can gain share and other
retailers can donate share. We often see that those are the dynamics within the
marketplace. Walmart and Target are gaining share, and independent or other
retailers are the share donators. We aspire to be America's favorite store to
shop.

Q: What's happening with Target.com this fall?

A: We're very excited about the upcoming launch of our new online platform,
which we expect to greatly improve the shopping experience for online and mobile
guests. We've designed this project to be the launching-off point for our
multichannel efforts.

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COVER STORY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              108 of 193 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              July 11, 2011 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

A380 lands at more airports, but will it fly for U.S. airlines?;
Airbus superjumbo jet might be too big and too expensive

BYLINE: Charisse Jones, USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 1606 words


When the biggest passenger jet in the world  eight stories high and longer than
a football field is wide  made its inaugural landing at Miami International
Airport last month, the welcome befitted the arrival of a rock star more than an
airplane.

Water cannons sprayed and crowds cheered the mammoth A380 jet, made by European
planemaker Airbus and flown  from Frankfurt by its owner, German airline
Lufthansa.

"We thought, 'This is a historic moment for the airport,'" Greg Chin, spokesman
for the Miami-Dade Aviation Department, said of the June 10 arrival. "So we felt
historic aircraft deserve a historic day."

Since the A380 flew its first commercial flight from Singapore to Sydney in
October 2007, the jet that surpassed the American-made Boeing 747 to become the
largest passenger plane in the world has joined the fleets of six airlines and
ferried more than 12 million passengers. This summer, it will appear in the USA
in greater numbers and be available to  more American travelers, as airlines
such as Lufthansa fly it to runways from San Francisco to Washington, D.C.

Airlines that fly the superjumbo A380 say they're having no trouble filling most
of the 525 seats that are typical for the aircraft. And they and Airbus
officials tout the plane's fuel efficiency, design and comfort as setting a new
standard for the travel industry.

"This is an aircraft that has become a new benchmark of efficiency and customer
appeal," says Richard Carcaillet, head of A380 marketing for Airbus, Boeing's
chief global rival in the production of passenger jets. "It's a game changer."

But while U.S.-based fliers can  hop aboard the supersized jet in five cities,
no U.S. airline currently flies it. And with U.S. airlines focused on boosting
profits and flight frequency, some analysts doubt they'll add the superjumbo
A380, or even more of Boeing's nearly as big 747s, to their fleets anytime soon.

"There's a reason that (U.S. airlines) are not adding 747s to their network,"
says Bob McAdoo, senior airline analyst at Avondale Partners, a Nashville-based
institutional brokerage house. "They've all gotten rid of them because they've
found other airplanes that are a better fit for the way they want to fly their
routes," with smaller aircraft better able to make more frequent non-stop trips
from U.S. cities.

For all its rock-star appeal, the double-decker A380 also poses a mammoth
challenge for many airports that already struggle with heavy air traffic and now
have to deal with its giant size on their crowded runways and taxiways.

Changing airliners

A next generation of aircraft that's lighter, more fuel efficient and
environmentally friendly is beginning to take flight. Among them: Boeing's new
Dreamliner 787 and Airbus' A350, which are being made largely from carbon fiber
composites instead of aluminum, and Boeing's latest version of its jumbo 747
that drew on some Dreamliner technology.

The A380 is counted among them. But Airbus says  the A380's massive size and
cabin perks set it apart. "These are aircraft that will also be very advanced,"
Carcaillet said of the other new aircraft being developed. "But (they) will not
bring a novelty in terms of capacity or experience."

Six carriers, including Singapore Airlines, Air France and Emirates, are flying
51 A380s between 25 airports. As of June 29, Airbus has had 234 orders for the
aircraft from 18 customers. Chances to fly the A380 from the U.S. to Europe and
Asia are also on the rise, with eight new North American routes being added this
summer.

Lufthansa flights between Miami and Frankfurt are among the newest. Based on the
German airline's experience flying seven of the jets, with eight more on order,
officials expect customers to clamor to get on board.

"We see if people have a choice between two aircraft, and one is an A380, they
definitely steer toward the A380," says Martin Riecken, senior spokesman for
Lufthansa for the Americas. He added that the plane typically flies "well above"
85% full. "There's still hype about the aircraft. People sometimes even fly a
day later to make sure they get an A380."

Composite materials make up 25% of the jet's body. Despite its size, Airbus
says, the A380 burns 20% less fuel per seat than a 747-400, conserving both the
environment and an airline's cash.

"If you look in the future and imagine the pressure from authorities, from the
community about fuel emissions, about climate change, about saving fossil fuel,
all that will work, and we will save on the price of fuel," says Pierre-Henri
Gourgeon, CEO of Air France, which began A380 service between Paris and
Washington's Dulles airport on June 6.

The jet also is quieter than its long-haul peers, Airbus and airline officials
say, and has systems that maintain premium air quality in the cabin.

Traveler Brian McCarty, a sound engineer in the film industry who's flown on an
A380 twice, says he was struck by the high air quality.

"I usually sleep pretty well on airplanes anyway, but the difference in air
quality was immediately apparent after the plane took off," says McCarty, a
former Los Angeles resident who lives in Australia. "You don't get that kind of
groggy feeling that quite often you get flying long distances, and there just
seemed to be more air circulation generally."

Gourgeon also has high praise for the aircraft's quiet and space. "The
difference in noise is very significant compared to the aircraft you're used to
flying," he says. And "Everywhere  in business class, economy class  you have
space."

"It's an aircraft which gives a different sensation," he says. "It's like a big
ship on the sea. If you go through clouds and it's supposed to be shaky, this
aircraft is moving gently."

The jet's size also helps Air France's bottom line by enabling it to fly more
passengers in a single plane on certain long-haul flights. "In our calculation,
when we replace two average-size aircraft of 250 to 300 passengers, with this
one, which is 538 passengers, we estimate our savings yearly is $20 million,
which is very significant," he says, noting that the airline is paying fewer
pilots, among other savings.

Maneuverability a challenge

But at 79 feet tall, 239 feet long, with a wingspan of 262 feet and a top
take-off weight of more than 1.2 million pounds, the A380's girth has also been
a challenge.

The jet requires big runways. And maneuvering the plane around airports has been
accompanied by some mishaps.

The Federal Aviation Administration requires airports that want to receive the
A380 to have 200-foot-wide runways, the standard for the largest aircraft. In
2007, airports were allowed to apply a modification to the standard for the A380
to use 150-foot-wide runways already in place at most major U.S. airports.
However, new runways or those undergoing significant work using federal money
must be built to meet the larger size requirement.

On April 11, an A380 operated by Air France and taxiing at New York's JFK
Airport made national news when it knocked into the tail of a Comair CRJ700. Air
France said in a statement that the clipping, which was being investigated by
the National Transportation Safety Board, "only caused material damage to the
two aircraft."

Carcaillet of Airbus added that while "it was a minor mishap, something that
clearly shouldn't have happened, this is one of a million movements of A380s
around the world, so there's no trend that the A380 is bothering other aircraft
on a regular basis."

Perhaps more embarrassing was an incident last month at the Paris Air Show, the
aviation industry's premier event, where an A380 wing tip hit a building and
required  minor repairs.

Several airports have made changes to accommodate the superjumbo jet.

Miami spent $4 million to add a third loading bridge to funnel passengers onto
the A380's upper and lower levels, says Chin. San Francisco International
Airport built its new international terminal, which opened in December 2000,
with the A380 in mind.

"When we started the facility  we went to Boeing and Airbus and said, 'What's
the biggest airplane you've had on your books?' And that's what we designed (it)
to accommodate," says San Francisco airport spokesman Mike McCarron. He added
that there have been "no problems at all" with the large jet clipping other
planes.

Miami airport officials think the large aircraft will usher more customers and
revenue to airport shops and restaurants, as well as make the Florida hub more
prominent.

"You're talking about an increase of 200 seats per day on the same route," says
Chin. "In addition, it brings a prestige to the airport, putting us in a class
of lead airports around the world, very few that are able to accommodate the
A380. So it definitely adds cachet."

But for now, some U.S. airlines seem to be bypassing the A380 in favor of other
new long-haul aircraft. United and Continental, in the wake of their merger
"have firm commitments to purchase 125 new aircraft, including Boeing 737 and
787 aircraft and Airbus A350 XWB aircraft," says spokesman Rahsaan Johnson.

And for the more frequent, shorter flights that AirTran flies, the A380 doesn't
quite work, says spokesman Christopher White. "The A380 doesn't fit our model of
relatively short hops and high utilization," he says. "Typically, the A380,
Boeing 747 and other jumbo jets are used on long-haul routes that just don't fit
our route map. It's not efficient or cost-effective to fly a superjumbo jet from
Atlanta to Tampa."

Some analysts say that they are not surprised.

"The market has spoken," says Richard Aboulafia, vice president of analysis at
the Teal Group. "U.S. carriers, like many other world businesses, are focused on
profit, not market share."

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COVER STORY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              116 of 193 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 8, 2011 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Will Europe find an answer?;
As nations gather to deal with debt, future of the euro may be on the line

BYLINE: Sumi Somaskanda

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 1780 words


Greece is near bankruptcy, Italy careens toward fiscal catastrophe and the
heralded currency union called the eurozone looks increasingly fragile. One
country more than any other -- Germany -- is being called on to save it.

But will it?

European leaders gather in Brussels today  and Friday to come up with a
long-term solution to an alarming debt crisis that could evenutally destroy the
euro currency and could  even take down the European Union.

Hanging over their heads is a warning from Standard & Poor's Ratings Services
that most of the nations that use the euro -- including stable Germany and
France -- face a 50-50 chance of a credit downgrade if the situation does not
improve. A downgrade would increase borrowing costs for the countries, further
hampering the EU economy.

The nations of the eurozone, the 17 countries that use the euro as currency,
have been pleading with Germany to use its financial strength to assume more
responsibility for solving the crisis.

"There's an expectation that (the Germans) are leading the way, that they have
to do it," said Almut Mller, a political analyst for the German Council on
Foreign Relations. "Who else if not the Germans?"

But Germany is not keen on some of the solutions, and for the first time in
decades is resisting European opinion and  raising old fears about whether it
seeks to work with Europe or dominate it.

"We will meet  (in Brussels) as Europeans and take those decisions that we
consider to be correct," German Chancellor Angela Merkel told reporters this
week, refusing to elaborate.

As the largest economy in Europe, Germany appears to have shifted from a
decades-long posture of largely going along with the ideas of the European Union
elite in France, Belgium and the United Kingdom. The Germans now see themselves
as different from their neighbors, wiser even, and are assuming an assertive
stance that befits the nation's size and stature.

That has not sat well with nations that saw the EU as a way to bind Germany
within Europe and put an end to the centuries-old conflicts for predominance
that mark Europe's history.

Recent animosity against Germany has become so vocal that French Prime Minister
Francois  Fillon felt the need to call for an end to "Germanophobia" in debates
about the debt crisis and warned that President Nicolas Sarkozy, "must not take
lessons on patriotism from those who think they are defending our national
interest by caricaturing our German allies."

The vitriol and shifting alliances will be the backdrop in Belgium, where heads
of state will either agree on a way to resolve  the crisis or further jeopardize
the euro's 12-year run as a currency and stymie dreams of a United States of
Europe. "The euro crisis is transforming the balance of power in Europe," said
Charles Grant, director of the Centre for European Reform in London. "Germany is
emerging, for the first time in the EU's history, as the unquestioned leader."

All eyes on Brussels

The summit in Brussels, which could start  tonight with a dinner meeting, is
being watched by banks, governments and investors whose fiscal futures may hinge
on whether Europe's political leaders, who must answer to restive citizens at
home, can agree on the way out of the debt crisis.

On Monday, Sarkozy and Merkel jointly called on the 17 eurozone nations  to
agree to one solution: accept more oversight of their budgets by some central
authority, which in effect means surrendering some national sovereignty to EU
auditors. They want "automatic and immediate" penalties on countries that
overspend, something that has never been enforced because politicians say their
publics would throw them out of office over it. Such a change would require all
27 EU nations to agree to a treaty alteration.

The politicians' fears are well-founded. Every government that succumbed to
pressure from the EU and financial markets to slash spending has fallen. The
latest: Spain's socialists,  preceded by the longtime government coalitions that
led Ireland, Greece, Italy and Portugal.

The lion's share of  bailouts  came from Germany,  Europe's wealthiest nation.
While Merkel has pledged  unequivocal support for keeping the eurozone intact,
she's become increasingly strident on what her government will and won't do.

She has rejected proposals to create a new European bond, because Germany would
be on the hook to pay  more than anyone else should it fail.

She has refused to  support more intervention by the European Central Bank,
which has bought some nations' bonds to lower the sharply higher interest rates
that private investors demanded to cover the risk of default.  She has said that
fiscal discipline is the way out, not more intervention.

Her refusal to budge has earned her the nickname "Frau Nein" in the European
press. But her stance is in line with most Germans, whom polls show are tired of
seeing their tax dollars  spent to save  neighbors to the south.

Germans are realizing that the price of saving the eurozone might be too high,
and it's no longer necessary to  pay for its truculence of more than a
half-a-century ago by playing along, analysts say. Having torn the continent
apart in two World Wars, German leaders for decades followed the lead of France
and the United Kingdom on economic affairs, even though its economy exceeds all
others in Europe. But the debt crisis has prompted a new assertiveness.

"This feeling of guilt plays a much smaller role in German politics right now
than it did 10, 15 years ago," said Carsten Brzeski, an economist at ING.

Hopes for unity

The European Union as an idea came about in the aftermath of World War II, when
the continent was rebuilding its cities and economies and looking for ways to
prevent another such conflict. The aim was to create a body of laws and
institutions to constrain aggressors and promote economic cooperation and
improved standards of living.

The European Commission, an executive body, the European Parliament and the
European Court of Justice were established; then came further integration with
the introduction of the euro in 1999. Seventeen of the EU's 27 members ditched
their longtime currencies for it.

But it was never quite clear how 17  budgets and political climates could work
as one, and  in key respects they have not.

While Greece borrowed, Germany saved. Portugal and Spain used the AAA-credit
rating of the euro to build  highways and airports and  boost government hiring.
Italy did the same, and Irish banks lavished loans on developers who failed  in
a real estate crash, taking  banks down.

Attempts to slow the spending were resisted by government leaders who faced
voter anger at the ballot box and in the streets if they cut benefits or raised
taxes. EU laws and controls turned out to be largely powerless to do anything
about it as  EU supporters worried that pushing individual nations too hard
would break up their beloved union.

Aside from opposing measures it considers financially unsound, Germany is
scolding other Europeans for a poor work ethic, bloated governments and
overspending. Possessing a work ethic that has helped make their country an
economic powerhouse, Germans say they're tired of bailing out what they see as
shiftless populations.

"I don't think it's fair for us to pay for other countries," said Thomas
Lohmller, 48, of Berlin. "If we pay too much, we will find ourselves with our
own financial problems."

An uncomfortable role

Such sentiments, as well as the refusal to budge, has put Germany in an
uncomfortable yet familiar role as Europe's villain. From Greece to England, in
newspapers and on talk shows, anti-German sentiment is on the rise. The chiding
is sprinkled with references to Germany's past aggressions.

Arnaud Montebourg, a leading French Socialist, accused Merkel of
"Bismarck-style" policies, referring to the German chancellor who crushed France
in the Franco-Prussian War of 1870. Francois Hollande, the French Socialist
Party candidate for president, suggested in a French newspaper that Sarkozy was
bending to German might and a return of German domination of Europe.

"We don't want to be like the Germans, and the Germans don't want to be like
us," he said.

But Jan Burdinski, a political consultant in Berlin, says German intransigence
on some financial ideas stems from its struggles to get to where it is now by
instituting practical government and market reforms that other Europeans
avoided.

"Germany passed social security and labor market reform, which was painful but
necessary," he said. "The retirement age was raised to 67, while Greeks retire
at 55. That leaves us with very little tolerance for the demonstrations in
Athens."

That pain of structural economic reform is still very fresh for many Germans.

After the Berlin Wall fell in 1989, the country had to reintegrate into West
Germany an East Germany that after decades of ruinous rule under the Soviet
Union had no real economy or industry, and a people who needed immense amounts
of welfare to survive the transition from communism to capitalism.  The  effort
has continued  for 20 years, longer than German leaders said it would. And
Germans see an analogy to the EU.

"There's no change in the direction of the money; it's all flowing in the same
direction," said Bert Van Roosebeke, a  Center for European Policy economist.
"People say, 'What's the point of giving them money, it doesn't really help.'
Some people say it makes them lazy."

Propping up the east is unpopular, but there is no talk of ending it.  Beyond
German borders, though, feelings harden. "It's different if you have to transfer
considerable amounts of money from Germany every year to Greece, for example,"
said Van Roosebeke.

Nor do they want the European Central Bank to  assist debtor countries.  Again,
German history is the reason. "All Germans are afraid of inflation: They had
this experience with the extreme hyperinflation here, and the Bundesbank (German
central bank) is the Holy Grail," said Van Roosebeke.

Merkel  will face enormous pressure to relent, because experts say Germany
can't afford to see the euro go. The Federation of German Wholesale, Foreign
Trade and Services reported that German exports this year will exceed $1.4
trillion for the first time.  "Germany lives on its exports," said Brzeski. "And
40% of all German exports go to eurozone countries. It's cold economic
interests.

"If Germany would like to play a more important role at the global stage, they
need Europe," said Brzeski. "If you really want to talk to the president of the
United States at the same level or to the president of China  you can't do it
anymore as the French president or German chancellor."

Contributing: Aleksandra Lebedowicz and Louise Osborne.

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COVER STORY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              120 of 193 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            January 11, 2011 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Part of history's 'Inner Circle';
Author Brad Meltzer tunnels deep to get the details right

BYLINE: Carol Memmott

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 1652 words


WASHINGTON -- In the belly of the National Archives, in a locked, climate
-controlled "treasures vault," best-selling thriller writer Brad Meltzer is
having what he calls "a fun day at work."

Meltzer's eighth novel, The Inner Circle (Grand Central, $26.99), on sale today,
is set in this magnificent federal building halfway between the White House and
the U.S. Capitol, where countless paper and digital records of U.S. history are
preserved. The U.S. Constitution, the Declaration of Independence and the Bill
of Rights are all here, but so are billions of other records, tens of millions
of photographs, maps and charts, and miles of motion picture film.

It's where Meltzer researched The Inner Circle and finds fodder for Brad
Meltzer's Decoded, the ongoing History Channel series that has "decoded"
so-called secrets in the Statue of Liberty and wondered whether John Wilkes
Booth got away it.

Not since the 2004 movie National Treasure, in which a mysterious map is
discovered on the back of the Declaration of Independence, have the archivists
here been as excited about a fictional story as they are about The Inner Circle.

It's why Meltzer gets the VIP treatment on this particular afternoon. He's shown
rooms (the archivists call them stacks) storing scores of letters and documents
the typical tourist doesn't get to see. He's given access to papers signed by
our country's greatest heroes -- George Washington and Abraham Lincoln -- our
most famous traitor, Benedict Arnold, and colorful personalities including Annie
Oakley and Meriwether  Lewis.

Meltzer, like anyone who visits here, is left breathless by what he calls
"gasper" documents (people gasp when they see them), such as the Constitution,
enshrined under soft lights in the building's rotunda. But for the purpose of
his novels, Meltzer prefers what's behind the scenes.

And it's in the Archives' long hallways and restricted areas where The Inner
Circle's chases and sleuthing take place, as fictional archivist Beecher White
tries to ferret out the novel's mysteries.

"You know how much time I spent in the rotunda researching my book?" Meltzer
asks. "Ten minutes. I could care less about that room. Why? Because every single
person in America can line up and go in there. Let's go to the room you can't go
to. Show me underground tunnels. Now show me where the people who can go into
the underground tunnels can't go. It's like finding the part of history you
don't know exists."

He's not kidding about the tunnels.

Meltzer is noted for his meticulous, on-the-scene research. It has taken him
into the basement and attics of the U.S. Capitol, 8,000 feet down into a gold
mine in South Dakota, deep into caves in Pennsylvania, into the tunnels that run
under the White House and the tunnels beneath Disney World. He's a history buff
and an avid researcher -- the qualities of a super geek -- but he's funny, too.

"You want to know who to put in charge of national security?" he asks with a
deadpan face. "It should be the people who run Disney World. Mickey and Donald
and Goofy are nice, but if you cross them, they will make your family disappear
in the middle of the night."

Friends in high places

Meltzer's boyish wonder as he "oohs" and "ahs" over the documents the archivists
are showing him is personified in his uncannily youthful appearance. Despite his
shaved head and wire-rim glasses, he looks much younger than his 40 years. He's
polite and deferential with the archivists who helped make sure every detail
about the National Archives in The Inner Circle is spot-on. They will continue
to help him because The Inner Circle is the first book in a series starring
Beecher White, the young National Archives archivist. It's also Meltzer's first
series. His other novels have been stand-alones.

His mild manner and solid reputation also have earned Meltzer sources among the
FBI, the Secret Service, the CIA and the Department of Homeland Security. He
won't share the names of his sources except for two: former U.S. presidents
George H.W. Bush and Bill Clinton.

It's Bush whom Meltzer credits for helping him devise the plot for The Inner
Circle.

The former president wrote Meltzer a fan letter after his fourth novel, The
Millionaires, was published in 2002. He invited Meltzer to visit him in Houston,
where they talked about life in the White House and the importance of presidents
being surrounded by people they can trust.

Bush also told him that modern presidents, upon leaving office, have left
letters for their successors. Though no one has tracked these letters back to
George Washington, it is known that Ronald Reagan left one for  Bush, who left
one for Bill Clinton, who left one for George W. Bush, who left one for Barack
Obama. It's a part of history that plays a key role in The Inner Circle.

The novel's tension builds when Beecher White makes a startling discovery: the
real-life Culper Ring, a group of civilians Washington relied on to spy on the
British during the Revolutionary War, exists today. As in Meltzer's other
novels, ordinary people -- in this case Beecher -- are transformed into
extraordinary individuals for the sake of a greater cause.

"All of Brad's books are a fascinating read," Bush wrote in an e-mail. "He is a
master storyteller who keeps all of us on the edge of our seats. We think of
Brad not only as a great writer, but a great friend. His new book is sitting on
my desk right now, but not for long."

This high-level fan base is part of the reason Meltzer is obsessed with getting
things right. "As a novelist, I can write whatever I want," he says, "but if two
presidents are going to read the book, I want them to say, 'He got it right.'
And people really appreciate that you're working it instead of just phoning it
in."

Meltzer has had to earn his sources. He got 24 rejection letters for his first
novel, Fraternity, which has never been published.

The first novel he did sell, The Tenth Justice, was a legal thriller set at the
U.S. Supreme Court. He was just 24 when he sold it and 27 when it came out in
1997.

Published during the heyday of legal thrillers, including ones by John Grisham
and Scott Turow, it garnered lots of publicity for Meltzer, who was viewed as
the legal thriller wunderkind. In its review, USA TODAY wrote that the book,
"with its youthful dialogue and carefully developed characters, refreshingly
breaks the mold of legal thrillers."

Meltzer has written seven other thrillers since then and one non-fiction book,
Heroes for My Son, a collection of stories about important Americans, including
Rosa Parks, Jim Henson and Amelia Earhart. He's writing another, Heroes for My
Daughter, due in 2012.

When he's not crawling through tunnels or caves, he's at home in Fort Lauderdale
with Cori,  his wife of 15 years (they met in the ninth grade), and their three
children, ages 9, 5 and 2.

Saving the day

If writing novels is Meltzer's biggest passion, he still has lots left over for
other artistic and philanthropic endeavors.

On Brad Meltzer's Decoded, he and a team of experts have looked for secret
symbols and coded messages in the Statue of Liberty, searched for the missing
White House cornerstone and followed the escape route of John Wilkes Booth, who
some believe lived for 40 years after he shot President Lincoln.

On this week's episode (Thursday, 10 p.m. ET/PT), the team investigates whether
ancient prophecies from various sources could be forecasting the same doomsday
date: the year 2012.

The series is averaging 1.6 million viewers for each new episode, while the
Statue of Liberty episode drew 2 million.

Meltzer, a comic book fan since childhood, has also written the story arc for
four Buffy the Vampire Slayer comic books, a task which he was invited to
undertake by Buffy creator Joss Whedon, who later starred with Lost co-creator
Damon Lindelof  and writer Christopher Hitchens in a video trailer for Meltzer's
seventh novel, The Book of Lies.

Whedon's a fan, calling Meltzer "an architect. His structures are towering,
intricate, elegant and surprising -- but always soundly grounded in humanity and
logic," he wrote in an e-mail.

Several years ago, Meltzer led the charge to save the Cleveland boyhood home of
Jerry Siegel, the man who created Superman. More than $100,000 was raised, with
money pouring in from everyday people and celebrities such as David Letterman
and Stephen Colbert.

"I went there and saw the house was a wreck, and that just seemed wrong to me,"
Meltzer says. "That's just not the way we preserve our history. Superman is no
different from George Washington and Abraham Lincoln, although he's imaginary.

"What they all have in common is that they are part of our American mythology.
And mythology is vital. It doesn't just tell us who we were, it tells us who we
want to be."

That's why Meltzer is thrilled when David Ferriero, the Archivist of the United
States, says he loves the way Meltzer combines history, myth and mystery in The
Inner Circle.

He's beaming when Ferriero says that his favorite lines in the book are "History
doesn't choose individual people. History chooses everyone."

They are Meltzer's favorites, too.

"It's easy to say that Decoded and The Inner Circle and Heroes all have history
in common," Meltzer says. "I love history, make no mistake about it, but what I
love -- it's my core belief -- is that ordinary people change the world."

Get clued in to Brad Meltzer

Novels

Eight including The Tenth Justice and the just-released  Inner Circle.

Non-fiction

Heroes for My Son (2010)

Best sellers

All his novels have made USA TODAY's Best-Selling Books list. The highest rank
was for The Book of Fate (No. 7 in 2006). There are 8.5 million copies of his
books in print.

Comic books

*Buffy the Vampire Slayer

(4 issues)

*Last Will & Testament

*Justice League (12 issues)

*Identity Crisis (7 issues)

*Green Arrow (6 issues)

Television

Co-creator of Jack & Bobby (2004-05) on WB and

Brad Meltzer's Decoded (2010-11) on the History Channel

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Color, H. Darr Beiser, USA TODAY
PHOTO, Color
PHOTO, B/W, USA TODAY
PHOTO, B/W, Eric Ogden

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COVER STORY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              121 of 193 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           January 20, 2011 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Nissan offer: Your ad here;
Vans come with exterior graphics for advertising

BYLINE: Chris Woodyard and Fred Meier

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 543 words


Because commercial vans are often rolling billboards, here's a smart move:
Nissan is looking to jump-start its first U.S. sales of commercial trucks by
offering companies free graphics on the sides of their Nissan delivery vans.
It's not exactly putting your name up in lights, but it's close.

"We're taking an innovative approach to offering ... custom exterior graphics
right from the launch" of Nissan's new NV vans, said Joe Castelli, vice
president of Nissan Commercial Vehicles. "We know commercial buyers customize
their vehicles to meet their business needs, and we want to be part of the
solution for them."

The no-charge package includes up to 70 square feet of professionally designed
graphics wraps.

Buyers who don't want to be a rolling billboard can choose instead among free
commercial up-fit packages for the interior that include steel partitions,
shelves and racks.

Or they can take a $300 rebate.

The deals are being offered to qualified commercial buyers -- often small
businesses -- that buy or lease a new Nissan NV1500, NV2500 HD or NV3500 HD van.

Prices for the 2012 Nissan NV, the company's first entry into the U.S.
commercial vehicle market, start at $24,590.

GM names chief technology officer

General Motors on Tuesday named Vice Chairman Tom Stephens, now the global
product development chief, to the newly created position of global chief
technology officer.

GM said the move will "bring greater focus and urgency to developing
leading-edge technology for all General Motors vehicles."

As CTO, Stephens also will oversee GM's research-and-development operation.

CEO Dan Akerson, a former telecom chief, has been pushing for GM to be a
high-tech leader and said in a statement, "Tom will make sure that GM technology
keeps up with our customers and keeps ahead of our competitors."

It was round three of major GM executive changes in 24 hours, following naming
of new U.S. and Chevrolet marketing heads and a new chief for the OnStar
communications service.

Stephens, an engineer and GM veteran, took over as product chief from Bob Lutz
two years ago. He also has held top jobs in powertrain development.

"Today's cars and trucks are technology on wheels," Stephens said in a
statement. "I'm excited about ... focusing my energy to keep us on the leading
edge of automotive innovation."

The company said a new global product development chief "will be announced
soon."

Hyundai builds in Russia

Hyundai, which has seen large sales growth in the U.S. in the past few years,
also has been seeing a boom time in sales in Russia -- and now will build cars
there.

Hyundai, the No. 5 automaker by sales in Russia, on Tuesday began production in
St. Petersburg. It's the South Korean maker's sixth foreign plant, including one
in Alabama.

"This is a historic moment, not only for Hyundai, but for Russia, as we are the
first foreign automaker to operate a full-cycle manufacturing plant here," said
Gui-Il Chun, head of Hyundai Motor Manufacturing Russia, a unit of Hyundai
Motor.

The plant will make the new-generation Solaris sedan -- the subcompact sedan
sold as the Accent in the U.S. -- with special features adapted for Russia's
demanding climate and rough roads.

The plant currently employs more than 1,300 and has an annual capacity of
150,000 vehicles.

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Regina H. Boone, Detroit Free Press
PHOTO, B/W, Nissan

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              122 of 193 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            January 31, 2011 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Take our advice to make NBC great again;
New leadership has chance to revamp image

BYLINE: Robert Bianco

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 2D

LENGTH: 827 words


Our long National Broadcasting Company nightmare is over.

For more than a decade, we've watched as a once-proud network was trashed by a
management team so inept, many of us were willing to overlook concerns over NBC
Universal's now-completed merger with Comcast, just to be rid of them.

Really, when Comcast is the knight in shining armor, you've gone pretty far off
track.

So now here we are, with a new owner and new management, led by Bob Greenblatt,
a well-regarded programmer who turned Showtime into a major cable player through
series such as Dexter, Weeds and Nurse Jackie.

Tomorrow, we can worry whether it's really the best idea to turn one of the Big
Four broadcast networks and its related studio and cable outlets over to the
country's largest cable company -- one whose own cable networks are hardly
models of artistic merit. But for now, let's assume the change will mean better
days for NBC and offer Greenblatt some suggestions to speed those days along.

Repair relations.

Nobody loves you when you're down in Hollywood, but it's only when you're out
that the knives truly flash. Which explains the near-universal creative
community disdain for NBC, particularly former CEO Jeff Zucker, that poured out
on industry blogs and in news reports the minute the merger was announced. (When
the new management team was revealed in September, the Hollywood Reporter story
was headlined, "Hollywood Hopeful for NBC without  Jeff Zucker.")

You don't want to overestimate the importance of bitter words in Hollywood.
People may not have liked NBC, but that didn't stop most of them from working
there if it offered the best or only job available.

Still, the network would  be better off with better relations with its suppliers
and its competitors, if only to stem the public perception that  it's become the
TV stop of last resort. And it is public: Blogging, tweeting and a thousand
gossip sites ensure that much of what was once "inside information" is now out
and on the loose. Image counts in the entertainment industry, and it's hard to
maintain a decent image when people take such joy in splattering you with mud.

Grab attention.

We know what an NBC comedy is: ironic and smart, with a penchant for the absurd.
But the network's dramas have no consistent identity, sparse critical acclaim
and equally sparse public appeal.

The only NBC hour to crack the top 20 in the last weekly ratings was newcomer
Harry's Law, and it has yet to face fresh competition on ABC and CBS on the same
night.

One of the blessings of being that unsuccessful is that you're obviously not
burdened by success; you can try new things and push old envelopes.

It would probably be a mistake to turn NBC into a slightly bigger Showtime; as
good as Dexter is, its appeal is too limited for a broadcast network, even in
these days of splintered audiences. But it might not be a bad idea to launch at
least one series with a similar sort of edge, just to get people talking about
the network's hours again.

Go big.

Unlike NBC's dramas, its sitcoms win awards and praise. What they don't win, at
least not reliably, is their time slots, not even in the younger demographic,
where they do best.

Don't get me wrong. I love Community; I hold out hope for Outsourced, and I have
lingering affection for a  fading 30 Rock. But what NBC needs is an actual hit,
not a demo-driven series it can parse and explain into being a hit. There's
nothing wrong with having a niche show like Parks and Recreation, but an entire
evening of Parks and Recreation dooms you to perpetual also-ran status.

Go wide.

Look at the phenomenal numbers BET pulled in with its revival of CW's The Game.
Look at the growing success of the Spanish-language networks. Doesn't that tell
you that there are at least two underserved markets just waiting for some Big
Four network to wise up and tap into them?

And who better to do so than NBC, the network of I Spy, Chico and the Man and
The Cosby Show? Not only does NBC have the tradition, it has the ratings proof
that such a program, when done well, can attract a mass audience that extends
far beyond any racial or cultural targets. The talent and the viewers are out
there. What's lacking is the network will.

That will do, for now, for NBC advice. But here's one for the network's new
owners at Comcast:

Hands off.

Did you notice that, when Keith Olbermann resigned from MSNBC, the immediate
angry response in some quarters was to blame Comcast?

It's unclear whether or to what degree the company was involved (despite
corporate denials), but those instant accusations are enough to remind Comcast
that many people are wary of its power, intentions and influence.

Wariness may never grow into fury -- and given the current government climate,
even fury might not be enough to prod Congress or the Federal Communications
Commission into action. (Fleeting nudity gets the FCC's attention; a corporate
stranglehold on media outlets, not so much.) But Comcast would be wise not to
push it.

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Mitch Haddad, NBC
PHOTO, B/W, 2007 photo by Mark J. Terrill, AP
PHOTO, B/W, NBC

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              126 of 193 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          February 16, 2011 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

To be young, white and urban;
Cities are a 'magnet' for families with kids

BYLINE: Haya El Nasser

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 346 words


The number of white children is growing in several large urban centers where the
cost of living is high, a trend that runs counter to the decline in white youths
in much of the USA.

And although the overall child population is declining in pricey cities such as
San Francisco and New York's Manhattan, the areas are seeing an uptick in young
whites. Other urban centers such as Denver, Washington, Arlington, Va., and
Brooklyn, N.Y., also are seeing increases.

"It's a new magnet for white families with children -- cities that are expensive
to live in but are attracting people who want to be in an urban setting and are
having children," says William Frey, demographer at the Brookings Institution.

The makeup of the youth population provides a glimpse of the USA of the future.

Increasing diversity has dominated state-by-state results of the 2010 Census
that are trickling out this month and next. Profiles of 11 states out so far
show the percentage and number of non-Hispanic whites under age 18 has fallen
since 2000 while the proportion of Hispanics and Asians has risen. The decline
in white children is stoked largely by Hispanic and Asian immigration and an
aging white population.

But the number of young whites is rising in nine states and the District of
Columbia, according to Frey's analysis of Census surveys and estimates. He
expects the 2010 Census to show an increase in Nevada, Arizona, Utah, Georgia,
North Carolina, Idaho, South Carolina, Tennessee and Hawaii.

Most states adding white youths are in the Sun Belt, a region that has enjoyed
explosive growth by attracting retirees and young families hungry for a mild
climate and affordable housing.

Research by CEOs for Cities, a national network of urban leaders, found that
many young people live near downtowns and stay on there after they have children
"because they like the city lifestyle," says Carol Coletta, head of the group.

The overall national trend, however, is unmistakable, Frey says. "White kids are
a shrinking part of the national population," he says. "That's the big change in
the country."

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              131 of 193 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            February 28, 2011 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

'Uprising' explores China's future;
Well-researched book makes case for continued global leadership by USA

BYLINE: Jon Rosen

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 850 words


Will the 21st century belong to China? Three decades after the adoption of
enterprise capitalism, China is on pace to become the world's largest economy,
returning to the mantle it occupied from antiquity until the early 19th century,
when a conservative bureaucracy drove it toward isolation while industrial
revolution dawned in Europe.

With the developed world burdened by debt and reeling in the aftermath of a
global financial crisis, an ascendant China is rapidly gaining clout, leading a
cadre of emerging-market nations to the geopolitical fore.

But does China have what it takes to upend the United States as a global
superpower? Author George Magnus, a senior economic adviser at UBS Investment
Bank in London and one of the first to predict the global financial crisis, says
no.

In Uprising, Magnus explores the prospects of the world's emerging economies,
with a particular focus on China. While he admits the global system is in flux,
with power shifting gradually away from the West, Magnus believes adherents of a
China-led world order are misguided.

From currency imbalances to climate change to worsening demographics, Magnus
presents myriad reasons why China's impressive growth will soon slow, and he
draws attention to some disquieting historical parallels. Like China today, he
says, the U.S. prior to the Great Depression and Japan before its 1990s "lost
decade" pursued policies that delivered exceptional export-driven growth but
ultimately created unsustainable global imbalances and disastrous asset bubbles
at home.

China, the world's largest creditor nation, has already contributed to global
financial meltdown by providing the liquidity that enabled reckless borrowing by
Western bankers, consumers and homeowners. Yet while China avoided the worst of
the crisis, its lopsided growth -- propelled by state-controlled industry at the
expense of private consumption -- may yet come back to haunt it. With an
underdeveloped financial sector, a rising property bubble and creeping local
government debt, the Chinese economy, Magnus warns, may not be so fundamentally
sound.

Yet China's biggest growth obstacle may lie in its demographics. The U.S. and
Japan, like the rest of the developed world, "grew rich before they grew old" --
that is, attained high levels of GDP per capita before the ratio of working age
inhabitants to dependents began to fall. China, with a GDP per capita of less
than $4,000, is already aging rapidly, thanks to its one-child policy introduced
in 1980 by Deng Xiaoping. The size of China's workforce will peak in 2011 as its
population grays. Today, China has 10 workers for every older citizen, but by
2050 that number will dwindle to just 2.5.

Ultimately, Magnus argues, China's greatest challenge is not the drop in GDP
growth that will result from such demographic shifts and other structural
challenges. More perilous, in a country where decisions are made without debate
and dissent -- and law is subservient to the whims of the Communist Party -- are
the social and political challenges that economic cooling might hasten. The
average Chinese citizen, says Magnus, is engaged in an informal "social
contract" with the Communist Party, where a lack of individual freedom is seen
as a fair trade-off for 8% annual growth and rising prosperity. But when that
growth inevitably falls, social cohesion could fall with it.

China's biggest enemy, Magnus writes, is the "hubris that comes from economic
success, the nationalism that is endemic, and the contradictions between rising
levels of wealth and the intolerance of political dissent and involvement."

He adds, "Whether and how the Communist Party responds to these challenges will
say more about China's ability to be a leader than any amount of GDP."

Magnus' argument would be strengthened if he expounded on China's restive
elements in greater detail. He glosses over long-running grievances of both
western China's ethnic minorities and dissidents such as 2010 Nobel Peace Prize
winner Liu Xiaobo. Ultimately, though, Magnus is an economist, and his mission
is to probe the economic obstacles that could lead to social and political
discord. In this, he proves successful, delivering a levelheaded, nuanced,
thoroughly researched book of value to anyone curious about how the cards will
fall in our emerging new world order.

While Magnus admits there is much to be sorted out, he concludes with a
confident assessment of continued U.S. leadership on the global stage. Though
set back in the wake of crisis, the U.S. is demographically stronger than China,
is far more institutionally sound and remains the world leader in innovation and
higher education.

America, says Magnus, has long displayed the ability to renew itself. If it can
do so again, he writes, "It is likely to sustain itself as the most prominent,
if not the overwhelmingly dominant, power in the world for a very long time to
come."

Rosen is a freelance journalist based in Kigali, Rwanda, focusing on Africa and
global economics.

Uprising: Will Emerging Markets Shape or Shake the World Economy?

By George Magnus

Wiley, 350 pages, $34.95

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W
PHOTO, B/W

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              137 of 193 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              April 4, 2011 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

How are our challengers doing now?;
Nine-month checkup yields happy results

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 1546 words


In early 2010, six budding business owners had the same goal as millions of
other fledgling entrepreneurs: to transform a good idea into a viable company.

But this group was much more visible than the average entrepreneur. While the
shortcomings of most business owners are typically only known to clients, family
and friends, these six allowed a reporter to chronicle their setbacks and
successes for six months.

They were the inaugural contenders in USA TODAY's Small Business Challenge.

From January to July, USA TODAY ran a monthly feature that detailed the state of
each business. The newspaper also solicited advice from top business coaches to
help the entrepreneurs in areas such as marketing and financial management.

Even with that professional help, it got rough at times. The USA TODAY
challengers entered an environment of tightened credit, reduced consumer
spending and general economic malaise.

In addition to dealing with financial issues, each owner had to handle personal
needs as well. As challenger Carl Edmunds grappled with the paperwork needed to
get his home inspector's business off the ground, his autistic son's service dog
got sick. And Edmunds developed pneumonia.

"It just gets so discouraging at times that you think, 'I just want to give up
on this and just get a job at Home Depot,'" he says. "But I was determined."

And he made it -- as did the others.

Nine months after the last Challenge installment, all the contenders report that
they're happier and more successful than they would have thought.

"Things are going great," Edmunds says. The unexpected troubles of last year
were "just a non-ending mess," but 2011 looks bright.

"I finally got my act together," he says. "I'm going to keep pushing real hard
and make sure things go well."

Below are updates on the challengers. On April 11, USA TODAY will launch the
2011 Small Business Challenge. Stay tuned.

Susan Riegg

The Medical Skin Spa, Brookfield and Thiensville, Wis.

Provider of weight-loss assistance, help with hormone imbalances and aesthetic
services

Riegg, who has a medical degree, left the pathology field in April 2009 to get
more control over her hours and her life -- and to spend more time with her
family. Her initial entree into the entrepreneurial realm was slow; her husband
and the businesses coaches encouraged her to take the plunge of officially
opening her aesthetic-services business and actually treating patients.

She hasn't stopped swimming since she dived in.

Riegg's customer base has increased dramatically, and she expanded her offerings
to areas such as weight loss and treatment of hormonal imbalances.

"My phone is ringing off the hook," she says.

Riegg left for a Florida vacation on Saturday, but bubbled with excitement at
the idea of working during that supposed time off. She'll have a margarita and
pina colada in each hand, but also her phone and computer nearby so she can
communicate with patients, she says.

As for the crazed workload, Riegg says she doesn't mind it since she's in charge
of her destiny -- and can still take time off to visit colleges with her
daughter or block out two hours to take her other two kids to the dentist.

"I'm just having the time of my life," she says. "This is totally different
because I'm making my own schedule. ... I'm living the dream."

Michael Matthews

The Virginia Wine Factory, Brambleton, Va.

Wine bar scheduled to open in April.

Matthews and friend Michael Sawyers enjoyed making and selling their Vino
Curioso-branded wine at festivals -- so they decided to open a wine bar.  But
the tough economic climate of 2010 stymied their quest for financing.

"People just aren't giving up money to anybody," Matthews says.

Matthews is the venture's main financial backer,  but  Sawyers' extensive
networking  helped them connect with the firm that provided a much-needed loan
to launch the new Brambleton, Va., location.

"It's good, it's scary -- and finally it's going to happen," Matthews says.
"We've been talking about it for so long. We've been working on it and working
on it, and we're just now breaking out."

He's relieved to have a  start date -- April 25 -- especially after hitting so
many unexpected financial roadblocks.

The  opening will be a soft launch, but Matthews hopes to have a bustling wine
bar by June. In the meantime, he's relying on friends and family for help.

"I've got a niece and nephew and three volunteers from the festival days who are
elated that they'll get paid to pour wine," he says. He, Sawyers and  their
wives will also do some bartending.

"The most rewarding thing is just the sense of accomplishment -- knowing that we
navigated the maze," Matthews says.

Kathy Standage

Exclusive Vail Rentals, Vail and Golden, Colo.

High-end vacation property rentals and concierge services

Snow has been plentiful in the Colorado mountains this season; Standage reports
a recent 14-inch fall. Revenue for her firm has piled up as well.

"I just did a financial report for my tax guy, and my gross revenues for
January, February and March exceeded my entire last year's revenues by 18%," she
says. "That's not including April yet. I'm totally blown away (and really
excited)."

The snowy ski season helped the sales boom, but Standage's marketing, customer
service and detail-oriented procedures were key in garnering original bookings,
repeat customers and referrals.

Because she specializes in high-end rentals (they can go for close to $10,000 a
night), every guest amenity has to be top-notch.

"I've been checking and rechecking things," she says. "I can't leave out any
details."

That means filling a refrigerator with requested food, stocking the rental homes
with creamer and coffee and making sure every light bulb works before the guests
arrive.

After two winter seasons, she now knows how early to call a popular restaurant
to get dinner reservations for the renters. She's also become more adept at
finding private ski instructors who specialize,  such as instructors who can
provide lessons for kids. "Some of this is learning as I go along -- learning
how to serve guests," she says.

She has little free time and hasn't seen many friends in months. But she knows
that her work is paying off, especially because she's already booked rentals for
Christmas and early 2012.

"There's been little issues here and there, but this has been extremely
satisfying," she says. "I'm beaming."

Carl Edmunds

NuVision Inspections, Cranbury, N.J.

Home inspector and energy use auditor

Edmunds is enthusiastic as he heads into the spring home-buying -- and
inspecting -- season. After a bumpy 2010 that included many personal and
professional setbacks, he finally feels on track.

He joined a local networking group that helped him in numerous ways.

The weekly meetings are educational -- and force him to set goals and stay
organized.

A design firm in the group created a brochure for him, and other members, such
as a mortgage sales specialist and a residential Realtor, have given him "very,
very qualified leads."

"Once I got hooked up with this group, it was fantastic," he says. "I joined
them in July, and this month (March), I've had the best month I've ever had."

Edmunds is optimistic. His family members have even commented on his brightened
outlook.

"My wife says that she's seen a whole change in my attitude," he says.

But he also knows that he'll have to build on this success  to make a living.

"Business has been good," he says. "Can it be better? Yes. Does it have to get
better? Yes."

He hopes that in time he'll cultivate more leads and be able to raise prices.

"In many cases, I have to beat the competitors' prices, because I don't have the
experience they have," he says. "But I'm learning."

Things now look promising. "After the turmoil I went through, I'm pleased," he
says.

"If I can maintain this and continue to grow each month or each quarter, and
this time next year double what I'm doing, I'll be very happy."

Lee Goldberg, Rodney Hughes

Poppa D's Nuts, Orlando

Seller of all-natural butter toffee peanuts

Goldberg and Hughes are thanking heaven for 7-Eleven.

After more than a year of working to get distribution in sports arenas, bars and
retail stores, they hit pay dirt: 7-Eleven agreed to sell the nuts in stores
across Florida. The rollout began last week.

"It's exhilarating, and there's a lot of nervousness at the same time," Goldberg
says.

"I believe in the product, and they (7-Eleven) believe in the product," he says.
"Now we need the public to buy the product."

The Poppa D's founders have made smaller sales inroads as well. They sold their
nibbles during the Detroit Tigers spring training (in Lakeland, Fla.) and
secured distribution deals to smaller store chains across the country. (Kwik
Shops in the Omaha area and Rouses Supermarkets in Louisiana and Mississippi.)

"Hopefully, the product does well, and we'll go national (at 7-Eleven)," says
Goldberg.

Hughes is thrilled for the success.

"In 2010, we hoped for a mere 5,000 to 10,000 (bags sold)," he says. "We sold
more more than 30,000 bags."

Other partners include Jeff Faine, a center for the NFL's Tampa Bay Buccaneers,
and Cliff Rogers, director of operations at The Faine Group holding company.

Goldberg has another ambitious goal: to run a Poppa D's commercial during the
Super Bowl. "We'll definitely make it outlandish and outrageous," he says.

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              141 of 193 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             June 1, 2011 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Obama nominates Bryson for Commerce;
Confirmation faces challenges amid trade disputes

BYLINE: David Jackson, USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 379 words


President Obama nominated John Bryson to be the next Commerce secretary Tuesday,
saying the retired energy executive and environmentalist will "promote American
business and American products across the globe."

"John is going to be an important part of my economic team, " Obama said during
a brief White House ceremony, citing in particular his goal of doubling U.S.
exports.

Bryson, who did not speak during the ceremony, has both business and
environmental experience.

The nominee is the retired former chairman and CEO of Edison International, a
California-based energy company; Bryson also co-founded the Natural Resources
Defense Council and is a member of a United Nations advisory group on energy and
climate change.

If confirmed by the Senate, Bryson would replace Gary Locke, who is becoming
ambassador to China  but that could be a big if.

Senate Republican leader Mitch McConnell indicated today that the GOP might
block Bryson's nomination until Obama submits proposed free trade deals with
South Korea, Panama and Colombia to the Senate for ratification.

"It is my hope that the president will reconsider this decision to delay, and
will not allow anything to get in the way of congressional consideration of
these trade agreements and the jobs they'll create," said McConnell, of
Kentucky.

The U.S. Chamber of Commerce, which has clashed with Obama over health care and
other policies, said in a statement: "With his extensive knowledge of the
private sector and years of experience successfully running a major company, we
hope Mr. Bryson will be a strong voice for American businesses."

Obama cited Bryson's efforts to develop alternative energy sources as well as
his business experience, including stints on the board of directors for Boeing
and Walt Disney.

"Today, he advises companies around the world as a business leader who
understands what it takes to innovate, to create jobs and to persevere through
tough times," Obama said.

"This experience and these qualities will serve our nation well as John takes on
yet another tough assignment in his career."

Obama already has another key adviser who once served on the Boeing board of
directors: William Daley, the president's chief of staff and a former Commerce
secretary himself for former president Bill Clinton.

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              142 of 193 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             June 9, 2011 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Finding tech products that are green;
Environmental friendliness doesn't require high-tech compromise

BYLINE: Edward C. Baig

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 1190 words


Ask most people buying computers, TVs, wireless phones and other electronics
gear if they'd like to be more environmentally responsible when making such
purchases, and they will almost certainly say yes. But if you ask how they plan
to go green, many  won't have a clear answer.

It's no wonder.  Products take on different shades of green, of course, relating
to the materials contained within them, energy use, packaging, product longevity
and other factors. And while certain products have more obvious eco-friendly
bonafides, others aren't quite as evident.

In the former camp is the Samsung  Evergreen from AT&T,  unveiled last fall. The
$30 texting  phone is built with 70% recycled post-consumer plastics and
packaging that utilizes 80% recycled post-consumer paper. Or the $50 Samsung
Replenish, an Android phone sold by Sprint that's made partly of recyclable
materials and  is available with a solar charging accessory.

But most consumer electronics products and PCs don't hit you over the head with
a green message. "Our philosophy is we don't want to have green products and
brown products," says Mary Jacques, senior engineer for global environmental
affairs at computer maker Lenovo. "All of our products have to meet the same
requirements."

To be sure, typical gadget buyers still think first of the factors they have
always deemed important, notably a product's features and price. That said,
Consumer Electronics Association economist Shawn DuBravac says, "We have seen
over the years the environmental attributes for a product increase in
importance."

The industry is trying to dispel the notion that buying green  means
compromising  on  state of the art.

Consider flat-panel digital TVs. Some consumers might assume that the
large-screen TVs in vogue today are drains on the environment compared with the
sets of yesteryear. But Peter Fannon, vice president of technology policy at
Panasonic, insists  they are vastly more efficient than their smaller and dumber
predecessor, the tube TV. Fannon says 270 watts was the norm in most popular
27-inch tube-style TVs from a few years ago. Today's 42- and 50-inch plasmas, he
says, measure 69 to 99 watts.

Environmental worthiness

Certainly, the top names in the business are paying homage to green tech,
including Apple and Google.

Google is getting behind home automation with the Android at Home initiative.
The search giant recently teamed with Lighting Sciences to develop a
prototypical energy-efficient 60-watt-equivalent LED light bulb that can be
remotely controlled by an Android smartphone or tablet. It is expected out by
year's end. Using the location smarts built into your phone, you might be able
to turn on lights just by entering a room.

Apple has been selling green for a while and makes it easier than most in
clueing customers in on the environmental worthiness of its products. The
company's website provides exhaustive details on each of its products, down to
power consumption, materials used and greenhouse gas emissions.

For example, if you were considering the 27-inch iMac, a visit to the site
reveals the machine has arsenic-free display glass and PVC-free internal cables.
Arsenic and PVC both are considered environmental toxins. You can summon an
environmental report for the iMac with charts that, among other things, reveal
its packaging breakdown.

All of Apple's computers exceed Energy Star version 5.0 guidelines as well as
so-called EPEAT Gold standards. (EPEAT is short for Electronic Product
Environmental Assessment Tool, which measures such factors as the materials used
in a product and its longevity.)

Of course, different organizations rank companies' environmental soundness based
on different criteria. In its latest guide to green electronics,  Greenpeace
ranks Apple  in the middle of the 18 companies included on its most recent list.
Nokia and Sony Ericsson are Nos. 1 and 2 on the list. Microsoft and Nintendo are
at the bottom.

Greenpeace rates companies according to  policies on toxic chemicals, recycling
and climate change. Underwriters Laboratories also validates environmental
claims. Just this week, the Samsung Replenish became the first phone to receive
a UL Environment certification.

Steven Castle, executive editor of Electronic House and co-founder of GreenTech
Advocates, frets about  planned obsolescence. By way of example he asks, "How
green can you be if you're going to run out and buy an iPhone 5 so soon after
the iPhone 4?" (Not that an iPhone 5 has been  introduced  yet.)

The quest for innovation and profit means there will always be a next version
just around the corner. But the hope remains that the older gear still has
enough going for it that it becomes a viable hand-me-down, certainly true of
recent iPhones.

Targeting 'vampire draw'

Some products are meant to tame energy usage in other devices. The ThinkEco
modlet, or modern electrical outlet, automatically turns off power to your
appliances when they're not needed. You plug the modlet into a regular outlet
and plug appliances in. You can monitor your power consumption via the Web. Cost
is $335 for a starter kit that includes five modlets, a USB receiver and
software.

The $30 AT&T Zero universal charger kit works with cellphones, digital cameras
and other USB-capable devices. The idea is that it can eliminate what's called
"vampire draw," in which a plugged-in charger continues to draw electricity even
when it's not connected to a device. A battery-operated sensor inside the Zero
charger does the trick.

AT&T claims that if all its 80 million customers switched to the charger, they
could save $6.9 million in electricity and 79 million pounds in carbon dioxide
emissions each year. That's enough electricity saved, the company says, to power
5,137 houses for a year.

Accessory maker Belkin's green offerings include the $40 Conserve Switch surge
protector. It comes with a  remote that with one click lets you shut off power
from 60 feet away, including standby power, to all computer system components.
The remote controls six outlets (for such things as monitors, printers and
external hard drives). But two of the outlets are "always-on," for devices, such
as a wireless router, that you don't want to turn off.

Meanwhile, at $140, the Joos Orange solar charger from Solar Components isn't
particularly cheap, small  or light.  (It is tablet size and weighs about a
pound and a half.) But the company says the waterproof mobile charger operates
up to 20 times longer than rival solar chargers, which, in many instances,
haven't proved to be all that reliable. And Solar Components promises it will
work even when there isn't much sun.

For better or worse, the onus is still very much on the consumer to weigh the
green-ness of one product vs. another. And that is not an easy calculation.

It would help if all the major players of tech would be transparent about how
their products meet lofty environmental standards.

E-mail: ebaig@usatoday.com

---

Green resources on the Web

epeat.net

energystar.gov

greenpeace.org/international/en/campaigns/toxics/electronics/Guide-to-Greener-El
ectronics/

ulenvironment.com/ulenvironment/eng/pages/offerings/consumers/

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              145 of 193 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              June 13, 2011 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Battle of low-price fuel sippers;
What's best sedan under $20,000 getting 35 mpg?

BYLINE: James R. Healey, USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 1434 words


Ideal cars for the times. A handful of the best compacts, not very expensive,
not very thirsty, big enough for a family.

And surprisingly well-equipped.

High fuel prices and a slow economy are making such cars hot but also raising
sales prices. So Cars.com and USA TODAY pitted compact sedans meeting strict
price and mileage requirements in our latest head-to-head Shootout to help you
pick a winner for your garage before car prices get even higher.

The Under 20/Over 35 Shootout judged five cars priced at less than $20,000,
before shipping, and rated at more than 35 miles per gallon on the highway.

As usual  to make sure the Shootouts have a real-life connection  a family,  as
well as Cars.com and USA TODAY experts, judged the cars.

And that began swimmingly. The low-price, high-mileage compacts increasingly
impressed family judge Frani Udell, a working mom from Northbrook, Ill., who
hasn't been car shopping lately.

Her regular ride is a 2008 Toyota Highlander crossover SUV, and she was
self-conscious about how impressed she was with the 2011 Hyundai Elantra, a
brand and model she said she'd have dismissed out-of-hand before she got this
close look. In fact, she'd have written off all five before this chance to see,
sit and pilot.

Then, uh-oh: "There's no room for my gun."

Udell is a private investigator who says she goes for "the hard cases  the
rapes, murders  that take me into, you wouldn't believe the neighborhoods where
I have to go."

So, she says, she keeps a 9mm Beretta pistol at her waist and a smaller Glock in
an ankle holster. After a hard day at work, it's not her earrings she wants to
toss into a car cubby.

"You don't want to drive around with it exposed," she said, gesturing
dismissively at the generally small consoles and storage areas of the five cars.

In addition to lending unexpected credibility to the term "shootout," Udell's
concern shows that no matter how thoughtful car designers are, there's always
something they couldn't anticipate. The smaller and less expensive the car, the
more likely that becomes, because of space and budget constraints.

Making good low-price car a feat

Creating a roomy, satisfying, full-featured car that's also priced low and rates
high for fuel economy is a feat of engineering. A bigger challenge, in fact,
than turning out a good luxury car.

Which makes the latest-generation compact cars all the more impressive, says
Udell.

Jack Nerad, executive market analyst at pricing site kbb.com, agrees: "A
state-of-the-art compact today is pretty roomy, and if loaded, it's got a lot of
stuff: automatic temperature control, navi system, keyless entry, leather."

In addition to the Shootout's price and mileage thresholds, the vehicles also
had to hold five people more or less comfortably so the cars could serve as
family cars or only cars, not just commuter cars or college buggies.

The requirements pared the field to five front-wheel-drive, four-door compacts:
2011 Elantra, 2011 Kia Forte, 2012 Honda Civic, 2012 Ford Focus, 2011 Chevrolet
Cruze.

Udell, 51, and her son, Alec, 19, were the family recruited to add real-world
perspective. Their scores, those of the auto reviewers, a real-world
fuel-economy test and a technology test were combined to rank the five cars.

Elantra best in close Shootout

Elantra was the overall winner, but it was the closest Shootout to date. All
five had strong points and could be a good choice, depending on priorities.

Forte was remodeled in 2009 for the 2010 model year, so the 2011 tested had the
oldest design of the five. Cruze was introduced in September as a 2011. Elantra
arrived in December, also as a 2011. Focus and Civic were launched this year as
2012s.

Automakers chose their own mix of trim and equipment within the price cap for
their Shootout entrants. All five had four-cylinder engines and automatic
transmissions. All were mainstream models, not the special fuel-efficiency
models offered by some.

Conspicuously absent:

Toyota Corolla. Priced low enough, but no Corolla model is rated more than 35
mpg on the highway.

Volkswagen's redesigned Jetta. Low-enough price but misses the mileage cut by
several miles per gallon. A diesel model tops 40 mpg on the highway, but its
price is above the limit.

One big question for the testing was how close the cars' real-world gas mileage
would come to their government ratings. We used a 161-mile route to find out,
from downtown Chicago through the western suburbs and onto rural highways.

Civic had the best mileage, its trip computer showing 36.8 mpg, even though it
is the entrant with a five-speed automatic transmission. The others have
six-speeds, generally considered better for mileage. Honda said when it launched
the new Civic that transmission tuning is more important than how many separate
speeds it has. The Shootout appears to confirm that.

Hyundai Elantra's 40 mpg highway rating is the highest of the five, but it came
in second on the mileage run, at 34.5 mpg on the trip computer.

All topped 30 mpg, Kia Forte scoring last at 30.6 mpg.

While none was a sybarite's dream, all were well-equipped enough to prevent what
Nerad calls the "penalty box syndrome" that used to be an unwanted feature of
barren small cars.

Everyday cars, premium features

If you haven't shopped for a compact lately, you might be surprised at how
feature inflation has loaded even these everyday models with goodies mainly
found on premium cars only a few years ago.

Typical on the test cars were Bluetooth connectivity for phones; power windows,
locks and mirrors; climate control; trip computers; and cruise control,
steering-wheel audio controls and iPod hookups. Three had alloy wheels at our
price. One had a sunroof.

And for not much more than our $20,000 limit, you could have these even more
lavishly equipped. For example, for about $22,000 the Elantra would also have
leather upholstery, heated front and rear seats, a backup camera, a sunroof,
satellite radio and special alloy wheels.

On the other hand, you  could drop $25,000 to $30,000 on some compacts if
dazzled by the options list.

"They want the features, the content, whether it's a Fiesta all the way up to
the F-150," Ford Motor CEO Alan Mulally said in April about how Ford made a $2.6
billion first-quarter profit, even though it sold more small cars that typically
have lower margins.

"On the Fiesta, one of the most popular options is heated leather seats. That's
on a Fiesta," he said. Fiesta is Ford's $14,000-up subcompact, one size down
from the Shootout's Focus.

As-tested, sticker prices for our Shootout combatants ranged from $17,760 for
the Elantra to $19,560 for the Focus. That makes them great bargains compared
with the average sticker price for all new vehicles in May of $31,883, according
to TrueCar.com.

But their transaction prices  what people are paying  are rising. The combined
average transaction price  including all options, discounts, rebates and
shipping, but not taxes and license fees  for Elantras, Civics, Fortes, Focuses
and Cruzes that dealers sold in May was $19,843, up about $1,500 just since
September, the first month that all five shootout cars were available.

Cruze's average transaction price has been tops for the five, never less than
$20,000 since its September launch and closer to $21,000 every month through
May, TrueCar.com data show.

Average transaction prices for the other four cars represented in the Shootout
jumped in April, as fuel prices vaulted toward a May peak, and the redone Focus
and Civic arrived at dealers. Average for all five in May: $20,015, up from
$18,484 in September.

For comparison, the average transaction price in May for all new vehicles of all
sizes and types was a record $29,912, according to TrueCar.com.

Small-car appeal just economy?

Since the start of 2010, compacts have generated an average 15.9% of all new
vehicle sales (or about 2 million compacts), ranging from 13.8% in October when
fuel prices averaged $2.80 a gallon to 18% in March, as fuel rocketed toward an
early-May peak of $3.97, according to government data.

Compacts' appeal "gains momentum when fuel prices go up and loses momentum when
prices go down. It's so darn predictable," Nerad says.

Under that rise and fall, however, is what TrueCar.com veteran industry analyst
Jesse Toprak believes is a steadily growing interest in small cars "not because
of money-saving reasons, but because they are fashionable."

Says Toprak, "The biggest change in small cars the past five years: People
actually choose small cars because they like the design, and small cars come
with all the amenities (buyers had) in their larger vehicles, so the transition
is easier."

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COVER STORY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              146 of 193 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             June 23, 2011 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Cities with tight budgets turn to free labor to get tasks done

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 186 words


Volunteers are becoming a crucial part of city operations in communities across
the U.S. 3A.

Three out of four teens will be out of work this summer

Seasonal job prospects are "as bad as it gets," says one analyst, who cites the
struggling retail sector and tight municipal budgets as factors. 1B.

Clearing up 'cloud' computing

It's sparking fierce competition among tech companies such as Google and Apple,
but what exactly is it? We explain. 1B.

NFL resumes labor talks with players; progress 'being made'

Meeting bolsters prospects that a deal might be reached next month to end
15-week lockout. 1C.

Diet changes cause adults to gain about a pound a year

Study suggests lifestyle and dietary choices, not aging, are primary factors of
weight gain. 6D.

Al Gore says Obama is failing in efforts to defend climate

Democrat's leading environmental messenger says president has done little to
move the

country forward since succeeding Bush. 5A.

Clothing brands adjust sizes so women will buy more

More manufacturers are labeling bigger sizes with smaller numbers to boost a
shopper's self-esteem, encouraging them to spend more. 6D.

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: NEWSLINE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              149 of 193 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              July 18, 2011 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Reducing your carbon hoof print once a week;
Not everyone favors forgoing meat, cheese

BYLINE: Elizabeth Weise, USA TODAY

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 4D

LENGTH: 332 words


If every American skipped meat and cheese one day a week, environmentally it
would be the same as the country driving 91 billion fewer miles a year. That's
the figure calculated by the Environmental Working Group, which in a report out
today urges the nation to eat less meat and cheese, both for health and the
environment.

The call joins a growing movement advocating once-a-week meat-free meals, from
an International Meatless Monday campaign and a European Veggie Days movement to
decisions by some Catholic bishops to suggest a return to the no-meat Fridays of
old.

The EWG report is the most recent  in a long list calculating the greenhouse
gases emitted in food  production.

Lamb, which makes up only 1% of the meat Americans consume, came in highest, at
39.2 pounds of carbon dioxide equivalents per pound of meat. Beef was second, at
27.

Cheese was third, at 13.5. That's much higher than milk, because "it takes about
10 pounds of milk to make 1 pound of cheese," says Kari Hamerschlag, who wrote
the report.

Frank Mitloehner, who studies animal-environmental interactions at the
University of California-Davis, disputes the  numbers. Scientific life cycle
assessments of meat production "haven't been conducted," he says.

The Environmental Protection Agency says only 3.4% of all greenhouse gases are
the result of animal agriculture. "By changing the focus  to eating habits,
people think it doesn't matter whether they drive a Hummer or a Prius, it's
whether they eat a burger or not."

Hamerschlag says  the group is not  asking everyone  to be vegetarians. "We're
just urging people to be more conscious about what they eat."

Kay Johnson Smith of the Animal Agriculture Alliance in Arlington, Va., says
there's a "hidden animal-activist" agenda behind some of the groups.

Marion Nestle, a professor of nutrition at New York University, says dropping
meat and cheese a day a week wouldn't hurt: "I'm not a vegetarian myself, but
people don't need to eat as much meat as they're eating."

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              150 of 193 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             July 19, 2011 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Hot times offer little shelter from swelter;
Midwest bears brunt of heat wave

BYLINE: Judy Keen, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 397 words


Sweat dripped off James Langer's face Monday as he hunted for a cool place to
escape the tropical heat and humidity along Michigan Avenue.

"I can't stand being outdoors for another minute," said Langer, 24, a college
student from Houston. "I thought it was always cool here." It was 92 degrees in
Chicago as he spoke; 90 degrees back home.

Much of the Midwest suffered Monday with heat and high humidity that won't
loosen their grip for days. More than 1,000 high-temperature records have been
broken this month, said Weather Channel meteorologist Mark Ressler said.

"Heat is very expansive from the Rockies right over to the East Coast, with the
core of it in the middle of the country," he said. There were heat warnings,
advisories or watches in 17 states Monday.

The culprit, Ressler said, is a dome of high pressure aloft that could break by
the end of the week in the northern tier of affected states.

In Madison, Minn., which boasts that it's the USA's Lutefisk Capital -- fish
cured in lye  -- and is halfway between the equator and the North Pole, the
temperature was an equatorial 91 degrees by midafternoon. The heat index, which
measures how hot it feels when humidity is factored in: 123.

Sunday night, Madison's dew point was 86. KSTP-TV reported the only other spot
in the hemisphere with a dew point in the 80s was the  Amazon jungle.

People are spending more time in the air-conditioned Madison Public Library,
librarian assistant Jackie Siegert said. At lunch Monday, condensation dripped
from the restaurant ceiling onto her tray. "When it's 20 below, we want this,"
she said. "When it's like this, we want 20 below."

Elsewhere:

The temperature was 104 Monday in Hays, Kan. Business is up 3% at the Dairy
Queen this month, owner Jeff Pinney said. "Shake sales go up when it's hotter,"
he said.  Two of his $3,000 compressors blew out.

McFarland Clinic in Story City, Iowa, saw increased traffic, including senior
citizens and outdoor workers,  as the heat index soared to 108, clinic manager
Sue Bohner said.

"I'm thinking Alaska sounds good right now," she said. Monday's high in
Anchorage was in the 60s.

In  New Orleans, Joey Knesel, general manager of The Bulldog Bar & Grill,  was
hoping for some  heat. His outdoor dining area was spurned by customers amid
steady rain and temperatures around 80.

"I'll take sunshine and hot over this any day," he said.

Complete weather, 8A

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Julie Snider, USA TODAY (map)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              151 of 193 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              July 22, 2011 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

USA increasingly at risk for disease spread by mosquitoes

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 178 words


Dengue fever, malaria among illnesses that could be spread as world travel
increases and climate change alters insect habitats, expert warns. 3A.

Best of the Road winners

Five teams traveled across the USA and found the most beautiful, most fun,
friendliest, best for food and most patriotic towns. 4-5D.

Yellow Dot program is red-hot

The free program, which alerts first responders to a motorists' vital medical
information,

generates huge interest across the nation. 3A.

GM confirms diesel version of Chevrolet Cruze for U.S.

Planned for 2013, it would be first Detroit

passenger-vehicle diesel since 2006 Jeep Liberty. Fuel economy likely in
mid-40s, CEO says. 1B.

Hackers claim to have stolen cache of News Corp. e-mails

Archived e-mails could reveal if News Corp. executives knew of phone hacking.
1B.

Kick back and relax with a bounty of summer TV

Whether you like mysterious artifacts, "tongue-torching" foods or Hillbilly
Handfishin', summer programming has something for everyone. 1D.

10 great bicycling cities

Sometimes, it can be the best way to get to know a place. 8D.

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: graphic

DOCUMENT-TYPE: NEWSLINE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              154 of 193 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             August 8, 2011 Monday
                                 CHASE EDITION

Eight people killed in Ohio shooting spree

BYLINE: From staff and wire reports

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 561 words


A man gunned down two people outside a home and two more in a car Sunday, then
shot his girlfriend in a rampage that left eight dead near Akron, Ohio,
including the gunman, who was shot by police, authorities and witnesses said.

Investigators were trying to piece together what happened at four crime scenes,
Copley Township Police Chief Michael Mier said.

A neighbor, Gilbert Elie, said he was getting ready for church when he heard
gunshots and cries for help. He found a woman shot in the driveway across the
street, her husband shot near the garage, and their young granddaughter and
another woman shot in the front seat of a vehicle.

A third  woman came out of the house next door and tried to talk to Elie, he
said, but her boyfriend followed and shot her.

Names and ages of the victims and the gunman weren't released until police could
tell family members,  police Sgt. Eric Goodwin said.

Kids' sports in hot weather gets new OK

Playing sports in hot, steamy weather is safe for healthy children and teen
athletes as long as precautions are taken and the drive to win doesn't trump
common sense, the nation's largest pediatricians group says.

New guidelines from the American Academy of Pediatrics arrive just as school
sports ramp up in sultry August temperatures. The advice, released today, comes
a week after two Georgia high school football players died after practices in
90-plus-degree heat.

The guidelines replace a more restrictive policy based on old thinking that kids
were more vulnerable to heat. The academy said new research shows that with
adequate training, water intake, timeouts and emergency treatment available,
young athletes can play in high heat.

Police officer dies after shot in face

An officer shot in the face in an apparently unprovoked attack died Sunday, and
investigators found a suicide note left by the suspect who fired the gun, San
Diego's police chief said.

Jeremy Henwood, 36, a four-year veteran of the department, died a day after
being shot while sitting alone in his patrol car at an  intersection, Chief
William Lansdowne said.

"This was a senseless killing.  This was an assassination," Lansdowne said.

The armed suspect, Dejon Marquee White, 23, was shot to death by police as he
tried to avoid arrest. Investigators said they have no motives for the shooting.
White wrote a two-page suicide note, but it didn't say how he was going to kill
himself or why, police said. White was a suspect in a shooting earlier Saturday
at an In-N-Out restaurant 14 miles away in El Cajon. The victim of that shooting
is expected to survive.

Former N.Y. governor Hugh Carey dead

Former New York governor Hugh Carey, who took office in 1975 in one of his
state's worst economic climates since the Great Depression, died Sunday at his
summer home on Shelter Island. He was 92.

Carey, a Democrat, famously declared the "days of wine and roses are over,"
forced major changes in the way New York governed and financed itself and kept
New York City from insolvency. The Brooklyn-born Carey served two terms as
governor from 1975 to 1982 after seven terms as a congressman.

Gov. Andrew Cuomo, who announced Carey's death, called him a "true American
success story."

Also

MORENO VALLEY, Calif. -- Firefighters continued to battle a wildfire in
Riverside County that burned at least 945 acres and briefly trapped about 50
drivers when it jumped a freeway.

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo By Nick Ut, AP

DOCUMENT-TYPE: NATIONLINE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              156 of 193 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           August 17, 2011 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Cougars come uncaged;
BYU embraces its first year of independence

BYLINE: Vicki Michaelis, USA TODAY

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 1347 words


With Brigham Young football entering its first season as an independent, the
school's marketing department produced a new rallying cry: "Rise Up."

It might have been easier -- and more to the point -- to borrow from Oakland
Raiders boss Al Davis.

"Just win, baby."

With no conference title as a carrot, "there's only one championship we're
playing for, and that's the national championship," sophomore starting
quarterback Jake Heaps says. "And we're not shy to say that."

That means even the 11-2 records the Cougars have produced in three of the last
five seasons won't be good enough.

"The way it's structured now, they lose one game and they're out of the
picture," legendary former BYU coach LaVell Edwards says.

As if that isn't enough to bloat expectations and pressure, BYU coaches and
players  are eager to increase the team's national exposure -- via a new
eight-year contract with ESPN -- as a paragon of principle in a college sports
landscape pocked by controversy.

"I'd like to live my life in a manner to say that college football isn't all
rules violations, DUIs, fraternity parties, etc.," coach Bronco Mendenhall says.
"I'd like to be able for this program to say there is another side to it."

BYU is a private school owned and operated by the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints.

"People might want to see us stumble. people might want to see us fall," Heaps
says, "But we're a program that's going to do it the right way."

As of this season, the Cougars definitely are doing it their  way, becoming one
of four independent football programs. Notre Dame, Army and Navy are the others.

Disgruntled by limitations of the Mountain West Conference television package,
spurred by in-state rival Utah's leap from the MWC to the Pacific-12 this season
and buoyed by the ESPN deal, BYU last September announced its plan to go
independent in football. Most of its other teams, including basketball, are
moving to the West Coast Conference, now nine teams.

The change improved  revenue, athletics director Tom Holmoe says, though he
declines to specify by how much. The Salt Lake Tribune reported BYU could earn
$800,000 to $1.2 million in TV revenue per home game, vs. the $1.3 million to
$1.5 million it received a year from the MWC television agreement.

Adding to the potential take is bowl money. Since the Cougars are not in a
conference, they can keep the entire payout when they make a bowl game instead
of sharing it with other teams.  In years they don't make a bowl, they receive
no money.

"We didn't do it for the money," Holmoe says. "We did it for exposure and access
to our fans."

Says Mendenhall, "If you were to ask me the main reason to go independent  it
would be exposure for the church."

Some outside the athletic department agree.

"I think it's really good for the school because we get to play more difficult
opponents  and what's even better is those parts of the country get to see us,"
junior Tommy Richardson says. "I think it's not only good for the  program but
good publicity for the LDS church."

Adjusting to a 'new reality'

BYU, because of its Mormon church affiliation, has a worldwide fan base and its
own network, BYUtv. While the MWC contract put many games on channels not
available nationwide and limited BYUtv's ability to broadcast games, the ESPN
deal ensures every  home game will be either on an ESPN affiliate (at least
three will be on ABC, ESPN or ESPN2) or on BYUtv.

"I'm excited about it as a fan," says alumnus Greg Harman of Hagerstown, Md.
"It's been hard to see the football games on TV."

Adds ESPN analyst and former BYU quarterback Steve Young, "It's kind of like
we've given in to what the new reality is, which is you are exposed, and you
want to be exposed."

With exposure will come increased scrutiny, something the Cougars  experienced
this year when  basketball forward Brandon Davies was suspended before the
team's  run to the Sweet 16 for violating the school's  honor code. His
violation involved premarital sex.

"You get exposure, and it's good, bad and indifferent," Holmoe says. "We
understand that. But the quest would be to be good and to be seen.  The risk is
that we just are not good."

Mendenhall, who is in his seventh season and signed a three-year contract
extension in January, also acknowledges "a huge amount of risk. But there's also
a great opportunity for reward."

That reward can be in image. How the Davies situation was handled "was my
proudest moment as a fan," Harman said.

In 2010, BYU  started 1-4 and finished 7-6, ending a four-year run with at least
10 wins and appearances in the top 25.

A two-quarterback system affected chemistry last season, Mendenhall says. After
Riley Nelson, the starter for the first three games, was sidelined by  injury,
Heaps  broke every BYU freshman quarterback record.

The Cougars return 10 starters on offense and nine on defense. They must figure
out how to stay motivated in the event another slow start -- they open the
season with games at Mississippi and Texas before hosting Utah -- drops them
from national title contention early.

Mendenhall focuses on the short term, discussing the "state championship" -- in
addition to the Sept.17 game against Utah, BYU hosts Utah State on Sept.30. The
players speak only of a long-term view.

"Because there is no conference championship, our motivation has to be our
record. It has to be our bowl game," senior left tackle Matt Reynolds says.

As long as the Cougars are bowl-eligible and not invited to a Bowl Championship
Series game, they are under contract to play in the Armed Forces Bowl this
season, the San Diego County Credit Union Poinsettia Bowl next year and the
Kraft Fight Hunger Bowl in 2013.

They would prefer to be reshaping the BCS picture.

"If we're good, we'll be in the discussion," Holmoe says. "And if we're real
good, we'll have a lot of people on our side. Then we'll go from there."

Notre Dame of the West?

Like fellow independents Army and Navy, BYU will be eligible for at-large
selections to a BCS bowl if the Cougars win at least nine games and are ranked
in the top 14 in the BCS standings. Notre Dame earns an automatic BCS berth if
it is in the top eight in the final BCS standings.

Mendenhall is "very intrigued" to find out what the BCS would do with a highly
successful independent BYU team. Even with 10-2 regular seasons in 2006, '07,
'08 and '09, BYU has not played in a BCS bowl.

"I think the BCS has no choice other than to accept us in if we win out," Heaps
says.

Because of its MWC slate, the biggest knock on the Cougars has been strength of
schedule. Holmoe and Mendenhall are working tirelessly  to fill BYU's calendar
with two top-10 teams and another four to six top-25 teams every season.

While getting heavyweight opponents later in the season -- when most teams are
deep in their conference schedule and/or playing traditional rivals -- is
proving  difficult, they say they have attracted plenty of interest.

"The power of ESPN has absolutely amazed me," says Mendenhall, 45.

This year's schedule also includes Oregon State and TCU. Notre Dame and Georgia
Tech are on tap for next season. BYU and Notre Dame have agreed to play six
times between 2012 and 2020.

As a religion-affiliated football program going independent, with its own
national TV contract in hand, the Cougars are hearing the inevitable comparisons
to Notre Dame. Mostly, they deflect them by pointing out the differences,
including Notre Dame's long tradition of upper-echelon success.

"I'm always careful to  measure ourselves against anybody," Mendenhall says.
"But to say that it wouldn't be a nice goal to have BYU be viewed similarly on
the West Coast? I think that's realistic."

The fastest route to such respect would be to add to the  national championship
BYU won in 1984.

"I think it is possible," Mendenhall says. "And what if, with our standards,
with this climate and with this institution, what if we were able to accomplish
that here? What would that do to the national landscape? That is an intriguing
reason to get up every day and come to work."

Time to rise up and just win, baby.

Contributing: Thomas O'Toole

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Color, Mark J. Rebilas, US Presswire

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COVER STORY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              159 of 193 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             August 29, 2011 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

The most global of games stretches to every corner;
Traditional powers take a back seat

BYLINE: Douglas Robson

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 3D

LENGTH: 1486 words


Earlier this year, women's tennis hit a geographic milestone: For the first time
since  computerized rankings in 1975, the WTA's entire top 10 hailed from
different countries.

This United Nations moment was the tip of a slow-turning iceberg that has
transformed the sport during the last quarter century. Tennis has never
stretched to more corners of the earth.

"Just like advancements in technology, science and business are now originating
more frequently from markets around the globe, professional tennis players are
coming not just from powerhouses in America and Australia as they did previously
but from many, many different countries," women's tour pioneer Billie Jean King
wrote in an e-mail. "In my era, we didn't have to play against the rest of the
world, and now, tennis is truly global."

U.S.-based hockey, baseball and basketball leagues have had their Ellis Island
influxes in recent decades. Golf, more and more, has become an international
game.

Yet the geographic distribution in tennis -- the most global of sports to begin
with -- has been nothing short of seismic.

In 1985, the top 100 men and women in the rankings hailed from 29 and 24
distinct lands, respectively. By 2010, the numbers had climbed to 34 and 37.

The geographic spread has affected the USA more than any other country.

In 1985, nearly half (46) of the WTA's top 100 players were Americans. By 2010,
that number was down to seven .

American men made up a third of the ATP Tour's top 100 in 1985, but that figure
also has dropped at a similar clip -- from 36 players to five.

Australia, with a rich history of champions from Margaret Court to Rod Laver,
had no men  in the top 100 earlier this summer for the first time in history.

Talent has adapted to social, economic and political changes with Darwinian
predictability, jumping from nation to nation and continent to continent. Stars
hail from small, tennis-poor or formerly non-existent countries such as Belarus
(Victoria Azarenka), China (Li Na) and Serbia (Novak Djokovic).

Many top pros competing at the U.S. Open over the next two weeks such as Maria
Sharapova and Azarenka came to the USA as children to live and train. But just
as many -- from current No. 1s Djokovic and Caroline Wozniacki of Denmark to
Andy Murray of Scotland --  stayed put in less-than-ideal conditions or
relocated to more conducive training centers in Europe.

Multiple factors

Similar to the shift caused by cheap labor and growing competition from
overseas, American tennis isn't what it used to be. The reasons are complex and
evolving.

The breakup of the Soviet Union and the fall of the Iron Curtain unleashed a
flood of hungry talent. The U.S.S.R. had two women's players in the top 100 in
1985, and Russia counted a tour-best 16 by 2010. Pros from countries that were
once part of the U.S.S.R. such as Uzbekistan, Kazakhstan, Ukraine and Latvia dot
the rankings.

"The good European players were always there in Eastern Bloc countries, but they
simply weren't allowed to compete," says 10th-ranked Samantha Stosur of
Australia.

Tennis academies in Florida and California aren't the only options anymore. The
opening of borders helped spawn a new wave of tennis centers in places such as
Spain and Germany, which have provided more opportunities for the competitive
spread of the game.

"There's a lot more tournaments, a lot more sort of opportunities to play any
week," says Alex Bogomolov Jr., who left Moscow at 11 to train in Florida and
who is enjoying his best season at age 28. "It's a train ride away or a short
flight."

Sharapova says athletes like her fled cold, war-torn or facility-depleted lands
for warmer climates, better coaching and more opportunity in the USA, but they
might not do so today.

"Now you have so many more coaches, facilities," says the three-time Grand Slam
tournament champion, who was born in Siberia and trained at the IMG/Bollettieri
Academy in Florida from age 7. "I wouldn't need to leave."

Tennis is often among the most popular sports in smaller countries -- and,
increasingly, in large ones, such as China (and its 1.3 billion people), which
saw Li win the nation's first major, the French Open at Roland Garros in June.

"If you look worldwide -- Europe, South America -- soccer is the most popular
sport," American Sam Querrey says. "Tennis is probably the second-most popular
sport. I'm sure they have more kids playing. We have football, baseball,
basketball, soccer, hockey. Tennis is probably the sixth- or seventh-most
popular sport amongst kids in America. That's going to slim the chances right
there."

The dilution of talent in this country also is sometimes pegged to Title IX, the
landmark legislation that prohibited discrimination based on gender in athletics
and academics. The opportunities in sports such as soccer, softball and
volleyball, where more scholarships are available, have siphoned talent away
from tennis, many players and officials say.

European dominance

The major tilt during the last decade has gone to a tennis-rich continent:
Europe.

Of the 48 men's and women's quarterfinal slots  in the Australian Open, French
Open and Wimbledon this season, five (three men's, two women's) were won by
players with non-European passports. The two women's quarterfinal spots were won
by one player, Li.

Some, such as Croatia's Ivan Ljubicic, point to the greater number of lower-tier
Futures and Challenger-level events in Europe and South America for helping to
grease the path to success.

"There are a lot of tournaments under-12, -14, -16, -18, satellites,
challengers," says Ljubicic, who was born in war-torn Bosnia and Herzegovina and
fled to Italy, where he eventually developed his game.

But others say the tamped-down pace of grass and cement, coupled with a more
baseline-oriented game, has benefited Europeans, who tend to develop their games
on slower clay.

"I just think there's pretty solid foundations from growing up playing on clay,"
says fourth-ranked Murray, who left Britain to train in Spain when he was a
teenager. "But because the courts have slowed down, you can sort of use that
sort of style on all of the surfaces, which I don't think was necessarily the
case in the past.

"Maybe in the U.S. and Australia they don't play much on clay growing up, and I
think that that's a huge thing in the men's game now."

Jose Higueras, who oversees coaching for the U.S. Tennis Association's elite
development program, agrees. The former Spanish top-10 player says learning to
develop points on dirt can provide a major advantage in the modern game. "I
don't think it's a coincidence if you look at the way people play," he says.

Many players, coaches and agents say the chance at a better life plays a big
role in tennis' worldwide appeal -- though the risks are considerable.

"Some of these guys from these countries don't grow up in Mercedes-Benzes and
Range Rovers," says Mardy Fish, the top-ranked American man at No. 8. "They grow
up literally playing for lunch. They go all the way through like that and play
like that still, even if they are millionaires. They play like they're hungry."

Bob Bryan, also an American and the No. 1 doubles player with brother Mike,
adds, "They sacrifice a lot of their life at a very early age to get there."

The rewards are big, too. Women's tennis is the most lucrative professional
female sport, with more than $48 million in prize money offered by the WTA in
2011 (not including the four majors). The ATP's total purse is nearly $78
million.

This year, the U.S. Open will dole out a record $23.7 million in prize money.

Recognizing the demographic and business trends, both tours have pushed
aggressively into new markets, particularly China, with major tournaments and
considerable marketing and development initiatives. The WTA hosted its year-end
championships in Doha, Qatar, the last three years and will stage it in Istanbul
in October for a three-year stay.

Not to be left in the lurch, the USTA has taken strides to make sure it remains
a tennis power. After taking its "eye off the ball," in the words of former
high-level official Jean Nachand, the organization has poured money into and
taken pains to create a better and more flexible training ethos under elite
development director Patrick McEnroe.

With a larger budget at his disposal, McEnroe has purged staff, opened regional
training centers, developed new training programs for youngsters and teamed with
private coaches, academies and colleges to find the next Williams sister or Pete
Sampras.

The fruits of those labors have yet to be realized -- and it's not clear that
anything close to the American dominance of decades past will materialize in the
new tennis world order.

One point on which nearly everyone agrees: The days when a few nations dominated
the tennis landscape are past.

"Growth will not happen quickly," King says, "but over time we will have a
better system in place to identify our future champions at a much younger age."


LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Bob Laird, USA TODAY (Pie charts)
PHOTO, B/W, Matthew Stockman, Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              161 of 193 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            September 2, 2011 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

2012 Dodge Charger powers up the wow factor;
Eight-speed automatic transmission is transformative

BYLINE: James R. Healey

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 1041 words


Chrysler Group is introducing a spanking new eight-speed automatic transmission
on V-6 versions of the 2012 Dodge Charger (and the mechanically similar Chrysler
300) that go on sale this month.

Big whoop, you chide. Tell us interesting stuff about the car.

OK. It has an eight-speed automatic transmission.

And boy, does that make all the difference.

The eight-speed that you now get standard on all but the very base Charger SE
V-6 models (and it's a $1,000 option on that one) replaces a five-speed that
depressed the performance and hurt the fuel economy of the 2011 Charger and 300.

It's hard to put into words how much better the 2012 drives, feels, flings and
fuels than the 2011, but let's try.

Wow.

The new transmission gives the car better low-speed scoot (making less-tedious
that stop-go routine most of us must abide). It takes small steps up through its
gear ratios so the engine never sags and leaves you wishing you'd bought the
5.7-liter Hemi V-8 instead. The V-8 continues to use a five-speed. It's  to get
an eight-speed in the future, but Chrysler won't say when.

The eight-speed finds the just-so gear if your olfactory sense requires you to
rocket past that hog-hauler on a  two-lane road in hilly terrain. And it
provides overdrive gears aplenty (the three top ratios are overdrive) so the car
can cruise at naughty speeds while the engine loafs,  using little fuel.

The 2012 drives like a dream.

Those same small steps among the eight ratios that make the car smooth and
fuel-efficient also make it a royal, howling hoot to drive. It flat goes.

Dodge has graced the 3.6-liter Pentastar V-6 (292 horsepower as used in the
Charger) with a growl proportionate to the thrust of your right foot. It
presents itself, as do European six-cylinders, as a full-fledged powerplant, not
a wanna-be anything. Not the engine you bought because you couldn't afford the
Hemi, or were terrified of $6 gasoline, or to placate your spouse or mollify
your neighbors or avoid brimstone from the eco-preacher down the street.

The V-6, because of that eight-speed transmission, now is very much the package
of choice. Lighter and thus, nimbler, than the Hemi V-8 (because the V-6 weighs
less) and, ta-dah, available now with all-wheel drive formerly reserved for the
V-8.

There's also the color dashboard display, instead of a black-and-white view.
Bright-hued readouts on the driver information display, and on the center screen
for stereo, climate settings and more. Silly? No, easier to see and read, so
less distracting. (OK, it looks sweet, too.)

Big display with Garmin navigation, such as the ones familiar to people who use
the popular aftermarket navis, and you can tell it what to do by voice while
underway. Big improvement.

A traffic report  can be set to come on only when the satellite radio traffic
station plays an update for your location.

There's a suspension tweak -- hydraulic bushings instead of hard urethane --
that better targets the elusive blend of comfort and control that a proper
suspension provides.

Also enjoy the airlock sound of the power windows  and reassuring thump of the
doors as they close. Plus the handy control and gauge locations and attractive
textures.

But -- there's always a but, it seems -- some annoyances remain.

The voice-control for the navi can't always understand you. Never could find the
Obama residence at 1600 Pennsylvania Ave., Washington, D.C., no matter how
clearly or casually the address was enunciated. It did manage to find an amazing
number of other cities with a 1600 Pennsylvania.

The big doors swing open so wide that you'll about fall out of the car reaching
for the door handle. You have to take care to let the door stop at a partly open
position.

Trunk lid lifts too high for less-tall users to easily reach and close. And the
trunk, while adequate, is space-stingy by full-size car standards.

Seats might not suit all. Too much lumbar bulge for some. Physiques differ, and
yours might be well served.

Styling, nicely updated  for the 2011, remains not quite "adult" enough for
people who might otherwise appreciate the car's high-level execution. Sure,
it'll look fun and fierce for a year or two, but will it then begin to seem like
the auto equivalent of 1960s bell bottoms? Reasonable people often disagree on
matters of taste, so you might think otherwise.

All the negatives are worth considering, but they don't seem to add up to
deal-breakers.

Rather, the 2012 Charger easily triumphs on its strong points: As much as 31 mpg
on the highway, a smoothness that'll trump fancy German brands,  driving
satisfaction that is almost unbelievable in a big Detroit sedan and, now,
all-wheel drive with the V-6 for the folks whose weather often is uncooperative.

---

2012 Dodge Charger V-6, eight-speed automatic

What? Eight-speed automatic replaces five-speed on V-6 versions of the full-size
Dodge Charger, improving performance. V-6 now available with all-wheel drive
(AWD). Rear-wheel drive (RWD) is standard. No change to Hemi V-8 drivetrain.

When? On sale this month.

Where? Made at Brampton, Ontario.

How much? Base SE RWD with eight-speed is $27,320. Eight-speed is $1,000 option
on that model, standard on all other V-6 models. SXT Plus, well-equipped V-6
model expected to be popular, is $32,820.

What makes it go? 3.6-liter Pentastar V-6 rated 292 horsepower at 6,350 rpm, 260
pounds-feet of torque at 4,800, mated to new, German-designed eight-speed
automatic transmission.

How big? Classic big Detroit sedan. Slightly shorter, wider, lower than Ford
Taurus, on a longer wheelbase. Charger is 199.9 inches long, 75 in. wide, 58.4
in. tall on a 120.2-in. wheelbase.

Weighs 3,961 to 4,450 lbs.

Passenger space, 104.7 cu. ft.; trunk, 15.4 cu. ft.

Turning circle diameter, 37.7 or 38.7 ft., curb-to-curb, depending on model and
tires.

How thirsty? RWD rated 19 miles per gallon in town, 31  highway, 23 in mixed
driving. AWD: 18/27/21 mpg. All-wheel-drive test car registered 18.4 miles per
gallon (5.43 gallons per 100 miles) in suburban driving. Burns regular, holds
19.1 gallons.

Overall: Eight-speed automatic makes a huge difference. Smooth, quick, very
satisfying.

---

What stood out . . .

Punch: New transmission makes V-6 more responsive.

MPG: Midsize mileage in a full-size car.

Class: Premium persona.

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              162 of 193 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          September 7, 2011 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Pujols, Cardinals at crossroads;
may be winding down

BYLINE: Bob Nightengale, USA TODAY

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 1920 words


St. Louis Cardinals first baseman Albert Pujols stares intently at the pennant
race discussion on TV, tilts his head back and slowly exhales.

It wasn't supposed to be this way. Not now. Certainly, not in early September.

Three weeks from today, barring a miraculous turnaround by the Cardinals and a
monumental collapse by the Milwaukee Brewers, the Cardinals' season will be
over. They beat the Brewers 4-2 Tuesday but are 9 games out of first place with
20 games remaining.

The only October drama in St. Louis likely will be focused squarely on Pujols.

"I don't want to think about it," Pujols says quietly. "Really, I've been doing
my best not to think about it all year. But I know it's coming.

"It was crazy during the whole offseason. In a couple of weeks, things will
start to get crazy again. Real crazy.

"This time, there's nothing I can do about it."

For the first time in Pujols' storied career, he will be a free agent, eligible
to sign with any team in baseball once the final out of the World Series is
recorded. It could be the most intriguing free agent negotiation since Alex
Rodriguez signed a 10-year, $252 million contract with the Texas Rangers after
the 2000 season, particularly since Pujols' season has hardly gone as he
planned.

"Albert is a special player, a special person, and he means a lot to the
community," Cardinals general manager John Mozeliak says. "Our hope and our goal
is to keep him a Cardinal for the rest of his career.

"I'm not going to get into strategy and a negotiation theory at this point, but
obviously we have a window, and hopefully we can explore it."

Pujols, the only player in baseball history to hit at least 30 homers his first
11 seasons -- all with St. Louis -- remains uncomfortable talking about free
agency. He wishes it never got to this point. He would have gladly signed a
long-term deal over the winter. Or the winter before. Or even the year before
that.

The Cardinals' contract proposal offer finally did arrive over the winter: a
nine-year deal for about $195 million, according to two officials with knowledge
of the offer but not authorized to publicly discuss it.

But it  wasn't enough to sway Pujols. He wanted a 10-year contract, paying at
least the $23million annual salary of Minnesota Twins catcher Joe Mauer,
guaranteeing a minimum of $230 million.

The Cardinals balked. Pujols walked away. They agreed to halt their negotiations
until the season's conclusion. There have been no contract talks since, and only
twice since spring training have Mozeliak and Dan Lozano, Pujols' agent, even
spoken.

The Brewers' magic number to eliminate the Cardinals from the National League
Central race entering today is 11, meaning the Pujols drama could be at hand.

"I don't know what's going to happen. I don't think anyone does," Pujols says.
"But I think I handled it right. I just went out there every day trying to help
my team win.

"All I know is that I'll be a free agent. We'll see what they want to do. There
are some things that you can control in this game and other things you cannot
control, and I can't control this.

"I'm in a great place. A peaceful place. The fans are awesome. But I can't put a
gun to their head and make them sign me."

Yet if the Cardinals don't bring Pujols back, it could be a self-inflicted wound
that could forever haunt the organization.

"I don't even want to think about him not being here," says  left fielder Matt
Holliday, who signed a seven-year, $120 million contract a year ago. "He means
everything to this organization. I mean, he's a big reason I stayed here, and
(he) helped talk me into signing here.

"At the time, he thought he would be here a long time. Now, I don't think anyone
knows what will happen."

That unknown, Cardinals players and coaches say, scares the daylights out of
everyone.

"It's kind of like that elephant in the room," says Brewers first baseman Prince
Fielder, who is expected to attract many of the same suitors as Pujols in the
free agent market. "The elephant got fed the peanuts.

"Now, we'll see what happens."

Down year is envy of some

Pujols has an NL-best 34 homers -- including a major league-leading 25 since
June 3 -- and is hitting .293 with 85 RBI and 91 runs. He entered Tuesday with a
.367 on-base percentage and .553 slugging percentage, bolstered by a .356
batting average and 1.109 OPS (on-base-plus-slugging percentage) over the last
month.

It  happens to be the worst statistical season of his career.

"I hope to struggle one day the way he does," Fielder says. "He's been the man
for a long time. And he's still the man."

Pujols, hitting .231 as late as May 3, has never hit lower than .312 in a
season. He could drive in less than 103 runs for the first time. He has 56
walks, barely half of his total from a year ago (103). He entered Tuesday with a
.920 OPS, worst of his career.

And, for the second time in his career, Pujols likely will finish outside of the
top four in MVP voting, an award he has won three times.

"People talk about his numbers, and obviously they're not where they used to
be," Cardinals hitting coach Mark McGwire says. "Doesn't matter. He's still the
best player in the game.

"For him to put up the numbers he's putting up, with everything he's been
through, is truly remarkable."

Pujols, 31, hears the talk, even by  friends and teammates, but he insists he
has not been burdened by the pressure of impending free agency. He cut off
negotiations when he arrived in spring training. He conducted a news conference.
He told the world he wouldn't talk about it all season. And lived up to it.

"Hopefully people understood why I did that," Pujols says. "I thought it was the
proper thing to do. It's about our ballclub, not about me. I didn't want to
bring all of that attention to myself.

"Whether they appreciate it or not, I think it was the right thing to do. I'm
glad I did that."

If Pujols was worried about free agency, he says, he certainly wouldn't have
volunteered to return to third base for the first time in nine years, starting
four games. If it were all about numbers, he wouldn't have returned in two weeks
-- a month ahead of schedule -- after breaking his left wrist in June. He has
missed one game since returning.

"I know it's weird to say it's not about the money," Cardinals veteran pitcher
Chris Carpenter says, "but he plays this game with a passion to  be the best.
There's nobody like him."

Still, there have been times in 2011 when he hasn't looked the part. He hit .245
the first month. There was a career-long 105 at-bat stint without a homer. He
has 25 doubles after entering the season with an average of more than 42  a
season. And he has 43 unintentional walks.

"The answer is probably yes, there's been pressure," Cardinals manager Tony La
Russa says, "but not because of his free agent year. He's a pressure-proof
performer. He puts pressure on himself to be the best in the game for the last
10 years, so pressure is good for him.

"It's just when you get off to a slow start like he did and you start building
up at-bats, it's human nature to force it. He admitted a couple of weeks ago
that he expanded the strike zone.

"But that's the only pressure I've seen. He ain't a machine."

Suitors will line up

Pujols, who soon began outperforming the eight-year, $116million deal he signed
in 2004,  is ready to be paid as one of the game's elite stars. He earns $16
million this year, but considering that $3 million is deferred without interest,
he is the 35th-highest-paid player in the game.

That will soon change.

There are rumblings that the Florida Marlins, who move into a new stadium in
2012 and might be looking to make a splash, will be big players in the
Pujols-Fielder sweepstakes.

The Chicago Cubs would seemingly love to steal one of their rival first basemen.

The San Francisco Giants,  Rangers, Washington Nationals, Toronto Blue Jays, Los
Angeles Dodgers and Los Angeles Angels could be involved.

"You hear a lot of things, but to me, he belongs in St. Louis," says Cardinals
All-Star catcher Yadier Molina, who is eligible for free agency in a year. "When
you hear the name 'St. Louis Cardinals,' the first thing you think of is Albert
Pujols. He means everything to us."

Pujols, called one of baseball's greatest role models by Commissioner Bud Selig,
is the Cardinals' undisputed team leader in the clubhouse and in the community.
When he learned he couldn't use Busch Stadium to work out during the All-Star
break because of a U2 concert, he took his family to Kansas City and worked out
there.

He's usually among the first to arrive at the clubhouse and the last to leave.
Everyone, from veteran infielder Ryan Theriot to rookie outfielder Jon Jay,
marvels at his workout routine.

"Guys like Albert, guys like Derek Jeter, you want to see Hall of Famers play
their whole career in one place," right fielder Lance Berkman says. "But the
business side of the game is such that even though clubs want to keep a guy
around, they can't afford to do it. You either have got to take a hometown
discount or leave.

"In Albert's case, it's going to require a compromise on his part, as well as
the club. Even though St. Louis is a storied franchise, they're  not in the same
category as the (New York) Yankees or (the) Boston (Red Sox) and (can't) say,
'Here's the checkbook, you fill it in.'"

Says La Russa: "Look, we've got a great organization. You got a great player.
Albert wants to stay. They want him to stay.  If there's any way to work it,
they'll work it.

"But the reality is that this is a different climate than it used to be. I don't
know if they can work out a deal or not."

Negotiations: Starting over?

The intrigue might start once the Cardinals inform Pujols of whether their
negotiations will resume at their last offer or start  over. The Cardinals hint
that they will start from scratch, but could they possibly offer Pujols less
money now than in February, risking the strong possibility of alienating him?

"When we get to October," Mozeliak says, "we'll start over and go from there. I
can't characterize where we'll begin, but we've waited this long, we might want
to see what the market brings."

Pujols, who says he has been open to a contract extension for years, figures his
price tag won't drop by waiting for everyone else to join the bidding. Though he
had a dreadful start, has shown impatience at the plate and suffered a broken
wrist, he is proud of his season.

"I don't like to get caught up in numbers," Pujols says, "but I know I did
everything I could to help my team win.

"Believe me, I wish I didn't start off the season like I did. I wish I didn't
get hurt. But my attitude never changed. I never got down on myself.  I can go
home at the end of the season, look at myself in the mirror and know I left
everything out there. That's all I've ever done.

"We'll see what it means."

Nightengale reported from Milwaukee

List

Pujols' suitors have a strong option

It has been widely assumed Albert Pujols will be the prize free agent this
offseason. Now, he has competition for

that distinction--and at his own position, no less. A tale of the tape of Pujols
and Milwaukee Brewers first

baseman Prince Fielder, with three weeks left in the regular season:

Player Age 2011 statistics Career averages per 162 games 2011 salary

Albert Pujols 31 .295, 34 homers, 85 RBI, .920 OPS .329, 43 homers, 127 RBI,
1.040 OPS $16 million

Prince Fielder 27 .293, 31 homers, 107 RBI, .949 OPS .281, 37 homers, 107 RBI,
.924 OPS $15.5 million

Source: Baseball-Reference.com 2011 statistics through Monday's games.
OPS=On-base plus slugging percentage

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COVER STORY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              166 of 193 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           October 5, 2011 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Christie's decision leaves GOP casting about for Mr. Right

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 582 words


Political shooting stars, particularly those who appear relatively late in
presidential races, have a way of flaming out.

In 2004, retired general Wesley Clark's great-on-paper bid for the Democratic
nomination quickly crashed to earth. In 2008, the comet was Republican Fred
Thompson, whose first day in the campaign turned out to be his apogee. This
year, Texas Gov. Rick Perry jumped into the race in August, shot to the top of
Republican polls, only to fall back amid shaky debate performances and
controversies involving his positions on Social Security, immigration and
vaccination.

New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie no doubt had some of this history in mind when he
announced his "now is not my time" decision Tuesday to stay out of the race for
the 2012 GOP nomination despite pressure from savior-seekers to jump in. Had
Christie opted for the spotlight, the vetting process would have quickly turned
attention to his temper, his weight and his relatively liberal positions on gun
control and climate change. And, like other late entrants, he would have found
it hard to come up to speed on the complex issues of the presidency, raise money
and organize for a rapidly accelerating schedule of primaries and caucuses.

That Republican activists were looking to Christie, who has held office for less
than two years -- and before him Perry, who hadn't even given much thought to
running until midyear -- underscores the remarkable tumult within the GOP.

The party typically has vetted its candidates fully, often putting electability
and experience first. Since Barry Goldwater was shellacked in 1964, every
Republican candidate has been an incumbent president, someone with  experience
running for national office, or a two-term governor of a large state.

This year's casting around for a candidate -- Donald Trump? Michele Bachmann?
Herman Cain? -- is a remarkable switch that underscores the extraordinary
transformation the party has undergone.

It is now heavily populated with voters who think any compromise or attempt to
build a consensus is wrong. This was seen last summer when Republicans torpedoed
a $4 trillion deficit reduction deal because it included tax increases. It is
visible now in the discontent over the candidates' perceived flaws.

Perry has been sliding in the polls at least in part because of his support of
in-state tuition for illegal immigrants and state-ordered vaccinations for the
HPV virus.  Whether one agrees or disagrees with his positions, it's disturbing
to see such rigid litmus tests imposed. Presidents need flexibility and
pragmatism to succeed, and candidates need to capture the center to win  office.

Even worse off is  Mitt Romney. In prior eras, he would be the clear
front-runner as a candidate who has run for the office before, one with a record
of success in business, sports and politics. And yet, a good bit of the party
won't give him much consideration, at least for now. Romney's problems are that
he is the establishment candidate, that he was for abortion rights before he was
against it, and that the health care reform he championed as Massachusetts
governor bears a striking resemblance to "ObamaCare", which many conservatives
regard as an abomination. Fair enough. His contortions have left people
uncertain about his convictions.

But there's no such thing as the perfect candidate. With Christie out and the
first nominating contests just three months off, the search for a savior has
probably come to an end. Maybe that's for the best.

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              175 of 193 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            November 14, 2011 Monday
                                 First EDITION

No six-peat for Johnson

BYLINE: Nate Ryan, USA TODAY

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 10C

LENGTH: 359 words


South Florida will seem a little breezier for Jimmie Johnson this year -- not
that the tropical climate will offer much comfort.

For the first time during the eight-season Chase for the Sprint Cup era, he
won't be racing for a title in the finale at Homestead Miami-Speedway.

The five-time defending champion's reign officially ended with a thud in
Sunday's Kobalt Tools 500 at Phoenix International Raceway, where a 14th-place
finish eliminated the Hendrick Motorsports driver from contention.

"I'm definitely disappointed, but that's motor sports," Johnson said. "It's a
very tough business. What we did over the last five years was absolutely
spectacular."

Phoenix was Johnson's fifth finish outside of the top 10 in nine Chase races.
During 40 Chase races from 2007 to 2010, he finished outside the top 10 six
times. Johnson said his team would learn from its late-season swoon.

"Being on top for as long as we have been takes a lot of effort to maintain
that," he said. "It just takes a lot out of you. So this will be a nice winter
to unplug and relax and dissect the different areas of the race team and come
back stronger."

Said Tony Stewart of Johnson's unprecedented five consecutive championships: "I
think he holds his head up high, knowing what they've accomplished. That's
something in NASCAR history that I would put my money on that it will never
happen again."

Johnson expected to "definitely have more fun and get a lot of sleep" entering
Homestead. Plus, he has something to play for: keeping alive a 10-season streak
of finishing in the top five in points that dates to his 2002 rookie campaign.
He's in fifth, two points ahead of sixth-place Matt Kenseth.

Rough ending: Kyle Busch lost an engine three days after he lost his primary
sponsor for the final two races of the season. After starting from the rear
because of a motor change, Busch had climbed to third by the midpoint when an
engine failure relegated him to 36th.

"It's just devastating," said Busch, whose No. 18 Toyota was adorned with
Interstate Batteries instead of M&Ms after the sponsor pulled its backing for
his intentional wreck of Ron HornadayJr. in last week's truck race.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              181 of 193 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           November 29, 2011 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

'Megapolitan': A new geography;
Municipalities reach across borders to form larger strategic blocs

BYLINE: Haya El Nasser, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 806 words


Michael Crow, president of Arizona State University outside of Phoenix, last
month ventured into potentially hostile territory 120 miles south in Tucson,
home of the University of Arizona, to address 600 civic and business leaders.

His message was jaw-dropping: Put aside the rivalry between the universities and
the metropolitan areas and join forces to form one giant urban powerhouse to
compete globally with an economy larger than that of the United Arab Emirates.

"Competitiveness between two communities gets us nowhere," Crow says. "We've
been asleep at the switch too long."

No tomatoes thrown. No booing. Instead, warm applause. Crow was lauded for his
frank message calling on counties from Phoenix to Tucson to compete for new jobs
-- not against each other but with each other against other regions of the
nation and the world.

The long-struggling U.S. economy has made once-competing municipalities more
receptive to that message. They're reaching across county lines and even state
borders and aligning themselves as one economic bloc.

It's the birth of a new geography: "megapolitans," regions that encompass cities
and counties linked through man-made and natural connections such as shared
transportation networks, labor markets or water supplies.

Because population and economic growth is not spread evenly across the country
(the 309 million Americans occupy only a quarter of all private land), planners
and demographers for several years have advocated planning on a scale larger
than cities, metropolitan areas or states.

A new book details this  urban geography. It predicts that by 2040, there will
be 10 distinct clusters composed of 23 megapolitan areas in the contiguous 48
states. The Phoenix-Tucson area, for example, is in the Sun Corridor megapolitan
area, part of the Southwest megapolitan cluster that  includes Las Vegas and
Southern California.

"The threat of global competition has made these regions seek each other out for
competitive advantage," says Robert Lang, co-author of Megapolitan America.
"There are a lot of cities that don't like each other. Tucson and Phoenix have
been at each other's throats, but when it comes to industries like solar or
optics   from a global perspective, this is the same region."

He and co-author Arthur C. Nelson say the sooner the nation recognizes that it
is made up of a series of densely-populated economic engines, the better off it
will be because public policy and economic development will target where people
live, not where they don't.

"These regions are now merging, and that's the geography by which America
accesses the global economy," says Lang, urban sociologist at the University of
Nevada-Las Vegas.

Crow says economic competition is less about the USA vs. China than megapolitan
areas here competing with Shanghai or Hong Kong.

The authors define megapolitans as having at least one metropolitan area of  2
million people by 2040 that's connected -- via commuting patterns -- to at least
one other metro  area of more than 250,000 people. A megapolitan cluster has
several megapolitan areas that are connected by commuting, trucking or commuter
airline and share terrain, climate, culture, economic base and political
culture.

"The larger the population base of an area, the more jobs are created just
because of sheer scale," says Nelson, planning professor at the University of
Utah.

These mega-connections are emerging:

Switch, which runs data centers and provides related services, is based in Las
Vegas. Its clients are in Nevada, Arizona and California.

"We have key executives from our management team based in Phoenix, Southern and
Northern California as well as Las Vegas," says Jason Mendenhall, executive vice
president.

Many Switch employees work remotely and commute to Las Vegas offices once or
twice a week. "They go to the airport, jump on a plane and get to our office,"
Mendenhall says.  "We embraced the megapolitan concept because technology makes
that possible."

When Volkswagen decided to open a plant in Chattanooga, Tenn. -- a $1billion
investment creating 2,000 jobs -- several local leaders went to Greenville,
S.C., where a BMW plant opened in the early 1990s, to see how they could prepare
for growth.

"Folks in Greenville said, 'We did not anticipate how the growth would impact
us,' and also they didn't realize how important it was to think regionally,"
says J.Ed Marston, vice president of marketing and communications at the
Chattanooga Area Chamber of Commerce.

Citizens and governments in 16 counties in three states (Tennessee, Alabama,
Georgia) affected by the new plant are working together to prepare the region
for everything from transportation to housing needs.

"We all rely on the same labor pool, the same interstate system, the same supply
of drinking water," Marston says. "In many ways, our fates are intertwined."

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Janet Loehrke, USA TODAY (Map)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved
