
                               2 of 190 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             August 7, 2012 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Resources to prevent global warming already exist

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 411 words


Thank you for your editorial highlighting the need to move from debating climate
change to actually doing something to prevent it ("Are this summer's heat
records performance-enhanced?", Our view, Climate change debate, Wednesday). In
fact, the United States already has a law that could be a potent weapon against
greenhouse gas pollution.

The Clean Air Act has reduced harmful air pollution for four decades. Courts
have repeatedly upheld efforts to apply the Clean Air Act to greenhouse gases ,
but the Environmental Protection Agency has been too slow and timid in using the
law to control carbon pollution.

For the sake of our planet and our children's future, it's time to put the Clean
Air Act to work.

Kassie Siegel, director

Climate Law Institute

Center for Biological Diversity

Joshua Tree, Calif.

Make discrepancies clear

It seems the ongoing debate over "global warming" never gets any simpler.

First, we must realize there is a drastic difference in the meaning of  the
terms "climate change" and "global warming." The Earth has been experiencing
climate change for all of its 4.5 billion years of existence. Global warming in
my opinion refers to  warming caused by the activities of humans.

There is also a tendency for many to think warm temperatures  in the United
States must be  global and caused by humans.  Many thought high temperatures
this winter were  due to global warming, while at the same time ignoring the
fact that Eastern Europe experienced deadly cold that cost hundreds of lives.

If we can't get our terms and facts straight, we can't have an intelligent
discussion on this subject. Until we can have an intelligent discussion, the
science cannot be settled.

James Moore

Ocean Isle Beach, N.C.

Obama must be strong on climate

Your climate change editorial states, "So it's time for the political debate to
shift from whether the climate is changing to what can be done to keep the
warming under control." President Obama can shift that debate by coming out
firmly in favor of HR 3242, the Save Our Climate Act, which would  steer our
country away from fossil fuels toward cleaner forms of energy. This bill would
also protect consumers, create hundreds of thousands of jobs and reduce the
deficit in the process.

He should also challenge Mitt Romney, who has been all over the place on this
issue, to state once and for all his position on the science and explain what he
would do if elected to confront the climate challenge.

D.R. Tucker

Brockton, Mass.

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2012 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               7 of 190 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            March 15, 2012 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Far-away climate patterns fuel warm-up

BYLINE: Doyle Rice, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 423 words


As office workers from Chicago to New York City enjoy lunches outdoors  this
week, let's all give a hearty thank you, in part, to  the Madden-Julian
Oscillation.

Like the proverbial butterfly flapping its wings in Africa that helps cause a
hurricane in the Gulf of Mexico,  climate patterns hundreds or thousands of
miles away are helping fuel the nation's  bizarre  March heat.

Seventy-one locations in the Plains and Northeast set records  Tuesday,
including 81 degrees in Omaha. On Wednesday, more than 60 cities  in the central
and eastern U.S. were forecast to see temperatures at or near record highs.

Chicago  hit  a record-breaking 81 degrees Wednesday afternoon,  a whopping 35
degrees above the average high,  the National Weather Service reported.
Washington, D.C., also soared to 80 degrees, far above the average of 55
degrees.

The weather is so warm that the famed cherry blossoms in the U.S. capital will
reach their peak bloom earlier than expected -- between March 20 and 23, the
National Park Service said. Earlier predictions were for between March 24 and
31, the Associated Press reported.

This warmth will continue  into next week, said  meteorologist Chris Dolce of
The Weather Channel.

What's causing all of this? Three global climate patterns -- the Madden-Julian
Oscillation, La Nia and the Arctic Oscillation -- are contributing in some way,
says Jon Gottschalck,  head of forecast operations at the Climate Prediction
Center.

Now, and continuing over the next couple of weeks, Gottschalck says all of these
patterns are coming together in such a way to fuel continued warmth in the
eastern USA.

The Madden-Julian Oscillation, named for the two scientists who discovered it in
the early 1970s, is a climate pattern in the tropics,  a large-scale
disturbance that moves east around the Earth's equator over a period of 30 to 60
days, influencing  rainfall and weather patterns around the world, Gottschalck
says.

The La Nia  is a cooling of tropical ocean water in the Pacific.

The Arctic Oscillation is a swinging of high and low atmospheric pressure over
the Arctic.

Scientists can't say for sure if the warmth will last beyond late March, as no
reliable connection can be made between a warm winter/early spring and a warm
summer later.

Yet, while most of the nation simmers, let's not forget  northern New England
and the Pacific Northwest. Caribou, Maine, was forecast to get  up to 6 inches
of snow overnight,  while as much as 3 feet was forecast in  the highest
elevations of the Cascades in Washington state today.

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2012 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               8 of 190 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            October 23, 2012 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Study: Forecast of more severe tornadoes is all wind

BYLINE: Doyle Rice, @USATODAYWeather, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 453 words


As 2012 shapes up to be the least active year on record for tornadoes, new
research suggests climate change is not necessarily driving up the number and
force of killer twisters .

The research, accepted for publication in the journal Environmental Hazards,
counters assertions that climate change is fueling this form of severe weather.
The findings are limited to tornadoes and don't delve into whether climate
change could be affecting other weather extremes such as heat waves, floods or
droughts.

"There is absolutely no evidence of an increase in damaging tornadoes," the
authors write in the study. They add that the number of U.S. tornadoes might
actually have decreased since accurate records began in the 1950s.

On average, just over 1,300 tornadoes form each year in the United States, the
vast majority of which cause very little or no damage.

Roger Pielke, a professor of environmental studies at the University of
Colorado, led the study, working with  Kevin  Simmons of Austin College in
Sherman, Texas, and Daniel Sutter of Troy University in Troy, Ala.

As awful as 2011 was, when 550 Americans died in tornadoes, last year appears to
have been an outlier and not part of a trend. Tornadoes and tornado damage can
fluctuate wildly from year to year.

The study also finds the damage from tornadoes has decreased since the 1950s,
once the figures are "normalized," or adjusted for inflation and population.
This is the first paper to comprehensively "normalize" historical economic
losses from U.S. tornadoes, Pielke says.

Harold Brooks of the National Severe Storms Laboratory in Norman, Okla., says
the study is " pretty reasonable,"  adding that there is no sign that tornado
incidence has worsened over the decades. "There is no long-term trend in
tornadoes," he says.

Meteorologist Mike Smith of AccuWeather Enterprise Solutions in Wichita, agrees.
"I believe there is some evidence (but not enough to form a robust conclusion)
that tornadoes were worse in the first half of the 20th century," he says.

Even so, Smith  acknowledges that "2011 sticks out like a sore thumb."

When it comes to climate change, Pielke adds that his study "provides strong
counter-evidence to claims  in the scientific literature that the atmospheric
environment that spawns tornadoes has intensified," leading to more destructive
storms.

An Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change report this year said  "there is
low confidence" in a link between climate change and tornadoes.

Pielke's study counters a report  this month by Munich Re, the world's largest
reinsurance firm, that said climate change is driving the increase in natural
disasters, such as the severe storms and tornadoes that hammered the United
States last year.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2012 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               9 of 190 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           October 31, 2012 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Obama, Romney spar on climate, energy;
Rivals once thought alike

BYLINE: Wendy Koch, @wendykoch, USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 1332 words


He pushed to make homes and businesses more energy efficient. He offered
government incentives for renewable power and, early in his administration,
tried to tackle climate change with fees on excessive corporate emitters of
greenhouse gases.

President Obama? Well, it may sound like him, but it's GOP presidential
candidate Mitt Romney when he was governor of Massachusetts -- a blue state with
a Democratic-led legislature -- from 2003 to 2007.

The two men have fairly similar governing records on energy and environmental
issues. Their campaign rhetoric, however, has differed on just about everything
except boosting the nation's production of oil and natural gas.

Obama says the United States, despite a jump in oil and gas produced during his
administration, cannot drill its way to energy independence. So he touts his
push to double fuel economy for new cars and light trucks by 2025, increase
solar and wind energy, and eliminate $4 billion in annual tax breaks for oil and
gas companies.

Romney, who says the key to his goal of North American energy independence by
2020 is more drilling, favors those tax breaks. He opposes tax credits for large
wind producers, which Obama says he'll renew so they don't expire Dec. 31.

Romney supports the entire Keystone XL oil pipeline from Canada to Texas, the
northern half of which Obama has so far declined to approve.

"There's a big difference" between the two candidates, says David Kreutzer, an
energy expert at the Heritage Foundation, a conservative think tank. "There's an
anti-fossil fuel thrust with this administration that would change" under
Romney.

"When it comes to our energy future, voters have a clear choice," agrees Heather
Taylor-Miesle, director of the NRDC Action Fund, an environmental advocacy
group. "Romney's fossil-fuels-first approach is nothing more than drill, baby,
drill -- with a nice haircut," she writes, adding that Obama has supported oil
drilling to an extent that her group finds "excessive."

Romney as governor

What puzzles  some analysts, in comparing the two candidates, is Romney's past.
His record as governor differs markedly from his presidential campaign
positions.

"There's a lot of similarity" between Romney's record as governor and Obama's as
president, says Kateri Callahan of the Alliance to Save Energy, a non-profit
group that advocates energy efficiency. She applauds both men for the work
they've done.

"He (Romney) really did drive energy efficiency into the Massachusetts economy,"
Callahan says, noting he backed tax credits -- up to $600 for individuals -- for
homes and businesses to make efficiency upgrades.

She says he also supported efficiency and renewable energy projects, investing
$15 million of state money into the Massachusetts Green Energy Fund LP, a
venture-capital firm that helped finance about a dozen companies. Three of those
companies have since gone under, including solar panel manufacturer Konarka,
which received $1.5 million.

Romney, who once stood in front of a coal plant and said it "kills people,"
launched a Climate Protection Plan in 2004 to reduce industrial greenhouse gas
emissions as part of -- in his words -- a "no regrets" policy toward climate
change.

His staff drafted the country's first interstate cap-and-trade system to cut
emissions, known as the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative or RGGI. By the time
RGGI was ready for his signature in late 2005, he had announced he wouldn't seek
re-election, prompting speculation he might run for president. He declined to
sign it, citing potential costs to state businesses.

Romney struck a balance as governor, says Brian Gilmore of the Associated
Industries of Massachusetts, the state's largest organization of employers. "He
certainly wasn't anti-environment, but he was concerned about potential
regulations and their impact on employers," says Gilmore, who was glad that
Romney walked away from RGGI.

His gubernatorial record is "kind of a tale of two stories," says David Jenkins
of ConservAmerica, a GOP environmental group. He says Romney was very
pro-environment in his first two years but later got "cold feet" on some
initiatives such as RGGI. "He now sounds more like Rush Limbaugh than Ronald
Reagan," says Jenkins, adding he won't vote for him.

Obama's record

Yet Jenkins says he also won't support Obama, citing disappointment that Obama
didn't push hard enough to win Congress' approval of federal cap-and-trade
legislation. The bill passed the House but faltered in the Senate.

Obama has a mixed record with environmentalists. He's been criticized for
pulling back an EPA proposal to limit ozone emissions linked to smog, approving
the southern half of the Keystone XL pipeline and failing to create new
wilderness areas that would be protected from development.

They've lauded his support of renewable energy, which has doubled its U.S.
production since 2008, his mandate for doubling vehicle fuel-efficiency and his
EPA rules limiting carbon-dioxide emissions from new power plants, including
coal-fired ones.

These rules have caused Obama heartburn on the campaign trail. Campaigning in
coal country, where the president's popularity has plummeted, Romney has blamed
Obama's EPA for putting coal miners out of work.

"The regulations may have long-term impact" on the coal industry, but recent
mine closures are due more to the plunge in prices for natural gas that make
coal less cost-competitive, says Ted Boettner, executive director of the West
Virginia Center on Budget and Policy, a non-partisan research group.

---

Comparing five key issues

1. Oil/gas drilling

Obama: Rejected the initial northern half of the Keystone XL pipeline, which
would run from Canada to Texas, but deferred a final decision. Proposed opening
more offshore areas to oil and gas drilling but maintains moratorium off the
Pacific and most of the Atlantic coasts. Seeks federal safety standards for
hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, a process by which natural gas is extracted.
Opposes $4 billion in annual tax breaks for oil and gas companies.

Romney: Approves of Keystone XL pipeline. Favors giving states the ability to
regulate drilling and issue leases (even on federal land). Supports opening all
federal land for oil and gas drilling, including the Arctic National Wildlife
Refuge and the Pacific, Atlantic and Alaskan coasts. Backs tax credits for
manufacturers, including oil and gas companies.

2. Renewable energy

Obama: Favors renewal of the tax credit for utility-scale wind producers, slated
to expire Dec. 31. Supports loan guarantees and grants for green-energy
companies.

Romney: Opposes the renewal of the wind tax credit. Criticizes Obama's stimulus
bill funding for solar, wind and electric vehicle companies.

3. Vehicle fuel efficiency

Obama: Finalized plans, with support of major automakers, to double fuel economy
for light trucks and cars, to 54.5 miles per gallon, by 2025.

Romney: Opposes Obama's efficiency mandate, saying consumers will have to spend
more on cars than they'll save by using less gas.

4. Clean air

Obama: Supports the authority of the Environmental Protection Agency, upheld by
the Supreme Court, to regulate greenhouse gas emissions. Backs tougher rules for
limiting emissions from old coal-fired power plants.

Romney: Seeks to eliminate EPA's power to regulate carbon dioxide and remove its
rules limiting emissions from coal plants. "I exhale carbon dioxide," he said in
November in New Hampshire. "I don't want those guys (EPA) following me around
with a meter to see if I'm breathing too hard."

5. Climate change

Obama: Believes it's serious, exacerbated by fossil fuel use and linked to
extreme weather. "Climate change is not a hoax," he told the Democratic National
Convention last month in Charlotte, N.C. "More droughts and floods and wildfires
are not a joke. They are a threat to our children's future."

Romney: Argues there's a lack of scientific consensus on the issue. "We don't
know what's causing climate change on this planet," he told the Consol Energy
Center last October.

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2012 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              10 of 190 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           November 20, 2012 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

World Bank warns global temps to rise

BYLINE: Wendy Koch, @WendyKoch, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 301 words


The world is on course to warm as much as 4 degrees Celsius, or 7.2 degrees
Fahrenheit, by 2100, prompting extreme heat waves, severe drought and major
floods as sea-level rises, warns the World Bank in a new report.

All regions would suffer, but the tropics and subtropics are among the most
vulnerable and the planet's poorest people would be hit the hardest, according
to the study,  released Sunday.

"We don't have time to lose," says Rachel Kyte, the World Bank's vice president
for sustainable development, urging drastic action to reduce greenhouse gas
emissions.  Her organization, which promotes growth in developing countries,
commissioned the report by Germany's  Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact
Research and Climate Analytics.

The report  says the planet could reach temperatures 4 degrees Celsius higher
than pre-industrial levels as early as 2060 if governments don't meet  promises
to fight climate change.

The study  says average summer temperatures could rise 6 degrees Celsius in
parts of the United States, Mediterranean, North Africa and the Middle East, and
sea levels could rise between a half-meter and a full meter, or 39 inches, by
2100.

Skeptics say the report is overly dire.  "This report is non-science," says
Patrick Michaels, director of the libertarian Cato Institute's Center for the
Study of Science. He says the 4-degree warming is an "implausible outlier."

David Kreutzer, an energy economist at the conservative Heritage Foundation,
agrees.

"Proposing energy-killing climate policies for the emerging economies is like
telling the emaciated to start their diet now because they may become overweight
in 90 years," Kreutzer says.

Meanwhile, United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki Moon said in a statement that
the report "reminds us that climate change is happening  now."

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2012 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              11 of 190 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            April 19, 2012 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Why the extreme weather?;
Could it be acts of nature? Or are humans and climate change the culprit?
Science is not certain, but we're rolling the dice in a very serious game.

BYLINE: Richard Alley

SECTION: EDIT; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 804 words


Did humans contribute to the record heat of March and the strength of April's
tornadoes across much of the U.S.? Science still says, "Maybe, maybe not." But
we're rolling the dice in a serious game where the "jackpot" means we lose.

There's very high scientific confidence that our fossil-fuel burning and other
activities, which add carbon dioxide to the air, are turning up the planet's
thermostat. In a warmer world, we expect more record highs and heat waves but
fewer record lows, just as we're observing. Warmer air can carry more water
vapor, so a warmer rainstorm can deliver more inches per hour. Hair dryers have
a "hot" setting for good reasons, and warmer air between rainstorms can dry out
the ground faster.

Thus, we expect rising CO2 to bring more floods in some places and more droughts
in others, with some places getting more of both. That might seem contradictory,
but it's not. And with more energy to drive hurricanes, the peak winds may
increase, even if the number of storms drops.

But couldn't nature have caused the ongoing changes without our help? Imagine
playing dice with a shady character. Suppose, after you lose, you discover that
some of the corners are filed off and there are carefully positioned weights
inside. In court, your lawyer could say, "The dice were loaded, double-sixes
came up three times in a row, so the defendant owes restitution."

His lawyer, however, might counter, "My client doesn't recall where he got the
dice, the modifications are really quite small, dice games are inherently
variable, anomalous events do happen, so my client is innocent and should get to
keep all the money plus the plaintiff's wallet."

Loaded odds

Out in the climate, the dice are being loaded to favor some unusual events. We
can't prove that global warming caused any single new record, just as we can't
prove that the weighted dice caused a run of double-sixes. But for many extreme
weather events such as record heat, it is much harder to prove that our CO2 is
innocent, just as it is very hard to prove that loaded dice didn't affect the
game.

Science doesn't have a good understanding of warming's impact on the occurrence
and strength of small, fierce storms such as tornadoes, so it would be very
difficult to show a human fingerprint in the severity of the recent outbreaks.
But extra heat and water vapor are up there, so it could be harder to show that
we haven't boosted the destructive power.

More important, if we continue to burn fossil fuels and release the CO2 to the
air, we're loading the dice more and more. For any "business as usual" scenario,
the coming changes are projected to be much bigger than those that have occurred
so far. Today's youngsters might live to see so much warming that the hottest
summer now on record becomes commonplace or even cool in many places.

But here's the difference between dice and climate, between Earth and Las Vegas.
Even if gamblers avoid shady dice games and play at a state lottery or a
licensed casino, many do lose money, but they can quit while they still have bus
fare, and there's a slight chance of striking it rich. We expect the climate
changes from our CO2 to be costly, but we can limit those costs by including the
best science in our planning, leaving us with much more than bus fare, and
pointing to a sustainable and prosperous future.

Race against time

Unfortunately, if three rotten cherries come up on the climate slot machine
before we master sustainable energy, we could lose the jackpot. Science hasn't
found a plausible way for rapidly rising CO2 to turn Earth into Eden, but there
is at least a slight chance of a rapidly collapsing ice sheet flooding the
coasts, or widespread droughts and heat stress risking famine, or other very
large problems.

Much of my research, and that of many colleagues, has been devoted to replacing
these worrisome "what if's" with hard numbers. And in some cases, the worries
have grown smaller as we learned more. But in other cases, the worries are still
there and might even be bigger.

Even so, the best science is clear. We get many benefits from burning fossil
fuels, but the CO2 is projected to change the climate in costly ways. As the
easy fossil fuels are exhausted, more and more we will want sustainable
alternatives.

Careful lottery players check the jackpot and their cash reserves before buying
the next ticket. But though the scientific community is working to calculate the
odds in the climate game, society is still rolling the increasingly loaded dice
through accelerating fossil-fuel burning.

It could make you wonder who the real gamblers are.

Richard Alley, a glaciologist at Penn State University, is a fellow of the
American Academy of Arts and Sciences and a member of the National Academy of
Sciences. He is also host of the PBS mini-series Earth: The Operators' Manual.

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo By Mike Hutmacher, AP Tornado survivors: Richard Keith helps
sister-in-law Mitzi Keith on Monday in Wichita. There were at least 120 reports
of Midwest tornadoes this weekend, primarily in Kansas.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: THE FORUM

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2012 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              15 of 190 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           October 31, 2012 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Sandy signals an era of extreme weather

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 476 words


Put the perfect storm atop the nation's most populous region, and the result is
the human misery and havoc that Sandy wrought in the Northeast: Nearly 40 people
dead so far, and more than 7 million without power. An estimated $20 billion in
property damage.  Record flooding in New York City that shut down the stock
exchange and the subway. Devastation along the New Jersey coast. And, to boot, a
blizzard along the spine of the Appalachian mountains.

All of this overshadowed the presidential campaign, one week before Election
Day. But that's not to say the superstorm doesn't have a policy dimension. Even
before Sandy churned ashore near Atlantic City on Monday, a debate was raging in
scientific and government circles over whether the monster hurricane/nor'easter
was a spawn of global warming.

Climate change activists pointed to Sandy as exactly the sort of extraordinary
event forecast to occur as the atmosphere and the oceans grow hotter. Skeptics
shot back that major hurricanes hit New York in 1821 and 1938, long before
fossil-fuel emissions were a factor.

So, freak storm or climate change?

The answer is  unknowable. No individual weather event can be conclusively
linked to man-made climate change. Scientists also say  global warming is more
likely to intensify disasters than to cause them. So a logical conclusion is
that Sandy would have happened with or without climate change, but that extra
heat and humidity fed its strength.

This much seems beyond dispute: Because of man-made warming or natural cycles,
or both, the U.S. is in an era of extreme-weather events. A report this month by
Munich Re, the world's largest reinsurance firm, confirmed what has been widely
suspected. The number of weather-related catastrophes has been rising
dramatically since 1980 on all continents, with the steepest increase in North
America. Insured losses on the continent soared from an average of $9billion a
year in the 1980s to $36billion a year in the 2000s, the study found.

For the short term, then, the United States can't treat each storm as a fluke.
The nation needs to maintain its ability to predict and respond to disasters. In
particular, that means not allowing the nation's aging fleet of weather
satellites to fall into decline. The National Research Council warned in May
that the Earth observing system is entering a rapid decrease in capability, as
long-running missions end and key new missions are canceled or delayed.

Longer term, the United States, along with other major emitters such as China
and India, will need to limit greenhouse gas emissions.

The presidential candidates don't like to talk about climate change, which they
ignored during the debates, because the solutions inevitably involve higher
energy prices. But as Sandy's mounting toll suggests, the costs of inaction, in
tragedy and property, might be even greater.

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2012 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              16 of 190 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            November 2, 2012 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Government shows its good, bad sides

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 382 words


FACEBOOK

POLITICS

It's a shame that total devastation of people's livelihood has to happen before
political bashing and such can be put to the side! I commend the bipartisan
effort President Obama and New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie have put forth.

Eagle Rock

The damage is devastating. The fact that the president viewed the damage is a
meaningless photo-op.

Ted Hodgson

Our elected representatives working together across party lines to serve the
nation. What a sight for sore eyes!

Larry Waters

CLIMATE CHANGE

All of the climate change alarmists act as if this is the first hurricane to
ever hit the New York/New Jersey area. That's simply not true. There have been
worse storms over the years. As humans spread out over the planet, there is more
of a chance one of these natural disasters will hit a highly populated area.

Ron Erke

Considering many  Americans still don't believe in evolution, I don't really
think climate change caused by man has a chance at being accepted by the common
folk. Until the alternatives are profitable, we won't see the mitigation efforts
we need.

Randy Miller

Federal assistance

Sandy has made clear that our infrastructure needs a lot of work, that  the
Federal Emergency Management Agency is vital to the country, that climate change
is real and has significant negative consequences, and that President Obama has
impressive leadership skills.

Doug Larson

Federal government is necessary. It can be wasteful, negligent, redundant,
ineffective, intrusive and infuriating, but without it, we're a bunch of spokes
without a wheel.

Rich Barnes

What many people overlook in regard to emergency response is how much money is
wasted by FEMA. Like all bureaucracies, it  seems to always think  it knows
better  how to apply funds than local governments.

James Corwin

LETTERS

Mitt Romney and President Obama mostly ignored environmental issues during the
presidential debates. Megastorm Sandy may have been Mother Nature's response.

The climate change discussion has changed. Don't lecture about polar bears and
the future of the coal industry. Ask instead: "What's needed in the here and
now?" For months, Americans have been suffering because of droughts, crop
failures and extreme weather events. Give some attention to the environment.
Help your neighbors.

Robert Murphy

Falmouth, Mass.

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2012 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              22 of 190 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             August 6, 2012 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Study ties heat waves to global warming

BYLINE: Doyle Rice, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 390 words


Twenty-four summers ago, NASA scientist James Hansen first warned the world
about what he called the dangers of global warming.

In front of a Senate panel, he said he was "99% certain" that a recent warming
trend was not a natural variation but caused by a buildup of carbon dioxide and
other  gases in the atmosphere from burning fossil fuels.

Now, a study released this weekend by Hansen, the dean of climate scientists,
concludes that the recent heat waves and extreme summers likely were caused by
climate change.

"We can state, with a high degree of confidence, that extreme anomalies such as
those in Texas and Oklahoma in 2011 and Moscow in 2010 were a consequence of
global warming, because their likelihood in the absence of global warming was
exceedingly small," Hansen and his NASA co-authors write in the Proceedings of
the National Academy of Sciences.

In 2011, Texas and Oklahoma had their hottest summer on record, according to the
National Climatic Data Center. The summer of 2010 in much of Russia was the
hottest in 130 years of records.

Hansen says the likelihood of such temperatures occurring from the 1950s through
the 1980s was rarer than 1 in 300, but now, because of climate change,  the odds
are closer to 1 in 10.

Atmospheric scientist Clifford Mass of the University of Washington is highly
skeptical of Hansen's findings.

"I can't agree with his conclusions," Mass says, saying there is no evidence
that the weather patterns that caused the heat waves were associated with global
warming. He says the heat waves were due to large-scale, naturally occurring
weather patterns, which he says cannot be linked to climate change.

Also, he says that Hansen's study looks back only to the 1950s, ignoring the
heat waves of the 1930s, "which dwarf what we have now," Mass says.

He says there is little doubt Earth is warming from a combination of natural and
human  effects,  "but the evidence suggests that the big weather/climate events
have little to do with global warming," Mass says.

The  NASA study was written before this year's extreme heat and drought in the
USA. Through the end of June, the nation was experiencing  its hottest year on
record, according to the data center. July data will be available this week.
For the world as a whole, it has been  the 11th warmest through June.

Contributing: The Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2012 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              25 of 190 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           January 26, 2012 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Planting zones shift to the north;
Warming trend alters U.S. hardiness map

BYLINE: Janice Lloyd, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 334 words


Southern magnolias, lovers of sultry weather, braving the chillier Northeast?

Camellias, a New Orleans trademark, staking out in North Carolina and higher
latitudes?

It's true, gardening experts say, and expect similar oddities to represent the
new norm.

It is now safe to plant  new species in many parts of the nation, according to a
new government map released Wednesday showing new growing guidelines for the
first time in decades. A gradual northward warming trend makes it possible to
plant trees and other perennials that would have perished in colder zones. The
"hardiness" zones, the gospel to the nation's 82 million gardeners that are
printed on the back of seed packs and catalogs, are based on average minimum
temperatures.

"It is a good thing the government has updated the map," says Woodrow Nelson,
director of marketing communications for the Arbor Day Foundation. "Our members
have been noticing these climate changes for years and have been successfully
growing new kinds of trees in places they wouldn't grow before."

For example, Pennsylvania's growing zone was considered risky for southern
magnolias, according to the old government map dating to 1990. The new map,
based on updated weather statistics from 1996 to 2005, puts Pennsylvania, like
much of the Northeast, in a warmer growing zone.

Catherine Woteki,  an undersecretary of the Department of Agriculture, which
issued the new guidelines, cautioned against reading too much into the changes.
"We do not think the plant hardiness zone methodology is appropriate for making
comments on climate change," she says.

Might gardeners be going out on a limb? Steve Carroll, director of public
programs at the State Arboretum in Virginia, advises gardeners to check with
their local nurseries or a university extension program for advice.

"There's definitely a changing climate," says Charlie Nardozzi, a gardening
consultant in northern Vermont, "but that doesn't mean we won't have a harsh
winter again that could kill all their plants."

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2012 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              27 of 190 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           February 16, 2012 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

80% affected by recent years' fierce weather

BYLINE: John Bacon with staff and wire reports

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 601 words


Violent and deadly weather events have affected more than 240 million Americans
-- nearly 80% of the nation's population -- over the past six years, says a
report out today from an environmental advocacy group.

Last year was particularly awful for weather: At least 14 weather and climate
disasters across the nation  each inflicted more than $1 billion in damage,
Environment America reports.

Nathan Willcox, an Environment America program director, said global warming was
a likely culprit. Kristen Averyt, a scientist with the University of Colorado
who was not part of the report, was less willing to blame weather woes on
climate change. "Extreme events like the Texas drought are consistent with what
we expect in a warmer world, but determining whether climate change caused or
exacerbated a specific event is not easy."--Doyle Rice

Last Katrina trailer leaves New Orleans

The last of the FEMA trailers has been removed from New Orleans more than six
years after floodwalls and levees broke during Hurricane Katrina and caused the
city to flood, the Federal Emergency Management Agency said.

FEMA said the people living in the trailer moved into their rebuilt home last
week. New Orleans at one time had more than 23,000 FEMA trailers. Some were
eyesores, but people relied on them because of such hurdles as scarce rebuilding
funds and health and personal problems.

Cincinnati cracks down on scrap metal

Cincinnati adopted some of the nation's toughest restrictions on scrap metal
sales in an effort to curb theft. The City Council approved rules that require
frequent sellers to pay for licenses, pass background checks and wait two days
to get paid.

City police say high metal prices have encouraged theft, with up to 40% of
break-ins involving thieves ripping away air conditioners, plumbing and cables
from homes and businesses. "It's a first step in the effort to really get a
better handle on this issue," Councilman Cecil Thomas said.

Fatal shooting was sixth by Ariz. officer

An Arizona police officer who fatally shot a man holding a baby had been
involved in five other fatal shootings since 2002, authorities said.

Officer James Peters was among officers called to the Scottsdale home Tuesday
after neighbors reported a man holding a baby was threatening them with a
handgun. Police Chief Alan Rodbell said James Loxas, 50, opened the door with
the 9-month-old boy in his arms but would not come out. Peters shot Loxas in the
head with a rifle. The baby was unhurt. The previous shootings were within
policy, Rodbell said.

Chicago proposal shields cellular access

A Chicago alderman proposed an ordinance that would ban police from pulling the
plug on electronic communication during protests at the Group of Eight and NATO
summits in May.

Authorities in Egypt and the San Francisco Bay Area cut off cellular access
during protests last year. "We're putting down a marker and saying this has
happened in other places and we don't even want it considered here," Alderman
Ricardo Munoz said.

Robonaut shows firm space handshake

The commander of the International Space Station shook hands with Robonaut,
providing what NASA called the first handshake ever between a human and a
humanoid in space.

NASA's Robonaut was launched aboard space shuttle Discovery last February. On
Wednesday, ground controllers activated computer software that enabled the robot
to extend its right hand, fingers outstretched. Daniel Burbank took the
mechanical hand and pumped it up and down, as the robot's fingers tightened
around his hand.

"For the record, it was a firm handshake," Burbank radioed. "Quite an impressive
robot."

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2012 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              30 of 190 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              June 25, 2012 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Wildfires encroach on tourist hot spots

BYLINE: John Bacon with staff and wire reports

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 586 words


Wildfires threatened some of Colorado's most popular tourist destinations Sunday
after demolishing nearly two dozen homes near Rocky Mountain National Park and
emptying hotels and campgrounds at the base of Pikes Peak.

A wildfire near Colorado Springs erupted and grew out of control to more than 3
square miles early Sunday, prompting evacuation of more than 11,000 residents
and an unknown number of tourists. "People recognize this is going to take a big
push" to extinguish, Gov. John Hickenlooper said Sunday from a Colorado Springs
grocery store, where volunteers were passing out burritos, sandwiches and drinks
to 350 firefighters.

A day earlier, a blaze  destroyed 22 structures near Estes Park, where many
visitors stay while visiting Rocky Mountain National Park.

Crews are being hampered by high winds in their battle against a fast-moving
wildfire near Fountain Green, Utah, that forced about 800 people to flee and
threatened 200 homes.

Campgrounds remain evacuated as crews battle a wildfire that's burning through
dry brush around an off-road recreation area north of Los Angeles in Gorman,
Calif.

Sea rising fast on East Coast

From Cape Hatteras, N.C., to north of Boston, sea levels are rising much faster
than they are around the globe, government researchers said.

The Atlantic Ocean is rising at an annual rate of up to four times faster along
the 600-mile swath than the global average since 1990, according to the study
published Sunday in the journal Nature Climate Change. U.S. Geological Survey
oceanographer Asbury Sallenger, who reviewed sea levels since 1950, cited the
climate change-driven spike to "jamming on the accelerator" of a car. In
Norfolk, Va., where officials are scrambling to fight frequent flooding, sea
level has jumped 4.8 inches since then, the research showed.

California city poised for bankruptcy

Stockton, Calif., already saddled with the nation's second-highest foreclosure
rate, faced a deadline today to cut a deal with 18 creditors and avoid filing
for bankruptcy protection.

The city hoped to restructure millions of dollars of debt under a new state
mediation law designed to help municipalities avoid bankruptcy, City Manager Bob
Deis said. The City Council is scheduled to decide Tuesday whether to adopt a
special budget, which would cover the city's projected $26 million deficit in
case of a bankruptcy declaration. If mediation fails and council members adopt
the special budget, Stockton's lawyers could file for Chapter 9 protection in
court as early as Wednesday, Deis said.

Also

HUDSONVILLE, Mich. -- More than 4,200 customers lost power for a few hours after
a  squirrel got into a utility substation, Consumer's Energy said. The squirrel
died in the accident.

Gay pride is on parade across USA

New York, Chicago and San Francisco were among cities celebrating gay pride and
legal battles Sunday with colorful parades.

Marchers including New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo followed a lavender line painted
on Fifth Avenue for New York's annual gay pride march, marking the first
anniversary of the state's same-sex marriage law.

Chicago's parade was held a month after 25 Illinois couples sued for the right
to marry. State Attorney General Lisa Madigan has refused to defend the lawsuit,
saying the state's ban on gay marriage violates the constitution.

San Francisco's parade marked the city's 42nd year celebrating the lesbian, gay
and transgender community. Former mayor Willie Brown waved from a yellow
convertible. There were more than 200 floats and marching bands.

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2012 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              35 of 190 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 28, 2012 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

EPA chief Jackson steps down after 4 years;
She angered industry with emissions rules

BYLINE: Wendy Koch, @wendykoch, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 800 words


Environmental Protection Agency chief Lisa Jackson said  Thursday that she's
stepping down after a four-year tenure marked by her agency's first greenhouse
gas regulations and repeated battles with industry groups and GOP lawmakers.

Jackson, the first African American to serve as EPA administrator, came into
office with bold plans to address climate change but accomplished only part of
her agenda, foiled by opposition on Capitol Hill and occasionally the White
House.

She often faced harsh congressional grilling. Last year, the GOP chairman of the
House Energy and Commerce Committee, Michigan Rep. Fred Upton, said she would
need her own parking spot at the Capitol because he planned to summon her often
for questioning.

Jackson, 50, a chemical engineer by training and a mom of two teens, offered no
reason for her resignation other than saying she's ready for "new challenges,
time with my family and new opportunities to make a difference." She said she
was leaving the EPA "confident the ship is sailing in the right direction."

Her departure, set to occur after President Obama's  State of the Union address
in January, comes amid other turnover that's common between presidential terms.
Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton is leaving, as is Jane Lubchenco, the
head of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. Others, including
Energy Secretary Steven Chu, are likely to follow.

"It's unusual for administrators to stay for more than one term. These jobs are
grueling, non-stop," said David Goldston, director of government affairs at the
Natural Resources Defense Council.

"She's been an outspoken fighter for environmental protection," he said, noting
the EPA's signature finding that carbon dioxide and five other gases that
contribute to climate change qualify as pollutants under the Clean Air Act.

That "endangerment finding," which has withstood the industry's court
challenges, enabled the EPA to set new emission standards for cars and light
trucks. The standards require new models to nearly double  miles per gallon by
2025. In March, the EPA proposed emissions limits for new power plants, making
it difficult to build coal-fired ones.

Under Jackson's tenure, the EPA set the first standards for emitting mercury,
arsenic and other toxins from power plants; this month, it finalized tougher
limits for emitting fine-particle soot from smokestacks, wood-burning stoves and
diesel vehicles.

These rules won plaudits from environmentalists but rarely from industry. Howard
Feldman of the American Petroleum Institute, which represents the oil industry,
said the soot standard could harm the U.S. economic recovery. "We fear this new
rule may be just the beginning of a 'regulatory cliff,'" he said.

House Republicans, including Rep. Darrell Issa, R-Calif., have tried to thwart
or delay the EPA rules, arguing they'll increase unemployment, but the Senate
has not gone along.

President Obama praised Jackson in a statement Thursday, saying she has shown
"an unwavering commitment to the health of our families and our children."

Jackson also had setbacks. She pushed for a cap-and-trade bill to cap greenhouse
gas emissions but allow companies to buy pollution credits from those under the
limits. The bill passed the Democratic-led House in 2009 but died in the Senate.
The EPA's limits on industrial pollution crossing state lines were struck down
by a federal court.

The White House delayed or weakened some of Jackson's other proposals, including
a new standard for ozone pollution that she sought in summer 2011 but that Obama
put off until his second term. The EPA's final standard on emissions from
industrial boilers and cement factories, announced last Friday, was weaker than
the originally proposed version.

Her efforts riled industry. "The onslaught of regulations from the EPA means
manufacturers will continue to see rising energy prices and skyrocketing
compliance costs, which translate into few opportunities for growth and even
fewer jobs," Jay Timmons, president of the National Association of
Manufacturers, said in a statement last week.

This month, at the prodding of congressional Republicans, the EPA's inspector
general said he was opening an inquiry into Jackson's use of a secondary e-mail
account for official business. She said she had the account -- named "Richard
Windsor" after the name of her dog and her former home in Windsor Township, N.J.
-- because her public e-mail address was well known.

Jackson, a native of New Orleans who spent much of her career as a staff
scientist at the EPA before heading New Jersey's Department of Environmental
Protection from 2006 to 2008, earned engineering degrees from Tulane and
Princeton Universities. The New York Times and The Washington Post report she
may be a candidate for president of Princeton.

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Chip Somodevilla, Getty Images EPA Administrator Lisa Jackson
addresses the White House Tribal Nations Conference at the Department of
Interior on Dec. 5.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: WASHINGTON

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2012 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              39 of 190 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             July 31, 2012 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

The underlying duel of 2012 // Seniors vs. Millennials;
The young overwhelmingly back Obama, while those over 65 favor Romney. This
divide -- and vote -- could impact U.S. policies for years to come.

BYLINE: Susan Page, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1943 words


At age 74, Jack Ireton-Hewitt is volunteering in his first campaign, walking
door to door and manning an information booth at a county fair to help elect
Republican Mitt Romney president. But the retired manufacturing executive has
failed to persuade two targets close to home: his granddaughters, ages 19 and
21.

The first-time voters back President Obama.

That much-debated gender gap? The generation gap is wider. In a national USA
TODAY/Gallup Poll, most 65-and-older seniors support Romney while young adults
under 30 back Obama by almost 2-1. The 18-percentage-point difference in their
presidential choices is one of the electorate's biggest demographic divides, and
it helps define campaign strategies for both sides.

The enthusiasm of the Millennial Generation for Obama, who is now 50, fueled his
election victory four years ago. Though still backing him, younger voters have
lost some of their ardor while seniors have become significantly more engaged
than in 2008 on behalf of the 65-year-old Romney -- and they are much more
likely to vote. At stake in this divide is not only the presidency but also the
country's policy direction -- shaping the debate on Social Security and Medicare
spending, the need to invest in education and the priority placed on
environment.

Ireton-Hewitt, for one, finds his granddaughters' point of view exasperating.

"Their big thing is Obama is going to lower the interest rates on their college
loans," he says, noting that he worked his way through college and graduate
school without borrowing a dime. The Chambersburg resident appreciates Romney's
business background and his record in turning around the troubled Salt Lake City
Winter Olympics in 2002. "That's the kind of guy we need as president today," he
says.

At age 18, Alaysha Claiborne is working in her second campaign after
volunteering for Obama before she was old enough to vote in 2008. She arrives at
the campaign's storefront in downtown York in a bright yellow T-shirt and blue
jeans to work a Saturday afternoon shift at the re-election phone bank.

There are political differences in her family, too. Her grandmother is "pretty
conservative," says Claiborne, who will enter Temple University in Philadelphia
this fall. Her generation has its own distinct perspective, she says. "Young
people are more liberal and more accepting," and Obama's biracial background and
international upbringing appeals to them. "His personal story is very diverse,
and my generation, we pride ourselves on our diversity."

In some ways, the clashing generations reflect the changing face of America,
especially when it comes to race and ethnicity. Among the seniors surveyed, 16%
are Hispanic or racial minorities. Among those under 30, that proportion nearly
triples, to 45%. Younger Americans overwhelmingly assess the nation's growing
diversity as a good thing rather than a bad thing, by 56%-32%.

Seniors are inclined to see it as a bad thing for the country, by 44%-39%.

"I hate to use the word racially motivated; I don't think that's it," says
William Frey, a demographer at the Brookings Institution who studies
generational differences. "It's a fear of change and an unfamiliar change in a
bad economy." That's one reason the new health care law is viewed with such
suspicion by seniors, he says.

"Young people are interested in the future," he says. "They're not afraid of
change."

Frey has created an index that measures what he dubs the "cultural generation
gap," ranking states by the gulf between white seniors 65 and older and
non-white children under 18, a mismatch that could spark conflicts over public
policies and the allocation of resources. Three of the top six states on his
index are among the dozen battlegrounds likely to decide the presidential
election: Nevada, New Mexico and Florida. Swing states Colorado and North
Carolina also are high on the list.

Do more or less?

Views of the role of government differ, too.

Two-thirds of seniors say the government is trying to do too much that would be
better left to businesses and individuals; about one in four say the government
is doing too little to solve the country's problems. Among those younger than
30, the divide is much closer, 52%-47%, between those who say the government is
doing too much or too little.

On no issue is the gap greater than on the question of same-sex marriage. Almost
six in 10 Millennials say the next president should work to make gay marriages
legal nationwide. Fewer than one in four seniors agree.

Asked to assess the importance of a dozen issues facing the next president, the
youngest voters and the oldest ones reflect different priorities and
self-interests:

For those 18 to 29 years old, many of whom are preparing for or launching
careers in a tough economic climate, the top-ranked issue is creating good jobs.
Among those 65 and older, many of whom are retired or approaching retirement,
that concern drops to sixth.

For those 65 and older, ensuring the long-term stability of Social Security and
Medicare -- programs on which many of them rely -- ranks second. Protecting
those entitlement programs falls to seventh among those under 30.

Seniors are more concerned about the way politics in Washington works, or
doesn't work. By double digits, they put a higher priority on reducing
corruption in the federal government (their top issue) and on overcoming
political gridlock.

Millennials, who may be starting families or still be in school themselves, put
a higher priority on improving public schools and making college education
affordable and available. As a group, they are more concerned about
environmental issues such as global warming.

The findings are based on a USA TODAY/Gallup Poll taken July 19-22 of 1,030
adults, including 334 respondents who are 65 and older (margin of error +/-7
percentage points) and 128 respondents who are 18 to 29 (margin of error +/-11).
The younger group largely mirrors the so-called Millennial Generation, of those
born from 1981 to 1993. They are 18 to 31.

A major generation gap in presidential preference also was found in the daily
Gallup poll, aggregated over three weeks, which has larger samples and lower
margins of error. In the period from July 2-22, registered voters under 30
supported Obama by 14 points; those 65 and older backed Romney by 10 points.

The two group's differences in priorities are likely to sharpen the looming
debate over how to reduce the federal deficit, including the possibility of
raising taxes -- an issue on which seniors express stronger and more negative
views than young adults. This year's lame-duck session of Congress will consider
the ax that is poised to slash spending if the legislators can't reach the
budget deal that has eluded them.

The groups also shape this year's campaign appeals. Obama has tried to cut into
Romney's lead among seniors by warning that his opponent wants to convert the
popular Medicare program into a voucher system. (Romney supports giving seniors
the option of the current system or a new "premium support" plan to purchase
private coverage.) The Romney camp is trying to win over voters, including young
people, who backed Obama four years ago but are disappointed by the nation's
continued economic travails. "It's OK to make a change," a new ad from the
Republican National Committee says.

Still, the thrusts of both campaigns are aimed at drawing undecided voters and
generating enthusiasm among core supporters. That's why the president talks so
much about student loans and job-training programs while Romney spotlights
concerns about the size of government and the deficit.

On a Saturday morning, several dozen GOP activists show up at Lancaster County
Republican headquarters for the launch of Romney's local victory campaign. Asked
why they're for the former Massachusetts governor, most cite taxes (too high),
spending (out of control) and the health care law they deride as "ObamaCare."

"I don't want socialized medicine," says Beverly Rubin, 62,  who was making
calls in the phone bank set up in the basement. A paper sign taped to the door
calls it the "GOP Victory Center." It's the first time Rubin has volunteered in
a campaign since she was 14 and the candidate was Barry Goldwater.

"It's the fact that Barack Obama is president," she says. "I want to see a
change. I think the country is going down completely the wrong path."

Upstairs, Immo Sulyok stands next to a life-size cardboard cutout of Romney in
the back of the room. GOP county chairman Scott Boyd has offered volunteers who
sign up on that day the chance to have their photo taken with the cutout and
signed by the candidate -- by auto-pen, he notes in the interest of full
disclosure.

"To help the less fortunate, that's important, but this is not a sustainable
model" for the U.S. government, says the white-haired Sulyok, who declines to
give his age. "It feels good to go to a money tree, but that's not realistic. We
don't have that far to go  to be like Greece, Spain."

Mary Jo Sottek, 67, and her husband, Tom, 68, consider the question of why young
people back Obama by such a wide margin.

"We believe in the Constitution," she says. "But younger people today. "

"With younger voters, it's the president's charisma," he says, shaking his head
with apparent distaste.

'Everybody loves him'

At the Obama headquarters in York, 25 miles down Arsenal Road, the volunteers
tend to be younger and are more casually dressed. Asked why they support the
president, they cite his support of women's rights and gay rights, his global
perspective and  his relative youth.

"For me, it's the women's rights issue and issues like education which are most
important to me," says Hannah Miller, 21, a senior at Juniata College in
Huntingdon, Pa. "I really want to have a say in what the future is going to be."

"The biggest thing for me -- it's not so political, it's more of an interest in
his leadership," says Hesham Abdelhamed, 23, a junior studying international
relations at York College. He supports tighter government regulations on the
banks and Obama's approach on foreign policy. "Everybody loves him" around the
world, he says of the president.

Why is there a generational divide?

"The older generation may be more skeptical, more careful about their
decisions," he suggests.

Irene Langley, 66, sports a small circular Obama campaign emblem on her cheek,
courtesy of a fellow volunteer who specializes in face-painting. Langley has a
theory for why many voters her age are inclined to back Romney. "The country is
changing so fast, and I just think people may be afraid of change," the lifelong
Democrat says. "The older people cling to their older ideas, and they won't let
them go."

Dizzying developments in technology are part of that, she says. There's this: In
the USA TODAY poll, three of four seniors were reached on land lines. Eight of
10 Millennials were called on cellphones.

The age divide gives the Romney camp one big advantage. Those 65 and older are
the electorate's most reliable voters; young people are the least. In the
survey, three of four seniors say they have given "a lot of thought" to the
election, historically a sign they will show up at the polls. Four in 10 of the
Millennials say the same.

"Our largest polling places in the county are our three senior homes," says
Diane Moore, 43, the GOP's Election Day coordinator for Lancaster County. "In
2008, our college campuses came out very strong for Obama. We hadn't seen that
before  but I would think that support is not going to be as strong this time."

The Republican volunteers laugh when asked if they're certain to vote in
November.

"100%," Mary Jo Sottek says.

"I'll be there, or I'll be dead," Sulyok says.

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COVER STORY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2012 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              46 of 190 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           November 7, 2012 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Iceland talks new name;
Tourism office of tiny nation tries to counter a string of bad-news events with
a makeover contest: People can submit suggestions to rename the country

BYLINE: Halldor Bachmann

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 588 words


What to do after a financial collapse, a grass-roots revolt against the
government and a volcanic cloud that disrupted cross-Atlantic air travel for
weeks?

Change your name.

Iceland is holding a contest for a new name, and people in this, one of the
smallest countries in Europe, are not sure whether it's a gag.

Some entries include Niceland, Rockland, Catch-A-Cloud-Land. Given the country's
recent calamities natural and unnatural, some say a better idea is
"Restartland."

"Foreigners that come here say that there is nothing consistent with the name
Iceland," said Sigridur Bjorg, 43, an information desk worker from Reykjavik.
"But isn't it a bit far-fetched to change the name of the country?"

Iceland, a land of smoldering volcanoes and lava fields and, yes, Arctic ice,
got its name more than 1,000 years ago from a Viking explorer. But it has a
temperate climate thanks to the Gulf Stream.

In modern times, it has been one of the most prosperous of European nations,
albeit one of the smallest, with a population of about 320,000.

Then in 2008, its banking system collapsed, inflation and unemployment jumped,
many young people left for better horizons, and others orchestrated angry street
protests that brought down the government.

Iceland made news worldwide in 2010 and 2011 when huge ash clouds from a pair of
volcanoes canceled thousands of flights to and from Europe.

The name change began as a promotion by the Iceland tourism office. After it
prompted a storm of discussion on social media, the Iceland government announced
in September it would welcome submissions of an alternative name.

The contest ends March 21, 2013, and the winner will be selected by a committee
of the Promote Iceland office. The winner will get prizes, possibly including
being invited to Iceland. What happens after a winner is selected seems unclear,
though the office plans to submit the new name to the government for
consideration.

Some Icelanders say the whole idea is a bad joke.

"Why not just (keep) Iceland?" asked Magnus Jonsson, 71, a retiree from
Mosfellsbaer who was not getting into the spirit of things (Spiritland being
another entry). "There is no need to change the name."

Submissions include names that refer to Iceland's natural surroundings, such as
"Birdsland" and "Volcanicland." Some have referred to recent disasters in the
country that have made it infamous, such as "Eyjafjlakojland," after the volcano
that blew up in 2010.

"Iceland is just about the only known brand name the country has, (and) the name
is known," said Ingjaldur Hannibalsson, dean of the University of Iceland's
business school.

Hannibalsson says he could not think of any other country where the name
actually reflected its topography or national characteristics. "The idea of
changing the name is ridiculous," he said.

Some claim the name was an intentional mischaracterization anyway, a Middle Age
marketing campaign that was designed to drive people away rather than encourage
them to visit.

Norwegian explorer Floki Vilgeradarson, who arrived here in the ninth century
and dubbed it Iceland, damned the island as a frozen wasteland not worthy of
visiting. Yet he later relocated to Iceland -- prompting rumors he lied about
the island's allure to keep the land to himself.

Many Icelanders want to remain as such.

"We may have a lower opinion of ourselves than others -- Iceland as a nation has
such a low self-esteem," said Leon Petrursson, 35, an insurance salesman from
Gardabaer in south Reykjavik. "But I still think Iceland is good and strong
name."

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2012 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              47 of 190 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            January 20, 2012 Friday
                               e_edition EDITION

La Nia cooled global temperature in 2011

BYLINE: Doyle Rice, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 343 words


A strong La Nia lowered the world's average temperature last year to its
second-coolest reading of the 2000s,  federal scientists announced Thursday.

The release of the  two primary climate data sets -- from the National Climatic
Data Center and NASA's Goddard Institute for Space Studies (GISS) -- both show
the Earth as much warmer than average, but not as warm as recent years have
been.

The climate center reported that the globe had its  11th-warmest year on record,
while NASA marked the year  as the ninth-warmest on record. For the most part,
the two organizations use the same climate data sources but have slightly
different methods of interpreting the data. Climate records go back to 1880.

La Nia is a natural, periodic cooling of tropical Pacific Ocean water that
affects weather and climate around the world.

Since 2011 was the second-coolest year of the 2000s, does this mean global
warming has slowed?

"There is no long-term cooling trend," said climate scientist Jake Crouch of the
NCDC.

"If we look at the long-term trend of temperatures for the globe, we see an
increasing trend," he said. "However, La Nia can temporarily suppress global
temperatures."

In fact, 2011  was hotter than every year in the 20th century except 1998. "
Global temperature in 2011 was lower than in 1998," NASA climate scientist James
Hansen said in the GISS report. He said that nine of the 10 warmest years on
record have occurred in the 21st century and that 2011 was cooled by a
moderately strong La Nia.

"We conclude that the slowdown of warming is likely to prove illusory, with more
rapid warming appearing over the next few years," Hansen said.

The climate data center calculated the globe's average temperature in 2011 was
57.9 degrees F, which was 0.9 degrees warmer than the 20th-century average of 57
degrees.

In the USA, what was remarkable  were  precipitation contrasts: Texas had its
driest year on record, while  Connecticut, Indiana, Kentucky, New Jersey, New
York, Ohio and Pennsylvania  had their wettest year on record.

Contributing: The Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2012 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              49 of 190 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            February 17, 2012 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Dodge Journey delights and disappoints;
The price has been trimmed, but options can add up fast

BYLINE: James R. Healey

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 849 words


Chrysler Group updated a lot of vehicles for the 2011 model year, then updated
some even more for 2012 with drivetrain changes and other significant updates.

The Dodge Journey, a midsize crossover SUV loosely based on the
previous-generation Chrysler minivans, was included in that Chrysler-palooza,
but didn't benefit as much as some other vehicles.

The substitution of the 3.6-liter Pentastar V-6 for a cranky older engine was
the headline for the 2011 Journey models. For 2012, it's the American Value
Package -- surgical trims, to hear Chrysler tell it -- that push the starting
price down to $19,795 with shipping.

While even that basic model has a surprising number of standard features, we're
skeptical that its four-cylinder engine and four-speed automatic would handle a
2-ton SUV.

But no AVP models made it to the company's test fleet. We ran out of patience
and wound up testing two fancier models, a $31,715 Crew with front-wheel drive
and a V-6, and a $26,685 SXT V-6 FWD. The latter, Chrysler says, is similar to
what 55% of Journey buyers pick.

The experience was both disappointing and delightful.

Good stuff first:

Lots of premium features are standard. Keyless entry with push-button engine
start, for example. Great convenience for the hands-full way many people live.

All-speed (instead of just low-speed) traction control, as well as trailer-sway
control and a safety/stability feature Chrysler calls electronic roll mitigation
-- all standard, even in the AVP model.

Plus spiffy info screens that look cool and make you feel special.

You won't feel as if you bought one that otherwise would have shown up in a
rental-car fleet.

Endearing touches abound.

Front passenger's seat cushion flips up, exposing a lined storage bin. Why waste
that under-seat space? Another bin is under the floor for second-row occupants.

UConnect voice-control system works with little hassle. You hit the phone button
and can immediately tell the system to call somebody or some number. No waiting
for the synthetic voice to tell you the phone is ready, now what do you want to
do with it? Small matter, but pleasing if you do hands-free automotive calling
even a little.

Dome lights are small LEDs with narrow, brilliant beams that don't distract the
driver the way that wide-beam conventional lights do. Nice to see the pricey
lights weren't axed in a penny-wise gesture. They're more like a safety feature
than a convenience item.

Driving feel is satisfying. Journey got chassis improvements that result in
flatter cornering, crisper steering, safer emergency swerves.

Seats are comfy.

Sold? Don't be.

Mileage is poor; just 15 mpg in suburban use. Test Drive's experience is that
any pickup, van or SUV struggles to do better, though, so relatively, Journey's
OK.

Transmission shifts badly. That was true on the SXT, but not on the Crew. The
SXT gear changes, especially at low speed, included pauses, stumbles. The fact
that the two vehicles were different is almost as troubling as the fact that one
was bad.

Climate control is awkward. Adjusting the settings first takes you to a new info
screen to see where the settings already are. The screen can show only the
climate control, so you know where you've set things, but then you're denied,
say, radio info.

Surprisingly good value fast becomes, "Whoa, that much?"

Need a third row? Add $995. All-wheel drive is $1,800 and available only on V-6
models.

Power tailgate? Backup camera? More dough.

Still, it's fair to  note Journey has a lot of room, comfort and convenience for
the price of a less-useful small or midsize sedan -- if you keep your mitts off
the options list.

What: Freshening of crossover SUV with new drivetrain, interior updates.
Available with four- or six-cylinder engine, front-wheel drive (FWD) or
all-wheel drive (AWD), two or three rows of seats.

When: 2012 went on sale last fall.

Where? Built at Toluca, Mexico.

How much? Starts at $19,895 with shipping. Test vehicle was V-6, FWD SXT,
$26,685.

What makes it go? Low-end AVP and SE trims have 2.4-liter four-cylinder rated
173 horsepower at 6,000 rpm, 166 pounds-feet of torque at 4,000, mated to
four-speed automatic transmission.

SXT, Crew, R/T trims: 3.6-liter V-6, 283 hp at 6,350 rpm, 260 lbs.-ft at 4,400,
six-speed automatic.

How big? 192.4 inches long, 72.2 in. wide, 66.6 in. tall on 113.8-in. wheelbase.
Weighs 3,818 to 4,238 lbs, depending on model.

Cargo space: Behind third row, 10.7 cubic feet; behind second row, 39.6 cu. ft.
(two-row models) or 37 cu. ft. (three-row models, third row folded). Maximum
behind front seat: 67.6 cu. ft.

Turning circle diameter: 38.5 ft. with 16- or 17-in. wheels, 39 ft. with 19-in.

How thirsty? FWD four-cylinder rated 19 mpg in city, 26 mpg highway, 22
combined. FWD V-6: 17/25/20. AWD V-6: 16/24/19.

Trip computer in FWD V-6 test vehicle registered 15 mpg (6.67 gallons per 100
miles) in suburban driving.

All models burn regular. Tanks hold 20.5 gallons (FWD) or 21 gal. (AWD).

Overall: Roomy bargain if you skip many options.

Value: Lot of vehicle for modest money.

Features: From silly to commendable.

Powertrain: Unexpectedly clunky at low speed.

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo By Bill Delaney

DOCUMENT-TYPE: AUTOS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2012 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              57 of 190 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           November 8, 2012 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

What to expect of 4 more years;
Obama's legacy will be shaped by great challenges -- and a daunting partisan
divide

BYLINE: Susan Page, @susanpage, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1938 words


In Tuesday's victory, Barack Obama not only won his second term.

He protected his first.

At a tumultuous victory celebration in Chicago early Wednesday

morning, the re-elected president called for bipartisanship in addressing four
ambitious priorities over the next four years: reducing the deficit, overhauling
the tax code, revising immigration laws and reducing the nation's dependence on
foreign oil.

Left unsaid was the reality that he also can now implement the hard-won
achievements from his first four years -- the health-care law called the
Affordable Care Act and the Wall Street regulatory regime known as Dodd-Frank --
which Republican rival Mitt Romney had promised to begin dismantling "on Day
One" in the Oval Office.

"If he had lost there would have still been the legacy coming from the fact he
was the first African American to have won the White House," says Robert Dallek,
one of a group of historians who has met privately at three White House dinners
with Obama. "But now he can hammer into place the Affordable Care Act that would
have been in jeopardy if he had lost the election. Now it will be a fixed and
featured part of his presidential terms."

What's more, Obama will be in a position to reap the advantages of governing at
a time of growth, if the slow-but-steady recovery continues to gather steam -- a
stark contrast to the spiraling economic crisis that greeted him when he took
office in 2009.

He already was a groundbreaking president, as the first person of color to win
the nation's highest office. By defeating Romney, he also joins the elite ranks
of just 16 other  men in history who have managed to win the White House twice.

"Obama was elected twice by a majority of the vote, the first Democrat since
Franklin Roosevelt to do that, and he was re-elected despite extraordinary
circumstances on the economy," says Simon Rosenberg, founder and president of
NDN, a Democratic-leaning think tank. That is "an affirmation of him and of the
country giving him their trust to continue the agenda and finish it."

Rosenberg predicts Obama will be "very aggressive" and in the strongest
political position he has been since after his first inauguration. "He's a
better and smarter president than he was, and he's learned a lot over the last
four years," he says.

Obama ruefully noted at campaign rallies that his hair is grayer than it was in
2008. He bears the scars from partisan battles and the nation's economic
travails. "Obviously, we've gone through four years that have been very tough,"
the president told USA TODAY in an interview just before the Democratic
convention. "I'm older. Hopefully, I'm a little wiser."

The morning after the inaugural balls on Jan. 21, he still will face a divided
government, as he has since the 2010 midterm elections. While Democrats expanded
control of the Senate Tuesday, Republicans maintained their majority in the
House of Representatives.

He'll also face a sharply divided America. He won by a narrower margin than in
2008 -- the first second-term president in modern times who failed to carry a
bigger margin when he won re-election -- and he commanded support from only
about four in 10 white voters.

On the other hand, Obama has forged and energized a coalition of the most
rapidly growing parts of the U.S. electorate: Hispanics, African Americans and
members of the young Millennial generation, plus some whites, especially highly
educated women. If it holds, that coalition could give Democrats the sort of
enduring majority that FDR built in his era.

The opening test of Obama's second term will come soon in negotiations with
Congress to avoid falling over the "fiscal cliff" at the end of the year.
Without a deal, the Bush tax cuts will expire, raising taxes on everyone, and
sweeping spending cuts will go into effect at the Pentagon and across domestic
programs. Some economists warn that could send the economy back into recession.

Those talks will help define the fiscal possibilities of his second term and
provide an early signal of whether there is going to be a ceasefire in the
partisan wars.

"How the fiscal cliff goes will set the terms of the second term," says Neera
Tanden, a former Obama adviser who now heads the liberal-leaning Center for
American Progress. "That will have an impact beyond six months."

Where's the mandate?

In this year's campaign, Obama didn't do much to establish a policy mandate for
his victory. Instead, he and his allies focused in large part on undermining
Romney, depicting him as a heartless corporate raider with little empathy for
the lives of most Americans.

It worked. In surveys of voters as they left polling places, one in five voters
said the most important quality in determining their vote was that the candidate
"care about people like me;" they broke by 4-1 for Obama. Three in 10 said the
most important quality was having "a vision for the future;" a majority of those
supported Romney.

"It is not as though the president announced an ambitious second-term agenda,"
says William Galston, a former White House domestic-policy adviser to President
Clinton. "He may have one in mind, but he has not done much to share it with the
American people."

The contrast is stark with the soaring expectations for his first term, when he
vowed to change the way Washington works -- he no longer suggests that's in his
power -- while also promising to address health care, climate change,
immigration and more.

"The first term was animated by this remarkable historic moment of electing an
African-American president, by an oversized and perhaps unrealistic dream of
post-partisan politics," says Lawrence Jacobs, director of the Center for the
Study of Politics and Governance at the University of Minnesota. "On every one
of those dimensions, he's in a different situation. He's now faced with a
divided government and what will likely be an intransigent Republican majority
in the House. He's come to grips now with the limits of American fiscal policy
and the need to scale back some entitlement programs the Democrats dearly love,
as well as having a root canal with House Republicans to get some revenue."

The drama of his first victory and its celebration in Chicago's Grant Park has
been replaced by a more workaday tone, Jacobs says. "The rising crescendo of
orchestra music of Grant Park," where Obama celebrated his first election, has
been replaced by "the work of boring holes in hard wood."

The campaign debate and the election returns could help on some of the
challenges Obama cited:

"Reducing our deficit." On the core conflict over Obama's demands for a
"balanced" approach to deficit reduction -- that is, to raising taxes on those
earning more than $250,000 a year -- the president can tell Republicans he has
won the argument. In the exit polls, six in 10 said taxes should be increased,
and nearly half said they should go up only for the most affluent. Only about a
third endorsed Romney's argument that they shouldn't be raised for anyone.

"Reforming our tax code." The last time the tax code was simplified was in 1986,
the signature second-term achievement for Ronald Reagan, and the idea continues
to command bipartisan support. During the campaign, Romney also endorsed the
idea of a tax overhaul, calling for eliminating loopholes and some deductions
and reducing rates while keeping the changes revenue neutral.

"Fixing our immigration system." Obama promised during the 2008 campaign to
pursue comprehensive immigration reform that would address the situation of
millions of immigrants who are in the United States illegally. He settled
instead for using executive action to grant temporary legal status to some young
people who were brought to the country illegally by their parents.

Now, the crucial and overwhelming support Obama got from Latino voters -- a
significant factor in his victory in swing states including Florida, Colorado
and Nevada -- increase the political imperative for him to act. The political
landscape may also have improved if Republicans are looking for ways to improve
the GOP's standing with Hispanics.

"Freeing ourselves from foreign oil." This was another reprise from 2008, when
he vowed to end U.S. reliance on oil imports from world hotspots within 10
years. As president, he has pledged to cut oil imports in half by the end of
this decade. In fact, every president since Richard Nixon has promised energy
independence, which remains an elusive goal.

On Capitol Hill on Wednesday, some heard the sound of gridlock cracking in
remarks by House Speaker John Boehner to reporters. His words were so carefully
calibrated that he took the step, unusual for him, of reading them off a
Teleprompter.

"Like many Americans, I hoped the presidential election would turn out
differently," Boehner began, but went on: "The American people have spoken. They
have re-elected President Obama. And they have again elected a Republican
majority in the House of Representatives. If there is a mandate in yesterday's
results, it is a mandate for us to find a way to work together on solutions to
the challenges we face together as a nation."

He said congressional Republicans would be "willing to accept new revenue, under
the right conditions," if the White House would consider curbs in the rising
costs of entitlement programs such as Social Security and Medicare. He said a
deal to avert the fiscal cliff could open the door to an overhaul of the tax
code next year.

Senate Republican Leader Mitch McConnell of Kentucky sounded more unyielding.

"The voters have not endorsed the failures or excesses of the president's first
term," he said in a written statement before Boehner spoke. "They have simply
given him more time to finish the job they asked him to do together" with
Congress.

Second-term blues

Second terms have been notoriously unkind to modern presidents.

After George W. Bush won a second term in 2004, the public turned against the
Iraq war  and derided his administration's handling of Hurricane Katrina; he saw
the economy sink into a crisis his successor inherited. Bill Clinton's second
term was defined by the Monica Lewinsky scandal that led to his impeachment.
Ronald Reagan managed to push through a tax overhaul in his second term, but he
also became enmeshed in the Iran-contra affair.

Still, the presidents  regarded as the most influential in U.S. history have
generally served more than one term,  from George Washington and Thomas
Jefferson to Abraham Lincoln and Franklin Roosevelt. With the possible exception
of James Polk, who in a single term expanded U.S. territory to the West, it
generally has taken presidents more than four years to leave a lasting mark on
the nation.

"It's hard to think of a truly consequential president who served only one
term," Galston says, though Lincoln's second term was cut short by
assassination. "From a broad historical perspective, making big change, ensuring
its implementation and weaving it into the fabric of American society is at
least a two-term enterprise."

Now, Obama will have an opportunity to do that.

TyRon Turner, a small-business owner from Inglewood, Calif., traveled to Chicago
for Obama's victory party. Wednesday, he was standing in a sweatshirt and knit
hat at the barricades that block the public from Obama's home, waiting for the
chance to applaud as the president passed by in a motorcade.

He said the country's deep partisan divisions were apparent the night before in
the jubilant TV pictures from Chicago and the morose ones from Boston, where
Romney conceded the election.

"Both sides have to give up something," he told a White House reporter. "We have
to clear the slate. Start over."

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COVER STORY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2012 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              58 of 190 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              July 9, 2012 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Olympic challenge: Having green grass;
Wimbledon groundskeepers have been prepping for years

BYLINE: Chris Oddo, Special for USA TODAY

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 7C

LENGTH: 828 words


The world's top tennis players will be permitted to change into colored tennis
garb at Wimbledon for the first time during the 2012 Olympic Games, but the
freshly manicured lawns of the All England Club -- if all goes as planned --
will remain the usual brilliant green.

Anyone who watched Wimbledon could easily see rapidly expanding patches of
scorched earth at each baseline. Bringing that beaten-brown, stomped-on ryegrass
back to a good-as-new green hue will be no picnic.

"I think there are natural concerns for sure," ESPN's Darren Cahill says,
"because obviously the turnaround time is not great."

For the world-class grounds crew of the All England Club, challenge accepted.

Aided by the use of pregerminated seeds, modern grow covers and hopefully
cooperation from Mother Nature, the storied lawns of Wimbledon -- in all their
iconic, green glory -- will be ready to impress the world when Olympic tennis
begins July 28.

As the Olympic torch is making its way to London, another more subtle passing of
the torch will occur at Wimbledon. Longtime head groundsman Eddie Seaward, 68,
will hand the reins to his protg, Neil Stubley, after the Olympics.

Stubley was hired by Seaward after a six-month college placement in 1995; he's
been plying his craft under Seaward since. Sept. 1, eighteen years into his
tenure, he'll  become Wimbledon's eighth head groundsman.

Seaward, the white-haired maven known to many as "The Grass Whisperer," has
overseen instrumental and sometimes controversial changes at Wimbledon, and
Stubley has been by his side for most of them.

"We've pretty much worked in tandem," Stubley said. "I couldn't have a better
teacher than Eddie."

In 2001, the much-publicized switch to 100% perennial ryegrass seed changed the
way that grass-court tennis is played. Wimbledon's grass became more resistant
to wear, but it also allowed the soil beneath to stay drier and therefore
harder.

The higher bounces caused by this hardness are what many think has made today's
style of baseline tennis more common at Wimbledon.

Stubley and crew put in long days in the lead-up to Wimbledon, camping under
puffed-up tents that protect the grass from the elements when necessary.

The work is time well spent. Stubley knows the weight of a storied English
tradition -- and the reputation of a global tennis icon -- rests partially with
him.

"Well, for us I guess the equivalent over in America would probably be the
Masters," Stubley said a phone interview. "It's just seen as the pinnacle of
turf in this country. We have our different sports, and things like Wembley
obviously hold a lot of esteem and a lot of history with it as well. But with
regard to prestige, I think Wimbledon is head and shoulders above the rest in
this country."

Seaward and Stubley have been preparing for the Olympic challenge for years,
vigorously experimenting  on the practice courts, mixing seeds and techniques,
comparing notes and compiling a growing list of methodologies, noting those that
do and do not work.

"What we've done over the last two years is taken pairs of courts and done
different trials on them immediately after Wimbledon, when they're worn,"
Stubley said. "Different fertilizers, different amounts of water, and we've just
monitored them over the 20 days just to see what best worked for us. And then
the one that was the best for the last two years will be the actual process that
we'll do for the Olympics."

All of the trial and error was preceded by the decision -- made by necessity --
that the tournament would need to use a pregerminated seed in order to have any
hope of having a lush surface for the Olympics.

"We'll get the seed, and we'll put it into a big dustbin, and then we'll fill it
up with warm water, and with that water we will mix in an amino acid," Stubley
said of the intricate process. "We'll leave it in with the seed to soak in so
the seed becomes very moist and warm. Then we'll drain the water out after about
three hours, and we'll put the tubs into a warm room.

"Over the next 48 to 52 hours the actual seed will ferment, and it will
accelerate the germination process, so instead of it taking a week to germinate,
we'll actually do it in three days."

Once seeds start to germinate (a little white tip on the seed is the cue), they
will be distributed over the parts of the court that went bare during Wimbledon.
The areas not near the baseline, Stubley said, will rejuvenate on their own with
proper care during the 20-day period.

"We'll give them a little bit of water, and we'll maybe put down a bit of
fertilizer just to give them a little bit of a boost," he said.

Provided that things go as planned, the only other factor to be concerned with
is a familiar nemesis: Mother Nature.

"In an ideal world, (74 degrees), a few clouds in the sky and the odd shower
every other day would be perfect," said Stubley, who has seen enough surprises
to know to always expect the worst.

"Unfortunately, that's not going to happen," he said. "It never does."

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo By Susan Mullane, US Presswire Quick turnaround: Wimbledon's
grass takes an annual beating at the feet of players such as Jo-Wilfried Tsonga,
but, with Olympic tennis beginning July 28, the rush is on to get the grass in
shape.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: TENNIS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2012 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              66 of 190 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              July 30, 2012 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

How the drought is changing business

BYLINE: Chuck Raasch, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1520 words


Ken Hunt's A&K Construction company is building a high school and middle school
in Paducah, Ky., and it has been so hot this summer that he has allowed his
workers to start as early as 5:30 a.m. to escape the heat.

Sometimes, his crews pour concrete in the middle of the night to work in cooler
conditions.

"I watch the weather pretty religiously because it impacts our business," he
says, adding that he tells his 200 workers, "We don't want anybody getting sick
or hurt. We're pretty vigilant."

He tells workers to try to get their eight hours in, but "if it gets too
unbearable," go home. Forecast today: 100 degrees.

After a June that the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration says was
the warmest on record and a July that has continued the sizzling and
exceptionally dry streak, withering huge swaths of the nation's agricultural
economy, people who work outside and the companies that employ or sell to them
are feeling the heat, too.

From operators of outdoor movie theaters in North Carolina, where the highs
today will be in the mid-90s; to Kansas cattlemen and their livestock, who face
temperatures approaching 110; to landscapers in St. Louis, where another
100-plus-degree day is on tap, this summer is searing into the memory for
workers in the great outdoors.

"My approach is that it is not going to be just this year," said Kansas
livestock and grain producer Frank Harper, whose farm has frequently endured
100-plus-degree days. "We are going to have to get through this and recover."

The overall economic costs won't be known for some time, but the consensus among
meteorologists is that 2012 already has surpassed 2011's $12 billion in drought
losses, according to Steve Bowen, senior scientist and meteorologist for Aon
Benfield, a global reinsurance firm in Chicago. He said it "may not be out of
the question" that this year's impact could rival 1988 and 1980 droughts, which
had $78 billion and $56 billion in losses (in 2012 dollars).

With the debate over climate change never far from the headlines, scientists are
delving further into weather's impact on the economy.

A study based on 70 years of weather data by the National Center for Atmospheric
Research concluded last year that weather -- from heat waves to cold snaps and
droughts -- could cause up to a 1.7% rise or fall each year in the U.S.
economy's gross domestic product, equating to $507 billion in 2011. That's not
counting extreme weather events such as hurricanes or tornadoes.

The findings are significant, "especially when GDP is growing a percent or so a
year, if that," says Jeff Lazo, a leader of the study.

The study says weather-related effects range from electrical usage in hot and
cold weather to snowfall levels in ski season and the costs of rerouting
aircraft because of thunderstorms.

Adapting and enduring

This summer, business owners and workers are changing work plans, adapting to
work schedules in the dark or rethinking business plans in order to outlast the
heat.

In Chapel Hill, N.C., Lumina Theater manager Landon Hawkins says hot weekends
have halved crowds at its outdoor theater. People come with blankets or lawn
chairs to watch on an outdoor screen, where a normal summer night crowd is about
450 people. On hot weekends this summer, it's 200-250.

Lumina has outdoor screenings Friday and Saturday nights from June to October,
Hawkins says, and the shows will go on -- heat or not -- because customers want
them.

"We will show outdoor movies even if it is 110," he says. He advises employees
to take frequent water breaks.

Hawkins says he hopes outdoor losses eventually will be made up by bigger crowds
of moviegoers seeking escape in Lumina's air-conditioned theaters.

Brendan Harrison's Down to Earth landscaping business in St. Louis temporarily
suspended planting and sodding because of heat and drought that has baked the
Midwest. He has maintained a steady workload for his seven seasonal employees by
switching from planting and sodding to permanent construction features such as
landscaping retaining walls.

During such a dry summer when temperatures routinely touch 100, he says, "it
just doesn't make sense with this kind of heat wave to do anything" with plants.

On hot days, he and his workers try to finish by 2 or 2:30 p.m. His lawn-mowing
business has slowed to a near-standstill.

This summer has been so tough on plants and lawns, he says, that he's preparing
for robust demand after the heat subsides.

"There will be a lot of lawn repair this fall," he says. "A lot of trees and
shrubs probably won't make it either through the summer, or they will be damaged
to the point where, next year, they won't look as healthy, and people will want
to replace them."

Ironically,  a heating business Harrison owns with his brother that concentrates
on heating systems and upgrades for commercial businesses has been "buried in
work" despite the  heat, Harrison says.

He speculates that some companies have been so conservative on capital
expenditures during the economic slump of the past several years that they are
finally replacing and upgrading systems "instead of putting Band-Aids on their
air conditioning and heating."

Rough on cattle ranchers

About 400 miles west, in Sedgwick, Kan., Harper has watched as cattle prices
dropped from $1.60 a pound to roughly $1.20 this summer. The reason: Worries
about the rising cost of corn from a drought-devastated U.S. crop this year have
rippled through the food chain.

Harper produces about 800  cattle from his pastures each year, and the corn
necessary to fatten them for market has become so expensive that it has softened
demand for those cattle. Corn futures prices soared above a record $8 a bushel
this week and are up roughly 55% from June as a result of the drought.

The crops on Harper's 4,000-acre corn, wheat and soybean farm are only about 15%
irrigated, and those that are not have suffered from a lack of rain, he says.

Harper's biggest immediate worry is water for his animals.

Ponds in his pastures are drying up and growing brackish.

"The last two years, water has been more of a challenge to us than grass,"
Harper says. "With these high-heat days (it was rising to 106 on the day he was
interviewed) and the evaporation in the ponds, and not getting any rain runoff
to freshen that water, we may have a pond with water in it, but the quality of
that water gets to be a concern."

The drinking-water situation is worsened, he says, because in the heat, cattle
wade into drinking ponds to stay cool.

The Department of Agriculture's latest crop reports paint a grim picture. The
USDA  said last week that  88% of corn and 87% of soybeans are in drought
condition, and 67% of pastureland in drought-affected areas were rated to be in
poor condition.

The USDA estimated last week that food prices could go up 3%-4% next year as a
result.

"The conditions have deteriorated a lot over the last three to four weeks," says
USDA chief economist Joseph Glauber.

Harper, president of the Kansas Livestock Association, says he hears worries
from other ranchers who might be forced to sell cattle earlier than normal or
move them to other pastures where rain has fallen, because of dwindling water or
because the drought has ravaged pastures.

"The Corn Belt has gone a long time without a major drought," he says. "I think
we are just in a cyclical weather pattern here. We don't know how long this will
last."

Hunt, the Kentucky construction company owner, says he has looked at weather
data for his area dating to the 1930s and thinks that a roughly 20-year cycle of
hot summers has returned.

But he says his company and employees face extreme heat almost every summer in
his part of Kentucky.

Where business benefits

Not all is gloom and doom when it comes to the business of heat. Some
enterprises actually rise with the temperatures.

Sales of CoolWare, a $39.99 battery-operated cooling device produced by Bedford,
Mass.-based ThermaCELL that wraps around the neck and includes tiny fans, are up
10%-15% this year, spokeswoman Pauline O'Keeffe says.

Polar-Products, based in Santa Rosa, Calif., has seen similar boosts in its
online business. Sales this year are up roughly 15% over last year at this time,
owner Gary Murray says.

"As the temperature started climbing, the orders started coming in," he says.
"We had one of our busiest months (in June) that we have had in the last three
years."

His company sells cooling collars, vests and even ties, and cooling wraps for
backs, ankles and wrists. They are made of material that stays cool after being
soaked in water and generally go for $10-$20.

Murray says many of his sales are to companies outfitting employees that need to
work in the heat.

"I have (customers) that work construction  or work on hot roofs, or weekend
warriors, or people going camping," he says. "We seem to sell a lot to families
going to Disneyland."

The newest rage this year is cool inserts for bras, Murray says, that sell for
$12.95 a pair.

"I never realized that that part of the garment is so hot," he says. "If you
talk about bra coolers to a female audience, you have their attention, because
every woman knows."

Contributing: Doyle Rice

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Doyle Rice and Julie Snider, USA TODAY (Map)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COVER STORY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2012 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              71 of 190 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           September 6, 2012 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Drought limits rest stops for migrating waterfowl;
Isaac helped refill watering holes, but food remains scarce

BYLINE: Chuck Raasch, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 902 words


Millions of migrating ducks, geese and other waterfowl will find fewer rest
stops on their way south this autumn -- more fallout from a drought that has
parched marshes, ponds and wildlife refuges on flyways between North and South
America.

Hurricane Isaac last week dumped moisture from the Gulf Coast to the Great
Lakes, helping waterfowl conditions in the Mississippi and Ohio river valleys.

But it missed drought-ravaged portions of the Plains and western USA, where
ponds and refuges have dried up. Isaac did help wintering grounds on the Gulf
Coast but was too late to boost crops the birds use for food on the way south,
says James Wortham, chief of migratory bird surveys for the U.S. Fish and
Wildlife Service.

Waterfowl populations are up, and healthy birds are coming off several lush
years in prairie-pothole nesting grounds in Canada and the northern USA. The
drought hit after robust hatches in the spring when adequate water was present
in the nesting areas, and late-August rains have helped. But conditions are so
severe and widespread that migrating flocks have little margin of error,
especially if drought continues into spring.

"We have lucked out in terms of timing, but certainly the drought is cause for
great concern," Fish and Wildlife Service Director Daniel Ashe says.

Biologists say cyclical drought is a necessary hardship for migrating birds
because it kills predatory plants and animals that threaten the complex
ecosystem they live in.

"Wetlands are really, really dynamic," says Dale Humburg, chief biologist for
Ducks Unlimited, which helps boost waterfowl populations for hunters and
birdwatchers. "They need to dry, periodically, to maintain their productivity.
Otherwise they stagnate and don't produce the food that birds need, year after
year."

But some biologists worry that this drought is a product of climate change that
is forcing animals to rapidly adapt and that the steady loss of wetlands to
human encroachment is making that  even harder.

"Obviously, there is something going on, on a far bigger scale outside of what
we deem normal," says Bill Waln, co-interim manager of the Quivira National
Wildlife Refuge in Kansas, a normally vital stopover point for tens of thousands
of migrating geese, ducks and the endangered whooping crane.

Some rain helped

Quivira's 35 square miles of ponds and marshes were mostly dust-dry after a
brutally hot and dry summer. A late-August rain helped replenish some ponds, but
excessive heat has returned. Waln worries the refuge will be dry when the bulk
of the migration comes in October.

Birds that would normally drop in this fall to "rest up a little bit, fuel up so
they can make the rest of the trip south"  may have to "just keep flying south,
looking for something," he says.

The whooping crane breeds in Canada and the northern USA and winters in Florida
and Texas. Some use Quivira as an important rest stop in the migration back and
forth. Waln hopes the refuge can count on some fall water replenishment as water
tables rise after farmers in western Kansas stop irrigating, although this
drought has been so severe that the normal rise may be endangered.

For teals and other birds already moving south, the stress is on now.

Not only are major refuges parched, but the farm crops that are normally banquet
fields for migrating flocks are wiped out or diminished.

"In a normal year, they would kind of hopscotch down the flyways," Humburg said.
"In a year like this, there are really going to be a limited number of locations
they will find en route."

Biologists are worried that birds still stressed from the fall migration to the
Gulf Coast and Central and South America could find worse nesting conditions
when they head north next spring.

Fewer ponds for flocks

The Fish and Wildlife Service's annual May aerial survey of 2 million square
miles of nesting areas in the U.S. and Canada estimated the duck population at
48.6 million, up 7% from 2011, and 43% above the average since 1955.

The survey said there were 5.5 million ponds in its survey area, which stretches
from Alaska to the northern Plains and Great Lakes to New Brunswick, Canada.
Overall, that was 32% below 2011 but still above the long-term average.

However, the northern Plains of the USA was drier, with 49% fewer ponds than in
2011. The Fish and Wildlife Service defines a pond as a body of water at least 6
inches deep in June. Potholes, water-catching basins that often are no larger
than a suburban backyard, are crucial to young waterfowl's reproduction and
survival.

FWS Director Ashe says that besides stress on migrating birds, the drought has
produced troubling fish kills in the Mississippi and Missouri rivers.

In some places, though, a drought-induced fish kill is good news.

Wisconsin's Horicon Marsh, a 52-square-mile wildlife haven jointly managed by
the state and the Fish and Wildlife Service, had planned to reduce water levels
in some areas of the refuge even before dry weather hit. If marshes get too
deep, plants that the birds depend on can't grow. Some species of shorebirds
thrive in mud flats.

The drought helped reduce water levels, aiding a "rejuvenating" of the marsh,
says Horicon project leader Steve Lenz. "It killed off a whole bunch of common
carp that we didn't want in the marsh," Lenz says.

Biologists say those bottom-feeding fish are bad for wetlands because they churn
up beds necessary to grow submerged plants that waterfowl eat.

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2012 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              72 of 190 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           September 10, 2012 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

In Portland, bikes rule the road;
The Oregon metro area has embraced spokes and pedals, perhaps paving a path for
a nation on the move

BYLINE: Elizabeth Weise, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1820 words


America spent 50 years and billions of dollars after World War II redesigning
itself so that cars could move people across this vast country more quickly.

Now, with many cities in gridlock, one-third  of the population obese and
climate change forcing innovators to look beyond  the internal combustion
engine, cities are beginning to rethink that push toward the automobile.

Perhaps no place has thought about it more than Portland, rated America's most
bike-friendly city this year by Bicycling magazine and the only large U.S. city
to earn "platinum status" from the League of American Bicyclists. City planners,
businesses and, yes, the citizens of this Pacific Northwest city have embraced a
shifting of gears designed to enhance the quality of urban living with a nod to
the environment.

At the street level, many Portlanders go about their daily lives in ways that
would be unfamiliar to most Americans.  Downtown and near-city neighborhoods are
awash in bikes and bike lanes, delivery bikes dot the urban landscape  and bars
aren't encased in massive parking lots -- they have bike corrals out front.

Portland  boasts that  6% of all trips to work are by bike, the highest
percentage of bike commuters in any large U.S. city, says Dan Anderson of the
Portland Bureau of Transportation.

Even kids get around differently. Nationally, only 13% of children walk or bike
to school, according to the National Household Travel Survey. Here,  31% do, in
part because of a program that gives every public school student between fourth
and 10th grade a 12-week course on how to ride a bicycle safely.

For Tree Marie WoodSmith, the evolution here  has already made "life so
incredibly easier." She and her husband moved to Portland from rural California
where "to go anywhere you had to get into your car." Portland is the opposite,
she says. Now WoodSmith can go "days on end and never even get in a car. It was
pretty amazing."

This self-declared  Bicycle Capital of the nation is even drawing  fact-finding
missions from other cities and nations. Indeed, groups arrive almost weekly to
pedal the streets and hear from city staff how Portland has accomplished what no
other major U.S. city has: getting people out of their cars and onto the bike
paths coursing through this hilly metropolis. (This summer alone, groups from
Seattle, San Francisco, Philadelphia, New York City, Washington, D.C., Holland,
Japan and South Korea made the trek.)

From Los Angeles to Washington, D.C., cities across the country are hopping on
the bike bandwagon.  Next year, New York, Chicago and San Francisco will join
Portland in launching major bike-share programs that allow citizens to  rent a
bike for an hour or a day from convenient kiosks.

But Portland's will come with "this amazing, safe, connected, intuitive bikeway
network. We have signs all over, our drivers know how to coexist with bikes --
we've really teed it up,"  Anderson says.  Portland, he says, is simply paving
the path for what he believes the rest of the country will do in the coming
years.

A little rain? No problem

Portland's famous rainy climate isn't a limitation to serious bikers, Anderson
says. The weather is more temperate than many people believe. "We don't have
heavy rainstorms; we don't have snowstorms and blizzards," he says. "Yes, it
rains eight months a year, but most of the time it's just a drizzle."

People are more inclined to bike in the summer, when Portland enjoys warm, dry
weather, but the city's annual biking count doesn't measure the differences, he
says. The development of Gore-Tex and other lightweight rain gear has helped a
lot. "There's no such thing as bad weather, only bad gear," Anderson says.

While Portland has been officially pro-bike since the 1970s, the real
transformation has happened in only the past decade or so, Anderson says. It
came about because Portland focused on building safe, low-traffic bikeways that
serve as  arterials through town and "bicycle boulevards" in neighborhoods that
feed into them. Today more than 60% of Portland homes are within a half-mile of
a neighborhood bikeway; in 2006, only 29% were.

All of this has helped Portland's economy, too, fostering a growing
concentration of bicycle builders, manufacturers and retailers that have brought
jobs, and young workers, to town.  A slew of bike-friendly businesses
"prioritize bike access and bike parking, making it easy to ride to work or to
your favorite restaurant," says Margaux Mennesson of the Bicycle Transportation
Alliance.

All this positive reinforcement is working. Between 2010 and 2011, bike
ridership grew 6.4%, and on the new neighborhood bike boulevards the numbers
jumped 61%, she says.

The transformation is visible on the streets and especially apparent to those
who once lived in a very different Portland.  Kristin Flynn grew up here  but
now lives in Stone Ridge, N.Y. The 58-year-old artist was back this summer, and
what she saw stunned her.  She has friends who do their grocery shopping by bike
and others who are considering giving up their cars altogether. "It's just so
easy," Flynn says. "The bike lanes, the routes, the signs. It's not like this in
New York."

The city is so bike-friendly that when auto club AAA sought suggestions from
Portlanders, roadside service for bicycles was one of the biggest requests. They
launched the service in 2009, AAA's Marie Dodds says. Oregon and neighboring
Washington are the only states offering it.

Cars vs. bikes

The shift in the city's streets isn't always smooth, though. Bicyclists complain
about cars not being respectful of them as vehicles. Drivers complain that
people on bikes act like they don't have to follow the rules of the road.

"I was driving last night, and there was this guy coming down the hill without a
light, and I almost hit him," says Tom Dietz, 58, a Portland emergency room
physician. He rides a bike but says some bikers -- just like some drivers --
simply don't obey the laws.

More people on bikes does mean more accidents, though. Portland figures show
that there were 265 crashes in 2008, 287 in 2009 and 321 in 2010, the last year
for which data are available.

Very little data are available on bicycle injuries. Even so, a 2010 study found
that among Portland bike commuters, approximately 20% experienced an injury over
the course of a year's commuting, though only 5% required medical attention.

Caryl Taylor is a hospice nurse who drives across  the region caring for dying
patients. She loves Portland's neighborhoods but lives across the Columbia River
in Vancouver, Wash., partly because while Portland is "a great place to bike,
it's a very dangerous and unsafe place to drive."

Far too many cyclists are almost militantly anti-car -- and poor cyclists to
boot, she says. "They'll decide to ride against traffic, or they'll weave in and
out of the cars," and if a driver looks at them funny? "They'll flip you off.
They'll yell at you. Their attitude is, 'We own the road!'" she says.

John Pucher, co-author of City Cycling, knows the kinds of people Taylor is
talking about. Though bad riders are a tiny proportion of cyclists, he says,
they give the rest a bad name

Pucher, a professor of urban planning at Rutgers University in New Brunswick,
New Jersey, points out that cyclists -- the law-abiding and those who aren't --
are frequently subject to harassment. Cyclists nationwide complain of  shouted
obscenities, rude gestures, thrown objects, near-collisions and attempts to
drive them off the road.

Here, too, Portland -- where people are famously friendly  -- might be an
exception. That visceral anger that bikers elsewhere in the country describe as
a constant threat on the roadways isn't such an issue here, says Rob Sadowsky,
executive director of the Bicycle Transportation Alliance. "We're making strides
here. A lot of people who drive cars also bike, and we have places for the
people to bike so that we minimize those interactions. And maybe it's just your
basic Portland politeness."

The biking infrastructure

The cyclists most Americans see on the road have historically been  male, young
and aggressive, says Jeff Mapes, Portland author of Pedaling Revolution: How
Cyclists Are Changing American Cities. But who is biking, and how they're
biking, is beginning to change as biking shifts from a fitness regime or
political statement to simply a way to get from Point A to Point B.

Having the bike paths to make that A-to-B trip is what makes Portland such a
biking haven.  After 20 years of building, it now has a network of bike lanes,
including:

Cycle tracks. These bike lanes are physically separated from motor vehicle lanes
by concrete barriers or curbs. Pucher says cycle tracks can increase bicycle
ridership 18% to 20%, especially among women and children.

Bike lanes. These painted lanes on streets provide no physical separation from
cars.

Sharrows. "Sharing arrows" street markings show an outline of a bicycle and two
arrows pointing forward, indicating that bicycles and cars both have full use of
the lane.

Bicycle boulevards. Also called neighborhood greenways, these residential
streets are marked for both bikes and cars and have a speed limit of 20 mph.

Most of what's been created so far has been relatively simple, requiring only
paint and a few concrete barriers.

The infrastructure Portland is developing now will displace more cars and cost
more money. The Portland-Milwaukie bridge over the Willamette River, currently
under construction, will be open only to mass transit, bikes and pedestrians.
Price tag: $135 million.

Pucher, the Rutgers professor, says the key is to create some bike
infrastructure and gradually expand it while getting more cyclists on the road.
That way, bikes become an accepted and acceptable means of transportation.

"You don't all of a sudden put in 500 miles of bike lanes," Pucher says. A bike
lane here, a bike crossing there, one route and then two and then five slowly
create the infrastructure.

In the end, planners in Portland aren't trying to force people out of their
cars, says Jennifer Dill, director of the Oregon Transportation Research and
Education Consortium at Portland State University. Their goal is to give people
choices.

"In many cities you have no choice -- you have to drive to work," she says.
"Here, you have a choice. What we've found is that given an array of choices --
driving, taking the bus, biking or walking -- a lot of people will choose other
options than driving."

---

Biking in Portland, by the numbers

4

Size, in stories, of the mural in downtown proclaiming the city "America's
Bicycle Capital"

319

Miles of bike routes

6%

Percentage of bicycle commuters

17,000

Workers who commute by bicycle

5,000

Number of publicly installed bike racks

87

Number of multibike corrals in on-street parking spaces

20

Speed limit, in miles per hour, for all vehicles on bike boulevards

31%

Percentage of children who walk or ride bikes to school

321

Bike crashes in 2010

Source: USA TODAY research

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COVER STORY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2012 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              73 of 190 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            November 6, 2012 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Butterfly takes flight on jet to Texas

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 443 words


One late-blooming monarch butterfly got the royal treatment Monday when
Southwest Airlines airlifted the lone arthropod from Albany to San Antonio,
where it will reunite with other monarchs that had long since begun their winter
journey south.

Maraleen Manos-Jones first spotted the insect in September when it was still in
mid-metamorphosis, a caterpillar hanging upside down in the butterfly gardens of
her Shokan home. Manos-Jones, a self-styled butterfly expert, expected the
butterfly to emerge damaged. "Instead, she came out fabulously," Manos-Jones
said.

The butterfly's fellow swarm-mates had already flown south, though, and by Oct.
1, it was too cold for the newly emerged monarch to head south on its own.

Manos-Jones landed in San Antonio with the butterfly at 12:55 p.m. CT.

Monarch butterflies are known for the epic journeys they make each fall and
spring, flying thousands of miles from the Northeast, Pacific Northwest and
Canada to Mexico. It's the only butterfly species known to make a two-way
migration each year.

A typical monarch lives for two months, and it takes three to four generations
of its offspring to complete the migration back north.

"I knew if I just let her go, she'd die," Manos-Jones told the Albany Times
Union. "But she deserves to be in Mexico with all of her millions of brothers
and sisters."

Manos-Jones started looking for a way transport the butterfly south. Southwest
Airlines agreed to fly both Manos-Jones and the butterfly to San Antonio.

"Southwest's conservation efforts run deep, and after thoughtful consideration,
we decided to assist the healthy butterfly down to San Antonio, knowing that it
wouldn't make the migration otherwise," said Brooks Thomas, a Southwest
spokesman, citing the airline's concerns for climate change.

Another kink in the hastily hatched plan quickly emerged though: A permit is
required for an individual to transport a butterfly across state lines, and it
usually takes months to get one. Manos-Jones put in a call to an entomologist at
the U.S. Department of Agriculture, pleading the case of her one, beautiful
butterfly. The permit arrived in two days.

Manos-Jones packed the butterfly in a glassine envelope with a damp piece of
cotton, inside a Tupperware container, packed inside yet another container
outfitted with an ice pack to keep the butterfly cool and calm.

Manos-Jones will release the butterfly at the San Antonio Botanical Garden,
where there are blooming flowers for it to feed on. From there, the butterfly
will continue south on its own.

"This is just not the release of this butterfly, but of everything she
symbolizes," Manos-Jones said. "She is a symbol of hope."

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2012 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              84 of 190 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           October 3, 2012 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Tigers' Scherzer hurt in celebration

BYLINE: From wire reports

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 4C

LENGTH: 411 words


Detroit Tigers right-hander Max Scherzer will miss his  start today at the
Kansas City Royals after twisting an ankle while celebrating Detroit's American
League Central title.

Manager Jim Leyland said someone stepped on Scherzer's ankle while the Tigers
were jumping into a pile behind the pitcher's mound after their 6-3 victory
Monday.

Scherzer was going to pitch five innings in the regular-season finale to test
his sore right shoulder, which caused him to miss his last scheduled start.
Leyland said he was not sure what the injury meant for Scherzer's availability
when Detroit opens the playoffs Saturday at home.

Scherzer has been one of the best pitchers in the AL down the stretch. He's 16-7
with a 3.82 ERA and 228 strikeouts this season.

Mariners shorten fences: The Seattle Mariners announced plans Tuesday to move in
the outfield fences at Safeco Field for the 2013 season after years of debate on
the impact that having one of the more spacious outfields in baseball was having
on their offense.

The biggest change will come in the left-center-field alley, where the fence
will move in as much as 17 feet. The left-center power alley currently is 390
feet but will be at 378 feet next season. From there, instead of a rounded
fence, the wall will move straight out to its deepest point at 405 feet, 4 feet
shorter than it is currently. The straighter line of the fence will lead to the
17-foot change.

Mariners general manager Jack Zduriencik said many factors were taken into
account when determining whether changes would be made, including Seattle's
chilly April and May.

"Our goal was to create an environment that is fair for both hitters and
pitchers," Zduriencik said. "Considering the current field dimensions as well as
the climate in and around Safeco Field, we feel this will be accomplished with
this new layout."

Passionate leader wanted: Closer Chris Perez wants the Cleveland Indians' next
manager to match his passion and intensity.

Perez said Tuesday that while he personally likes Manny Acta, he disagreed with
the fired manager's laid-back approach. The right-hander thinks both leading
candidates for the permanent job, interim manager Sandy Alomar Jr. and former
Boston Red Sox skipper Terry Francona, would be a better fit.

Perez said the second-half collapse was embarrassing and thinks the Indians have
a good foundation on which to build. He also emphasized he had not asked to be
traded and wanted to be part of a winner in Cleveland.

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Rick Osentoski, US PRESSWIRE The Tigers' Max Scherzer, already
battling a sore shoulder, now has a twisted ankle.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2012 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              86 of 190 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            November 2, 2012 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Pro-oil Canada has a beef with environmentalists;
U.S. activists' efforts, and influence, are seeping north

BYLINE: David Agren

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 1383 words


This is oil country.

Beneath the peat bogs and boreal forests in the northern part of this Canadian
province are among the largest oil reserves in the world. Canadians have been
getting it out of the prairies for over 100 years and piping much of it to the
United States, which imports more oil from Canada than anywhere else.

But President Obama's denial of a permit for an  oil pipeline from Canada to
Texas that has been worked on for years has angered many here who claim that the
U.S. environmental lobby is harming their livelihoods without scientific basis.

They even accuse it of illegally assisting Canadian environmental groups and say
it's time to scrap plans to sell more oil to America and step up efforts to
redirect the pipeline to the Pacific Coast and energy-hungry markets overseas.

"You've got a friendly source of oil from a friendly country," says welder Rob
Tessier after lunching at the Pipeline Alley Cafe in Nisku. "If you don't want
it, we'll send it to an Asian market."

Environmental groups say it's time for Canada to reassess its exploitation of
its energy resources. They say oil pipelines are encroaching on sensitive lands
and are improving access to oil when the world should be putting more effort
into solar power and other forms of renewable energy.

Canada must stop "putting all our eggs in one basket," says Merran Smith
director of Clean Energy Canada at Tides Canada.

Canadians pride themselves on taking full advantage of their energy resources to
create jobs while ensuring the protection and beauty of natural surroundings
Canada is known for. But as the environmental movement gains influence in the
United States, Canada is feeling the effects.

Obama's denial of the Keystone XL project has set politicians against  each
other and provoked heavy criticism of the local environmental groups.

Workers in Nisku, an industrial center where plants manufacture pipes for the
petroleum deposits, are especially bewildered given that the southern leg of the
pipeline from Cushing, Okla., to the Texas Gulf coast had already been approved.

Prime Minister Stephen Harper called the approval of Keystone XL a "no-brainer."
Stunned by the project's denial, he is pushing for a "Northern Gateway" pipeline
to direct  Canadian oil to Asia.

"Certain people in the United States would like to see Canada be one giant
national park for the northern half of North America."

He has an ally in U.S. Republican presidential candidate Mitt Romney, who wants
Keystone to go forward to create jobs in the United States.

The ire of the pro-pipeline people has focused on the alleged nefarious
influence from the south on Canada's environmentalists. In the past, U.S. groups
and foundations primarily donated funds to Canadian groups for preservation
efforts, such as protecting old-growth forests, said Vancouver researcher Vivian
Krause.

But in recent years U.S.-based groups such as the U.S. Tides Foundation, the
Rockefeller Brothers Fund and the William and Flora Hewlett Foundation have been
trying to prevent oil production in Canada, she says.

"This is a story of American interference in Canada under the guise of charity,"
says Krause.

While the U.S. Department of the Interior has pleased environmental groups by
reducing the number of energy leases and permits allowed on federal lands,
Canada's minister of natural resources is outraged that groups are trying to
stop oil development here.

Minister Joe Oliver accused opponents of the Northern Gateway of taking "funding
from foreign special interest groups to undermine Canada's national economic
interest." And it's not just politicians who are assailing environmentalists.

A group dubbed "Ethical Oil"  highlights how Canadian oil is produced under
stringent legal and environmental standards developed to ensure protection of
wildlife and pristine nature. Ethical Oil's Jamie Ellerton also contrasts
Canadian oil from that of the Persian Gulf and Venezuela, two of the biggest oil
exporters to the USA, pointing out that those countries  are known to fund
anti-American activity and are regularly criticized for abusing human rights.

"If you care about human rights and peace  buy oil from Canada instead of
propping up tyrants," Ellerton says.

But environmental groups in Canada say the foreign money backing them represents
a recognition that the problems associated with fossil fuels cross borders.
This, they say, is especially true of the oil in Alberta.

Alberta's Athabasca oil sands, which are the largest oil fields in Canada,
consist of heavy crude oil mixed with sand, clay and water beneath 54,000 square
miles of coniferous forest and bogs.

The oil is so thick  that it must be heated or diluted to flow.

Environmentalists have charged that the energy from oil sands, which they call
"tar sands," is more corrosive and thus a higher risk of causing pipeline leaks.
The risk of leaks was illustrated in 2010 when 20,000 barrels leaked from a
Canadian pipeline near Michigan's Kalamazoo River, and BP took weeks to stop a
leak of  close to 5 million barrels of oil from an ocean drilling platform in
the Gulf of Mexico.

"It brought very much to the forefront in American and Canadian minds the whole
environmental issue around transporting crude oil," says Calgary economist Todd
Hirsch.

But proponents say no drilling is 100% safe and that Canadian companies have a
good track record of preventing leaks and cleaning them up when they occur. The
days of ducks landing in tailings ponds and emerging tarred are done, oil
workers say.

"It's way cleaner than it used to be," says Darrell Walters, a former worker in
the oil sands. "For waste, you used to dig a hole. Now you haul it out."

Environmentalists also object to more oil production because it means less solar
or wind energy, they say, and that means more risk of global warming from the
burning of carbon fuels into the atmosphere.

Calgary author and journalist Andrew Nikiforuk questions the pace and scale at
which companies are exploiting oil sands that carry "too much of a carbon
liability."

"We have a serious case of climate-change denial" in Canada, Nikiforuk says.

That dovetails with the claims of U.S. environmental groups such as the National
Wildlife Federation, which seeks to stop more oil production in Canada to the
USA.

"If expansion of tar sands goes unchecked, it will be impossible to reach our
goals to reduce global-warming pollution, and will have serious impacts for both
people and wildlife," it stated.

Oil companies are fighting back.

The Canadian Association of Petroleum Producers issued a report saying the
carbon footprint of oil sands petroleum -- measured by greenhouse gases emitted
in the extraction, processing and use -- has shrunk by about 1% per year in the
past 20 years and is increasingly equivalent to conventional oil.

"To continue to make it sustainable and acceptable worldwide, we recognize that
environmental performance is the foundation on which you have to do that," says
Greg Stringham, CAPP's vice-president oil sands and markets.

The push-back comes as the world's leading climate data center in Britain issued
a report that some scientists say shows global warming stopped 16 years ago.

Professor Judith Curry, head of the climate science department at Georgia Tech,
told the Daily Mail newspaper the data confirm the existence of a "pause" in
warming. Professor Phil Jones, director of the Climatic Research Unit at the
University of East Anglia, told the Mail that 16 years is too short a period
from which to draw conclusions.

Meanwhile, the Canadian government has decided to take a more forceful approach
with critics.

The federal government is allocating money for Canada Revenue Agency auditors to
investigate charitable groups, including those involved with the environment.
Charities here are prohibited from being involved in partisan politics and
limited in trying to influence public-policy decisions.

"Tides Canada engages in impermissible political activities," according to
Ethical Oil.

But the environmentalists say the oil industry is bankrolled by foreign
investment, so why should they not be? Smith says allegations that Canada
environmentalists are being manipulated by colleagues to the south are a mere
distraction.

"Pipelines are a front-page story here every week," Smith says. "It's seen as a
witch hunt."

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2012 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              92 of 190 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           January 18, 2012 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

CLEANING UP A COLD WAR MESS;
Technical hurdles threaten to derail an unprecedented $ 2.3 billion effort to
fix America's most radioactive site

BYLINE: Peter Eisler, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 2947 words


Seven decades after scientists came here during World War II to create plutonium
for the first atomic bomb, a new generation is struggling with an even more
daunting task: cleaning up the radioactive mess.

The U.S. government is building a treatment plant to stabilize and contain
56million gallons of waste left from a half-century of nuclear weapons
production.

The radioactive sludge is so dangerous that a few hours of exposure could be
fatal. A major leak could contaminate water supplies serving millions across the
Northwest. The cleanup is the most complex and costly environmental restoration
ever attempted.

And the project is not going well.

A USA TODAY investigation has found that the troubled, 10-year effort to build
the treatment plant faces enormous problems just as it reaches what was supposed
to be its final stage.

In exclusive interviews, several senior engineers cited design problems that
could bring the plant's operations to a halt before much of the waste is
treated.

Their reports have spurred new technical reviews and raised official concerns
about the risk of a hydrogen explosion or uncontrolled nuclear reaction inside
the plant. Either could damage critical equipment, shut the facility down or,
worst case, allow radiation to escape.

The plant's $12.3 billion price tag, already triple original estimates, is well
short of what it will cost to address the problems and finish the project. And
the plant's start-up date, originally slated for last year and pushed back to
2019, is likely to slip further.

"We're continuing with a failed design," said Donald Alexander, a senior U.S.
government scientist on the project.

"There's a lot of pressure  from Congress, from the state, from the community to
make progress," he added. As a result, "the design processes are cut short, the
safety analyses are cut short, and the oversight is cut short.  We have to stop
now and figure out how to do this right, before we move any further."

Documents obtained by USA TODAY show at least three federal investigations are
underway to examine the project, which is funded and supervised by the
Department of Energy, owner of the Hanford Site. Bechtel National is the prime
contractor.

In November, the Energy Department's independent oversight office notified
Bechtel that it is investigating "potential nuclear safety non-compliances" in
the design and installation of plant systems and components. And the
department's inspector general is in the final stages of a separate probe
focused on whether Bechtel installed critical equipment that didn't meet
quality-control standards.

Meanwhile, Congress' General Accountability Office has launched a sweeping
review of everything from cost and schedule overruns to the risks associated
with the Energy Department's decision to proceed with construction before
completing and verifying the design of key components.

The "design-build" approach "is good if you're building a McDonald's," said Gene
Aloise, the GAO's director of nuclear non-proliferation and security. "It's not
good if you're building a one-of-a-kind, high-risk nuclear waste facility."

The Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board, an independent federal panel that
oversees public health and safety at nuclear weapons sites, is urging Energy
Secretary Steven Chu to require more extensive testing of designs for some of
the plant's most critical components.

"Design and construction of the project continue despite there being unresolved
technical issues, and there is a lot of risk associated with that," said Peter
Winokur, the board's chairman. The waste at Hanford, stored in 177 deteriorating
underground tanks, "is a real risk to the public and the environment. It is
essential that this plant work and work well."

Energy Department officials acknowledged that the design questions are a
significant challenge and likely to inflate the project's cost and timetable.

"We've got tough technical issues to deal with," said David Huizenga, acting
assistant Energy secretary for environmental management. "Each one of these
issues that gets raised, we take it on and we work it until we've solved it. It
might take a little longer than we'd hoped and cost a little more than we'd
hoped  (but) we will not operate a plant that cannot be operated safely."

Bechtel managers also insisted that all of the plant's designs will be verified
before it begins operations. "When complete, the facility will meet all safety
and regulatory requirements," communications manager Suzanne Heaston said.

Monumental mess

Everything about the waste treatment plant at Hanford is unprecedented -- and
urgent.

The volume of waste, its complex mix of highly radioactive and toxic material,
the size of the processing facilities -- all present technical challenges with
no proven solution. The plant is as big as the task: a sprawling, 65-acre
compound of four giant buildings, each longer than a football field and as tall
as 12 stories high.

The plant will separate the waste's high- and low-level radioactive materials,
then blend them with compounds that are superheated to create a molten glass
composite -- a process called "vitrification." The mix is poured into giant
steel cylinders, where it cools to a solid form that is safe and stable for
long-term storage -- tens of thousands of glass tubes in steel coffins.

Once the plant starts running, it could take 30 years or more to finish the
cleanup.

The 177 underground tanks at Hanford hold detritus from 45 years of plutonium
production at the site, which had up to nine nuclear reactors before it closed
in 1989.

Some of the tanks, with capacities ranging from 55,000 gallons to more than 1
million gallons, date to the mid-1940s, when Hanford's earliest reactor made
plutonium for the first atomic bomb ever detonated: the "Trinity" test at
Alamagordo, N.M.

It also produced the plutonium for the bomb dropped on Nagasaki, Japan, in World
War II.

More than 60 of the tanks are thought to have leaked, losing a million gallons
of waste into soil and groundwater. So far, the contamination remains within the
boundaries of the barren, 586-square-mile site, but it poses an ongoing threat
to the nearby Columbia River, a water source for communities stretching
southwest to Portland, Ore. And, while the liquid most likely to escape from the
older tanks has been moved to newer, double-walled tanks, the risk of more leaks
is compounding that threat.

"Each day without progress (in treating the waste) further threatens the
Columbia River and its surroundings," Washington Gov. Chris Gregoire, a
Democrat, warned in November. "There are critical public health and
environmental issues at play."

A 1989 legal agreement among the Energy Department, the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency and the state of Washington sets strict timetables for
stabilizing the tank wastes, including a 2011 deadline to get the treatment
plant running.

Two years ago, a negotiated extension pushed the start-up date to 2019. But a
November review by the Energy Department reported that the deadlines are at
"significant risk," because of both engineering and budget concerns.

The deadlines "were put in place to ensure the health and safety of the people
of Washington and that commitment must continue," Gregoire said, urging that the
federal government commit whatever funding is necessary to address the project's
technical hurdles and keep it on track. "Falling behind schedule  is not an
option."

Technical difficulties

Most of the technical issues still vexing the project involve moving waste
through the plant.

The thicker, high-level waste doesn't flow according to usual laws of physics;
it glugs like ketchup spurting from a bottle. The challenge is to keep it
moving: If particles in the material accumulate, they can cause clogs, trapping
potentially explosive hydrogen gas or, if too much plutonium masses together,
triggering an uncontrolled nuclear reaction that generates extreme heat and
radioactivity, threatening workers and the plant's operation.

The challenge lies in the plant's huge pre-treatment building, where the waste
traverses an intricate set of pipes and vessels as its radioactive streams are
separated and sent to separate facilities for conversion into glass. To keep the
waste agitated, many of the pre-treatment vessels contain "pulse jet mixers"
that act like giant turkey basters, sucking the waste into tubes and expelling
it through jet nozzles.

"No one can stand up and say with any certainty that (the mixers) will work,"
said Walter Tamosaitis, who spent seven years as a supervising engineer on the
project for URS Corp. before being reassigned in 2010. During his tenure, he
filed memos and reports to top officials questioning the mixers' design.

Some of the high-level waste has turned out to be more complex than anticipated,
with plutonium particles up to 10 times larger than expected. That has
heightened concerns among several scientists, including Tamosaitis and the staff
of the nuclear facilities safety board, that the systems designed to churn that
waste need further testing to address the threat of hydrogen buildup or a
nuclear reaction.

The mixers will be nearly impossible to repair or modify if they fail, because
they will be too radioactive; they're in fortified rooms, known as "black
cells," that will be sealed permanently when the plant begins operating.

If the system malfunctions, Tamosaitis said, "the plant is dead in the water."

Alexander, the Energy Department scientist, also worries about the pre-treatment
mixing system. Because the mixing jets and vessels were not designed to handle
the larger plutonium particles and other abrasives in the high-level waste, he
said, the material is likely to erode the vessels' lining. Alexander, who has
detailed his concerns in official filings, has run simulations showing that the
vessels could fail well before the end of the system's 40-year design life,
potentially causing a leak inside the plant.

When the jet mixers expel waste into the vessels, they're "like a liquid
sandblaster," and the mixing system needs years of extra testing and refinement
to account for the problem, Alexander said. "If they don't make any changes and
just move ahead, it lasts maybe 10 years."

Tamosaitis and Alexander aren't alone in their concerns.

The mixing system "is not necessarily a solid design," said Donna Busche, a URS
employee who serves as manager for environmental and nuclear safety at the site.
"The research isn't done, the design isn't done, and there are numerous
technical and safety issues  to address."

Testing on the fly?

The Energy Department has agreed to do more testing of the mixing system's
design, but is moving ahead with construction of the vessels before tests are
complete. That means the equipment might have to be re-engineered and modified,
or replaced entirely, if it fails.

The alternative is to "take the pieces and parts that are sitting in the middle
of a vendor's shop and leave them there, not have the vessel completed, while
you wait for the results of a large-scale test," said Dale Knutson, the Energy
Department's project director. Under the current plan, if the designs pass
muster, "you haven't lost the ability to complete the work" on time.

"We would not operate the facility in an unsafe condition," Knutson added. "The
question is: Do you have an appropriate hold point in place, a place where you
can stop" if the design proves to be inadequate? "In this particular case  that
hold point is defined as prior to installation."

The decision reflects the Energy Department's "design-build" approach: To speed
completion, construction occurs while some features still are being designed.

That strategy has fueled a progress-at-all-costs climate that discourages
scientists from raising design concerns, said Winokur, the safety board
chairman. "The safety culture is flawed."

Project managers were too slow to address questions about the plant's mixing
systems, Winokur said, noting that proper testing will take "several years" and
should have started sooner. "Management is not adequately surfacing and
resolving important technical and safety issues."

Last week, a report by the Energy Department's health and safety office echoed
many of the safety board's assertions. Assessing the treatment plant project,
the report identified "significant concerns" about "processes for nuclear design
and for managing safety issues."

Busche, the safety manager, said concerns about the potential for hydrogen
buildup in components at the pre-treatment facility were pushed aside.

The question is "how likely would an explosion be and would the equipment
survive (and) contain the waste?" she said. The safety office raised
"significant issues" about the mixing system's design because assumptions on
hydrogen buildup were "not conservative enough" to account for all the risks,
she added.

In October, after many of the system's components already were being installed,
Energy officials warned Bechtel in a letter that some of the piping had not been
shown to meet safety requirements, records obtained by USA TODAY show. In a
November response, Bechtel said it had ordered a "suspension of work" on the
piping system pending more design review -- a move the company described in a
statement as a "conservative approach."

Busche shares many of the concerns raised by Tamosaitis, Alexander and the
safety board. "We're all coming at these issues in different ways," she said.
But when they're raised, "the first question that gets asked is not 'how are we
going to solve it?' It's 'how much is it going to cost?'  I've never seen this
sort of flagrant disregard for technical issues."

Project managers said that disagreements over risk and safety assumptions are to
be expected on such a complex undertaking, but rejected the notion that concerns
aren't taken seriously -- or that money drives the response.

It's in everyone's interests to build a plant that works properly and safely,
said Richard Kacich, an assistant project director for Bechtel. "The earlier you
know about (a safety issue), the earlier you can deal with it.  The culture of
our company is highly supportive of bringing issues forward."

"On a first-of-its-kind project, are there (design) challenges? Of course," he
added. But "as with any nuclear undertaking, the way a project delivers is to
focus on safety  and quality."

Explosion in costs

Each challenge requires more work and more time -- and more money.

In its November construction report, the Energy Department warned that it's on a
path to spend $800 million to $900 million more than the plant's current, $12.3
billion budget. When the project was launched, on what was expected to be a much
smaller scale, it was budgeted at about $4 billion.

"I can't give you an exact number or sense of what I think the project is
ultimately going to cost," said Huizenga, the assistant Energy secretary, adding
that managers are seeking ways to offset the projected cost overruns.

He also declined to estimate when the plant might start or finish treating tank
waste, though he reiterated that deadlines for both tasks are "at risk."

The overrun figures may be just a hint of what's to come: They don't include
major modifications that officials now are contemplating to address some of the
technical problems that have emerged.

Because of the complex nature of some of the tank waste, including the larger
plutonium particles, Energy Department officials including Huizenga acknowledge
that a portion of the material probably will require some sort of preliminary
processing before it can be sent into the pre-treatment facility. Potential
solutions include reconfiguring the pre-treatment facility or designing and
building equipment to filter the waste as it's removed from the tanks.

Any changes would cost money unaccounted for in current budget projections.

"They will need to find alternative ways to treat some of that material,"
Winokur said. "There will need to be additional investments."

That's not the only problem that would require more spending, he said. He noted,
for example, that the treatment plant's current design, which has been modified
several times, has the capacity to treat only about 50% of the less complex,
low-level radioactive liquid waste that it's supposed to handle.

And no plan has been finalized -- or budgeted -- for how to process the rest.

Tamosaitis and Alexander said they believe it will take billions of dollars in
added funding to complete the project.

Congress already is showing frustration with the plant's escalating cost and
engineering problems.

The 2012 appropriations bill that funds the Energy Department directed officials
to do a major review of "contract management" for all nuclear facility cleanups
with budgets over $1billion. The study is due in May, according to the bill, and
must assess whether practices "foster a positive nuclear safety culture or
resolve nuclear safety-related design issues."

Lawmakers also balked at the department's 2012 funding request of $840 million
for the project -- a 22% increase from the $690 million a year that was
projected. Instead, lawmakers agreed to $740 million.

The reduced amount probably is not enough to keep the construction on schedule
given the engineering challenges that have emerged, Huizenga said. Still, he
added, the project "is an extremely high priority for us," and the department
will push ahead until it is complete.

Ultimately, "cost and schedule are less important than the quality and safety of
the plant," said Tom Carpenter, executive director of Hanford Challenge, a
public interest group that monitors the project and works with whistle-blowers
to see that safety issues are addressed. "It's got to work."

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, Color, Jeff Goertzen, Keith Carter and Peter Eisler, USA TODAY
(Diagram)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COVER STORY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2012 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              93 of 190 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            January 20, 2012 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Indy revs up for Super Bowl;
City is ready to prove it belongs in big leagues

BYLINE: By Laura Bly USA TODAY

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 6D

LENGTH: 1074 words


INDIANAPOLIS -- As the small-town hero

whose buzzer-beater score earned his team

the Indiana high school basketball championship

and inspired the Hollywood hit

Hoosiers, Bobby Plump knows a thing or two

about underdogs.

Now, with Indianapolis expecting up to

150,000 celebrities, corporate honchos and

well-heeled football fans -- not to mention a

global audience of 110 million TV viewers --

for Super Bowl XLVI on Feb. 5, Plump sees

some distinct similarities between the 1954

Milan Indians and his adopted hometown.

Hoosiers proved that "perseverance and

teamwork will often beat exceptional talent,"

says Plump, 75. And while the USA's 12th

largest city (pop. 820,445) and home of the

Indianapolis 500 was once saddled with such

nicknames as "Naptown" and "Indianoplace,"

next month's turn on one of the world's

biggest stages will prove "we're something

besides a place to fly over and say, 'Oh, there's

a 500-mile racetrack down there.' "

"It really is like David vs. Goliath," says

Plump, whose memorabilia-packed restaurant,

Plump's Last Shot (signature dish: a

breaded pork tenderloin sandwich the size of

a basketball hoop), is a popular draw in native

son David Letterman's former neighborhood

-- a bar-, bistro- and boutique-filled enclave

called Broad Ripple.

"Our pace may be slower than New York

and the East Coast, but we're speedy enough

to get the job done."

'Crossroads of America'

The city's beloved Colts won't be playing in

this year's Super Bowl; the perennial NFL

playoff contenders finished the season with a

demoralizing 2-14 record.

But no matter which teams wind up at

Indy's domed Lucas Oil Stadium -- its classic

architecture is modeled on nearby Hinkle

Fieldhouse, where Plump made his famous

swish--residents are hopeful the "Crossroads

of America" will make a favorable impression.

"There's an acute awareness that putting on

a first-class event could lead to future opportunities,"

from hosting another Super Bowl

and its expected $150 million

in economic impact to

luring vacationers far beyond

the 400-mile orbit the

city typically draws from,

says the Indianapolis Convention & Visitors

Association's Chris Gahl.

Indy's game plan: Play up its mania for

sports and investments in a compact, walkable

city center NFL officials have called the

Super Bowl's "most urban" venue ever.

Among downtown Indy's newest additions:

a 1,005-room J.W. Marriott, the world's

largest, that will serve as media headquarters

for the big game. It's one of a dozen hotels

connected via climate-controlled walkways

to the stadium and overlooks White River

State Park, a 250-acre blend of green space,

museums, a zoo and what Sports Illustrated

called the best minor league baseball park in

the country. (The latter, Victory Field, will be

covered and transformed into a giant Super

Bowl beach party for the likes of Katy Perry,

Mark Cuban and Peyton Manning.)

When officials were plotting the city's tourism

future three decades ago, notes Gahl, they

were clear-eyed about Indy's attributes--and

lack thereof. No, they couldn't sell mountains,

an ocean or even a Great Lake. But they could

peddle their Midwest friendliness and a passion

for competition, whether it takes place

on a court, an oval track or a gridiron.

As a result, Indy has hosted a slew of major

sporting events beyond the Indy 500, which

celebrated its 100th anniversary last year and

draws some 300,000 auto-racing fans to the

Indianapolis Motor Speedway every Memorial

Day weekend. The most recent was last

month's Big Ten college football championship,

seen as a test run of how well the

spiffed-up downtown core could handle

crowds. (Aside from grumbles about restaurant

lines and a temporary dearth of beer, a

good time was had by all.)

Downtown Indy's accessibility will be

showcased starting Jan. 27 during a 10-day,

kid-friendly, three-block-long "festival of

football" dubbed Super Bowl Village.

A vacant Nordstrom store will be transformed

into a retail and late-night entertainment

spot called "The Huddle," and free

events will include more than 80 national,

regional and local bands.

At the Indiana Convention Center's NFL

Experience, visitors can attend autograph sessions

and football clinics and check out a

replica of an NFL locker room on game day.

Across the street at Lucas Oil Stadium, the Jan.

31 Super Bowl Media Day will be open to the

public for the first time.

Race-car aficionados can book a five-minute,

$20 ride on a street version of an openwheeled

IndyCar, and four zip lines, strung

nearly 100 feet high, will hurtle intrepid fans

800 feet down Capitol Avenue -- where heated

benches, warming stations and shovelarmed

volunteers will help deflect the impact

of a potentially brutal blast of Midwest winter

weather.

Is there a 'there' there?

Of course, iffy weather isn't Indianapolis'

only perceived drawback.

"Coming from the East Coast, it's almost

scary how nice people are," says Connecticutbased

business traveler Jonathan Chomicz,

bellying up to the bar at downtown's landmark

St. Elmo Steak House for a martini and

sinus-clearing order of horseradish-laced

shrimp cocktail.

"But while you don't hear anything bad

about Indianapolis," he adds, "do you hear

about anything really great?"

Genesis McKiernan-Allen, 26, is an organic

farmer and waitress at Recess, an Indy restaurant

where the vibe is urban minimalist and a

$52 prix-fixe menu (think sable fish with lemon

spinach puree, enoki mushroom and celery

root remoulade) changes daily. She admits

she got out of town "as fast as I could,"

but she came home after a decade in Portland,

Ore. -- and the prodigal daughter is glad she

did.

"The state has an inferiority complex, and

everyone's nervous that we're going to screw

this up," McKiernan-Allen says. "But there

have been a lot of changes in Indy, and it's an

exciting time to be here."

Boston visitor Barb Bolich, in town last

week for a convention at the NCAA's national

headquarters and Hall of Champions (where

you can shoot hoops in a 1930s-era gym and

test your balance on a springboard dive platform),

agrees.

No, she won't come back if the New England

Patriots make it to the Super Bowl next

month, when hotel guests will be greeted

with free hot chocolate, Snickerdoodles and

hand-made welcome cards from Indiana

schoolchildren detailing what they love most

about being Hoosiers. (Writes 11-year-old Erica

from Danville: "We have the best people

ever! We have good soil! We have the Indy

500!") But Bolich wishes she could.

"For anyone athletically inclined, there is so

much history and so many things to do here,"

she says. "Sports is about beating the odds --

and so is Indy."

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: graphic

DOCUMENT-TYPE: TRAVEL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2012 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              95 of 190 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             March 6, 2012 Tuesday
                              Correction Appended
                                 FINAL EDITION

Turnover of coaches in D.C. is monumental;
Study: Washington, Nashville on opposite sides of tenure spectrum

BYLINE: Mike Dodd, USA TODAY

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 2260 words


Mike Shanahan was hired as head coach of the Washington Redskins in January
2010. Two years later, he is the dean of pro coaches in the nation's capital.

Flip Saunders was fired as coach of the Washington Wizards on Jan. 24; Bruce
Boudreau was let go by the Capitals on Nov. 28, and Jim Riggleman resigned his
position with the Nationals on June 24 when management wouldn't pick up his
option year.

Washington has been called a coaches' graveyard, and a USA TODAY analysis shows
it's no hyperbole: The nation's capital has the highest coaching turnover of any
market with more than one team in the four major professional sports. The last
five managers/head coaches of each Washington team -- a total of 19 skippers --
lasted an average of less than 2 seasons in the job.

Susan O'Malley, former president of the firm that owns the NBA's  Wizards and
the NHL's Capitals, says it's a reflection of the city's personality, an
extension of the cutthroat political climate that permeates the area.

"Washington is for winners. If you lose, you leave your job and you leave town,"
said O'Malley, who was with Washington Sports and Entertainment (now called
Monumental) for 21 years. "You only got there by winning. You got there because
your guy won and you're with him.  The tolerance for losing, in my mind, is less
in Washington than anywhere else."

In its study, USA TODAY analyzed manager/head coach turnover rates by sport,
franchise and market, using each team's five most recent full-time  bosses.
Interim appointments weren't included, unless the person subsequently was given
the job for the next season. MLB and NFL teams were charted through the
conclusion of the 2011 season; NHL and NBA coaches through the halfway point of
the 2011-12 campaign.

The most stable environment for a field boss is Nashville, which greeted the
third head coach in its still-nascent pro sports history when Mike Munchak took
over the NFL's Tennessee Titans last summer. Jeff Fisher coached the Titans for
16-plus years, including two-plus seasons when the franchise was in Houston,
before mutually parting ways in January 2011.

The NHL's Nashville Predators, who have had one coach, Barry Trotz, in their 13
years of existence, are the organization with the least change. That's an
extraordinary tenure given the turnover in hockey.

The NFL's Pittsburgh Steelers are second to the Predators in coaches' longevity,
perhaps deserving a designation of 1a: They've employed three coaches since 1969
-- Chuck Noll, Bill Cowher and Mike Tomlin. Their last five have averaged 9.4
years.

The hottest coaching seat in professional sports is the man behind the bench of
the NHL's New Jersey Devils, aptly named in this context. Their last five
coaches average less than a year on the job, although there are extenuating
circumstances. Brent Sutter stepped down in 2009 after two years to take the
Calgary Flames job closer to home, and Jacques Lemaire retired in 2010 after one
season.

But Claude Julien was fired with three games left in the 2006-07 regular season
with the Devils headed to the playoffs and John MacLean lasted 33 games as
Lemaire's succesor.

"You don't want anything but the best," said Lou Lamoriello, general manager of
the Devils, who have won three Stanley Cups since 1995, with their last in 2003.
"You have to be accountable to yourself (as GM).  You have to have a reason for
what you're doing, not just an excuse."

The last four months have been particularly tumultuous -- 17 coaches have been
fired since Nov. 6, when the St. Louis Blues released Davis Payne 13 games into
the NHL season. The Sacramento Kings' Paul Westphal lasted seven games into the
lockout-shortened NBA season, and Hue Jackson was fired after one season with
the NFL's Oakland Raiders. Friday, the Toronto Maple Leafs terminated Ron
Wilson, replacing him with Randy Carlyle, who was fired by the Anaheim Ducks on
Nov. 30.

Across all four pro sports leagues, about one in five (22%) of current skippers
have held their job for five years. Only 34% have been in their positions for
three years or more.

NFL coaches maintain the longest tenures (average 4.39 seasons), no surprise
given the emphasis on continuity in offensive and defensive systems. The mean
(half above/half below) in the NFL is 4.12 seasons, although that's likely to
drop in 2012 because seven teams have changed coaches since Thanksgiving.

The NHL, which has turned over 47% of its coaches since the end of last season,
is the most volatile. Six coaches started their first year on the job last fall
and eight others have been fired this season.

"Coaching today is a little different than it was probably six, seven, eight
years ago -- a lot more long-term contracts," Trotz said. "And that puts a lot
more pressure on management. The GM can't make as many moves. When they say,
'Hey, this is my team and it's not working out to expectations,' the easy and
sometimes the only thing to do is to let the coach go. Because you can't make
moves and deals like you used to."

NHL coaches average three years on the job -- and that stat includes the Buffalo
Sabres' Lindy Ruff in his 14th season and Trotz in his 13th. The NHL mean,
through the midpoint of the 2011-12 season, is 2.51 seasons, and without Ruff
and Trotz, the average would fall from 3.02 seasons to 2.7.

The NBA is a shade behind the NHL in turnover, as witnessed by the quick firing
of Westphal. NBA coaches last an average of 3.03 years on the job, with a mean
of 2.78.

MLB managers are second to the NFL in longevity, with an average and mean just
under 3.8 seasons. But the turnover rate will be higher after the retirement of
Tony La Russa (St. Louis Cardinals) and the departures of Ozzie Guillen (Chicago
White Sox) and Terry Francona (Boston Red Sox). At the start of spring training
last month, 11 managers had been on their current job more than two full
seasons.

One-year deals problematic

Riggleman, who will manage the new Pensacola (Fla.) Blue Wahoos in the Class AA
Southern League, has become an expert at reading the tea leaves. He managed all
or parts of 12 big-league seasons with the San Diego Padres, Chicago Cubs,
Seattle Mariners and Nationals.

In three of the four jobs, he took over during the season as an interim manager.
The Padres kept him for two years, the Mariners made a change when a new general
manager was hired in the offseason and he was with the Nationals for a total of
about two years (with one-year contracts for a reported $600,000 annually).

"As an interim manager, if you then manage on a one-year contract, for all
intents and purposes you're still an interim manager," Riggleman said. "There's
a little more of a feeling that nobody's ever been too sure whether you should
be here or not."

Riggleman stresses he isn't blaming management for his departure from the
Nationals. "I did what I thought was the right thing. I never said it was the
smart thing," he said.

He says the key to keeping a job, besides winning, is management and ownership
having the same expectations as the field staff. If the front office feels the
team is closer to winning than the manager, "some paranoia seeps in, the field
personnel feeling like wins and losses are life and death."

The 59-year-old baseball veteran is amused when a coach of a woeful team gets
blamed for a long losing streak. He cited the Cleveland Cavaliers' 26-game NBA
losing streak under Byron Scott last season.

"If you lose 26 straight games or you're a baseball team and you lose 100-plus
ballgames  you can't manage that badly," Riggleman said. "You can only lose 26
straight if you're that bad. That's not a coaching issue.  That's where you are
talent-wise."

Turnover highest in NHL

USA TODAY did a similar but less-detailed study 20 years ago, analyzing the
tenure of coaches in the four leagues. In each sport, the current coaches have
been on the job longer than their cohorts in 1992, demonstrating that volatility
is nothing new.

And hockey is consistently the least secure -- with NHL coaches at the bottom of
the chart in 1982, '92 and this year.

Chicago Blackhawks coach Joel Quenneville, on the job for about 3 years, is
already in the top eight in the league in longevity. The last St. Louis Blues
coach who didn't take over in midseason was Mike Keenan, hired in 1994. Since
then, five coaches have been midseason replacements.

David Poile, the Predators' president of hockey operations and the man who hired
Trotz, says parity in the league with the new collective bargaining agreement is
at least partially responsible for the  volatility.

"Everybody's expectations are so high. Out of the 30 teams, 20 think they have a
legitimate chance to win or compete for the Stanley Cup," Poile said. "Those
expectations are not only carried through the dressing room, but they're carried
into the stands, into the (general) manager's office and into the owner's
suite."

Poile was the Capitals GM for 15 years, but he begs off comparisons of the
markets at opposite ends of the study. Washington is a huge market with a long
tradition in pro sports and two more teams just up Interstate 95 in Baltimore,
he says. Nashville has been a pro sports market for 14  years.

O'Malley says cities have distinct personalities and their sports teams usually
reflect that.

"Every town has an identity," she said. "I do think teams  reflect (their
cities).  New York and Washington are the least forgiving. You've got the
Yankees and Knicks and that reflects the town to me -- power, money. They don't
tolerate much."

Asked if three Stanley Cups raised the bar for the Devils, Lamoriello said,
"Here, the bar is (always) that. The bar is that for the Yankees. The bar is
that for the (New York) Giants."

Chicago, meanwhile, is tougher than its reputation.

"Even though it's the 'Friendly Confines' and (the Cubs have) the label of
lovable losers, it is a big market and there is an element hanging over you,"
said Riggleman, who managed the Cubs for five years in the 1990s.

Patience pays in Nashville

Nashville, meanwhile, has a deserved reputation as a laid-back city. Even the
caffeine-pushing baristas at Bongo Java are friendly and patient. It's also a
relatively new pro sports market, and the Titans and Predators have been
successful.

Poile said the fans might be understanding but they're not laid back when they
get in their seats. "This is probably one of the loudest buildings in the
league," he said of the Predators' home, Bridgestone Arena.

"We're in the entertainment business. Nashville is Music City, USA, and the
people have a good time. It's a little bit different atmosphere than most every
other arena," he said. "They want us to win, but they come for a good time."

Poile's leadership is built around a philosophy of continuity and player
development. He had three coaches in his 15 years as Capitals GM, the post he
held before heading to Nashville to build the expansion franchise. Trotz says
his scouting/minor league background and the fact that he joined the Predators a
year before they took the ice have given him an appreciation of the big picture.
And he cites Poile's patience, particularly in the first five years when the
expansion Predators missed the playoffs.

"We had some rough spots in our organization where it would have been easy to
fire me and say, 'We're looking for a different voice,'" the coach said.

Instead, the GM told the coaches, "I'm going to let you guys figure it out,"
Trotz said.

Added Riggleman: "Some places are a little more understanding of the process you
go through to build a winner. I think Chicago was pretty tough. Philadelphia,
New York, Boston, all those cities, two or three losses in a row and there's a
huge component of people on talk radio who want the manager out of there.

"San Diego and some other places (such as) Houston, you find the people a little
more patient about what the process is going to entail."

---

Calculating the tenures

To examine the turnover/longevity of head coaches/managers in the four major
professional team sports, USA TODAY compiled a database of the last five
coaches/managers of each franchise and the length of service of the coach. The
average tenure of the coaches was calculated. The purpose of the study was to
gauge the volatility of the individual franchises, markets and each sport.

Interim coaches who weren't subsequently hired for the job permanently were
excluded, because the study was limited to those given the job on a full-time
basis (to better examine the volatility of different franchises). If the interim
was subsequently hired to start the next season, his tenure was calculated
beginning with the time he was named interim coach. Thus, Frank Vogel of the
NBA's Indiana Pacers was credited with a year's service (the second half of
2010-11 and first half of 2011-12).

Partial seasons were calculated by the percentage of the season the coach held
the job. For instance, Washington Wizards coach Flip Saunders coached 17 games
of this season's 66-game NBA slate, so he was credited with three-tenths  of
this season.

Major League Baseball and the NFL were studied through the conclusion of their
2011 seasons. New managers/coaches hired in the offseason in those sports
weren't included because they haven't coached a regular-season game and thus
have no tenure. (Kansas City Chiefs coach Romeo Crennel was included because he
was named interim coach to finish the 2011 season and was hired for 2012.)

For the examination of cities/markets, only those with more than one
professional team were studied. Otherwise, it's considered more a reflection of
the single franchise than the market.

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: March 7, 2012



CORRECTION: A cover story and accompanying chart Tuesday about pro coaches'
tenure included an incorrect term to describe some numbers. The median average
was used.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COVER STORY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2012 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              96 of 190 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             March 12, 2012 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Puerto Rico's exodus // Blame the economy;
Island's severe recession is creating a disconnecting 'brain drain'

BYLINE: Haya El Nasser

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1817 words


MAYAGÜEZ, Puerto Rico-- Here, about 100 miles from the tourist-filled beaches,
cobblestone streets and historic forts of Old San Juan and the imposing cruise
ships docked near the walled city, the main attraction has little to do with
tourism. The real draw is the University of Puerto Rico's swelling ranks of
engineering, science and nursing graduates looking for work.

Recruiters for companies such as Boeing and Disney, NASA and other U.S.
government agencies, school districts and hospitals from Texas to Florida flock
to career fairs in this industrial city on the island's western shore.

They're aggressively courting the most coveted slice of the U.S. workforce:
college grads trained in all the hot-button STEM (Science, Technology,
Engineering, Math) disciplines. Add that these students are bilingual, don't
need a passport, visa or any government permission to work stateside, and it's
clear why they're a hot commodity, even in a down economy.

Puerto Rico has seen a historic population decline in the past few years, and
this "brain drain" is a mere symptom of a larger problem rooted in an enduring
recession where unemployment is still above 14%, compared with 8.3% nationally.

To the chagrin of many Puerto Ricans, luring the best and brightest off the
island has become a breeze.

Consider this just the latest chapter in Puerto Rico's story, one shaped by its
complex relationship with the United States. It's a commonwealth -- not a state
-- yet its residents are U.S. citizens who can vote in U.S. elections when
they're living in any of the 50 states or the District of Columbia.

Top destinations for Puerto Ricans

How bad is the exodus? So many residents are leaving the island that more Puerto
Ricans now live on the mainland than in Puerto Rico. The commonwealth's
population had a steeper loss than any of the 50 states since 2006, according to
the Census Bureau. In the year ended July 1, 2011, the island lost about 15,000
residents, a 0.4% slide, to a current population of 3.7 million. That's a bigger
drop than Rhode Island and Michigan, the only states to see a decline.

Increasingly, the exodus is led by educated professionals -- young and
middle-aged.

Young people and families are leaving primarily for jobs, but also to get away
from a spike in crime (more than 1,000 murders last year, a record high that
topped 983 the previous year) and an increasingly active drug trade coupled with
widespread police corruption.

A poll by global market research company Ipsos last October found that 1.5
million people, or 45% of islanders, have considered leaving -- most for U.S.
states. About a quarter of those Puerto Ricans have taken steps to do so, the
poll found.

"Professionals are being forced to leave," says Daphne Santa, a speech and
language pathologist at the Orlando VA Medical Center and chairwoman of the
Puerto Rican Professionals Association based in South Florida. "It's not that
they want to."

"It's a substantial concern," acknowledges Secretary of Commerce José
Pérez-Riera. "We don't want to see the population leave."

"It's a brain drain," Santa says. "I'm afraid the island will continue to
deteriorate because all the thinkers, the intellectuals, are forced to leave."

At the same time, the number of births has slid from 60,000 in 2000 to 42,000 a
year today.

"It's basically the bad economy," says Harold Toro-Tulla, research director at
the Center for the New Economy, a San Juan-based think tank. "When people face a
tough time, they decide to postpone marriage."

The island suffered some of the same speculative housing fever that gripped much
of the USA. Housing values have dropped about 25% since 2007. A luxury high-rise
condominium towers over De Diego Avenue in San Juan, offering health club
amenities and superb ocean views. But most of its units sit empty.

Educated and mobile

More than 20% of Hispanics in Puerto Rico have a bachelor's degree, a higher
educational attainment than people of Puerto Rican origin living in the 50
states and the District of Columbia (16%), according to the Pew Hispanic Center.

"When you go to a job fair (in Puerto Rico), there are thousands of candidates,"
says Nestor Ramirez, director for the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office's
technology center group in Alexandria, Va., and a Puerto Rican who returns to
the island at least once a year. He recruits about 30 people a year on average
in an effort to boost the number of Hispanics in the federal workforce.

"I met a lot of students who work for cellphone or video stores, and they've
graduated," Ramirez says.

Puerto Ricans have come stateside, returned home, come back and returned again
for decades. In 1950, about 250,000 Puerto Rican natives lived stateside. Today:
About 1.5 million, or a third of the 4.6 million Puerto Ricans living stateside,
were born on the island. They are the second-largest Hispanic group in the USA
(after those of Mexican descent).

Although New York and nearby northeastern states were the prime destinations for
much of the 20th century, more Puerto Ricans are now drawn to central Florida, a
destination much closer in miles and temperatures. Only a third of recent Puerto
Rican migrants went to New York.

Florida is gaining a net 7,300 Puerto Ricans a year, far more than any other
state. Texas, North Carolina and Georgia -- all states that were not prime
destinations in previous decades -- have started to attract more Puerto Ricans.
A temperate climate and a strong economy, especially in Texas, are the main
draws.

The island's complicated relationship with the United States goes back to the
Spanish-American War in 1898. Puerto Rico ("rich port" in Spanish) is a former
Spanish colony that became a U.S. territory after that war. Puerto Ricans were
given U.S. citizenship in 1917. In 1952, Congress granted the island the right
to draft a local constitution, making it a commonwealth.

People born in Puerto Rico who live on the island can't vote for president and
have a non-voting member in Congress.

The island's unusual status creates something of a schizophrenic relationship
with its U.S. neighbors. Yes, they're all Americans and the U.S. flag flies over
the island, but moving from Puerto Rico to the mainland requires a much greater
cultural, linguistic (Spanish and English are official languages, but Spanish
dominates) and social leap than moving from Idaho to Utah or Michigan to
California.

"They're here for awhile, and they want to go back," says Victor Vazquez
Hernandez, chairman of the social sciences department at Miami Dade College and
former head of the National Congress for Puerto Rican Rights.

This fluidity is why the island's political parties are defined by the
relationship they want with the USA. Among the main parties, one wants Puerto
Rico to remain a commonwealth, the other -- currently in power -- wants it to
become the 51st U.S. state. A minority party advocates outright independence.

Elections this November will have a two-part referendum on the ballot. The first
will ask voters if they want a change. The second will ask voters to choose
between statehood, independence or the current commonwealth status. Any change,
however, would have to be approved by the U.S. Congress and the president.

"Statehood preference has increased slightly, but it's never seriously
addressed," Vazquez Hernandez says.

Trying to heal the economy

For many Americans, Puerto Rico is a port of call along their Caribbean cruises,
perhaps their only dalliance with the island. But tourism accounts for only 7%
of the commonwealth's economic output. Manufacturing, in fact, is the dominant
driver, though it also has taken a beating during this recession.

Less than nine months before the election, the administration of Gov. Luis
Fortuño is desperately trying to lift the economy.

Puerto Rico as a film location is taking off (the Pirates of the Caribbean
movies were filmed here) and a slew of new incentives -- most designed to keep
people on the island and get others to return -- were recently adopted.

The vision: become an international service center for legal, financial,
insurance and real estate services by levying a low 4% tax on income generated
from exported services and a 90% exemption on the payment of property taxes on
call centers, warehouses and corporate headquarters.

Here in Mayagüez, the government's industrial development arm is using the
50-building Guanajibo Research and Innovation Park near the University of Puerto
Rico's local campus as a life sciences incubator.

There's Cutting Edge Superconductors Inc., which has developed new MRI
technology. Another, LabChemS Corp., provides consulting services to the medical
device industry, creating enough jobs to keep chemical engineers such as Laura
Andujar, 28, here.

"Most of my friends are living in the states now," Andujar says. "I know it's
hard (here), but there are opportunities."

Edisa Albino, 30, got her advanced degree at the University of Maryland but came
back and worked three years as a medical technician. She was thinking of
returning to the USA when one of the new companies offered her a job. She is now
research and development lab director for CDI Laboratories, one of the start-ups
at Guanajibo that's developing antibodies to viruses in a partnership with Johns
Hopkins University.

'I couldn't find anything'

But this trickle of jobs simply isn't enough to stem the exodus.

San Juan native Gustavo Rosario, 28, graduated in electrical engineering in
2007. He was unemployed for a year and later was employed as a warehouse
manager, taught at a community college and worked in the building permits
department.

"I couldn't find anything in my field," he says.

In late 2010, the U.S. Patent office recruited him as an examiner, and he moved
to Alexandria, Va. His wife, Jennifer Castro, finished her dental residency in
Puerto Rico and joined him.

"I'm leaving everything I know -- my family and friends," Rosario says.

Fernando Colón, 29, sees every professional who leaves the island as an
opportunity for himself. He estimates that more than half of his graduating
class went to college in U.S. states, and fewer than 10% came back. Even his
parents moved to Florida for a while, came back and now are thinking of
returning.

Colón wants to stay. His Per Capita Consulting firm, run with three partners,
helps local municipalities take advantage of federal grants for business
development. He sees a future in solar energy.

"I have thought about it," Colón says about leaving. "But there are great
opportunities here."

Contributing: Paul Overberg in McLean, Va.

---

Top destinations for Puerto Ricans

Net flows of Puerto Ricans to the top 10 states each year between 2007 and 2009.
Figures are rounded:

Florida: 7,300

Pennsylvania: 3,500

Texas: 2,600

Massachusetts: 2,500

Connecticut: 1,500

Ohio: 1,500

Georgia: 1,400

North Carolina: 1,100

Virginia: 1,000

Maryland: 1,000

Source: Census Bureau's American Community Survey with analysis by Paul
Overberg, USA TODAY

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Karl Gelles, USA TODAY (Map)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COVER STORY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2012 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              101 of 190 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             June 7, 2012 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Many migrants get care in field;
'Climate of fear' from crackdowns keeps farmworkers from seeking services

BYLINE: Phil Galewitz, Kaiser Health News

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 861 words


Many of the Mexican men and women picking green beans, peaches and strawberries
in this lush, southeast corner of the state are fearful about seeking health
care since a tough new immigration law was enacted last year.

Marisela Clemente, outreach coordinator from Slocomb Family Health Center, is
trying to ease those fears one farm at a time. She joins eight workers taking a
break  at 150-acre Aplin Farms.  After joking with the men and women in Spanish,
she asks about  their health and urges them to visit the nearby migrant clinic,
where the staff speaks Spanish and doesn't require proof of citizenship.

"We have to go to them because they are afraid to come here to the clinic," says
Clemente.

Such clinics, part of a 50-year-old federal program that treats migrant and
seasonal farmworkers, have become flash points in the national immigration
debate.

Local, state and federal law enforcement authorities have staked out some
migrant clinics, detained staff taking patients to medical appointments and set
up roadblocks near their facilities and health fairs as part of immigration
crackdowns, according to federal reports and interviews with clinic officials in
Alabama, Arizona, Florida, Georgia, New York and North Carolina.

"We are looking at a growing climate of fear where folks really think long and
hard about accessing basic services," says Milton Butterworth, who oversees
outreach migrant health services for Blue Ridge Community Health Services in
Hendersonville, N.C.

Even many legal workers do not seek care at the health centers because they are
fearful of exposing family members who are not legal residents, says Tara Plese,
a spokeswoman for the Arizona Association of Community Health Centers. "It's a
big concern from a public health perspective."

Those concerns include making sure farmworkers' children are vaccinated,
stopping the spread of infectious diseases such as AIDS and treating those with
chronic problems such as diabetes, officials say.

Backers of the nation's 156 migrant clinics say caring for all farmworkers  is a
humane way to treat 3 million people toiling at the heart of the nation's food
supply. About half are illegal immigrants, according to the latest federal
survey  in 2009.

Federal aid opposed

Conservative groups say the federal government shouldn't pay for those here
illegally, except in emergency cases. "These people have a responsibility to
take care of their own health needs," says Ira Mehlman, spokesman for the
Federation for American Immigration Reform, a group seeking stricter immigration
laws.

In 2010, the federal government spent $166 million to help care for nearly
900,000 migrant farmworkers, who pay on a sliding scale. A visit in southeast
Alabama averages $30.

A report in November found that immigration enforcement fears kept workers from
getting care at centers in Alabama, Florida and Georgia.

"There have been credible reports of roadblocks and raids near health clinics,
giving farmworkers good reason to be afraid," said the report by the Florida
Association of Community Health Centers. It said 82% of surveyed migrant
providers indicated that in the past year "there have been incidents of
farmworkers or immigrants in their area being arrested or intercepted in the
process of accessing healthcare services."

In December, a caseworker for Finger Lakes Migrant & Community Health in Upstate
New York was pulled over by federal border patrol agents while driving two
farmworkers to a dentist. She was handcuffed, detained for several hours and
accused of transporting illegal immigrants. The farmworkers were taken to a
detention center. The caseworker wasn't arrested, but the incident shook up the
staff, CEO Mary Zelazny says.

Daniel Hiebert, U.S. Border Patrol deputy chief patrol agent in Buffalo, says
the case was a "single incident," and not part of a crackdown on  care
providers. But he notes that it is illegal to transport illegal immigrants,
whether knowingly or not.

Gillian Christensen, a spokeswoman for U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement,
denies that her agency targets clinics to find illegal immigrants.

Outreach is pivotal

Since Alabama's law took effect in September (several provisions are blocked
pending court review),  the Slocomb Family Center has  seen a change: The
clinic's annual health fair at a local church in September drew 74 people, down
from 300 in previous years.

"People feared immigration services would be there," says Melissa Bradford of
Southeast Alabama Rural Health Associates, which runs the center.

Maria Lopez, who has worked at Aplin Farms for several years, says the center
helped treat her back pain and arthritis. "They are very good for me," she says.

John Aplin, whose family owns Aplin Farms, says he welcomes outreach staff
because they help keep his workers healthy. Noting that state troopers have set
up nearby roadblocks, he adds: "They say they are looking for drugs, but we know
who they are really looking for."

Kaiser Health News is an editorially independent program of the Henry J. Kaiser
Family Foundation, a non-profit, non-partisan health policy research and
communication organization not affiliated with Kaiser Permanente.

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2012 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              107 of 190 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            October 4, 2012 Thursday
                                 First EDITION

In one-on-one, strong on defense;
Fast game of stats often ignores rules

BYLINE: Susan Page, @susanpage, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 1054 words


Given what the pundits said Mitt Romney had to achieve in Wednesday night's
debate, the Republican challenger might well have wished he could burst onto the
stage with  superpowers. He had to be more empathetic, they said, while
simultaneously staying on the attack against President Obama.

So as the first of three debates between the two men began, Romney ripped the
president's record on the economy with a tone calculated to convey more sorrow
than anger. He told the stories of individuals who have come up to him and his
wife, Ann, at campaign events asking for help in getting a job or saving their
home from foreclosure.

"Yes, we can help," he said, looking straight into the camera, speaking to the
millions of voters watching from their homes, not the hundreds of them in the
University of Denver arena. "But it's going to take a different path, not the
one we've been on."

Obama accused Romney of proposing tax cuts that would explode the deficit and
benefit the wealthy. When Romney disputed that -- saying he wouldn't reduce the
tax burden on the wealthy or approve tax cuts that increased the deficit -- the
president expressed incredulity.

"Now four weeks before the election, he is saying his big, bold plan is: Never
mind," Obama said. He accused Romney of proposing to "double down" on economic
policies that contributed to the economic meltdown that greeted him four years
ago in the Oval Office.

Much of the initial discussion was a dizzying competition of numbers on tax
policy, on spending levels, on the state of the U.S. economy. Halfway through
the 90-minute encounter, Obama had talked about the importance of investing in
education and mentioned the  auto industry bailout.

Romney had vowed to change course on a series of policies, including repealing
Obama's signature health care law. He ridiculed the president's assertion that
the tax code encouraged businesses to ship jobs overseas. "I've been in business
25 years," he said. "I have no idea what you're talking about."

Both men spoke quickly, tried to hold the floor and persisted in ignoring the
entreaties of moderator Jim Lehrer to respond to his specific questions. At
times, they interrupted one another or talked at the same time.

Romney had an experience advantage. He participated in 19 debates during the GOP
primaries, initially in a field of eight candidates stretched across the stage
in Goffstown, N.H. Obama hasn't debated since the last of his three encounters
with John McCain four years ago.

Not since then has he faced an opponent, side by side, on a level playing field
-- the podium in front of him not even adorned with the presidential seal. At
the beginning of the debate, he seemed a bit stiff and uneasy, though he warmed
up as the  hour went on.

Romney was relaxed and conversational, even though he had never participated in
a debate in which the audience was so large and the stakes so high.

Since the Democratic National Convention last month, polls show Obama has opened
a narrow lead nationwide and a bigger one in such swing states as Ohio and New
Hampshire. Romney has been forced to do damage control over release of a
secretly recorded video of him telling a Florida fundraiser that 47% of
Americans were dependent on government and that it was "not his job" to worry
about them.

If Obama could be satisfied with a draw, Romney went into the race needing to
shake things up.

As with every presidential debate, the two candidates were poised to seize on a
sharp exchange, the memorable quip or the opponent's gaffe that could lead the
news accounts afterward and define the evening for voters. Still, for this
particular debate, there was also the possibility of exploring the considerable
differences between the candidates on how they would spur growth and their views
on the role of government in the 21st century.

Even though the two sides effectively have been campaigning against one another
for most of the year, the vast majority of ads have been negative and the points
of attack often an ill-considered comment by the other guy, sometimes taken out
of context -- from Obama's "you didn't build that" to Romney's "I like to fire
people."

The candidates and their running mates continue to provide fuel for those fires.
The latest: Vice President Biden's comment at a rally this week that the middle
class has been "buried" by economic woes for the past four years. (That would be
during Obama's first term.)

But the length of the debate, the relatively unstructured format and the focus
on four broad topics were designed to encourage a substantive discussion -- with
varying degrees of success. For 90 minutes, standing side by side, the two
contenders were set to discuss various aspects of the economy for 45 minutes,
then health care, governing and the role of government for 15 minutes each.

In each of the quarter-hour segments, in response to a question posed by
moderator Lehrer of the PBS NewsHour, the candidates were to have two minutes to
respond.

The ideological divide between Obama and Romney on dominant questions of the day
-- this year, it's the economy and its slow climb out of recession -- is as wide
as it has been in any presidential election in more than a generation.

Although there is always a difference between the Democratic and Republican
views, the divide this time has been exacerbated by circumstance and politics.

In some ways, Obama is defending a more liberal record for the past four years
than he outlined during the 2008 campaign, including a bailout of the auto
industry and an $833 billion stimulus bill. He also signed the Affordable Care
Act, a signature campaign promise that expanded the federal government's hand in
health care, although he failed to win action on climate change or immigration.

Romney, meanwhile, has endorsed a more conservative agenda this year than he
followed during his tenure as Massachusetts governor, when he worked with a
state Legislature  controlled by Democrats. Some of the positions he took in the
GOP primaries this year may have been a political necessity in his bid to win
the nomination of an increasingly conservative party whose energy has been
fueled by the Tea Party movement.

As a result, there is a more conservative Romney and a more liberal Obama facing
off in this election than their previous political lives might have signaled.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2012 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              109 of 190 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           November 8, 2012 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Deep-pocketed donors pay the price;
Democrats get more for their money

BYLINE: Fredreka Schouten, @fschouten, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 751 words


Republican mega-donors placed a huge bet on red in this election and lost.

Outside spending in presidential and congressional races surpassed $1 billion,
with more than $715 million targeting President Obama, who won a second term,
and congressional Democrats, who strengthened their grip on the Senate in the
face of record independent spending. The withering advertising barrage also did
little to change the partisan makeup of the House, where Republicans maintained
their majority.

"They spent $1 billion and got a return of the status quo," said Anthony
Corrado, a campaign-finance expert at Colby College in Maine.

Republican groups prevailed in roughly a third of the contests where they
outspent Democratic organizations, according to a USA TODAY analysis of races
with at least $1 million in outside political activity in the general election.
Spending by liberal groups appeared to be more effective: Democrats won
two-thirds of the races in which Democratic-leaning groups outspent Republicans,
the analysis shows.

One of the biggest spenders -- American Crossroads, a super PAC backed by former
George W. Bush administration strategist Karl Rove -- had a lower rate of return
than any other group in the general election, according to a tally by the
non-partisan Sunlight Foundation.

Overall, American Crossroads and an affiliated non-profit spent more than $175.8
million during the entire election cycle. Of the 10 candidates they spent the
most to defeat, only one -- Nevada Democratic Rep. Shelley Berkley -- lost. More
than $113 million targeted Obama.

Crossroads spokesman Jonathan Collegio said the group helped GOP nominee Mitt
Romney remain competitive, and donors understand that. "Anyone who invests in a
campaign or a super PAC knows there is a degree of risk involved in that
investment in a political climate where an incumbent president can out-raise his
challenger by hundreds of millions of dollars," he said.

Collegio said the election also showed that candidates matter.

In Indiana, Democrats picked up a once-safe Republican Senate seat after Rep.
Joe Donnelly beat Republican Richard Mourdock. Mourdock faltered in the final
weeks of the campaign when he said a pregnancy caused by rape was something
intended by God.

The Crossroads groups spent more than $4.7 million to oppose Donnelly. Mourdock
also was aided by the anti-tax Club for Growth group, which backed him over
veteran Republican Sen. Richard Lugar in the primary.

"We've lost at least six Senate races in the last two cycles because of
sub-optimal candidate quality," Collegio said.

Club for Growth spokesman Barney Keller said the group does not regret its
decision to boost Mourdock. "He would have won had he not said what he did two
weeks before the election," Keller said.

Ron Reese, a spokesman for this election's top megadonor, casino magnate Sheldon
Adelson, did not respond to interview requests Wednesday. Adelson and his wife,
Miriam, have donated more than $50 million to super PACs.

Other billionaire donors touted their accomplishments. New York City Mayor
Michael Bloomberg spent more than $8.2 million in the final weeks of the
campaign to aid  candidates who back his positions on gun control and gay
marriage. He also gave $750,000 to support successful same-sex marriage
initiatives in four states, said Stefan Friedman, a spokesman for Bloomberg's
Independence USA PAC.

Is more spending likely in future elections? "That's certainly a possibility
after the successes of last night," Friedman said.

Tuesday marked the first presidential contest after the Supreme Court's 2010
Citizens United decision, which allows unlimited corporate and union money in
federal races. In all, spending by candidates,  parties and outside groups is
projected to hit an unprecedented $6 billion when all  expenses are tallied.

Though the spending did not alter Washington's partisan makeup, the sheer amount
gushing into the presidential and congressional races led to renewed calls
Wednesday for changes to campaign-finance rules. Rep. Chris Van Hollen, D-Md.,
said he plans to push for more disclosure of political spending, an idea that
has not  gained much traction in Congress.

Some Republicans argue that it's time to dismantle contribution limits to give
political parties equal footing with outside groups. "We should start with
strengthening the political parties and not limiting free speech," said Texas
Sen. John Cornyn, the Republican who oversees election efforts in the Senate.

Contributing: Christopher Schnaars

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2012 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              116 of 190 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 13, 2012 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Skiers give Sochi snow high marks

BYLINE: Kelly Whiteside, @KellyWhiteside, USA TODAY Sports

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 10C

LENGTH: 507 words


Today's snowflake just might be tomorrow's Olympic ski jump. At least that's the
case in Sochi, Russia. In February2014, the resort city along the coast of the
Black Sea is hosting the first Winter Olympics in a subtropical region. So
what's an Olympic city to do when winter feels more like spring? Save this
winter's snow for next winter's Games.

Last weekend, Sochi rolled out what it calls the "Guaranteed Snow Program" in
its first international test event at the RusSki Gorki Jumping Center, where
athletes competed in 50-degree temperatures. There will be snow on the runs,
hills and jumps even when the temperature is above freezing, organizers say.

And so the Sochi organizing committee dumped 4,600 cubic meters of snow (about
162,447 cubic feet) on the ski jump. The snow was collected last year in a
reservoir near the venue and stored in a freezer of sorts -- ice sheets in the
mountains.

"Snow in February in Sochi is guaranteed, but in case of warm weather we have
prepared a backup plan," Dmitry Chernyshenko, chairman of the organizing
committee, said after the event.

The next  test event  in the mountains  will  be a World Cup in cross-country
skiing and Nordic combined in early February.

When U.S.  ski jumpers arrived in Sochi, they were taken aback when they saw
chunky balls of ice on the hill. Soon, those  balls were smoothed to form an
immaculate jump.

The U.S. women left thrilled with the venue -- and their performance. Three
Americans finished in the top 10 where women's ski jumping will make its Olympic
debut.

"Our first impression about the venue is good," U.S.  coach Paolo Bernardi said.
"All the venues are surrounded with beautiful mountains and great views, but
also construction. I can't wait to see how this place can look next year."

Sochi officials  might be able to manipulate Mother Nature (and global warming),
but it remains to be seen whether officials will be able to manage a man-made
issue. In the other  test event  last weekend, Russian President Vladimir Putin
watched figure skating's Grand Prix final amid plenty of empty seats at the
12,000-seat Iceberg Palace, even though the event was called a sellout. Traffic
was cited as an issue.

"The first question I put to the president of the Sochi 2014 organizing
committee (Chernyshenko) when I arrived here was about the spectators,"
International Skating Union President Ottavio Cinquanta said. "Obviously, this
is a problem, but that's why we have these test events to find out what we need
to do beforehand. I'm sure all the venues will be full for the Olympic Games."

---

'BONE CHILLING'

U.S. ski jumper Sarah Hendrickson dominated her sport last season, winning nine
of 13 events to become the inaugural World Cup champion. After Saturday's World
Cup victory, she got a special thrill. "The head of Sochi's 2014 organizing
committee shook my hand and said, 'Hopefully I will be shaking your hand again
at the Winter Games,'" said Hendrickson, 18. "I know he said that to everybody
on the podium, but it was bone chilling that it's so close."

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2012 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              118 of 190 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             January 9, 2012 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Obstructionism leaves Obama little choice on appointments

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 595 words


To hear Senate Republicans howl, you'd think that President Obama had declared
himself king last week. Not quite. All he did was temporarily name someone to
head a new consumer protection agency that Congress created in 2010.

Many Republicans are openly hostile to the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau,
which is supposed to prevent deceptions by banks, mortgage firms and payday
lenders. They see it as a source of heavy-handed regulation.

Since failing to prevent its creation, they've tried to hobble the agency by
denying it a director, blocking two highly qualified candidates in hopes of
forcing  Obama to agree to changes that would weaken the bureau.

Initially, Obama tried to appease Republicans, bypassing the most obvious choice
to head the bureau -- Harvard law professor Elizabeth Warren, who had largely
designed the agency -- because she was a lighting rod for critics. But last
month, Senate Republicans blocked the second choice,  former Ohio attorney
general Richard Cordray.

So on Wednesday, Obama named Cordray in a "recess appointment," along with three
controversial nominees to the National Labor Relations Board. The move was both
a political tactic by the president, who can use it to tar Republicans as
defenders of Wall Street at the expense of consumers, and a predictable
consequence of Congress' failure to govern.

Under the Constitution, presidents can appoint heads of agencies when the Senate
is in recess. Presidents since George Washington have taken advantage of this
privilege, often using it to install controversial nominees. In 1903, Teddy
Roosevelt brazenly used the few seconds between the end of one yearly
congressional session and the beginning of the next to make 160 appointments.

This is certainly not the preferred way to get nominees in place and might be
vulnerable to a constitutional challenge. But it at least is a gridlock breaker
in polarized Washington.  Ideally, presidents should have wide latitude to
appoint heads of executive agencies, and the Senate's confirmation power should
be used  to prevent unqualified or unethical nominees from serving, a
description that fits neither Cordray nor Warren.

Instead, nominations have become just another political game, with advice and
consent used by senators -- of both parties -- to stymie nominees and even
entire agencies they don't like. And like other political games, this one has
gotten out of hand in today's poisonous partisan climate, leaving  dozens of
important government jobs and judgeships vacant.

In late 2007, Senate Democrats began using brief, "pro forma sessions" to stop
President George W. Bush from making recess appointments. Republicans copied the
ploy during the recent Christmas-New Year's recess,  trotting out a senator to
gavel an empty chamber into session for a few seconds every three days.

The validity of the appointments turns on whether that practice constitutes a
real session. Some scholars argue that any actions that appointees such as
Cordray take will be open to challenge because they weren't legally appointed,
and courts might well have to sort out the constitutional questions.

But from a common-sense standpoint, you'd think there is already enough
hypocrisy in Washington without pretending that an empty Senate chamber where no
business is conducted is really "in session."

Congress created the consumer protection bureau in 2010. The agency opened its
doors in July. Obviously, it should have a leader. Sometimes, the government
simply has to get going and do its job, no matter how badly obstructionists
prefer  gridlock.

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2012 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              123 of 190 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            January 20, 2012 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Republicans confident they'll hang onto House

BYLINE: Susan Davis

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 526 words


Republicans in the House of Representatives face  a toxic national attitude
toward Congress,  but there remains broad confidence within the GOP that its
control of the chamber is not in jeopardy.

It's a message party leaders are sharing with their rank-and-file lawmakers
gathered this weekend in Baltimore for their annual three-day retreat to develop
policy and political strategy for 2012. Rep. Pete Sessions, R-Texas, who runs
the campaign operation, will give a presentation today outlining a national
landscape that doesn't point  to a Democratic takeover.

Their confidence is based on four factors: fewer competitive districts; the
ongoing  redistricting process  that has provided no dramatic advantage for
either party; the unlikelihood this will be another wave election for Democrats
akin to President Obama's 2008 wave; and electoral history.

Since World War II, no party holding the White House has gained more than 16
House seats in the president's re-election year, except for 1964 when President
Lyndon Johnson defeated Barry Goldwater in a landslide. Democrats need 25 House
seats to win the majority.

Democrats are unbowed, arguing that the political climate is trending in their
favor. "We have steadily and incrementally made progress over the past year, and
the House Republicans have steadily and incrementally lost ground," said Rep.
Steve Israel, D-N.Y., chairman of the House Democrats' campaign operation.

Israel cited backlash toward Republicans during partisan  fights that threatened
a government shutdown, as well as battles over  raising the debt ceiling and
extending the payroll tax break that have helped Democrats recruit candidates,
appeal to independents and build campaigns.

Democrats announced this week that they have recruited candidates to run in 76
House districts they hope to put in play by November.

"I'm not saying that the majority is a guarantee," Israel said. "I am saying we
are nipping at their heels, and we have the potential to overtake them in the
next nine months."

Independent election analysts offer caution to go with Democrats' optimism. The
Cook Political Report's outlook predicts that Republicans will maintain their
majority but that Democrats are likely to enjoy a net gain in seats to narrow
the Republicans' 242-seat majority.

"There doesn't currently suggest an environment where Democrats could win 25
seats," said David Wasserman, House editor of the Cook Report who is also
analyzing the effects of the redistricting process, when states redraw
congressional district lines every 10  years to reflect population changes based
on the U.S. Census.

The redistricting process is sure to bring a significant number of new faces to
Congress in 2013 because there are 44 House races in which no incumbent is
running. The redrawing of the lines has not given either party a decisive
advantage to pick up seats, but rather has largely reinforced the status quo,
Wasserman said.

"There's sure to be a big congressional shake-up because there will be a large
freshman class, and there will be a lot of new faces in Congress, but it is not
necessarily going to disproportionately affect one party," he  said.

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo By Susan Walsh, AP Competing for control of Congress: House
Speaker John Boehner of Ohio is surrounded by his colleagues after speaking at a
news conference on Capitol Hill in Washington on Dec. 20.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2012 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              130 of 190 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          February 22, 2012 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Sprint Cup Drivers

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 6C

LENGTH: 1802 words


With big-dollar sponsorships harder to come by in a tough economic climate,
NASCAR's Sprint Cup driver lineup has taken on a more streamlined look for 2012
after a bout of offseason contraction. USA TODAY's Chad Leistikow and Nate Ryan
take a closer look at 30 regulars entering the season:

Jamie McMurray

Earnhardt Ganassi Racing

Drives: Chevrolet

Born: June 3, 1976

Crew chief: Kevin Manion (returning)

Overview: Had more DNFs (did not finish) than top-10s (5-4) and was 27th in
points, prompting an organizational overhaul.

Nate Ryan's take: After posting a home run season worthy of Albert Pujols in
2010, morphed into Joe Charboneau in '11.

Brad Keselowski

Penske Racing

Drives: Dodge

Born: Feb. 12, 1984

Crew chief: Paul Wolfe (returning)

Overview: Upstart 2011 run landed him a surprise Chase berth, and now assumes a
leadership role with Kurt Busch gone.

Nate Ryan's take: Keselowski likes taking on The Man, be it NASCAR execs or Cup
stars. With a title, he could be The Man.

Kasey Kahne

Hendrick Motorsports

Drives: Chevrolet

Born: April 10, 1980

Crew chief: Kenny Francis (returning)

Overview: The hand-picked Mark Martin successor finished 2011 strong and seems
to be energizing his new teammates.

Nate Ryan's take: If Hendrick can keep him away from Twitter during times of
great social upheaval, he'll be fine.

Marcos Ambrose

Richard Petty Motorsports

Drives: Ford

Born: Sept. 1, 1976

Crew chief: Todd Parrott (returning)

Overview: The new RPM team leader needs to improve his consistency after 12
top-10 finishes and 11 of 25th or worse.

Nate Ryan's take: NASCAR's favorite Tasmanian leads Cup in road-course prowess
and delightfully dulcet accents.

Denny Hamlin

Joe Gibbs Racing

Drives: Toyota

Born: Nov. 18, 1980

Crew chief: Darian Grubb (new)

Overview: Looking to regain his 2010 form (eight victories) after a season of
mechanical failures.

Nate Ryan's take: Owns season tickets to the Charlotte Bobcats and wants to play
the Champions Tour. At least he's a realist as a driver.

Casey Mears

Germain Racing

Drives: Ford

Born: March 12, 1978

Crew chief: Robert "Bootie" Barker (returning)

Overview: After missing the Daytona 500 last year, had the fifth-fastest lap in
qualifying Sunday.

Nate Ryan's take: Might not have another dream opportunity as he had with
Hendrick Motorsports but has carved out a niche most wouldn't mind.

Tony Stewart

Stewart-Haas Racing

Drives: Chevrolet

Born: May 20, 1971

Crew chief: Steve Addington (new)

Overview: Won his third title in style. Only Dale Earnhardt, Richard Petty,
Jimmie Johnson and Jeff Gordon have more.

Nate Ryan's take: Has his old Joe Gibbs gang together, and his buddies know how
to run the show without any dead weight.

Clint Bowyer

Michael Waltrip Racing

Drives: Toyota

Born: May 30, 1979

Crew chief: Brian Pattie (new)

Overview: Missed the Chase after a summer fade; was the odd man out at Richard
Childress Racing.

Nate Ryan's take: Jittery sponsor Five Hour Energy is a perfect fit, but will
the effervescent Kansan mesh with such a laid-back lineup at MWR?

Greg Biffle

Roush Fenway Racing

Drives: Ford

Born: Dec. 23, 1969

Crew chief: Matt Puccia (returning)

Overview: A strong Daytona 500 qualifying effort (second) is a positive step
after his worst statistical season since 2004.

Nate Ryan's take: As a testy exchange with Boris Said proved last year, NASCAR's
a better place when "The Biff" gets blunt.

Matt Kenseth

Roush Fenway Racing

Drives: Ford

Born: March 10, 1972

Crew chief: Jimmy Fennig (returning)

Overview: Coming off a three-win season that saw him in title contention, but
lack of sponsorship is a lingering concern.

Nate Ryan's take: Surely more sponsors could use a sardonic star who peels off
razor-sharp quips as deftly as he drives.

Kyle Busch

Joe Gibbs Racing

Drives: Toyota

Born: May 2, 1985

Crew chief: Dave Rogers (returning)

Overview: Issued a reminder of his elite talent with a Bud Shootout win. Gets a
fresh start after a tumultuous finish to 2011.

Nate Ryan's take: Don't go 128 mph in a 45 zone, don't wreck others under
caution -- see, staying out of trouble is easy!

Joey Logano

Joe Gibbs Racing

Drives: Toyota

Born: May 24, 1990

Crew chief: Jason Ratcliff (new)

Overview: Gets Kyle Busch's Nationwide crew chief as he enters final year of his
contract. Slumped to 24th in points in 2011.

Nate Ryan's take: It's Chase or bust for this former can't-miss phenom, who is
fortunate to have one more shot with JGR.

A.J. Allmendinger

Penske Racing

Drives: Dodge

Born: Dec. 16, 1981

Crew chief: Todd Gordon (new)

Overview: No career wins but consistent with RPM (22 top-15s in 2011), and now
gets a secure base for the first time in Cup.

Nate Ryan's take: Congrats, you're driving for a top team! Now better win or
make the Chase, or you might be out of a ride.

Jeff Gordon

Hendrick Motorsports

Drives: Chevrolet

Born: Aug. 4, 1971

Crew chief: Alan Gustafson (returning)

Overview: Chase aside, he had his best season since 2007 and doesn't seem to be
showing any signs of a post-40 fade.

Nate Ryan's take: No one expected Four-Time would get to seven titles, but it's
hard to believe he still is waiting on a fifth.

Paul Menard

Richard Childress Racing

Drives: Chevrolet

Born: Aug. 21, 1980

Crew chief: Richard "Slugger" Labbe (returning)

Overview: Coming off his best year in Cup: a breakthrough win at the Brickyard,
eight top-10s and 17th in points.

Nate Ryan's take: Hardware scion shed the "Daddy's Boy" label at Indy. A Chase
spot can remove all vestiges of the past.

Kevin Harvick

Richard Childress Racing

Drives: Chevrolet

Born: Dec. 8, 1975

Crew chief: Shane Wilson (new)

Overview: New York Yankees fan's "closer" abilities rival Mariano Rivera's, but
he hasn't brought that to the Chase.

Nate Ryan's take: Without truck and Nationwide teams, "Happy" will get sad more
quickly if he falls short of another title.

Jeff Burton

Richard Childress Racing

Drives: Chevrolet

Born: June 29, 1967

Crew chief: Drew Blickensderfer (new)

Overview: After his worst points finish (20th) since 1995, warmly welcomes a
successful Roush Fenway Racing crew chief.

Nate Ryan's take: "The Mayor" is in no danger of being recalled, but the
loquacious Virginian's power base could use shoring up.

David Ragan

Front Row Motorsports

Drives: Ford

Born: Dec. 24, 1985

Crew chief: Jay Guy (new)

Overview: Won at Daytona in July but was a victim of Roush Fenway contraction,
then missed out on Kurt Busch's ride. Starts over with an upstart.

Nate Ryan's take: If he posts the same results as in an underperforming stint
with Roush, he'll become a hot property again.

David Gilliland

Front Row Motorsports

Drives: Ford

Born: April 1, 1976

Crew chief: Pat Tryson (new)

Overview: Career highlight continues to be a stunning Nationwide win in 2006.
Typically a factor on superspeedways (third in the 2011 Daytona 500).

Nate Ryan's take: Did you know he once was a title-winning crew chief for his
dad, Butch? Now you do.

Ryan Newman

Stewart-Haas Racing

Drives: Chevrolet

Born: Dec. 8, 1977

Crew chief: Tony Gibson (returning)

Overview: Continues to be a great qualifier (one away from his 50th career pole)
but has struggled to turn that into wins (three in the last six seasons).

Nate Ryan's take: Has become a dependable cog in Cup; can he recapture the
championship promise and brilliance of 2002-03?

Juan Pablo Montoya

Earnhardt Ganassi Racing

Drives: Chevrolet

Born: Sept. 20, 1975

Crew chief: Chris Heroy (new)

Overview: Hiring a key Hendrick engineer as crew chief could provide a boost for
the Colombian, who has yet to master ovals (0-for-171 in Cup).

Nate Ryan's take: Re-signed with Chip Ganassi, but the combustible duo's
honeymoon won't be long if struggles continue.

Aric Almirola

Richard Petty Motorsports

Drives: Ford

Born: March 14, 1984

Crew chief: Greg Erwin (new)

Overview: Steps into his first regular Cup ride, hopping into the seat vacated
by A.J. Allmendinger. Was fourth in the Nationwide Series in 2011.

Nate Ryan's take: Petty liked Almirola's last Cup start with RPM -- a
career-best fourth, in 2010 at Homestead-Miami.

Bobby Labonte

JTG Daugherty Racing

Drives: Chevrolet

Born: May 8, 1964

Crew chief: Todd Berrier (new)

Overview: The veteran keeps sponsors happy, and his team has made organizational
changes to try to elevate its results.

Nate Ryan's take: Remember when he was the first driver making inroads on
Twitter? Yeah, seems as long ago as his lone championship (2000).

Jimmie Johnson

Hendrick Motorsports

Drives: Chevrolet

Born: Sept. 17, 1975

Crew chief: Chad Knaus (returning)

Overview: Got testy with Knaus, encountered rare bad luck and ended up with his
worst points finish (sixth) in 10 Cup seasons.

Nate Ryan's take: The craziest thing about Johnson's five-year title run ending?
The No. 48 car was faster last season than it had been in 2010.

Kurt Busch

Phoenix Racing

Drives: Chevrolet

Born: Aug. 4, 1978

Crew chief: Nick Harrison (new)

Overview: Made a handshake agreement over beer to drive for James Finch's small
operation after an unceremonious exit with Penske Racing.

Nate Ryan's take: The 2004 champion says he plans to put the fun in finishing
20th. Many won't believe it until they see it.

Mark Martin

Michael Waltrip Racing

Drives: Toyota

Born: Jan. 9, 1959

Crew chief: Rodney Childers (new)

Overview: After a down year (22nd in points) at Hendrick, Martin goes again into
semi-retirement with 25 races in David Reutimann's former ride.

Nate Ryan's take: Ask him how old he is, but only if you can outbench, outlift
and outmuscle the most freakishly fit driver ever.

Martin Truex Jr.

Michael Waltrip Racing

Drives: Toyota

Born: June 29, 1980

Crew chief: Chad Johnston (returning)

Overview: The two-time Nationwide champion hasn't had the same success in Cup
but is on the upswing after 12 top-10s, his most since 2007.

Nate Ryan's take: Clint Bowyer and Mark Martin will provide a pressure-packed
bench mark for building results.

Regan Smith

Furniture Row Racing

Drives: Chevrolet

Born: Sept. 23, 1983

Crew chief: Pete Rondeau (returning)

Overview: An alliance with Richard Childress Racing gives the only Cup operation
headquartered west of the Mississippi (in Denver) hope for success.

Nate Ryan's take: Jury still out: Will his Southern 500 win be recalled as the
start of a starring turn or as among  biggest flukes ever?

Dale Earnhardt Jr.

Hendrick Motorsports

Drives: Chevrolet

Born: Oct. 10, 1974

Crew chief: Steve Letarte (returning)

Overview: Coming off a seventh-place season and meshes well with Letarte. Junior
Nation doesn't need reminding that the winless drought is at 129 races.

Nate Ryan's take: If the most popular driver wins the Daytona 500, NASCAR's long
national nightmare will be over.

Carl Edwards

Roush Fenway Racing

Drives: Ford

Born: Aug. 15, 1979

Crew chief: Bob Osborne (returning)

Overview: Perhaps his most remarkable stat of 2011: 18 finishes of second
through fifth but only one win -- which cost him the championship tiebreaker.

Nate Ryan's take: Another runner-up or two, and he'll join Mark Martin in the
discussion of best driver not to win a title.

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2012 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              131 of 190 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           February 28, 2012 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Kerrey may run for Senate seat in Neb. after all;
Ex-governor's possible reversal gives Democrats renewed hope

BYLINE: Susan Davis, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 546 words


Former Nebraska governor, senator and 1992 presidential candidate Bob Kerrey is
angling for a comeback.

The Democrat, 68, is considering jumping into the open Senate race where
Democratic Sen. Ben Nelson is retiring. Kerrey's potential entry, just days
before Thursday's filing deadline to appear on the primary ballot, is giving
Democrats new-found hope of holding the seat in a year when their Senate
majority is in jeopardy and the Nebraska seat in particular is at a high risk
for a GOP takeover.

The Washington Post first reported on Kerrey's potential entry, a complete
reversal from earlier this month when he announced he would not run, citing
family concerns. His former campaign manager, Paul Johnson, told the Associated
Press that Kerrey was considering a run but said reports that he has already
decided to run "are not true."

Kerrey did not respond to a call for comment on his intentions.

Independent election analysts have forecast the seat as a likely Republican
pickup opportunity this November. Republicans were unshaken Monday by the
prospect of a Kerrey candidacy, citing changes in state politics in the GOP's
favor since Kerrey's name last appeared on a ballot in 1994. He did not seek
re-election in 2000.

Kerrey's support of President Obama's health care law and his voting record in
favor of abortion rights are ripe targets in a Senate race in a conservative
state. Obama lost Nebraska by 15 points in 2008.

"Given the mood in Nebraska I don't have any real doubt that this is still a win
for us absolutely and unequivocally," said Jordan McGrain, the executive
director of the Nebraska Republican Party.

There are five Republicans seeking their party's nomination in the May 15
primary. Attorney General Jon Bruning is the presumed frontrunner with a 10-to-1
fundraising advantage over his closest opponent.

Kerrey's Nebraska roots run deep -- he was elected statewide three times and
served from 1983 to 1987 as governor and 1989 to 2001 as senator -- but he has
also spent the past decade residing in Manhattan, where he served as president
of The New School, a liberal arts college. He has a compelling biography as a
former Navy SEAL in Vietnam and recipient of the Congressional Medal of Honor.
He lost his right leg in combat.  He also served on the 9/11 Commission.

He made a long-shot bid for the presidency in 1992 on a platform based largely
on his support of a federally run, publicly financed health care system, but he
has also broken with the Democratic mainstream in the past in calling for
overhauls of Social Security and Medicare.

Kerrey's 16-year record in elected office could prove a drag in the current
political climate, where incumbency and veteran politicians are generally viewed
negatively by the electorate.

One candidate, former University of Nebraska Regent Chuck Hassebrook, is
currently running in the Democratic primary. It was unclear whether he would
stay in the race if Kerrey gets in, considering Kerrey's anticipated support by
the Democratic establishment and fundraising abilities if he does. In a
statement Monday, Hassebrook expressed disbelief at the reports, noting that he
resigned from the board of regents based on Kerrey's word that he would not get
in the race. "I do not believe he would go back on it," he said.

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2012 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              135 of 190 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             March 6, 2012 Tuesday
                                 CHASE EDITION

Limbaugh apologizes for comments;
But it hasn't been accepted by everyone, including advertisers

BYLINE: Martha T. Moore, USA TODAY

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 1361 words


Under attack from all sides, conservative radio icon Rush Limbaugh apologized
Monday for calling a female law student a "slut" and a "prostitute," but it was
not enough to stop a stream of advertisers on his nationally syndicated radio
show from dropping him.

The intensity of the conflict reflects not only the usual skittishness of
advertisers, who hate controversy even when they deliberately choose a
controversial show, but also the volatile political climate during a Republican
primary that, to Democrats' delight, has veered into sensitive social issues.

Republicans including House Speaker John Boehner, Majority Leader Eric Cantor
and GOP presidential candidate Newt Gingrich all said Limbaugh owed the woman an
apology. Conservative pundit David Frum called Limbaugh's conduct "a new kind of
low."

"This was not a case of a bad 'word choice.' It was a brutally sexualized
accusation, against a specific person, prolonged over three days," he wrote
Monday on CNN.com

But some conservatives, including former presidential contender Michele
Bachmann, denounced what they saw as a double standard that punishes
conservative commentators more harshly than liberal talk-show hosts. And
Republican groups, including a pro-Gingrich super PAC, said they would continue
to advertise on the show.

Limbaugh devoted at least half an hour of his three-hour show Monday to
reiterating his apology to Sandra Fluke, a Georgetown University law student --
while restating his opposition to her call for contraception to be covered by
health insurance. Limbaugh had been thoroughly criticized by Democrats and
Republicans alike since his comment Wednesday that Fluke was a "prostitute"
because, he said, she wanted to be paid to have sex.

"Against my own instincts, against my own knowledge, against everything I know
to be right and wrong, I descended to their level (the political left) when I
used those two words to describe Sandra Fluke," Limbaugh said. "And I feel very
badly about that. I've always tried to maintain a very high degree of integrity
and independence on this program."

Limbaugh had issued a written apology Saturday but reiterated it on his program.
"I again sincerely apologize to Ms. Fluke for using those two words to describe
her. I do not think she is either of those two words. I did not think last week
that she was either of those two words."

Advertisers flee

At least a dozen companies, including AOL, Allstate and Sears, said Monday that
they would no longer advertise on Limbaugh's show, which reaches an estimated 15
million listeners weekly. Tractor maker John Deere, solar panel maker Verengo
Solar and postage website Stamps.com ran ads during Monday's broadcast, as aired
on WABC radio in New York, the largest station carrying the show, but the three
companies said Monday afternoon that they would no longer advertise.

Stamps.com spokesman Eric Nash said in an e-mail that "Rush Limbaugh's recent
comments do not align with our company values, and as such, Stamps.com has
suspended advertising on the Rush Limbaugh radio program."

On air, Limbaugh joked about the pulled ads, saying he had tried to call his own
show to cancel his own ads but couldn't get through.

Clear Channel's Premiere Radio Networks has Limbaugh under contract through
2016. "We respect the right of Mr. Limbaugh, as well as the rights of those who
disagree with him, to express those opinions. The contraception debate is one
that sparks strong emotion and opinions on both sides of the issue," the company
said in a statement. "We believe he did the right thing on Saturday, and again
this morning on his radio show, by expressing regret for his choice of words and
offering his sincere and heartfelt apology to Ms. Fluke."

The battle over contraception stems from a new rule issued by the Obama
adminstration requiring most employers to offer health insurance that includes
coverage for contraceptives. After intense criticism from Catholic groups and
Republicans, the adminstration amended the rule, placing responsibility for
birth control coverage on insurance providers instead.

On Monday, Limbaugh reiterated his argument that Fluke is being used by
Democrats to shift discussion from the constitutional requirement of religious
freedom to access to contraception, which he called "Page 1a of the Democratic
playbook: Republicans hate women."

Limbaugh's apology was not meaningful, Fluke said Monday on ABC's The View. It
was made "under significant pressure from his sponsors, who have begun to pull
their support," she said.

'Delivery was degrading'

A Hawaii radio station, KPUA, dropped Limbaugh's show. "Regardless of one's
political views on the issue , we feel the delivery was degrading and the
continued comments over several days to be egregious," New West Broadcasting
Corp.'s president and general manager, Chris Leonard, said in a statement to the
Associated Press.

The Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, calling Limbaugh part of a
"Republican war on women," said it had gotten 300,000 people to sign a petition
demanding an apology. Musician Peter Gabriel, whose Sledgehammer played during
Limbaugh's show, told the show host to stop using his music.

Limbaugh predicted Monday that the lost advertising would be replaced and said
that he had previously rejected "millions of dollars" in ads that would be
unacceptable to his audience.

Punishments for wayward broadcasters vary. In 2007, morning radio host Don Imus,
whose show frequently featured political guests including Sen. John McCain and
Sen. Chris Dodd, was fired by CBS Radio after he called the championship-winning
Rutgers University women's basketball team "nappy-headed hos," although he had
apologized on the air and in person. On Monday, he called Limbaugh's apology
"lame."

Talk-show host Bill Maher, who recently donated $1 million to President Obama's
super PAC, used offensive sexual terminology to describe Sarah Palin on his HBO
show last year. He has been criticized by the National Organization for Women
(as has Limbaugh) but continues to appear in his show on the cable network --
which, as Maher pointed out, is financed by viewers' fees, not advertising.

"I don't have sponsors," Maher said when the Limbaugh controversy broke.

But Tim Graham of the Media Research Center, a conservative media-watching
group, said "it's very easy to make a big, huge list" of Maher's offensive
comments. But "nobody says to him, 'Um, are you going to take that back?' That's
the problem, that we have a complete and total double standard."

As a result, he said, Limbaugh's standing in the conservative community will not
change. "I don't think that somehow Limbaugh is some radioactive zone," Graham
said. "The apology, certainly by conservatives, is an accepted thing, and they
can move on."

Limbaugh does not regularly have guests on his show, but Florida Republican Sen.
Marco Rubio, touted as a potential vice presidential nominee, was a guest last
summer, and his spokesman said Monday that he would appear again "if invited."

Bachmann, R-Minn., who dropped out of the presidential race in January, told CNN
that conservative women are denigrated by liberal commentators without
consequences. "I have never seen this level of outrage on the left about what
left-leaning commentators said about me," Bachmann said in an interview that was
set to air Monday on Piers Morgan Tonight.

Winning Our Future, a super PAC backing Gingrich, ran two ads critical of Mitt
Romney during Monday's broadcast and said it would not pull its ads. "Why would
we?" said Rick Tyler, a senior adviser, noting that Limbaugh had apologized to
Fluke. "Did USA TODAY call advertisers on Bill Maher's show after what he said
about Sarah Palin?"

Americans for Prosperity, a free-market advocacy group, also will continue to
advertise.

"Rush apologized for comments that went over the line, and that should be
enough," said Levi Russell, spokesman for the free-market advocacy group. "The
reason we support Rush in this is because we agree with his core point, that it
is truly outrageous to obligate the American people to subsidize the private
life of Ms. Fluke or anyone else."

Contributing: Catalina Camia and Paul Singer

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2012 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              138 of 190 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             March 12, 2012 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Investing in energy innovation;
Grants aim to give boost to research and development of ideas from new fuels to
batteries

BYLINE: Wendy Koch, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 882 words


Tobacco as a source of fuel? Batteries to power a car for 500 miles on a single
charge? A wave disk engine -- the size of a cooking pot -- that boosts a
vehicle's fuel efficiency?

These ideas are a few of the dozens being funded by the Obama administration as
part of a little-known program that encourages "high risk, high value" energy
innovation  that swings for the fences.

They were spotlighted in a recent, gee-whiz showcase, complete with high-powered
lasers and microscopic transmitters,  hosted near Washington, D.C., by the
Department of Energy's ARPA-E (Advanced Research Projects Agency-Energy). The
program is modeled after the Defense Department's larger, decades-old DARPA
(Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency), which says it invented the
Internet.

Yet the third annual Energy Innovation Summit came  amid debate about the
federal government's role in funding clean technology. Critics, including many
Republicans, cite the DOE's half-billion-dollar loan guarantee to bankrupt solar
manufacturer Solyndra and its $10 million L Prize last August to Philips
Lighting for developing an "affordable," efficient, made-in-America LED light
bulb -- that costs $50.

"The government does not have a good track record of funding research for
commercial development," says David Kreutzer, an energy economist at the
Heritage Foundation, a conservative think tank. He says it should fund only
basic research and leave more commercial ideas to venture capitalists. If
something is promising enough, such as advanced batteries, he says, the
marketplace will take it.

Not necessarily so, ARPA-E's supporters say. Energy Secretary Steven Chu says
the program, established by a bipartisan 2007 law, gives small, two- to
three-year grants so  researchers  can get over the development hump and attract
private funding.

ARPA-E, which received $400 million in Recovery Act funds and $275 million in
fiscal 2012, acts as a sort of matchmaker by introducing scientists to investors
and manufacturers. It's separate from the  loan guarantee program that funded
Solyndra.

Citing the rise in gasoline prices,  Chu says  innovation is essential for
weaning the USA  off its dependence on fossil fuels. He says it's also vital for
mitigating climate change.

"We're looking at America's sweet spot," Chu told reporters, citing the nation's
strengths in innovation and manufacturing. He touted ARPA-E's innovations:

Lithium batteries. California-based Envia Systems, which received a $4 million
grant in March 2010, announced last month  that its lithium-ion battery has
broken the world's record for energy density at 400 watt-hours per kilogram --
more than double today's batteries.

Atul Kapadia, the company's CEO, says Envia has raised $28 million from General
Motors and other major automakers to commercialize its product within the next
few years. He expects its battery will cost 50% less than those in today's
electric vehicles.

ARPA-E is funding research on other types of lithium batteries, including a
metal-air version by Berkeley, Calif.-based PolyPlus Battery  that aims to run a
car for 500 miles on a single charge -- five times that of the all-electric
Nissan Leaf.

Tobacco fuel. The DOE's Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory received in
January a $4.9 million, three-year grant to re-engineer tobacco plants so they
use energy from sunlight to produce fuel molecules  in their leaves, which are
then crushed so the fuel can be  extracted.

"Just imagine, if they're successful, you'd have Big Oil and Big Tobacco coming
together to save the world," ARPA-E's director Arun Majumdar quipped at the
summit.

Electrofuels. Boulder, Colo.-based OPX Biotechnologies, which received a $6
million grant in 2010, is engineering bacteria to produce liquid fuel by
diverting energy and carbon from its own growth. It says its process is 10 times
more efficient than photosynthesis, which is used to produce most existing
biofuels.

Grid-scale energy storage. Since wind and solar are intermittent sources of
energy, the New York City-based CUNY  Energy Institute received a $3 million
grant in  2010 to develop a low-cost battery that can store the power until it's
needed. The institute plans to spin off a startup  to commercialize its
room-size, zinc-manganese oxide batteries.

Fuel efficiency. Michigan State University is using a $2.5 million grant
received in October 2009, to develop a wave disk engine that uses a shock wave
to compress fuel and dramatically boost the efficiency of a hybrid vehicle. It
says the engine is lighter, cheaper and cleaner.

Laser drilling.  Colorado-based Foro Energy Inc. received $9.1 million to
develop lasers that could drill through volcanic rock to access geothermal
energy. "There's a lot of  interest in what we're doing," says Brian Faircloth,
adding Foro has contracts with U.S. and foreign oil companies to begin drilling
this year.

Microsoft's Bill Gates, speaking at the  summit, said the U.S. should double its
spending on energy research even though he expects about 90% of the ideas will
fail.

"We need to be willing to take risks," said Gates, who has invested in a
start-up  to create safer, smaller and more efficient nuclear power plants. He
said TerraPower, which he chairs, is looking to build a demonstration plant and
"China is one possible place."

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2012 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              141 of 190 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              April 6, 2012 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Something old is something new;
Toyota's 'all-new sedan' is an upgraded version of Avalon

BYLINE: Fred Meier

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 592 words


Toyota teased leading up to the New York International Auto Show that it would
unveil an "all-new sedan" and pointedly did not name it. General speculation was
that it was a successor to the Avalon full-size sedan, perhaps with a new name.

Today we found out that is indeed the successor, and that the name is (drum
roll) the Avalon.

The new Avalon will fight for sales in the relatively narrow market niche of
full-size sedans that, despite being less than 5% of car sales, has been getting
crowded with new models, including a new Chevy Impala unveiled Wednesday, a
redesigned Hyundai Azera and a coming refreshing of Ford Taurus for 2013.

The 2013 Avalon's design is relatively conservative -- similar in parts to the
new Impala and new Azera -- but with a large-mouthed lower grille. It has the
currently popular, sloping "four-door coupe" roofline, evocative in this case of
an Audi.

Beyond the name and design, Bob Carter, group vice president and general manager
of Toyota in the U.S., also said the new Avalon will have a V-6, but the exact
engine and power and mileage ratings are to be announced later. Better mileage
will be key to selling a full-size sedan as gas prices rise. The current Avalon,
also a V-6, is rated a modest 19 city, 28 highway, 23 combined.

Toyota also did not give pricing. The current model starts at about $33,000,
which is a higher number than the car's sales last year -- 28,925, according to
Autodata -- which the company aims to boost with the redesign.

The new Avalon is about the same size as the 2012, but roomier, particularly in
the rear seat and trunk, Carter said. Toyota promises ride and handling
improvements, too. Upscale touches include  a stitched leather dash covering and
touch controls for climate and audio.

Carter also emphasized the new Avalon's U.S. pedigree: It was designed
start-to-finish in the U.S. and will be built in Kentucky with 90% U.S. parts
content.

New Subaru crossover

Subaru is burnishing its outdoorsy image with a new vehicle for the U.S. market,
the XV Crosstrek unveiled at the show.

Coming  this fall is a five-door crossover based on the new Impreza hatchback
that has pep, yet fairly good fuel economy. It's powered by a 148-horsepower,
2-liter four-cylinder engine, mated to a five-speed manual transmission or a
continuously variable automatic. As it's a Subaru, it's all-wheel drive all the
time.

Subaru estimates the XV Crosstrek will be rated 25 miles per gallon in city
driving, 33 mpg highway and 28 mpg combined.

It's built high to enhance its off-road credentials, with a higher ride height,
roof spoiler and 17-inch wheels. It has nearly 9 inches of ground clearance.

Acura concept for new RL

Acura  unveiled a concept for the redesign of its aged flagship RL. It will get
a new name -- the RLX -- and a new "sport hybrid" powertrain option.

American Honda CEO Tetsuo Iwamura said the model would embody Acura's efforts
for "human-centered synergy" in its cars, as well as provide value in the
premium market, though no price was given. The concept will go on sale in
production form early in 2013, Iwamura said.

The technological highlight is the "Sport Hybrid SH-All-Wheel Drive" system seen
first on Acura's NSX  concept. It combines a new 3.5-liter, direct-injection V-6
with the Sport Hybrid system's three electric motors for about 370 hp combined.
Iwamura said it would deliver V-8 acceleration with an estimated EPA rating of
30 mpg across the board -- city, highway and combined.

The production RLX's base powertrain with front-wheel drive will be a
310-horsepower V-6.

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo By Stan Honda, AFP/Getty Images 2013 Avalon: To feature a
stitched leather dash covering.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: AUTOS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2012 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              144 of 190 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              June 4, 2012 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Romney, Trump indicate level of delusion in GOP

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 221 words


Donald Trump's latest "birther" assertion against President Obama combined with
Mitt  Romney's failure to denounce him is indicative of Republican leaders
living in a land of self-imposed delusion ("Trump is a clown who hurts Romney,"
The Forum, Friday).

Recall that some Republicans  are  individuals who believe Obama is a Muslim
socialist from Kenya, that evolutionary biology is a liberal hoax used to
discredit Christianity and that climate change is a  scam made up by scientists
seeking grant money.

It is a sad day in our country when we have many real, difficult challenges to
confront, and  so many on the right choose to be disconnected from reality.

Jeff Clauser

Chicago

Courts rightly weigh intent

The opposing view on  May 25 in the editorial debate on the Rutgers webcam case
pointed out that prosecuting bias crimes is punishment of thought, which the
writer suggested should cause concern ("Thoughts, not deed, punished").

However, the legal system already  judges thought: Intent is a defining factor
in murder vs. manslaughter,  and motive is relevant in sentencing. Furthermore,
prosecution of bias crimes is not seeking punishment  for thought. Someone can
have thoughts all day and be free of any legal recompense; it is the action, and
the intent behind the action, that is important.

David Leiserson

Covington, Ky.

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2012 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              145 of 190 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             June 6, 2012 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Calif. gay-marriage ban on track to high court

BYLINE: John Bacon with staff and wire reports

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 607 words


A federal appeals court in San Francisco refused Tuesday to reconsider a
landmark ruling by two of its judges that struck down California's ban on
same-sex marriage. Backers of the ban "absolutely" plan an appeal to the U.S.
Supreme Court, said Brian Raum of the Alliance Defense Fund, a Christian
legal-defense group.

American Foundation for Equal Rights co-founder Chad Griffin, whose group backed
the court challenge, said, "The final chapter of the Proposition 8 case has now
begun." The case is the first federal trial to examine whether a state can
prohibit gays from getting married without violating their rights. Same-sex
unions were briefly legal in the state before 52% of voters approved the ban in
November 2008.

Hazing death bringing changes to FAMU

Trustees at Florida A&M University will consider new guidelines today for the
university's renowned, suspended Marching 100 Band.

The anti-hazing plan calls for all band, ensemble and choir members to be
full-time FAMU students with at least a 2.5 grade-point average. Before the band
was indefinitely suspended in the wake of drum major Robert Champion's November
hazing death, students from FAMU and two other schools could be band members if
they were enrolled in one band class. Last fall, 101 people on the band roster
were not enrolled in the class. FAMU President James Ammons said last month the
band will remain suspended at least through spring 2013.

--Jennifer Portman, The Tallahassee Democrat

Schools opting out of 'pink slime'

School districts are rejecting "pink slime," the beef product that caused a
public uproar in recent months, the Agriculture Department reported.

The USDA said the vast majority of states participating in its National School
Lunch Program are ordering ground beef that doesn't contain the product known in
the industry as lean finely textured beef. Only Iowa, Nebraska and South Dakota
chose to order beef that may contain the filler. The filler is made of fatty
bits of beef that are heated and treated with a puff of ammonia to kill
bacteria. The product has been used for decades, and federal regulators say it's
safe to eat.

Fire-damaged sub may be repairable

An early estimate of about $400 million to repair the fire-damaged USS Miami sub
means it may be saved, said Rep. Chellie Pingree, D-Maine.

The nuclear-powered sub was  at Maine's Portsmouth Naval Shipyard for an
overhaul when the fire broke out May 23. Pingree, a member of the House Armed
Services Committee, said she is "optimistic that this means the boat is
repairable." The Navy said it will provide a formal repair estimate in a few
weeks. The 22-year-old sub cost about $900 million to build, but a similar sub
now could cost more than $2 billion, Pingree said.

Oklahoma was record hot, hot, hot

Oklahoma endured the hottest summer of any state in history last year,
climatologists reported.

A new tally by the National Climatic Data Center showed that Oklahoma's average
temperature in 2011 was 86.9 degrees, while Texas finished with 86.7 degrees.
The previous record for the hottest summer for any U.S. state was 85.2 degrees
set in 1934 -- in Oklahoma. The summer of 2011 in Oklahoma "was warmer than all
those summers that they experienced during the Dust Bowl," said Deke Arndt,
chief of the center's climate monitoring branch. The center previously had given
the dubious crown to Texas, but updated stats sent it to Oklahoma.--Doyle Rice

Also

PHOENIX -- An SUV found burning in the desert Saturday with five bodies inside
was registered to the home of a missing family of five, including three
children, Tempe police Sgt. Jeff Glover said. The bodies had not been
identified.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2012 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              151 of 190 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              July 16, 2012 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Service sector leads in job gains;
Long-term trends fuel uneven rebound

BYLINE: Paul Davidson and Barbara Hansen, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 447 words


Service businesses are leading an uneven jobs recovery that has pushed sectors
such as warehouse club retailers back to their pre-recession employment levels
while related categories -- such as department stores -- are still far from
recouping their losses, a USA TODAY analysis shows.

The starkest difference: More than 70% of jobs lost in service industries have
returned three years after the recession's end, while only 15% of jobs lost in
manufacturing, construction and other industries that produce goods have come
back. The analysis is based on Labor Department data from January 2008 -- when
total U.S. employment peaked -- through last month.

"You have winners and losers, and the contrasts are sharper because of the
severity of the recession," says Mark Zandi, chief economist at Moody's
Analytics.

Overall, the government's latest estimates show that the nation has regained
about 3.8 million, or 44%, of the 8.8 million jobs lost in the downturn, which
officially began in December 2007 and ended in June 2009. Many economists say
those jobs won't all be back until 2015 or later.

Long-term economic trends, some predating the recession, explain some of the
disparities. The service sector has outpaced the goods-producing category for
years. But manufacturing jobs continued to move abroad  in the downturn, and the
housing crash crushed  the construction industry.

Advances in technology, changes in global trade and other business trends also
help explain why some other employment categories have done well and others
haven't.

Accounting firms, for instance, have regained 87% of the jobs they lost. The
industry is benefiting from growth in start-up businesses, as well as new
financial rules and U.S. company expansions abroad,  says Scott Moore, a senior
manager for the American Institute of CPAs.

Legal services, by contrast, have regained just 17% of their lost jobs.

As litigation waned in the recession, many firms had to charge fixed, rather
than hourly, fees, slashing revenue, says Hal Sirkin, a senior partner at Boston
Consulting Group. Law firms are also relying more heavily on temporary legal
professionals to handle investigations, says Charles Volkert, head of Robert
Half Legal, a staffing firm.

General merchandisers include warehouse-style discounters such as Sam's Club and
Costco that have grown as consumers have turned to them to snap up bulk items,
says Jack Kleinhenz, chief economist of the National Retail Federation.

Such stores have recouped 92% of their lost positions. Yet department stores
have regained just 41% of their lost jobs.

Although retail sales have risen about 4% annually the past two years, many
consumers are shopping online.

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, Color, Julie Snider, USA TODAY (pie chart)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2012 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              156 of 190 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             August 27, 2012 Monday
                                 First EDITION

Moonshine gets a buzz on -- legally;
Hooch is a hot item in stores and on screen

BYLINE: Craig Wilson, USA TODAY

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 378 words


Moonshine: It's not just for hillbillies anymore.

That mysterious Southern brew, once available only to those who knew someone who
knew someone, has been going legit of late. Just walk in a store and buy it.
Yes, it kind of takes the thrill out of the hunt.

But sales of the clear corn whiskey, traditionally made by bootleggers in the
hollows of Appalachia but now bottled by big distillers, are soaring.

It's showing up on more than just liquor store shelves, too. HBO's Boardwalk
Empire, set in the Prohibition era when "shine" reigned, returns Sept. 16, and
Discovery Channel's aptly named Moonshiners returns in late October or early
November. Lawless, a bootlegging tale, opens Wednesday in theaters nationwide.

"The mystique of moonshine is just that -- a mystique," says Phil Prichard,
master distiller at Prichard's Distillery in Kelso, Tenn., whose Lincoln County
Lightning topped Southern Living's five best legal moonshines this year.
"There's good moonshine and there's bad moonshine, but people buy it all."

North Carolina's Piedmont Distillers reports soaring sales of its moonshine,
according to Shanken News Daily, which covers the spirits world. In the first
half  of 2012, Piedmont sold more than 100,000 six-pack cases. Now going
nationwide, sales are expected to increase 200% over last year.

Ole Smoky Moonshine is taking to cable, launching its first national TV ads on
Discovery, including on the upcoming season premiere of Moonshiners.

"We loved the world, the characters, and we knew it was a great show," says
Nancy Daniels, Discovery's vice president of production and development. "We're
thrilled our viewers (an average of 4.3 million each week in the first season)
thought so, too."

And at least one actor is using moonshine to get into character. Shia LaBeouf
drank moonshine for his role as a bootlegger in Lawless. "It's a different
drunk," he tells  USA TODAY. "You start hearing bells. Your  hearing changes.
And it's a lot like opium. It becomes hallucinatory."

Lawless star Tom Hardy says he knows why everything moonshine is hot:  "Back
then, there was real frustration with the government.  The economy was under
pressure. There's a recognition these stories are relevant in today's climate."

Contributing: Andrea Mandell and Bryan Alexander

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2012 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              157 of 190 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            August 30, 2012 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Romney's ideological journey muddles his identity

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 524 words


More than most presidential candidates, Mitt Romney presents voters with
questions about who he is and how he would govern.

The Republican nominee  is not the callous, job-killing, dog-mistreating
plutocrat that he's caricatured as in Democratic attacks. Nor is he, by virtue
of his wealth, totally out of touch with the middle class. Politicians don't
rise as far as he has unless they can connect with average Americans.

But that's who Romney isn't. Who he is and what he believes are tougher nuts to
crack.

As most people already know, Romney is a highly competent individual and
successful business executive, one devoted to his family, his Mormon faith and
public service. Ideologically, however, he is more of a muddle.

Is he the pragmatic problem-solver he was as a businessman, leader of the 2002
Winter Olympics and governor of deep-blue Massachusetts? Or is he "severely
conservative," as he described himself during this year's Republican primary
battle?

And what should voters make of his famous policy shifts on major issues such as
abortion, gun control, health care reform, stem cell research, immigration, gay
rights and climate change? Consistency might be the hobgoblin of small minds,
but in pursuit of the presidency, Romney has changed positions far more than
your average politician.

Some see his older positions  as a sign that he is a closet moderate. Others see
his newer opinions as a kind of ball and chain that will make it even harder for
him to tack to the center or reach deals with Democrats. Until he explains his
evolution -- hopefully in tonight's acceptance speech at the Republican
convention -- he leaves himself vulnerable to charges that he is an unmoored
flip-flopper, driven by personal ambition, not conviction. And that perception
will amplify concerns that his core proposals, intentionally vague, are built
not on bedrock but on sand.

For instance, Romney says he wants to balance the federal budget. But  how would
he reform Medicare, and health care spending in general, to tame the biggest
obstacle to balanced budgets? And what programs would he cut, beyond such
relative small potatoes as Amtrak and public broadcasting?

He says he wants to lower tax rates and simplify the tax code. So which popular
deductions would he eliminate or curb, and for whom?

And he says he'd pursue a more muscular foreign policy than President Obama's.
If so, would he choose neoconservatives, like those who engineered the Iraq War,
as his secretary of State and top foreign policy advisers?

It's easy to see why Romney has been reluctant to get into specifics. Any
position he takes could be used against him by Obama or his surrogates. It's
also a safe bet that he'd govern in line with his more recent positions. Whether
he believes in them or not, he's the leader of an increasingly conservative
party, and he can't get much done without its support.

Romney might hope he can simply ride into the White House on a wave of
discontent with the economy and by promising to undo Obama's legacy. But enough
voters remain mystified by the GOP nominee that he will have to give them more,
if not tonight then before Election Day.

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2012 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              161 of 190 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            October 4, 2012 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

In Denver, candidates avoid reality on taxes, spending

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 532 words


The presidential candidates spent much of Wednesday's first debate vowing to fix
something largely beyond their control (the $15.6 trillion U.S. economy) and
ducking the tough choices on something presidents have much more power to manage
(the $1.2 trillion federal deficit).

Tens of millions of viewers heard President Obama make another pitch for his
plans to promote education, manufacturing and clean energy, which have gone
nowhere in Congress. And they heard the Republican challenger Mitt Romney again
lay out a five-part program which he said would create 12 million jobs in the
next four years, a number that several independent economists say is achievable
even without new policies.

During a rambling debate laden with details, what viewers didn't hear was much
acknowledgment that the American economy is buffeted by multiple factors --
rapid technological change, globalized labor markets, boom-and-bust business
cycles, the European debt crisis, slowing growth in Asia -- that are well beyond
the reach of Washington.

And for all the discussion of the deficit and the blizzard of numbers, nor did
viewers hear credible plans for taming the long-term debts that threaten the
nation's future. In recent years, Washington has been borrowing 40 cents of
every dollar it spends. That's unsustainable. Getting the budget back toward
balance, something the president and Congress do have direct control over, will
require cutting spending and raising revenue.

In a cautious performance that frustrated even some of his backers, Obama
acknowledged that both are necessary, but he continued to pitch new
"investments" and pretended that the only people who should pay higher taxes are
those making more than $250,000 a year. The feistier Romney, meanwhile, stuck to
Republican anti-tax rigidity while continuing to be vague about which programs,
beyond relatively tiny PBS, and deductions could be slashed.

Their lack of specificity is explicable from a purely political perspective.
Politicians generally don't run for office by promising to trim benefits and
hike taxes, or get elected by appealing for sacrifice in difficult times. But
given the stakes, their lack of leadership is striking.

Arguably the best thing that a president could do for the economy  now is to
resolve the uncertainty about the budget that is restraining growth. A plan that
steers clear of the year-end "fiscal cliff" of destabilizing tax hikes and
spending cuts, while overhauling unaffordable benefit programs,  would give
employers and investors the confidence they need to put money at risk and create
jobs.

The candidates didn't even mention this fiscal cliff, but their surrogates
tacitly acknowledge that something big will have to happen at year's end or
early in the next presidential term, regardless of who wins the election. But
neither camp sees much merit in making specific proposals now that the other
side would tee up for attack in TV ads and the remaining debates.

So both candidates are running on unsatisfactory and unrealistic plans while
hinting that they would pivot after the election to try to broker a bipartisan
deal. If that is the case, it makes you wonder what the debates are all about.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2012 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              164 of 190 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            October 22, 2012 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Intense focus on White House overshadows Congress' role

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 498 words


In the first two debates, President Obama and Mitt Romney have talked a lot
about their plans. Their plans for the economy, the federal budget, health care,
energy and a variety of other issues.

Mostly unmentioned in all the back and forth is the role of Congress. Presidents
and would-be presidents don't like to admit it, but their powers are limited.
They can propose, veto, cajole and rally public opinion. But typically, Congress
has the last word.

That's why, despite the intense focus on the White House, this year's
congressional races warrant attention, too. All 435 seats in the House are on
the ballot, with most political prognosticators expecting the Republicans to
maintain control. In the Senate, where the Democrats are fighting to hold on to
their slender majority, 33 seats are up for grabs.

So no matter who wins the presidency, chances are he'll face at least one
chamber controlled by the other party. He will certainly not have a
filibuster-proof majority of 60 votes in the Senate. That puts a premium on
dealmaking to break the gridlock of recent years.

As we've said before, gridlock is not good.

It won't solve the conundrum of federal spending, two-thirds of which is on
autopilot and rising faster than inflation. It won't fix a tax code that is an
unholy mess. And it won't allow Washington to address problems such as climate
change and immigration, or even to have a mature discussion about them.

For that reason, it's important that voters seek out  lawmakers who see politics
as the art of the possible, not as an exercise in partisan trench warfare.
Lawmakers who know how to compromise, rather than hold out for some unlikely
distant day when their side will have complete control.

This need not mean that voters should  choose only moderates.

It is more than possible for liberal and conservative members to work together
on some areas while disagreeing on others. Sen. Orrin Hatch, a Utah
conservative, and the late senator Edward Kennedy, the quintessential
Massachusetts liberal, were famous for it.

Congress desperately needs men and women of goodwill who will stop drawing lines
in the sand, will stand up to party gatekeepers and purity enforcers, and will
put the national interest first.

All of the dysfunction and unpopularity of today's Congress hasn't made it any
less important. It still writes tax and spending bills. Its assent is needed to
reform any of the major benefit programs such as Medicare and Social Security.
The president has more sway over foreign policy, the topic of tonight's third
and final debate, but even here the Constitution gives Congress the most
consequential power, that of declaring war.

The legislative branch should not be overlooked, even in a year with a close
presidential election. In fact, here's one more reason to pay attention to
congressional races: If Obama and Romney end up in a 269-269 tie in the
Electoral College, the next president will be chosen by the House of
Representatives. The newly elected House.

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2012 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              173 of 190 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          November 14, 2012 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

'Dust Bowl' is not just dry history;
Ken Burns harvests the stories behind the storms

BYLINE: Carol Memmott, @CarolMemmott, USA TODAY

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 3D

LENGTH: 851 words


In 1935, in Morton County, Kan., 2-year-old Rena Marie Coen  succumbed to dust
pneumonia, one of a countless number of tragedies caused by one of the worst
man-made environmental disasters in history, the Dust Bowl.

In April 2012, three men stand at Rena Marie's grave and weep. Two are her
brothers, Dale, 90, and Floyd, 87, who still mourn their baby sister. The third:
filmmaker Ken Burns, whose two-part documentary The Dust Bowl airs Sunday and
Monday on PBS (8 ET/PT, times may vary).

The Coens are two of the  survivors of the Dust Bowl who share memories of loss
and hardship in Burns' film.  "I haven't really ever gotten over it," Dale says
of Rena Marie in the documentary.

Burns, in an interview relating their private visit, says: "1935 is an awfully
long time ago.  But both of them breaking down and crying as if the death
happened yesterday, that's the spectacular thing about time and memory and that
DNA that forms what we call story or history."

For Burns, whose  mother died from cancer when he was 11, the  visit stirred up
emotions.  "How much of it was grief for my mother, how much of it was empathy
for Floyd and Dale, and how much was thinking about a little girl and having
little girls (Burns has four, ages 2 to 30)? And all of that is mixed in."

The decimation of the soil on the southern Plains in the 1930s, brought on by
drought, greed and destructive farming practices, was exacerbated by winds
lifting hundreds of tons of roiling topsoil and sand into the air. It blackened
the sky, killed crops and suffocated livestock. Add in Depression economics, and
countless farm families were brought to their knees.

Cal Crabill, 88, who lived on a cattle ranch near Holly, Colo., recalls the day
school was let out early as  a dust storm and clouds began bearing down.
"Black, black clouds," he says in an interview.  "It was as loud as anything I
ever heard, including thunderstorms and a hurricane at sea, and it was great
fear."

Says Burns, "You can talk about the Dust Bowl and tell a good story, but unless
you have people remembering what it was like, we didn't think  the real drama of
it would be there."  Each day of  filmmaking  "was a revelation of discovery of
the extensiveness of the storms, the 10-year apocalypse that it was, the fact
that it was a man-made ecological disaster."

The bedrock of any of his films, The Civil War to Baseball, is "emotional
archaeology," Burns says. "We weren't just interested in excavating dry dates
and facts and events, but looking for some higher emotional glue that would make
all those dates and times and events stick together."

After completing 2007's The War,  telling the story of World War II through  men
and women who lived through it, Burns and his partners realized there was no
time to waste locating those who lived through the Dust Bowl, many of whom
would be older than the witnesses to WWII.

Morton County, where the Coens grew up, lies in the geographical heart of the
Dust Bowl, millions of acres that included the Panhandle of Oklahoma and
tangential areas of Colorado, Kansas, New Mexico and Texas. To find them and
other  witnesses,  Burns recorded appeals that aired on local PBS stations  and
held  roundtables at retirement homes, assisted-living facilities and historical
societies. People brought albums and photographs and memories.

They shared their families' stories of hunger, depression, suicides, land
forfeitures and sickness. They recalled the dust that covered every inch of
their homes,  filled their ears and eyes and caused them to cough up mud, and
how they sat in their homes with damp flour sacks pulled over their heads,
struggling to breathe. They talked about the infestations of locusts and rabbits
that overran the land like  biblical plagues.

Like any other boom-and-bust tale, the Dust Bowl is a complicated one, about
human nature and Mother Nature colliding.  "It's at its root a story of hubris
and the inevitable greed," Burns says.  "It was the classic bubbles of real
estate, agriculture and market speculation.  It looked like it would be rosy,
that the crop would always come in." But it became, he says, a question of "What
did we do wrong?" Farmers had turned over millions of acres of soil that had
been held together by buffalo grass, and when the rain stopped falling, the
winds became the enemy.

Experts say we probably won't ever see another Dust Bowl, and today's farmers,
such as Roy Bardole, 69, whose family raises corn and soybeans on more than
1,400 acres in Rippey, Iowa, are fully aware of their role as custodians of the
soil.  During the Dust Bowl, Bardole  says, his father and grandfather removed
by hand the dust that buried their crops.

"The agriculture that I embrace is all about the soil," he says. "It's a very
fragile and  valuable asset.  And I must be terribly careful in how I use it."

Burns doesn't draw comparisons to today's concerns about drought and climate
change,  but he hopes the film leads people to think about the environment. "We
just want to tell a good story," he says.  "We're not unmindful of the fact
these have resonances in the present."

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2012 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              174 of 190 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 11, 2012 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Conversation starters: 'Fiscal cliff' talks boost bad policy

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 560 words


You might remember when, during the recent presidential and congressional
campaigns, many candidates put forth serious proposals to increase the Medicare
eligibility age to 67. Actually, you probably don't, because it didn't happen.
Yet here we are, during the lame duck session of Congress, with the worst idea
ever apparently on the table in the "fiscal cliff" negotiations. Why is this the
worst idea ever? First, it doesn't even save much public money, especially if it
is phased in slowly. Second, the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities
estimates that federal savings would be more than offset by increased costs to
individuals, employers and state governments. Third, it puts many seniors at the
mercy of the private health insurance markets at a time when they are hoping for
some security in their lives. The danger of bipartisan lame duck budget deals,
especially deals negotiated in a climate of supposed crisis, is that bad policy
triumphs while politicians avoid transparency and accountability. It's highly
unlikely that members of either party would want to take responsibility for
cutting Medicare coverage so severely. Nor should they want to, as it would be
bad policy and bad politics. If they actually do a bad deal under the cover of
bipartisanship, then neither will have to, and voters won't know who to blame.

Duncan Black,

Blogger at Eschaton.com

Gay marriage non-decision

Will the Supreme Court rule next year that the equal protection clause of the
Constitution implies a right to same-sex marriage? My guess is: probably not.
More likely is a split or narrow decision in one or both of the two cases the
court agreed to hear Friday. The justices took special care to leave their
options open, including the option to decide one or both cases on legal
"standing" grounds that would settle nothing of substance. Of the two cases, the
better shot for conservative opponents of gay marriage is Hollingsworth v.
Perry, the challenge to California's Proposition 8. The court's four most
conservative justices are considered receptive to an argument that it should be
up to California voters to decide whether to recognize same-sex marriage. Even
if Justice Anthony Kennedy sides with the liberals, few will be surprised if he
writes an opinion narrowly tailored to the California facts while not creating a
more general right to gay marriage.

Walter Olson,

Senior fellow at the Cato Institute

Kids taking charge

Only a few days ago a raid took place in the Indian capital of Delhi, inspired
by young people who are challenging adult complacency about the evil of child
labor. The Global March against Child Labor liberated 14 children -- some as
young as  8 years old. Young people themselves were taking the lead. A new
movement also started by young people in the Nilphamari district in Northern
Bangladesh aims to persuade parents not to marry off their young daughters as
child brides. The declaration of "child marriage free zones" is spreading
through the country. Girls, some as young as 9 years old, are rising up against
forced marriages, which cut short their childhood and starve them of an
education. These new youth-inspired movements, impatient for change, raise
fundamental questions about why adults have been so slow in ensuring all
children have the right to education.

Gordon Brown,

Former prime minister of the United Kingdom

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2012 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              183 of 190 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              April 6, 2012 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Let it snow less, and cities pile up savings in unused funds

BYLINE: Lindsay Powers, USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 392 words


In the course of an average winter, the National Weather Service says Syracuse,
N.Y., gets about 118 inches of snow.

Preparing for a similar  onslaught this winter, the city set aside  about $2
million for salt, equipment maintenance and overtime hours,  says Thomas Simone,
first deputy commissioner of Syracuse's Department of Public Works. The 2011-12
snow season, however, delivered  50.5 inches,  letting Syracuse  accumulate what
Simone called "very unusual" savings of about $1 million, roughly half  its
snow-removal budget for November through April.

Syracuse was  one of many normally snow-burdened cities in the Northeast,
Midwest and Mid-Atlantic that benefited from the unusually warm winter weather.

Minneapolis, which  got 22.3 inches  compared with its average of 50.7,  spent
about $2.8 million less this year on snow and ice removal in January through
March than it did  last year, said Steve Kotke, the city's director of public
works. The city has a $9 million snow and ice budget, Kotke said.

Milwaukee spent about $2 million less than it does on average from January to
the end of March this year, said Wanda Booker, sanitation services manager for
the city's Department of Public Works. Yet, she warns, the savings from the
total $7.9 million annual snow and ice budget could vanish if "December comes in
like a bear and eats it up, which has happened before," she said.

Louisville,  through late February, spent about $3.5 million less on winter
weather-related expenses than  last year.  Chris Poynter, spokesman for Mayor
Greg Fischer, said the  savings played a large role in closing the $12 million
city budget shortfall projected for this fiscal year.

Cleveland's  savings stem mostly from the $1.5 million left  as of the end of
March from a salt budget of $3.3 million for October 2011 through  2012, said
Michael Cox, director of public works. The city was hit with 38.5 inches in the
2011-12 season compared with an average of 63.7.

National Weather Service spokesman Christopher Vaccaro, citing data from the
Rutgers Global Snow Lab, said snow this winter covered about 237,000 fewer
square miles in the U.S. than  on average from 1981 to 2010, making the 2011-12
season the third-lowest  of winter snow cover in 46 years of recorded satellite
data.

Contributing: Sheldon S. Shafer, The Courier-Journal, Louisville; Doyle Rice

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2012 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved
