
                               2 of 247 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                  November 30, 1997, Sunday, FIVE STAR EDITION

MAN AND NATURE FEELING THE HEAT

BYLINE: JOBY WARRICK, THE WASHINGTON POST

SECTION: WORLD, Pg. A-10

LENGTH: 1456 words

DATELINE: SANBORN, N.D.


The latest projections call for 100 years of warming in this wind-whipped
prairie town - a forecast that goes down easy in a place where snow drifts can
halt mail delivery for weeks at a time. If the greenhouse effect means fewer
frozen fingers and frozen cows, townsfolk here say bring it on.

''Even a little warming would be nice,'' said Postmaster Karen Aus, whose domain
includes a grain mill, a few dozen clapboard houses and 270 souls. In fact, some
government computers are predicting a lot of warming - steadily milder
temperatures that could lengthen the growing season and very gradually bring new
opportunities for farmers in the frigid Northern Plains.

But the same computers warn of other possible effects that would be anything but
mild. Towns such as Sanborn eventually could see even bigger blizzards and worse
floods - possibly separated by searing droughts. Some townspeople believe
they've already witnessed the future after a year that set an all-time record
for snowfall - 112 inches in Sanborn's Barnes County followed by catastrophic
floods that put Red River Valley cities under water.

''I'm convinced it's global warming - but I don't know exactly what it's
supposed to mean,'' retired farmer Henrik Voldal said of the recent turns in the
weather. ''I just know it sure as hell has been strange.''

The enormous range of possible outcomes - from modest boon in some spots to
total disaster in others - is one reason global warming continues to spark
heated debates in Sanborn and other towns and cities around the world. Despite
major improvements in computer models, scientists can't yet say how quickly the
Earth will warm or how severe the impacts in any given region would be.

But overlying the uncertainty is a broad scientific consensus on the
fundamentals of the warming forecast. Global warming is real, a large majority
of scientists agree - and to assume the effects will be mild or even beneficial
is a gamble, at best. On balance, a rapid change in the Earth's climate is
likely to do far more harm than good, according to many of the nation's most
prominent atmospheric scientists.

''There's a better scientific consensus on this than on any issue I know,'' said
D. James Baker, administrator of the U.S. National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration. ''Man has reached the point where his impact on the climate can
be as significant as nature's.''

In the decade since the global warming debate began in earnest, new technology
and an enormous amount of new data have narrowed the disagreement on the most
important questions surrounding the changing climate.

Two years ago, a panel of more than 2,000 of the world's top climate scientists
concluded that the Earth was indeed warming and that the ''balance of evidence
suggests a discernible human influence'' on climate. Based on that assessment,
more than 150 nations will gather this week in Kyoto, Japan, to try to reach an
agreement on curbing the pollutants blamed for global warming.

The bulk of the recent evidence - from rising sea levels and retreating glaciers
to the recent freak storms in the Dakotas - appears to be falling in line with
scientists' predictions. No other theory can fully explain the range of changes
being observed around the globe, say scientists at NOAA and other institutions
at the cutting edge of climate research.

But major gaps in knowledge remain, and they continue to fuel scientific
sparring in trade journals and on World Wide Web sites. Scientists, for example,
still can't produce a ''smoking gun'' that irrefutably links humans to global
warming.

The warming of the planet so far - about 1 degree Fahrenheit in 100 years is
still small enough to fall within the range of normal variability for a planet
that has lurched in and out of ice ages for millions of years.

Even the most powerful supercomputer models aren't yet sophisticated enough to
predict local effects of warming. Nor can they fully account for clouds and
other variables that might mitigate the effects or amplify them.

Another decade of research is likely needed to solve some of global warming's
most perplexing riddles. But as greenhouse gas concentrations soar to levels not
seen since the dinosaurs, many scientists argue that the Earth's nations no
longer can afford to wait for answers.

''A major truth to retain here is that substantial change in fossil fuel
emissions is required over the next half-century to keep atmospheric carbon
dioxide from reaching a tripling over pre-industrial levels,'' said Jerry
Mahlman, director of the Geophysical Fluid Dynamics Laboratory at Princeton
University. ''At even conservative estimates, a carbon-dioxide tripling would
produce climate changes that are substantial by any measure.''

There's nothing inherently sinister about greenhouse warming. In the atmosphere,
water vapor, carbon dioxide, methane and other gases trap heat, functioning
roughly the same way as glass panes in a greenhouse. Without these ''greenhouse
gases,'' the Earth's average temperature would be an unlivable zero degrees
Fahrenheit, instead of a relatively balmy 60 degrees.

Collectively, these gases make up a small portion of the atmosphere. But their
share is growing. Since the beginning of the industrial age, human-caused
emissions of carbon dioxide have steadily increased in a pattern that began with
the cutting and burning of forests and accelerated with this century's explosion
of automobiles, power plants and factories.

Since 1750, the atmosphere's carbon component is up 30 percent. Greenhouse gases
continue to rise by about 1 percentage point each year, with about a quarter of
the gases coming from the United States alone.

How the Earth's climate responds to the additional carbon is complex, but the
basic physics are well understood. ''If you add these chemicals they will trap
heat - that's pretty hard to argue against,'' said David Rind of NASA's Goddard
Institute for Space Studies in New York. ''That fact by itself goes a long way
toward convincing people that this is real.''

Scientists know that adding greenhouse gases to the atmosphere will eventually
cause the planet to warm. The big questions are how much, how fast and how the
warmth will be distributed.

There is a small but persistent minority of scientists who are skeptical of
claims that humans have caused the planet to warm. They point to 20 years of
satellite measurements that so far do not show the kind of temperature increases
that land-based thermometers have recorded.

NASA's Roy Spencer said he believes that traditional, land-based measurements
have been skewed by city buildings and concrete that absorb heat and make
temperatures artificially high. He also questions the reliability of temperature
data that come from sea-bound ships and developing countries which, he says,
''have a rather poor reputation for providing information of sufficient
quality.''

Other scientists argue that the satellite record could also be flawed - it is
based, after all, on a relatively small amount of data from two satellites.
''The satellites don't measure the same thing. They sense temperatures two to
five miles above the Earth's surface,'' said Daniel L. Albritton, director of
NOAA's Aeronomy Laboratory in Boulder, Colo. ''You'd expect the result to be
different.''

Albritton and other prominent climate experts are even more derisive of claims
that tiny changes in the sun's intensity may account for a significant share of
the temperature change in the last century. Mahlman dismisses that theory -
which House Speaker Newt Gingrich, R-Ga., recently invoked in criticizing
President Clinton's climate change policy - as ''nutty science.''

''There is no evidence - no measurements whatsoever,'' Mahlman said. ''Implicit
. . . is the assertion that the Earth is extraordinarily sensitive to tiny
variations in solar radiation - Miracle No. 1 - and also extraordinarily
insensitive to much greater changes in the infrared (greenhouse) balance -
Miracle No. 2.''

To Albritton, the continuing debate over satellite measurements and possible
solar influence makes for interesting discussions in scientific journals but may
not even be relevant in the long run. The search for conclusive proof of a human
link to global warming in the past century is ''somewhat of a distraction -
looking for a one-degree needle in a hay stack.''

''What's more important are the potential consequences,'' he said. ''We're going
to double the amount of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere - it's just a matter of
when. And the consequences of doubling is more than a mere half-degree
Celsius.''

He added: ''Once that stuff is in the atmosphere, there's no way to get it
back.''

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              21 of 247 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                   September 29, 1997, Monday, SOONER EDITION

BYLINE: FROM LOCAL AND WIRE DISPATCHES

SECTION: SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY & MEDICINE, Pg. A-11, SCIENCE NOTEBOOK

LENGTH: 703 words


Global warming

Carnegie Mellon University will be host to a conference on global warming that
will include opening remarks from the White House by Vice President Al Gore and
an address by President Clinton via satellite.

The transmission from Washington, D.C., will begin at 10 a.m., next Monday,
followed by a panel discussion of the scientific, economic and policy issues of
climate change.

Both the downlink and panel discussion will be held in McConomy Hall at Carnegie
Mellon University, and are free and open to the public.

Although there is considerable scientific uncertainty about exactly how the
earth's climate will respond to enhanced greenhouse gases in the future,
observations indicate that detectable changes are under way. The direct effects
of climate change will include changes in temperature, precipitation, soil
moisture and sea level. Thus policy decisions in the near term will have
long-term consequences.

To register, call (412) 442-4124, fax (304) 234-0258 or e-mail
(george.raymond@epamail.epa.gov)

Sex and environment

Environmental scientist John A. McLachlan will discuss how chemicals in the
environment can act like hormones and the effects they might have on
reproduction during a lecture next Monday at Duquesne University.

He will be the inaugural speaker in the university's new Distinguished Scientist
Lecture Series. The free public lecture, ''Genes, Sex and the Environment,''
will be at 8 p.m. in the Duquesne Union Ballroom.

McLachlan, a pharmacologist, is director of the Center for Bioenvironmental
Research at Tulane University and Xavier University of Louisiana. In April,
Newsweek magazine named him as one of 100 ''people to watch'' as America enters
the next millenium.

Mussel threads

Mussels didn't get their name for nothing.

The clingy little marine animals are famous for attaching themselves tenaciously
to rocks, docks, oil rigs and anything else they can get hold of. New research
shows how they hang on so well.

J. Herbert Waite of the University of Delaware and colleagues found that the
''byssal threads'' mussels use to attach themselves include sections strongly
resembling spider silk and ''elastin,'' a component of tendons and ligaments.

The threads gradually go from stiff at one end to elastic at the other, which
enables mussels to withstand beating by waves, they reported recently in the
journal Science. In fact, the threads are incredibly tough and stretchy five
times tougher and 16 times stretchier than a human tendon.

The findings may offer clues to developing better artificial skin and other
biomedical materials.

''It's fun to dream about versatile new materials for a whole host of products -
from steel-belted radials to shoes, which must be soft and flexible, yet tough
enough to pound the pavement,'' says Waite.

Zebra mussels spread

Speaking of mussels, zebra mussels are showing up in a part of Lake Erie where
scientists never thought they could live - the lake's soft bottom.

The thumbnail-sized mussels, which multiplied rapidly after arriving from Europe
in the early 1980s, had been known to colonize only hard surfaces, Ohio State
University marine biologist Paul Berkman recently told the Ohio Lake Erie
Commission.

The possible impact of lake bottom mussels on the ecosystem isn't yet known but
is expected to be profound, said Jeff Reutter, who directs a statewide
university-research consortium called Ohio Sea Grant. Zebra mussels absorb toxic
sediment from the lake bottom, which could then work their way back up the food
chain. Huge colonies also could affect the lake's currents or smother
bottom-dwelling bugs that fish eat.

Biologist gets fellowship

Jeff Lawrence, a 33-year-old University of Pittsburgh biologist who studies
molecular evolution, is one of 20 young scientists awarded fellowships this year
from the David and Lucile Packard Foundation.

The foundation awards fellowships to promising researchers who are trying to
launch their careers and have not yet received substantial support from
government and foundation sources.

Lawrence, whose research focuses on bacteria that produce vitamin B-12, will
receive $ 100,000 a year for five years. 11

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              32 of 247 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                   November 10, 1997, Monday, SOONER EDITION

MORAL CLIMATE CHANGE

BYLINE: RALPH T. DEFFENBAUGH; MT. LEBANON

SECTION: EDITORIAL, Pg. A-12, LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 215 words


On Oct. 22 President Clinton spoke on global climate change and I was struck by
his words: ''Make no mistake, the problem is real. And if we do not change our
course now, the consequences sooner or later will be destructive for America and
for the world.''

I don't know if this Earth was created to tolerate the pollution that we have
placed in the atmosphere, nor am I sure whether global warming is or is not
occurring.

But his words seem to address another more serious threat to our freedom the
threat from the loss ofmorality.

Earlier that week, we read about the disturbing fact that pornography was shown
at a rock concert and Pittsburgh has done nothing. And every day we expose our
young men to the lure of nude women in (advertisements in) the sports pages of
''One of America's Great Newspapers.'' Are we all becoming so numb to the
constant bombardment of immoral behavior that we think, in our silence, we can
accept this behavior? Why do we believe that we can have anything we desire and
not suffer the consequences?

Clinton also said, ''Many precious threats posed clear and present danger.'' But
this enemy is far too subtle. If we do not change our course now, the
consequences sooner or later will be destructive for Pittsburgh, America and the
world.

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              34 of 247 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                   December 9, 1997, Tuesday, SOONER EDITION

U.S. OFFERS DEEPER EMISSIONS CUTS AT KYOTO GLOBAL MEETING

BYLINE: CHARLES J. HANLEY, THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: WORLD, Pg. A-1

LENGTH: 635 words

DATELINE: KYOTO, Japan


The United States, in intense negotiations for a new climate agreement, has
offered to cut U.S. gas emissions more than originally proposed in President
Clinton's plan for combating global warming, negotiators reported today.

European delegates said the U.S. team offered a 2 percent deeper cut than
previously envisioned in the Clinton plan, which proposed reducing greenhouse
gas emissions to 1990 levels by 2012.

The Europeans complained that was too little to achieve a compromise.

American negotiator Todd Stern said, however, that the 2-percent report was an
''understatement'' of what Washington was offering, and negotiations were
continuing.

Given a freer hand by the White House, the U.S. negotiators earlier today
reported progress in the final intensive talks to piece together a historic
accord to control energy use and protect the planet against global warming in
the 21st century.

In a lightning one-day visit yesterday, Vice President Al Gore announced he was
giving the U.S. team ''increased negotiating flexibility'' to end a standoff
with Europe over how deeply to cut fuel emissions.

Today, chief U.S. negotiator Stuart E. Eizenstat said the Europeans and
Americans ''had a very detailed, thorough and useful discussion'' late yesterday
and ''look forward to making further progress.''

After meeting with Gore, Britain's deputy prime minister sounded optimistic the
150-nation Climate Change Treaty conference will conclude successfully tomorrow.

''It leads me to believe the flexibility and political will is there to reach an
agreement,'' John Prescott said.

Gore said he thought his visit ''generated momentum.''

But even if the U.S.-European differences are bridged, the U.S. team must still
nail down another major feature - commitments by developing countries to limit
emissions - to improve chances the agreement will be ratified in the U.S.
Senate.

The Kyoto conference was convened to strengthen the 1992 Climate Change Treaty
by setting legally binding targets for reducing industrial nations' emissions of
carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases linked to global warming.

A new treaty protocol would set the energy course for much of the world for
decades to come - from how we produce electricity to what we drive - by
encouraging movement away from coal and other carbon-heavy fuels.

Carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases, mostly products of fuel combustion,
allow sunlight through to Earth but trap the heat the planet emits back toward
space.

Most scientists believe atmospheric warming has probably already begun, and will
boost temperatures as much as 6 degrees Fahrenheit by 2100 if emissions are not
controlled. Warming would disrupt climate in potentially damaging ways, and
raise sea levels by melting glaciers and expanding oceans.

One of the countries that would be most imperiled by rising oceans low-lying,
overcrowded Bangladesh - called for the bickering to end.

''I appeal to all of you to mobilize the collective will . . . and reach a
negotiated Kyoto protocol,'' Syeda Sjeda Chowdhury, Bangladesh's environment
minister, told the delegates.

Gore's arrival clearly mobilized some new energy - at least within the U.S.
negotiating team, which appeared stalled as it stuck to the original American
position.

The vice president announced from the conference podium that he had just spoken
by telephone with President Clinton, and ''I am instructing our delegation right
now to show increased negotiating flexibility.''

The Europeans have sought some ''give'' from Washington on the targets for
cutting greenhouse emissions.

The European Union had proposed that emissions be reduced to 15 percent below
1990 levels by 2010. But Clinton's plan called for reductions only to, not
below, 1990 levels by 2012.

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              37 of 247 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                  December 11, 1997, Thursday, SOONER EDITION

CLIMATE SUMMIT YIELDS ACCORD;
U.S. FACES DEEPER, CONTROVERSIAL CUTS IN EMISSIONS TIED TO GLOBAL WARMING

BYLINE: KEVIN SULLIVAN AND JOBY WARRICK, THE WASHINGTON POST

SECTION: WORLD, Pg. A-1

LENGTH: 815 words

DATELINE: KYOTO, Japan


Exhausted and bitterly divided delegates to the U.N. climate summit reached a
historic accord today, agreeing to substantial cuts in greenhouse gases
emissions among industrialized countries but leaving until next year the
contentious issue of whether and how the world's poorer nations would
participate.

Capping a chaotic 48 hours of nearly nonstop negotiations, delegates from 159
countries worked well into mid-morning today on their way to adopting a treaty.
The agreement commits the world's developed countries to unprecedented, binding
limits on emissions of pollutants that scientists say are causing a potentially
disastrous warming of the Earth's climate.

If ratified, the treaty will require wealthy nations from North America to
Europe to Japan to reduce emissions by 6 percent to 8 percent below their 1990
levels by 2012. The accord would spur dramatic changes in fossil-fuel dependent
Western countries in what would almost certainly be the most ambitious and most
controversial global environmental undertaking in history.

Under the proposal, the United States would cut its emissions to 7 percent below
1990 levels, significantly deeper than the original U.S. proposal, which was to
stabilize emission at 1990 levels. Europe would cut 8 percent, less than the 15
percent it originally called for. Japan would cut 6 percent as part of the
compromise hammered out by delegates.

''This is a modest but significant step forward in what will be a long-term
battle to protect the Earth's climate system,'' said Alden Meyer of the Union of
Concerned Scientists, an independent environmental advocacy group. ''The
alternative - collapse and gridlock - would have been a disaster.''

Reaction to the pact among environmentalists was generally positive, but mixed.
The Sierra Club called it a ''narrow'' victory. Greenpeace spokesman Kalee
Kreider supported the plan and said it ''means we managed to keep the oil
industry from completely derailing the negotiations.'' But the World Wildlife
Fund blasted the agreement as ''flawed'' and said it ''plays into the hands of''
industries that opposed it.

If President Clinton signs the treaty, significant political obstacles could
hinder or prevent Senate ratification of the treaty.

One congressional observer to the summit signaled those obstacles. Rep. John
Dingell, D-Mich, said the agreement was ''unacceptable'' and urged Clinton to
abandon the pact.

''The agreement also doesn't meet the conditions required by sensible concern
for the environment, good sense or the United States' interests,'' he said.

As ranking Democrat on the powerful House Commerce Committee, Dingell is among
the most influential Democrats on Capitol Hill. Even though the House has no say
in any treaty, Dingell's opposition could doom the pact. He has long been a
supporter of organized labor and the Detroit auto industry.

As delegates worked well into the 11th day of a scheduled 10-day conference, it
degenerated into near-chaos overnight. Before the final agreement was signed,
official translators who had worked through the night went home, leaving
Russian, Japanese and European delegates often unable to communicate fully with
each other over key remaining issues.

Against that tense and difficult backdrop, delegates reached final agreement on
many key components - including the American proposal to include six major
greenhouse gases, rather than three - but many others were postponed by an
obviously frustrated conference chairman, Raul A. Estrada-Oyuela of Argentina.

In a victory for the Clinton administration, the pact includes an endorsement of
market-based mechanisms that will encourage innovation and lower the costs for
businesses and consumers. The agreement creates a mechanism by which companies
from rich nations will provide technology and money to power plants and other
projects in poorer nations. Administration officials argue that such joint
ventures reduce emissions in the poorer nation, and act as a ''bridge'' toward
eventual developing nation participation in a more comprehensive program of
emissions reductions.

But in a setback for the Americans, a decision on many details of the programs
affecting the 130-plus developing nations at the conference were delayed at
least a year, until next November's global climate summit in Buenos Aires,
Argentina. The postponement was forced by stubborn opposition from key
developing countries, chiefly India and China, that made a last-minute stand
against the proposals.

Developing countries also rejected more ambitious calls to curb the growth of
greenhouse emissions in their own countries. Clinton administration officials
had repeatedly called for ''meaningful participation by key developing
nations,'' a goal Eizenstat said the Kyoto conference has not met.

The Post-Gazette Washington Bureau contributed to this story.

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, PHOTO: Katsumi Kasahara/Associated Press: A delegate sleeps as
he and; others wait for negotiations to conclude between the United States and;
European Union yesterday in Kyoto.

                       Copyright 1997 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              39 of 247 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                  December 28, 1997, Sunday, TWO STAR EDITION

THE TRUTH ABOUT GLOBAL WARMING IS THAT CONSENSUS DOESN'T EXIST

BYLINE: CRAIG B. CLEMMENS; APOLLO

SECTION: EDITORIAL, Pg. C-2, LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 395 words


Repeat a lie often enough and loudly enough and it becomes the truth. You
repeated a lie in your Dec. 7 editorial ''Global Warning: It's Only Prudent to
Be Concerned About a Warming Trend,'' when you stated ''there is a consensus
among mainstream scientists that human industrial activity is leading to a
potentially dangerous climate change.''

May I be so bold as to point out that this ''consensus'' does not include a
unanimity of geologists.

Global warming, from a geological perspective, is both an indisputable fact and
pseudoscience. Since the Wisconsinian glacial advance, which ended some 10,000
years ago, the Earth has warmed more or less steadily, although there have been
punctuated interruptions in the warming, which are most likely associated with
major volcanic eruptions.

In the Sangamon interglacial period, which preceded the Wisconsinian advance,
the Earth warmed to the point that the polar ice caps melted and the sea level
rose to the ''fall line'' of the Eastern seaboard. We have reason to believe
that the Earth will not again become that warm during the current interglacial
period, with or without the influence of man. That much is fact.

It becomes pseudoscience when world ecological disaster is predicated upon a
partial analysis of an infinitesimally tiny 100 years of data, concluding that
the burning of fossil fuel has caused all this ''warming.''

The volcano Tambura (Java) blew a cubic mile of ash into the atmosphere in 1815,
disrupting the worldwide climate to the point that 1816 was known in the United
States as ''the year without a summer.'' The volcano Krakatoa released more
carbon dioxide, sulphur dioxide and ash into the atmosphere in a single day (in
1883) than the entire Industrial Revolution did from 1860 to 1960.

These and other 19th century events produced a cooler than normal century.
Virtually all meteorological data collection began after Krakatoa.  If you start
collecting data at a cool point you will initially observe a warming trend.

The promulgators of the ''global warming'' theory have an agenda that is
political, not scientific. They are anti-technology, liberal elitists using
partial facts and half-truths to impose an idealized code of behavior over the
unenlightened masses. You are, by all appearances, their willing accomplice.

Editor's note: The writer is a geologist.

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              42 of 247 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                     May 11, 1997, Sunday, TWO STAR EDITION

SPRING BRINGS A REVIVAL OF SCHOOL DRESS CODE DEBATES

BYLINE: ELEANOR CHUTE, POST-GAZETTE STAFF WRITER

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. B-1

LENGTH: 1599 words


As surely as spring, some teen-agers are wearing short shorts, short shirts and
other clothes that test school dress codes.

While dress code violations can crop up all year, they're more likely when
warmer weather hits in the spring or when school starts, say school
administrators.

The regulations are as individual as the students' attire. Some are detailed,
some are brief. Hats are banned at Keystone Oaks High School, but permitted at
Mt. Lebanon High School.

Skirts can be 4 1/2 inches above the knee at Mars Area High School, but must be
within 3 inches of the knee at Penn-Trafford High School.

Hempfield Area High School permits shorts only from the beginning of school
through Oct. 14, and from April 15 through the end of school. Mars Area permits
them all year long.

Some ban styles parents never may have considered when they were growing up,
such as spiked hair, Spandex and pants worn sagging below the waist. Shirts
bearing ''Co-Ed Naked'' sports and the suggestive ''Big Johnson'' slogans.

A revised dress code proposed in Monaca is more detailed than the old
regulations, and covers two pages.

Meanwhile, in Mt. Lebanon, students worry that their less-detailed dress code
''is a little too lax,'' says ninth-grader Megan Gregory.

She's part of a small group of students at the school who are working on a plan
to encourage students to dress better than the code requires.

''People drive by. They see them, not us. It's giving the school a bad image,''
said Megan, who objects to low pants and tight shirts.

Mt. Lebanon junior Ryan Duchene said, ''Mt. Lebanon has always had a good
reputation as a good, clean school, and I'd like it to stay that way. The way
some people dress is distracting to learning also. I think you act the way you
dress.''

Duchene thinks some students wear clothes that are too small, have too many
holes in their clothes and wear pants so low that they have to hold them while
they walk.

He and other students are considering a campaign in the fall to heighten
awareness.

Mt. Lebanon's current dress code states a general philosophy and gives a few
specifics.

The main point is ''personal appearance should not disrupt the educational
process, call undue attention to the individual, violate federal, state or local
health or obscenity laws, or affect the welfare of the student and his/her
classmates.''

The specifics are no clothing with profanity or sexual references or advertising
drugs, alcohol or tobacco and no abbreviated tops (halter, tube, shortened
shirt).''

It also states that ''during hot weather, shorts are permitted, but students
should use good judgment in the type of shorts worn to school.''

These types of restrictions are common among schools, although some spell them
out more specifically or have additional restrictions.

In Monaca, the school board is scheduled to vote on a proposed new dress code at
8 p.m. Thursday at the administration building.

The proposal has a few new twists, including banning oversized clothing
including pants, T-shirts, shirts, coats and jackets.

While the old policy bans ''excessively short shorts,'' the proposal requires
that shorts and skirts ''reach the tip of the middle finger (no shorter than
mid-thigh) when the hands are fully extended.''

That length may be a problem for Monaca sophomore Rachel Surowiec, who said she
couldn't afford to buy a new wardrobe.

''I'm 5-foot-9,'' she said. ''It's hard to find shorts that are longer. My arms
are long. My fingertip is right above my knee.''

With shorter shirts in fashion, she said, she doesn't think all of her shirts
would pass a proposed standard that states ''when arms are raised, apparel must
continue to touch the waist.''

Monaca eighth-grader Brittany Cuevas doesn't agree with all of the new proposal,
such as the fingertip limit on shorts because some students have long arms.

But she thinks the ban on clothing advertising items such as alcohol or tobacco
is a good one ''because we shouldn't be doing that kind of stuff. We're not even
old enough.''

If the policy is passed, Monaca 10th-grader Simon Short may have to make some
fashion changes. One day last week, he was wearing camouflage baggy pants about
two inches below his waist and touching the floor.

The proposal states that ''pants and shorts be worn to the waist and that pants
be of a length, unrolled, which do not touch the floor.''

''As long as everybody's treated equally, I'll follow it,'' Short said. ''I
don't think it (the proposal) goes too far. It's more clear than past dress
codes. They just stated exactly what they want. Then people understand. If they
break the dress code, they know they're breaking it.''

Monaca junior Erin Harley thinks the existing dress code is satisfactory.
''Everybody seems to follow it pretty much.''

In many districts, students wearing shirts with messages deemed inappropriate
often are told to turn them inside out. Other clothing infractions require
parents to bring suitable clothing. In some cases, students already have the
suitable clothing in their lockers - just in case.

If they don't change clothes, they may have to spend the day in the office or at
in-school suspension. Some districts suspend repeat offenders in or out of
school.

The Monaca proposal also clearly spells out the penalties, beginning with a
warning and note to the parent on a first offense, and leading to a suspension
for a fourth violation.

''We would hope to never reach that point,'' said Monaca principal Michael
Thomas, whose building has 400 students in seventh through 12th grade.

He described the policy as proactive. ''I think our students are pretty
reasonable and cooperative.''

To administrators, dress codes are important in setting an educational climate.

''I think you have to dress appropriately for school,'' Penn-Trafford High
School Principal Patrick Ratesic said. ''It's a little different standard than
going to the mall and to the beach. We need to have order and to have an
educational atmosphere. We think the dress has a lot to do with that.''

It's so important to administrators that two-thirds of middle and high school
principals said fashion fads undermined the learning climate of their school in
a survey by the National Association of Secondary School Principals.

Stephen Yurek, general counsel for the association, said that schools could
legally regulate attire as long as the policies are tailored to school safety
and educational climate.

''The school's responsibility is to provide a safe and effective learning
environment,'' Yurek said. When students are in school, he said, teachers and
administrators ''take the place of the parent.''

In Penn-Trafford, students take the dollar-bill test to see if their shorts are
too short.

A dollar bill is 6 inches long. Shorts, culottes and split skirts must have at
least six inches of inseam or be within three inches of the knees.

The district also bans gym shorts except in gym class even if they meet the
length requirement.

The number of violations has decreased during the last couple of years, Ratesic
said. ''I guess because we've been persistent with it. They're cooperative.''

He said the worst time of year was the beginning of the year, followed by the
first warm days of spring.

Moon's dress code advises ''moderation'' and ''good judgment'' and lists five
categories of inappropriate clothing: hats; halter tops, muscle shirts, clothing
exposing bare midriffs; clothing making references to alcohol, drugs and
vulgarity; shorts and skirts that are less than fingertip length when the arms
are extended; cutoff pants or clothing with holes.

''I really think our dress code is very fair,'' sophomore Amanda Tatich said.

At Hempfield Area High School, assistant principal Kathy Charlton said: ''We try
to keep the kids looking like they're not going out to a picnic.''

The Hempfield policy states that no regulations ''are as effective as the
individual student's good taste. . . . A student's appearance will be a source
of pride not only to the school, but to the individual and his/her family as
well.''

Its policy covers many of the same items as other schools with specifics such as
banning ''leggings or form-fitting stirrup pants without tops that 'cover' the
body to approximately 2 inches below the fingertips;'' and, at the secondary
level, banning ''sweat pants that are elasticized at the ankle.''

With more than 2,300 students at the school, Hempfield Area senior Laurie
Racculia said she didn't agree with every rule but understood why they exist.
''I think (a dress code is) very necessary for a school our size.''

Pittsburgh Public Schools ban all apparel or jewelry having words, signs,
pictures or a combination that ''advocates or promotes sexual activity or
violence, or the use of alcohol or drugs, or demeans or degrades another because
of race, sex, religious persuasion, national origin or disability.''

City school principals also may establish their own dress codes in concert with
the school community.

McKeesport Area High School highlights its dress code in pictures posted
throughout the school.

The poster includes three students dressed appropriately in shorts or a skirt
just above the knee. It shows other examples of shorts and skirts that are too
short and a dress that is too tight.

Other pictures emphasize no tank tops, no bare midriffs and no clothing with
drug, alcohol, gang or vulgar messages.

Another picture, with a student's pants sagging below the waist says simply
''pull 'em up!''

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, PHOTO: John Beale/Post-Gazette: Mt. Lebanon High School
students,; some of them believing that baggy is better, arrive for class last
week.

                       Copyright 1997 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              44 of 247 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                    October 13, 1997, Monday, SOONER EDITION

WARMING TO A TASK;
CLINTON MUST LEAD IN REACTING TO CLIMATE CHANGE

SECTION: EDITORIAL, Pg. A-14

LENGTH: 564 words


Dealing with international climate change is a matter of pay now or pay later.

The Clinton administration, in preparation for a world conference in Kyoto,
Japan, in December, is trying to come up with a palatable plan of action.
President Clinton has already spoken more passionately and powerfully about the
issue than any of his predecessors. But he is under intense pressure from the
business community and others to limit this nation's commitment.

While he must devise a strategy that is politically and economically feasible,
he must resist the temptation to cave.

There is no doubt that the Earth has heated up over the last 100 years, and
there is a growing scientific consensus that at least a portion of the warming
is the result of human activity.

The emission of greenhouse gases, primarily carbon dioxide caused by the burning
of carbon-based fuels (coal, oil and gasoline), is trapping heat in the
atmosphere that would otherwise escape.

Scientists project that the planet, which has warmed about 1 degree over the
last 100 years, might get between 2 and 6 additional degrees hotter over the
next century. The impact on growing seasons, storm activity, sea level and
ecosystems will depend on how much hotter it gets.

The world can either adapt to the changes or do the hard work necessary to turn
down the heat. Both paths entail costs. But the former may bring with it
ecological and human costs that are immeasurable and unacceptable.

Opponents of strong action argue that the future is uncertain and that it is
illogical to invest enormous energies and resources to combat a crisis that may
not exist.

Uncertainty and cost are not the only problems that must be surmounted.
Geopolitical conflicts also figure into the complicated picture. The United
States, with 4 percent of the world's population, emits 22 percent of the
greenhouse gases. It must take the lead.

But the United States relies heavily on coal and gasoline, which are prime
culprits. Weaning away from those energy sources will be more costly here than
in Europe. That is probably why European countries are pushing for more
stringent controls.

The developing world still emits minuscule amounts of greenhouse gases per
capita, although those numbers are certain to explode as their economies boom.
Nations like India and China do not want their development to suffer to pay for
the ecological past sins of the industrial world.

It is a very complex and volatile mix, with tremendous possibility for
paralysis.

The administration has favored using an international emissions-trading system
to ease the regional conflict. A global ceiling on emissions would be set, with
each country being given a national ceiling. The idea is that developed nations
that have a hard time staying under their limit can buy credits from poorer
countries that, because of their economic inefficiencies, can achieve big
reductions in emissions with even very small adaptations.

The administration has spent a lot of time explaining the significance of the
problem in order to build support for a solution. Undersecretary of State
Timothy Wirth said global warming is ''the most important environmental
challenge facing the world.''

In dealing with this difficult and complex issue, and in the face of tremendous
pressure, it is incumbent on the administration to heed its own warnings.

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              62 of 247 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                    April 27, 1997, Sunday, TWO STAR EDITION

PUT THE NEA OUT OF ITS MISERY

BYLINE: WILLIAM CRAIG RICE

SECTION: EDITORIAL, Pg. E-4

LENGTH: 839 words


To judge by the art advocacy climate in Washington, the very future of art in
the United States rests on the reauthorization of the National Endowment for the
Arts. To question the agency's legitimacy, its record, its actual effects on
artists and the arts, is tantamount to declaring war on the creative spirit.

As an artist who has studied the agency and the broader effects the federal
government has on the arts, I have come to believe that the best thing that
could happen is to phase out the NEA and instead support all artists by more
democratic, less selective methods.

The fatal flaw of the National Endowment is that it is a government agency,
subject to accountability. To protect itself, it is obliged to use an inherently
undemocratic system of control over its grants. The NEA, itself hierarchical by
nature, accentuates hierarchies in the arts scene. Most of its money therefore
has gone to the richest institutions, such as the Boston Symphony, the
Philadelphia Museum of Art, the Metropolitan Opera, the big-name universities -
in short, those who can afford to hire the best grant writers and who,
incidentally, provide the NEA with its judges.

Further, it is not artists in general but certain kinds of artists, those
skilled at elite insider advancement, who systematically benefit when cultural
authority is centralized, as it must be under the NEA. Those who need funding
most, those without means or a network or an appealing political profile, are
least likely to get it.

Historically speaking, the NEA's practices run counter to what is good and great
in this country's artistic heritage, which is decentralized, popular, suspicious
of authority, hospitable to outsiders. (One thinks of African-American music,
regionalist painting, Southern writers, for example.) By deciding who decides,
by picking winners and losers, by creating an arts establishment on a European
model, the NEA has introduced an anaconda into the garden of American art.

What artists and arts organizations need most from Washington is not a $ 10,000
or $ 100,000 NEA grant, but changes in the tax code that dramatically improve
the conditions of all artists as a class. This kind of reform doesn't make for
feel-good speeches about the indomitable human spirit, but it is what the Art
Now participants should be demanding in Washington at their Saturday
demonstration.

The Internal Revenue Service discriminates against artists on several fronts,
the self-employment tax foremost among them. This tax squanders precious
creative time in bookkeeping (hardly the typical artist's strong suit), swallows
up funds from sales of work (often an unpredictable income source), complicates
the accounting of two-income joint filers and imposes high retroactive interest
penalties on hapless filers.

It is a notoriously tricky process for artists to itemize and carry over
business expenses: A painter may sell a canvas for $ 125,000 one year and sell
nothing the next. The IRS offers only meager, difficult deductions for self-paid
health insurance, rather than providing incentives to purchase coverage or to
form insurance groups. And the home-office deduction, which makes sense for many
artists, statistically is likely to trigger an IRS audit; hence, many artists
shy away from it.

The IRS has created disincentives to individual and corporate charitable giving
to the arts. Individuals cannot take a deduction for donations unless they
itemize on their tax returns. If Congress changed this rule, the monetary gains
to the arts initially might be modest, but they could grow, as individuals and
organizations cultivate long-term loyalties.

Wealthy givers are hamstrung by arcane rules governing deductions for donated
art that has appreciated over a lifetime. The law encourages art works to be
brought to auction, where overseas buyers are diminishing our nation's cultural
patrimony.

In the literary realm, ill-conceived changes in tax law in the 1970s effectively
killed the backlists that were once the pride of great publishing houses such as
Alfred A. Knopf and W. W. Norton. Forced to pay tax on inventory, they had no
choice but to ''remainder'' thousands of titles, many of literary merit by
younger writers whose careers never had a chance to develop. The decline of
books of poetry in print has been nothing less than catastrophic.

*

These are just a few obvious cases where the federal government harms the arts.
Reforming IRS practices to grant relief to artists as a class will mean lost tax
revenue. To support artists democratically, which is to say indirectly, will
entail a figure vastly larger than the National Endowment's current $ 99.5
million appropriation. But artists and the arts all would benefit more
meaningfully.

It's time that the arts constituency lobbied for changes that would help all
artists, without regard for our credentials and connections.

William Craig Rice, a poet and essayist, teaches writing at Harvard University.
He wrote this for the Los Angeles Times.

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              64 of 247 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                    June 19, 1997, Thursday, SOONER EDITION

THE ROSY GLOW OF THE FUTURE

BYLINE: BILL STEIGERWALD

SECTION: LIFESTYLE, Pg. C-2, MAGAZINES

LENGTH: 702 words


To understand why Wired is so hated by the thought police, especially stodgy
left-liberal types of the Doom & Gloom School, check out its July cover story.

''The Long Boom'' isn't one of those paeans to the glories of
loner-individualism. Or another unconditional love note to the blessings of the
Almighty Compu-culture. ''The Long Boom'' is worse than that. It's page after
page of unrelenting optimism about the future, the present and even the recent
past.

''The Long Boom'' makes the interesting case that we are already well along on
our way toward a global economic expansion that could double the world's economy
every 12 years and lift literally billions out of poverty.

This boom, which Peter Schwartz and Peter Leyden so cheerfully say started in
1980 and will run for another 25 years, will create a much better, much freer,
much more peaceful world without screwing up the environment.

Computers are only a small part of the explanation for this coming more perfect
world. By 2020, all of Asia will be an economic powerhouse. Russia will be
healed. A reintegrated Europe will be great. These regions and a revitalized
America will pull the poorer corners of the world (mostly Africa) up the road to
prosperity.

Fundamental technological change and a new ethos of openness are the megatrends
responsible, the authors say. Also, the triumph of American ideas liberal
democracy and free-markets - has created a truly global economy.

Personal computers, telecommunications, biotechnology, nanotechnology and
alternative energy are the waves of technology that will power the long boom and
bring us miracles like a global cellular phone and data system and a manned
mission to Mars in 2020.

The authors cover their socio-economic bases. They list 10 things that could
ruin everything - from a China-U.S. Cold War, global climate change or
uncontrollable plagues. But, optimists to the max, they say Americans' inherent
belief that they can solve anything, change anything, is our key contribution to
the better future.

They say ''the key formula for the coming age is this: Open, good. Closed, bad.
Tattoo it on your forehead. Apply it to technology standards, to business
strategies, to philosophies of life. It's the winning concept for individuals,
for nations, for the global community.''

Speaking of a better future but on a microcosmic scale, Jim Rogers, the readable
and astute business columnist for Worth, nicely explains why we neo-isolationist
Americanos should root for the Europeans to successfully set up the euro, the
new currency for the whole continent.

A sound euro would ultimately be good for us, the Europeans and the whole world,
Rogers says. But don't tell the authors of ''The Long Boom'': He doesn't think a
sound euro will happen in 1999. Few countries will be able to meet the economic
criteria required, and voters enjoying the benefits of stagnant welfare states
like France won't let their governments impose the fiscal discipline needed.

It's important that the euro is not a bust, Rogers says in a spirit of
goodneighborliness, because ''The global economy is a vast cooperative organism,
and it is in our longterm interest to have healthy trading partners - even
strong, competitive partners . . . so we can purchase products at the best
possible prices and so the community of nations is economically vibrant.''

Although he's been dead almost 150 years, and although he was a Frenchman, the
19th-century liberal Frederic Bastiat would have understood all this talk about
the importance of openness and free world trade.

Bastiat, whose witty essays pointing out the fallacies of protectionism and
other forms of government subsidy and control were influential in 1840s France,
is the subject of a long, loving profile by Jim Powell in the June Freeman
(914-591-7230).

Bastiat's principled, Tom Paine-like defense of individual freedom and attacks
on government power in essays like ''The Law'' make him a revered figure among
libertarians. As Powell shows, Bastiat knew way back then what Wired's authors
hope the whole world will understand by 2020 - that free people and borders open
to trade create peaceful, prosperous societies.

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              69 of 247 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                   November 24, 1997, Monday, SOONER EDITION

TOUGH LAW KEEPS ALIENS FROM GOING BACK HOME

BYLINE: ELAINE S. POVICH, NEWSDAY

SECTION: NATIONAL, Pg. A-6

LENGTH: 548 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Daniel Patrick Moynihan, the Senate's professorial expert on social policy,
thinks the Republican-led Congress should take a look at some unconventional
research on immigration control.

Instead of cracking down on illegal immigrants - the current trend in
immigration law - this study advocates loosening up.

The New York Democrat cites research on Mexican immigration patterns by
professor Douglas Massey, chairman of the Department of Sociology at the
University of Pennsylvania.

Massey's research has shown that enforcement at the border does not discourage
immigrants from coming. Instead, it discourages them from going home, changing a
seasonal flow into something more permanent. He maintains, therefore, that tough
immigration policy backfires.

''So, take down the walls and you make sure this migration will continue,''
Moynihan said.

But Moynihan has enough political savvy to note that this idea is likely to gain
no currency in today's political climate.

''It's counterintuitive and don't expect anybody in the U.S. government to
figure it out,'' he said.

So, what about advocating it on his own?

''I just point out the uses of social science,'' he said. ''I'm not that
dopey.''

Recent history would suggest he's right not to buck the trend. In 1996, Congress
addressed immigration policy by beefing up border patrols, restricting judicial
authority to review deportation cases and imposing new, stiffer penalties for
immigrant smuggling, document fraud, illegal entry and illegal voting by
noncitizens.

However, there is evidence that advocates of the get-tough policy are having
second thoughts.

Moynihan said Congress's actions this year to soften some laws dealing with
immigration were an admission that Congress came down too hard on illegals last
year.

Before leaving town earlier this month, Congress cleared several provisions
designed to ease last year's changes in immigration law. The changes will allow
some Nicaraguan, Cuban and certain Eastern European immigrants in the United
States illegally to stay while they work to become legal Americans.

Moynihan is not alone in his view that the 1996 immigration changes were too
harsh. Even some Republicans, such as Sen. Alfonse D'Amato, R-N.Y., who
supported the original crackdown, admitted that some requirements went too far.

In addition to approving amnesty for some immigrants, Congress earlier passed
legislation reinstating welfare benefits for legal immigrants who are elderly,
blind and disabled.

Other tricky issues, such as dealing with Haitian immigrants who are in the
country illegally, were left for next year.

Moynihan notes that getting tough on immigration has been a congressional trend
over the past several years as states, particularly California, have seen a
greater influx of foreign nationals from Mexico and points south.

''Immigration is a funny thing,'' Moynihan mused recently at a meeting with
reporters. ''If you tear down the walls, and abolish all the immigration
stations, 85 percent of illegal Mexican immigrants go home.

''They get a job, they earn enough money to buy an automobile, they go home and
buy it,'' he said. ''But if it turns out that once you get over the border, it
turns out you might not get back, you won't go home.''

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              74 of 247 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                 January 5, 1997, Sunday, VOICES NORTH EDITION

MEDICAL VOLUNTEERS ABOUND FOR TOUGH YEARLY NIGERIAN TRIP

BYLINE: KELLY D. BURGESS

SECTION: METRO, Pg. VN-4

LENGTH: 1098 words


The World Health Mission was founded in 1988 by obstetrician Robert Ford, a
Shaler native, and general surgeon Olu Sanjodeyi, a native of Nigeria. The two
doctors were co-workers and friends at Passavant Hospital who discovered that
they had a shared vision of passing their skills along to fellow physicians in
countries where there isn't much opportunity for continuing medical education.
It took nearly two years to plan their first field trip, which was to Jof
University Teaching Hospital in Jof, Nigeria. Since then, they have returned to
Nigeria six times, most recently in November 1996. It still takes an entire year
to assemble the teams, collect the equipment and arrange the proper paper work.
The preparation can be difficult and frustrating, particularly when political
upheavals force the team to change their plans at the last minute.

But Dr. Ford's wife, Karen, the administrator of the program, always seems to
pull it off.  She brings an infinite patience to the job of arranging
international transportation for personnel and equipment into a country where
the political climate is in constant upheaval. From fighting customs to avoiding
coups, Karen Ford walks a fine line to arrange each trip. She also accompanies
the groups to Africa and makes sure everything runs smoothly for her husband and
the other team members. In a conversation with free-lance writer Kelly D.
Burgess, Ford talked about the work involved in a successful mission to Africa.

We had a scare with this last trip because we thought at one point that we might
have to cancel it altogether. We had planned to go to Jof, as usual, but in late
July, the government changed the directorship of the hospital and the new
director told us in September that it wasn't convenient for us to come.
Naturally, we hated to cancel, because we had gone to a great deal of trouble to
make these plans. The equipment had already been obtained, the people involved
had arranged for the time off and the proper paper work had been received.

We were at our wit's end when I called a Nigerian friend who lives in Chicago. I
asked her if she knew someone who could not only help us get new approvals on
short notice, but would also find us a new location. She gave me the name of a
business man, Alhagi (which is a courtesy title meaning he has made the trek to
Mecca) Ahmadu Muazu, who lives in Jof.  He became our contact. Within a week, he
got us our approvals and found a new hospital that was willing to take our team.

Muazu is very busy and travels a lot, so my friend said the only time you can
get him is the middle of the night. And that's when I called him. Amazingly
enough, this total stranger just jumped on this immediately even though he had
nothing to gain. He not only helped us with all of our final plans, he also met
us at the airport, let us borrow two cars, secured our reservations and arranged
for the government to pay for our lodging. He also hosted us in his home, and we
continue to remain in contact with him.

The new hospital he got us into was called Bauchi Specialist Hospital and is in
Bauchi, Nigeria. It has about 700 beds, all on one floor. It is made up of
continuous wards that are interconnected almost like a greenhouse structure and
attached by walkways. We do like to go to the same place year after year,
because it allows us some continuity. It allows us to see with our own eyes what
they need and to plan for it the following year. In this case, we were forced to
make a change, but the new director of Jof has been back in contact with us and
has expressed interest in having us come next year.

As a result, next year we may send two teams, one to Jof and one to Bauchi.

We usually begin our planning in January. At that time we start recruiting the
people who make up our teams. They run from seven to thirteen people and the
composition of the team depends upon the needs of the hospital. In addition to
our physicians, we have sent nurses of various specialties, technicians,
pharmacists - you name it. There is never a shortage of volunteers. We always
have people from the previous year who want to return, and they form the core of
our team. The rest of the team is assembled from resumes we have received from
interested people. We get inquiries from all over the United States in spite of
the fact that each team member has to pay all their own travel expenses. The
only thing our organization pays for is medical equipment. Even administrative
costs come out of our own pockets.

After we put our teams together, we start collecting medical equipment and
supplies based on the specialties of our team members. For example, if we are
taking a pathologist, we would collect slides and staining equipment. We have
hospitals in Pittsburgh saving equipment for us all year long. Passavant in
particular has been wonderful.

By March or early April, we begin communicating with the hospital in Africa.
They have to issue personal invitations for each individual. Then we have to get
permission from the Ministry of Internal Affairs. After that, we can apply for
our work visas. Initially, we were just able to go in with tourist visas, but
that has all changed. Each year there is some new requirement or hoop to jump
through. The people themselves are wonderful, so warm and gentle and full of
faith, but it is a military dictatorship and they are very disorganized and very
capricious.

In spite of the frustrations, we keep making these trips because every person
who goes comes back changed. We not only teach the Africans, we learn from them.
Their physicians are extremely well trained and rely almost entirely on physical
diagnosis, which our doctors don't have to use as much. It's a good thing for
our doctors to practice this again. The surgical cases are also much more
challenging than anything we would see here because the patients that even get
into a hospital already need an advanced level of care.

I always send a long letter to people who volunteer for these trips. I tell them
it's not a vacation, it's hard work. There is no time for sightseeing, playing
tennis or doing anything but working. We're lucky half the time to have
electricity and running water. If little things bother them, they are not the
person for the job. The Nigerian people don't have the same urgency as we do and
they do not follow a strict schedule such as we are accustomed to, particularly
in the medical field. If you can't handle that kind of pressure, then stay home.
But if you do come, it will be the greatest experience of your life.

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              75 of 247 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                   January 12, 1997, Sunday, TWO STAR EDITION

BUSINESS PLEADS ITS CASE FOR ITS OWN COURT

BYLINE: PETER J. SHELLY, POST-GAZETTE HARRISBURG CORRESPONDENT

SECTION: STATE, Pg. A-13

LENGTH: 970 words

DATELINE: HARRISBURG


At first blush, the notion of businessmen asking to foot the bill for a new
court system that would hear only business-related cases seems, well, silly.

Mention lawyer to a business owner and she is likely to break out in a cold
sweat.

Depositions. Liability. Court dates. Bills, bills and more bills.

Yet the state's largest business lobby, along with a handful of the state's
largest businesses, is pushing a proposal for a new state court that would be
dedicated strictly to business-related cases.

State Sen. Stewart Greenleaf, R-Montgomery, plans to introduce legislation next
month that would establish this new ''Commerce Court.''

The goal would be to create a court where business disputes could be settled
more quickly, lowering the costs of litigation.

Ideally, judges and staff members in the new system would become more
knowledgeable about the state's corporation law and would, in turn, become
better equipped to handle complex business cases.

Proponents say a separate system for business cases would reduce crowded dockets
in Common Pleas Courts, which hear those cases now.

Under the bill, the court would have six judges. In Allegheny, Philadelphia and
Dauphin counties, the court would have exclusive jurisdiction over ''corporate
governance'' cases.

In the state's other 64 counties, both the plaintiff and the defendant in a
lawsuit would have to agree to have the matter heard by the Commerce Court
before it could go there. Otherwise, it would be assigned to Common Pleas Court.

Commerce Court would be tightly focused on business disputes. For example, cases
involving a consumer claim, a claim for damages for personal injury or wrongful
death, workers' compensation cases and unemployment compensation cases would not
be heard by the new court.

The court would be funded mainly by a surcharge assessed to corporations when
they incorporate.

Greenleaf is optimistic that the legislation will come up for a vote this year.

''I think the Legislature now is much more interested in paying attention to
improving the business climate in Pennsylvania and that's what this legislation
does,'' Greenleaf said. ''It is a self-sufficient court that would lighten the
case load in our courts.''

The Pennsylvania Chamber of Business and Industry, along with Gov. Ridge,
supports the concept of a court dedicated to business disputes.

Ridge and the chamber, however, are not likely to make the legislation a top
priority this year and there is at least one formidable opponent - the
Pennsylvania Trial Lawyers Association.

''The governor . . . continues to be supportive, but it is not a top legislative
priority,'' cautioned Ellen Yount, director of communications for Ridge. ''I
think the governor looks at it in the big scheme of things to attract businesses
to Pennsylvania.''

The idea for a special court is not new. It was rejected in the Senate by a
30-18 vote in 1993. But Greenleaf has made a major change that he hopes will
help.

Under the 1993 version, the six judges would have been appointed by the governor
and confirmed by the Senate. The trial lawyers association, among others, was
unalterably opposed to merit selection of judges, preferring election instead.

Under this proposal, judges would be elected. But the legislation calls for the
appointment of a commission that would essentially grade the judges based on
experience and expertise. Those rankings would appear next to the candidates'
names on the ballot.

Greenleaf is hoping the change is sufficient to mollify opponents of merit
selection. The trial lawyers association, however, isn't buying the new
approach.

''That's the Soviet style of elections. We thought that concept . . . was a
sham,'' said Mark Phenicie, a lobbyist for the Pennsylvania Trial Lawyers.

The trial lawyers group has two other objections:

*Concern that a decision reached in a new business court might affect a related
trial in Common Pleas Court - something dealing with personal injury, for
example.

*And the association, in general, simply does not support the specialization of
courts. Phenicie noted that two businesses involved in a legal battle already
had the option of going to arbitration, which is quicker than a trial.

Yet Greenleaf and other supporters believe the bill would reduce the cost of
doing business and that might be the key in getting it to a vote.

''It is another economic development tool, in a certain sense,'' said William
A.K. Titelman, a lawyer with Klett Lieber Rooney & Schorling in Pittsburgh. ''It
would be another reason for Pennsylvania corporations to stay in Pennsylvania
and for others to move in.''

Titleman lobbies for the Commerce Court Coalition, which includes business
heavyweights Allegheny Ludlum Corp., USX Corp., Westinghouse Electric Corp.,
Mellon Bank and Union Pacific Corp., among others.

Nationally, the state of Delaware has the best known Chancery Court, which dates
back 200 years. Six other states have established business courts or divisions
within existing courts dedicated to business cases, according to a task force
established by the Business Law Section of the American Bar Association.

The state of New York established a special section of its trial court system to
deal with business disputes in New York County, which includes Manhattan and
Monroe County. The Commercial Division was created after a pilot program in
1992.

The project has won rave reviews from the legal and business community there.
After one year, there has been a 29 percent reduction in the average time to
dispose of business cases in New York County, and an 85 percent increase in the
number of cases settled before trial. There also has been a 26 percent decrease
in the volume of pending cases, and a 6 percent increase in case dispositions.

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              89 of 247 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                October 5, 1997, Sunday, NORTH THIS WEEK EDITION

WINERY JUST 'KEEPS GOING AND GOING';
HARVEST SEASON AT THE LAPIC WINERY IN NEW BRIGHTON IS A VERY BUSY TIME.

BYLINE: TRUDY GRAY

SECTION: METRO, Pg. NW-2

LENGTH: 935 words


It's harvest time - the busiest time of the year - at the Lapic Winery near New
Brighton.

For weeks, workers have been picking the ripened grapes. But the biggest job
still lies ahead: turning those grapes into distinctive red, white and blush
wines.

Paul and Josie Lapic have been at it for 20 years, longer than any other
commercial winery in Western Pennsylvania. They say they were the first since
the Harmonists produced wine at Old Economy Village near the turn of the
century.

Twenty years of winemaking doesn't mean it gets any easier, they say.

''We work hard,'' Josie Lapic says. ''You have to work at it to keep it going.''

But that doesn't mean they never relax. Yesterday the couple, their four sons
and their workers stopped to enjoy the fruits of their labors - or rather, last
year's labors - when they held their 11th annual Winefest.

Last year, 1,500 people attended the festival, prompting the Lapics to rent a
neighbor's field to use for parking.

It takes the wine festival to draw big crowds to Lapic Winery. Josie Lapic says
occasional visitors are often misled by the modest appearance of the winery's
front.

''People come up and say, 'This can't be much,' and leave. But it keeps going
and going,'' she says.

The winery has 5 acres of vines as well as pressing, bottling and storage areas
and a tour room, where Josie Lapic narrates slide shows for tour groups. She
enjoys educating people about the tricks of growing various grape varieties and
making consistent wine. She remembers what it's like to be a novice.

Josie and Paul Lapic began their business in September 1977. She had recently
retired from Kmart, and he was still working for Duquesne Light Co. What had
been a part-time avocation was now a livelihood. In fact, Josie Lapic had to
list the winery as her primary occupation to be licensed as a winemaker by the
state.

The pair were still neophyte vintners, trying to gather information about it
wherever they could. They did their apprenticeship first at a winery in
Titusville, Erie County, Pennsylvania's wine country and the birthplace of its
modern wine industry.

The Lapics even spent some of their vacations there, learning all about which
grapes would produce what kind of wine. When they planted their own vineyards,
they chose grapes similar to the ones they had seen in Erie County.

''You selected what you thought might grow,'' Paul Lapic said.

Josie Lapic said grapes grown in one location would produce a different wine if
grown somewhere else, because of such factors as soil, climate and method of
fermentation.

Paul Lapic, who continued to work at Duquesne Light until 1984, said he had a
brief family history in the grape and wine business. His father grew a few acres
of Concord grapes, primarily to sell as fruit, though the family occasionally
made wine.

''Of course I was just a kid then. It didn't mean much, '' he said.

In 1977, the Lapics produced 1,500 gallons of wine, which they began to sell the
next year. They opened a wine shop a short time later.

Today, the winery produces 10,000 to 12,000 gallons.

At harvest time, grapes are brought in from the vineyard with a tractor-trailer.
After weighing, they are put into a crusher/destemmer.

''There are no feet involved,'' Paul Lapic said with a chuckle, referring to the
traditional method of crushing grapes.

Red wine and rose' are made from black grapes, ranging in color from red to
blue-black. The crushed grapes are pumped into a tank to start fermentation, the
process whereby the yeast in the grapes acts on the sugar, which is then broken
down into alcohol, carbon dioxide and other byproducts. Pulp and skins remain in
the tank for about four days to give the wine its red color. They are then
pumped into the presser to squeeze out the juice, which is then pumped into
barrels.

After about a month of fermentation, the newly made wine is aged in 500- to
1,000-gallon containers in a climate-controlled warehouse for about a year.
Clearing the wine of lees or sediment, called racking, is done periodically
during that time. Bottling starts in spring.

White wine may be made for either white grapes, which range in color from yellow
to green, or red grapes. To make white wine, the grape juice is pressed off
right after the grapes are crushed. Rose or blush wines are produced by removing
skins after fermentation has begun, giving the wine a pinkish color.

Lapic Winery produces about 16 kinds of wine, ranging from dry to medium dry to
sweet. The Lapics also make special wine for the holidays, such as cherry,
strawberry and apple wine. They have won various medals over the years in
contests sponsored by the Pennsylvania Wine Association. But they no longer
participate because of what they consider high entry fees. They have a sales
booth, now at Beaver Valley Mall, which changes locations every few years.

The names on Lapic's labels may be those of a particular grape, such as Concord,
Catawba or Reisling, or more poetic ones the family chooses together, such as
Valley Red or White Harvest.

Unlike large wineries, Lapic does not indicate on its labels the year the wine
was made. Paul Lapic said that was strictly for reasons of economy.

''Why throw away thousands of labels? There isn't much variation from year to
year,'' he said.

Any variation in the grapes comes from factors the Lapics can't control, such as
late springs, cold summers or inadequate rain. %BC% * %EC%

The Lapic Winery is at 682 Tulip Drive, New Brighton.  For more information,
call 846-2031.

Trudy Gray is a free-lance writer.

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, PHOTO: Annie O'Neill/Post-Gazette: Robert Patterson, left, and
John; Justi harvest Cayuga grapes at the Lapic Winery in New Brighton.

                       Copyright 1997 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              91 of 247 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                   October 28, 1997, Tuesday, SOONER EDITION

COLORFUL, EYE-CATCHING CARDS GAIN POPULARITY AS BUSINESS MAGNETS

BYLINE: JAN NORMAN, THE ORANGE COUNTY REGISTER

SECTION: TABS, Pg. F-7

LENGTH: 1264 words


Business cards are like politics: Everyone has an opinion what they should be,
but no two people totally agree.

One side loves the truly unusual card - the more distinctive, the better. Others
are loyal to the standard black ink on white paper, $ 9 per 1,000 business
cards.

The minimalists believe the card must reflect the company's professional image.
Wacky advocates say stodgy is forgettable and that, in today's business climate,
that's unforgivable. The semibrave try a touch of color. The superbold slather
fluorescent ink all over the place.

''There are no rules'' for the perfect business card, insists Avery Pitzak,
president of American Business Card Club in Aurora, Colo., and business-card
collector for 45 years.

In an arena without rules, do unusual business cards work or backfire?

It depends on the company's purpose, business-card users responded. However, not
a single person sent an example of his or her business card with the notation:
This doesn't work.

''Business cards are the most overlooked, underexposed business devices on the
planet,'' Pitzak says. ''Most aren't worth the paper they're printed on.''

The average person thinks the business card represents the company or makes a
first impression, he notes.

''That's dancing around the bush. The only real reason for a business card is to
bring in business,'' Pitzak says.

Eugene Montanez, president of ZAP Printing in Corona, Calif., says the card ''is
the only part of your business your customer will ever see if you are a service
business without a retail location. You must look professional, yet you must
also look like you know what the heck you are doing, because a competitor will
if you don't.''

ZAP's cards fade from bright red to orange with a silver lightning bolt. They
are run through the presses three times and a thermal machine twice. They cost $
300 per thousand.

Color is the most popular means that entrepreneurs employ to make their cards
stand out.

ZAP's cards have brought in customers from miles away, Montanez says. Some want
to duplicate ZAP's look; others figure if ZAP can do that card, it may be able
to do their own wild ideas.

Irvine, Calif., public-relations consultant Ilene Schneider has cards with a
dark blue background ''that are easy to find in a Rolodex file.''

Westminster, Calif., resident Judy Smith, a saleswoman for Hardy Diagnostics,
has a black card with a red Petri dish and blue lettering. The company makes
products for microbiology testing.

Her previous card was gray with silver lettering and the company logo in blue.

''People look at this one more,'' Smith says. ''I've gotten a lot more calls
with this (full-color) card.''

But four-color business cards may not be for entrepreneurs on a tight budget,
says Irvine graphic artist Jeri Schroeder. Four colors will cost 3 1/2 to four
times more than the black-on-white variety.

Pitzak, a fan of bizarre cards, says few people go far enough with their
business cards. His card ''changes from second to second as the recipient looks
at it,'' although he won't disclose how.

One company executive chewed Pitzak out for giving him a card that caused him to
waste hours of time looking at it.

''I told him that waste was his word, not mine,'' Pitzak says. ''Every second a
recipient is looking at that card makes it more likely they will remember me and
do business with me.''

Marie Evans, marketing consultant and ad-specialties saleswoman for Geiger Bros.
West, also values unique business cards. One features her photo on a sports
trading card. Another is a spare key holder. A third is a magnifying glass. Each
variety is printed with all the pertinent information that would be found on a
standard business card.

Larry Stanley, president of Merit Moving Systems Inc. in Buena Park, Calif., has
a card that looks like the back of a moving truck. The ''doors'' open to reveal
the name, address, phone number and service details.

''People identify what we do with one look at the card,'' Stanley says.

One of the best cards, by Pitzak's standards, is a printer's black-and-white
card with everything wrong on it from spelling to an inky thumb print.

''When the guy started handing them out, he didn't change anything else about
his marketing,'' Pitzak says. ''In the first two months, sales were up 15
percent; in six months, business was up 35 percent.''

Some businesses make their cards memorable by the material they use.

Marketing consultant Evans has one card that's a wooden nickel imprinted with
her name and phone number.

Mobile Screen Service in Santa Ana, Calif., glues company cards on screening
material.

''People think it's so interesting that they hang onto it,'' says spokesman
Steve Lawler. ''Some people have had one for five years.''

Terri O'Brien, who writes personalized children's books, puts her card on a
magnet, which her clients tend to put on their refrigerators.

Pitzak tells of a man who sells branding irons. When people at trade shows ask
for his card, he pulls out a card-size piece of plywood and brands it right
there.

''They smell the odor of the burning pine, hear the crackle,'' Pitzak says.
''The more senses you can appeal to during a sales pitch, the more likely you'll
make the sale.''

A copier saleswoman prints her cards in full color onto transparencies while
potential customers watch, Pitzak says.

''People in the Middle East like to put their cards on sterling silver or real
gold.''

Some entrepreneurs reject the 2-inch-by-3 1/2 -inch rectangle of standard
business cards.

Merit's moving van and Evans' round wooden nickel are two examples.

The owner of Two Women jewelry store in San Francisco ties her card in a knot.

Bill McIvor, owner of Softwarehouse in Fountain Valley, has a large-sized,
folded card that ''allows us to put a map to our store, hours of operation,
address, phone and fax numbers, our e-mail address and Internet site. We even
list 11 reasons why you save money at the Softwarehouse.''

Irvine photographer Paul Prosise puts examples of his photography on his
cards.''My specialty is doing magazine covers, so I've designed my business
cards to look like miniature magazine covers,'' Prosise explains.

''I do a variety of different cards and try to hand an appropriate one to each
potential client,'' Prosise says. ''For example, I might hand a picture of
something computer-related to someone in the computer industry.

''However, I've found as people see me going through a handful of different
cards to pick one for them, they may ask for something entirely different,'' he
adds. ''This helps me better understand what they might be looking for.''

Prosise isn't the only entrepreneur with multiple business cards. Victor
Veturis, who owns Semper Fi Mac, a Laguna Hills supplier of military pins and
patches, has a plain white card that he uses for mass advertising. A second,
extra-long card is a full-color airplane photograph with the same finish as
sports trading cards.

A third highlights Veturis' background in the Marine Corps. While there are
three times as many Army, Navy and Air Force veterans as Marines, he explains,
''Marines outspend the other services 10 to one in buying pins and patches.''

Marine-card recipients ''always read it on the spot, ask for another card for a
fellow Marine and place the card in their wallet.''

''This is what you want, for the customer to want to keep your business card,''
he says. This means they were pleased with your service and will refer their
friends to you, he said.

SMALL BUSINESS

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              95 of 247 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                   November 21, 1997, Friday, SOONER EDITION

NAMING OF ARENA DISPUTED;
AUDITORIUM PANEL BALKS AT PENS' $ 5 MILLION DEAL WITH ALLEGHENY ENERGY

BYLINE: KEN ZAPINSKI, POST-GAZETTE STAFF WRITER

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg. A-1

LENGTH: 996 words


For $ 5 million paid over six years, the Penguins are ready to change the name
of the Civic Arena to the Allegheny Energy Dome.

Trouble is, they don't own the arena.

''The naming rights to the Civic Arena belong to the Public Auditorium
Authority,'' said James Kiesel, executive director of the joint
Pittsburgh-Allegheny County body. ''We own the building.''

Penguins President Donn Patton downplayed any differences in announcing the deal
with Allegheny Energy Inc. yesterday. ''We understand that there may be
questions involved,'' he said. ''I'd rather not characterize it as a dispute.''

The issue has nothing to do with aesthetics or protecting a venerable regional
landmark from the taint of commercialism. Kiesel, in fact, is shopping around
the name of the David L. Lawrence Convention Center, named after the legendary
politician, with an asking price of around $ 10 million over 10 years.

''I don't think anybody in the financial climate that we're in right now can
afford to be a purist,'' Kiesel said. ''We're sort of in the hunt for anybody. .
. . Everybody is looking at naming rights as a potential revenue source.''

He cited Milwaukee, where Midwest Express Airlines will pay $ 9.25 million over
15 years in cash and travel credits to name the city's new convention building
the Midwest Express Center.

The controversy over the Civic Arena deal comes down to who gets the cash from a
new name. The Penguins and SMG, the company that operates the arena, want it.

But public officials say it belongs to taxpayers.

''We have to look at how that money is applied, whether it is for further
improvements to the arena,'' said Karen Hochberg, spokeswoman for county
Commissioner Mike Dawida. ''But the money definitely belongs in the domain of
the public.''

If a naming deal is structured ''to lighten the load to the public as to the
cost of the arena, it might be in the best interest,'' said Thomas McCargo,
chairman of the five-member authority board.

In February the Allegheny Regional Asset District Board approved $ 12.9 million
of county sales tax money for the Penguins and the Civic Arena - $ 10.5 million
to build 1,400 new club seats, more luxury boxes, new concession stands and
other improvements, and $ 2.38 million to compensate team co-owner Howard
Baldwin for improvements he made to the building in 1994.

Patton said the team will be meeting with auditorium authority officials, Mayor
Murphy and the county commissioners to ''resolve the complicated issues involved
in a process like this.''

Earlier this year, Patton pegged the Penguins' operating losses at $ 3.5 million
for the 1995-96 season and $ 12.9 million for the season before, which was
interrupted by a labor dispute. Confidential auditorium authority documents
pegged the organization's net losses, including interest costs, depreciation and
losses from non-Penguin business ventures in the two years at $ 13.7 million and
$ 24.7 million, respectively.

''These are challenging times in professional sports, especially in hockey, and
we are always looking for new ways to remain competitive,'' team owners Howard
Baldwin and Roger Marino said in a statement released yesterday. They noted that
many of their competitors in the NHL's Eastern Conference have new arenas where
the naming rights have been sold.

Patton described the deal with Allegheny Energy as an agreement in principle. He
said the timetable for finalizing the deal and changing the name of the arena
would depend on the talks with public officials. No sessions have been
scheduled, but Patton said he hoped the change would take place during the
current hockey season.

''That's sort of like putting the cart before the horse,'' the auditorium
authority's Kiesel said. ''I just can't see the rationale there - we're going to
make a deal, then we're going to see if it's OK.''

Murphy, in a brief written statement, said he was ''delighted there is corporate
interest in securing the future of the Penguins in Pittsburgh and in maintaining
the Civic Arena.'' He said the auditorium authority needed to balance taxpayers'
investment with the Penguins' need to make money. ''I look forward to a thorough
review of the legal issues surrounding this proposed transaction,'' Murphy said.

Councilman Dan Cohen, a member of the auditorium authority, was less
understanding.

''I am livid,'' Cohen said. ''Both the plan and the process reflect the height
of irresponsibility.''

Cohen said he was particularly unhappy that the Penguins dealt with a company
that the city is suing in federal court. Pittsburgh is trying prevent Allegheny
Energy and Duquesne Light Co.'s parent corporation from merging in a $ 4.3
billion stock-and-cash deal proposed earlier this year.

The city maintains the merger would hurt the development of competition in the
electric industry and would lead to higher electrical rates. Both companies deny
the allegation.

State regulators in Pennsylvania and around the country are enacting rules that
would allow customers to shop around for power for the first time. Those new
competitive rules are what pushed Allegheny Energy into the deal. People need to
become familiar with the Allegheny Energy label, chairman and chief executive
Alan J. Noia said.

''Competition is about getting customers and you need a brand to get
customers,'' he said. ''This is part of our branding process . . . I don't see
how anybody could be opposed to this.''

The city's other major sports venue will keep its non-commercial name for the
time being.

Negotiations to sell naming rights for Three Rivers Stadium have been on hold
for months, primarily because the Steelers have withheld their approval, said
Mark Schneider, chairman of the city Stadium Authority.

The proposed deal would have divided the naming-rights revenue between the city,
Steelers and Pirates, he said.

Schneider said he expected naming rights deals to be part of any new stadium
development.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              96 of 247 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                   November 26, 1997, Wednesday, WEST EDITION

ACCESS TO I-79, AIRPORT HELPS 2 WEST TOWNS GROW;
COMMUNITIES THAT ARE CLOSE TO THE CITY BUT KEEP A RURAL ATMOSPHERE ENTICE;
YOUNG PEOPLE TO RELOCATE.

SECTION: METRO, Pg. W-1

LENGTH: 2126 words


The three magic words that drive the demand for real estate are location,
location, location.

That helps explain the population growth in Cecil and a few other communities in
the western suburbs.

The Washington County township and its northern neighbor South Fayette in
bordering Allegheny County each posted population gains of 12.7 percent between
1990 and 1996, according to estimates released last week by the U.S. Census
Bureau.

Both benefit from easy access to Interstate 79 leading north to Pittsburgh and
south to Morgantown, and both are near Pittsburgh International Airport.

Cecil's growth was spurred in the last six years by the opening of Southpointe,
a 600-acre commercial business park. Not only is it the practice rink of the
Penguins, the entire park has fortified the community's tax base. And the
township absorbed the overflow when communities such as Mt. Lebanon, Upper St.
Clair and Bethel Park reached saturation points.

''The main reason people are getting out of Allegheny County and moving here is
our tax climate,'' said Cecil Supervisor and secretary Frank Egizio. ''It's a
combination of factors. Our taxes are cheaper, we offer country living, but you
can be in Pittsburgh in 20 to 25 minutes, and we have good schools.''

The largest population loss in Washington County was in California Borough,
which dropped 6.1 percent. Officials were not available for comment.

Although Allegheny County lost population as a whole, South Fayette was an
exception.

''We're going crazy here with building permits,'' said Glenn Calgaro, South
Fayette's code enforcement officer. ''We've just touched the top of it. If it
keeps up, I ain't going to have time to sleep.''

Calgaro said there have been 105 new home starts this year, including 15 this
month, and school expansion is being planned.

''People are moving out of the city. And they're young people. You don't find
60-year-olds up and relocating to new houses. They're moving out here because
it's more rural. It's not an industrial or cramped setting.''

Crafton, meanwhile, lost 5.9 percent of its population.

''I think what it is, a lot of our multifamily dwellings have been converted to
single-family homes. The residents who moved out were young people who relocated
elsewhere,'' said borough Secretary Pat Kozlowski.

The growth in Cecil and South Fayette typifies population shifts evident in the
census numbers. Growth areas are able to offer country living with proximity to
the city, something supported by a Money Magazine survey that shows for the
first time that more Americans are migrating from major metropolitan areas to
the country.

Lower taxes, good roads, less congestion and less crime are also cited as
factors for growth, although local officials note that uncontrolled growth can
put pressure on schools, local roads and water and sewer systems.

On the other hand, communities with the biggest losses - particularly Mon Valley
communities such as McKeesport, Braddock, Duquesne, Elizabeth, Homestead and
West Homestead - have long sought better roads to attract new industry to
replace abandoned steel mills. The loss of industrial and commercial tax bases
have also shifted more burden on residents.

Allegheny County as a whole lost 3 percent of its population - Pittsburgh lost
5.3 percent - while Butler, Westmoreland, Washington and Beaver counties gained
population. Butler's increase was 10.3 percent.

''It's no surprise,'' said Robert Strauss, professor of economics and public
policy at Carnegie Mellon University's Heinz School. ''The population movements
reflect people looking for better housing, better schools, better community,
lower taxes and unhappiness with the political stability (in Allegheny County).
The population shifts are understandable, and they're going to continue.''

Allegheny County officials said they could not comment on the census numbers
because they haven't had enough time to analyze the data.

In the east suburbs, for example, largely rural Penn Township in Westmoreland
County recorded a 15.3 percent jump in population. Neighboring Murrysville had a
10.8 percent boost.

Penn Manager Bruce Light said the new residents are middle-income families
leaving Penn Hills, Monroeville and other areas of Allegheny County in search of
lower taxes and better schools.

''We've had dramatic growth. It's a nice place to live,'' Light said.

Although the influx has put pressure on the Penn-Trafford School District to
create more classroom space, Penn has not lost its rural appeal. ''I'd rather
grow, as long as it's controlled growth, rather than be stagnant or going in the
opposite direction,'' Light said.

By contrast, Mon Valley communities and their losses include: McKeesport, 10.3
percent; Braddock, 9 percent; Duquesne, 7.2 percent; Elizabeth, 6.9 percent;
Rankin, 6.8 percent; Clairton, 6.2 percent; Homestead, 6.2 percent; and West
Homestead, 6 percent.

''That's pretty sizable. That's a big loss,'' said Braddock Mayor-elect Pauline
Abdullah.

A Post-Gazette Benchmarks survey in 1995 noted that those communities had lost
from 53 percent to 77 percent of their tax base, meaning that for every $ 100 in
taxable property that Braddock had in 1980, it has only $ 47 now. For every $
100 in taxable property in McKeesport, there's only $ 23 now.

Many of those communities hope that the proposed Mon Valley Expressway, a toll
road that's been talked about for decades and is being built in four sections,
will be an economic tonic to their financial and population woes.

Most of those departing these Mon Valley towns are younger families, and the
exodus leaves behind the elderly on fixed incomes.

''Nobody wants to admit losses, but maybe loss gives you a chance to
restructure,'' said McKeesport Mayor Joe Bendel. ''The expressway would
re-establish the value of the Mon Valley.''

Bendel said the city is removing vacant houses - many of them dating to the 19th
century and built near the mill sites - and clearing old industrial plots for
new development, which would create jobs, housing and retail businesses.

He also said his city, at the confluence of the Youghiogheny and Monongahela
rivers, is home to the new McKees Point Marina and is developing the
4.4-mile-long Youghiogheny Riverfront Park.

''We have something those other communities don't have, and that's our rivers.
We want to develop them and take advantage of our natural resources,'' Bendel
said.

In the South Hills, one community that is growing is Jefferson. The borough,
which is the northern terminus of one section of the Mon Valley Expressway
linking it to Interstate 70, showed a gain of 2.2 percent between 1990 and 1996.

The growth was even bigger during the past decade, and officials expect the
influx to pick up now that the new expressway has been plotted and is under
construction. It will grow even faster if the road is extended to Pittsburgh.

''People are able to build with confidence,'' said borough Manager Richard
Clark. ''In the '80s, people sort of discovered Jefferson. We took a survey on
why they live here, and they said it's because of the country atmosphere.
There's lots of wildlife. It isn't bumper-to-bumper traffic. If you want to go
to the Century III Mall, it's 10 minutes away.''

He said that many of the doctors and medical people who work at Jefferson
Hospital are electing to build new homes in the borough. Some homeowners also
work at the chemical, glass and oil plants along the Monongahela River.

In the North, Marshall's fortunes got a big boost with the 1989 opening of
Interstate 279, the expressway that speeds commuting time from the northern
suburbs into Pittsburgh.

According to U.S. Census estimates, the township's population increased 23
percent between 1990 and 1996. Neighboring Pine had a 37.2 percent increase, and
its northern neighbor, Cranberry in Butler County, had a 39.5 percent increase.
Last year Cranberry was named one of ''America's biggest little boom towns'' by
Money Magazine.

''What's driving it is location. It's because of our transportation network,''
said Marshall Manager Neil McFadden. ''We've just enjoyed steady growth. But we
can't particularly take credit for it.''

I-279, which connects to Interstate 79 running north and south through Marshall,
gives commuters the best road access into Pittsburgh. Because Marshall is also
convenient to the Pennsylvania Turnpike, the area has benefitted from the influx
of businesses, such as Bell Atlantic and the Society of Automotive Engineers, to
its Thornhill Industrial Park. It is also headquarters for Fore Systems Inc., a
computer networking company.

McFadden said the township's real estate taxes - among the lowest in Allegheny
County at 9.25 mills - and the quality of the North Allegheny School District
contribute to the influx of middle class homeowners.

''Most of them are corporate transfers from outside the county,'' he said.
''We're definitely a bedroom community. Most of our resident population works
elsewhere.''

The township has taken pains to control the growth, McFadden said, and many new
homes are on multi-acre lots that preserve the rustic quality of life. A big
chunk of the township is also land set aside by the Pennsylvania Game
Commission, so wildlife combines with the rural feel of a residential area that
is within easy driving distance of the city.

 Where the people are in PG West communities

PG West communities in Allegheny, Beaver and Washington counties, and their
percentages of population gains and losses from 1990 to 1996. %BC% GAINS %EC%

1990 1996 Percent

Town County population population change

Cecil Washington 8,948 10,081 12.7

South Fayette Allegheny 10,329 11,636 12.7

North Fayette Allegheny 9,537 10,593 11.1

Greene Beaver 2,573 2,778 8.0

Hanover Beaver 3,470 3,745 7.9

Brighton Beaver 7,489 8,006 6.9

Glasgow Beaver 74 79 6.8

Bridgewater Beaver 751 801 6.7

Center Beaver 10,742 11,379 5.9

Economy Beaver 9,305 9,774 5.0

Fallston Beaver 392 410 4.6

Daugherty Beaver 3,433 3,582 4.3

Hanover Washington 2,883 3,007 4.3

Moon Allegheny 19,631 20,430 4.1

Raccoon Beaver 3,426 3,561 3.9

Patterson Beaver 3,074 3,188 3.7

New Sewickley Beaver 7,075 7,329 3.6

Mount Pleasant Washington 3,555 3,669 3.2

Thornburg Allegheny 461 475 3.0

Frankfort Springs Beaver 134 138 3.0

Hopewell Beaver 13,274 13,658 2.9

Chippewa Beaver 6,988 7,153 2.4

Shippingport Beaver 227 232 2.2

Potter Beaver 546 558 2.2

Eastvale Beaver 328 335 2.1

South Beaver Beaver 2,942 3,001 2.0

Kennedy Allegheny 7,265 7,405 1.9

McDonald Allegheny 443 451 1.8

Robinson Washington 2,160 2,197 1.7

Ohioville Beaver 3,865 3,907 1.1

Cross Creek Washington 1,727 1,743 0.9

Big Beaver Beaver 2,298 2,318 0.9

Robinson Allegheny 10,830 10,912 0.8

North Sewickley Beaver 6,178 6,229 0.8

Rochester Beaver 3,247 3,255 0.2

Smith Washington 4,844 4,851 0.1 %BC% LOSSES %EC%

1990 1996 Percent

Town County population population change

Pennsbury Village Allegheny 774 773 -0.1

Independence Beaver 2,563 2,561 -0.1

Marion Beaver 909 905 -0.4

New Galilee Beaver 500 496 -0.8

McDonald Washington 1,809 1,795 -0.8

Industry Beaver 2,124 2,104 -0.9

Darlington Beaver 311 308 -1.0

South Heights Beaver 647 639 -1.2

Pulaski Beaver 1,697 1,675 -1.3

Harmony Beaver 3,694 3,640 -1.5

Georgetown Beaver 194 191 -1.5

White Beaver 1,610 1,584 -1.6

Patterson Heights Beaver 576 565 -1.9

Vanport Beaver 1,700 1,666 -2.0

Midway Washington 1,043 1,022 -2.0

Scott Allegheny 17,118 16,737 -2.2

Monaca Beaver 6,739 6,580 -2.4

Baden Beaver 5,074 4,937 -2.7

Collier Allegheny 4,841 4,709 -2.7

Oakdale Allegheny 1,752 1,703 -2.8

Beaver Beaver 5,028 4,886 -2.8

Hookstown Beaver 169 164 -3.0

Bridgeville Allegheny 5,445 5,278 -3.1

Conway Beaver 2,424 2,350 -3.1

Homewood Beaver 162 157 -3.1

West Mayfield Beaver 1,312 1,270 -3.2

Koppel Beaver 1,024 988 -3.5

East Rochester Beaver 672 647 -3.7

Green Tree Allegheny 4,905 4,717 -3.8

Freedom Beaver 1,897 1,823 -3.9

Midland Beaver 3,321 3,190 -3.9

New Brighton Beaver 6,854 6,581 -4.0

Ambridge Beaver 8,133 7,787 -4.3

Beaver Falls Beaver 10,687 10,223 -4.3

Aliquippa Beaver 13,374 12,769 -4.5

Heidelberg Allegheny 1,238 1,181 -4.6

Rochester Beaver 4,156 3,961 -4.7

Coraopolis Allegheny 6,747 6,411 -5.0

Jefferson Washington 1,212 1,150 -5.1

Burgettstown Washington 1,634 1,549 -5.2

Stowe Allegheny 7,681 7,266 -5.4

Neville Allegheny 1,273 1,204 -5.4

Carnegie Allegheny 9,278 8,769 -5.5

Rosslyn Farms Allegheny 483 455 -5.8

Ingram Allegheny 3,901 3,673 -5.8

McKees Rocks Allegheny 7,691 7,235 -5.9

Crafton Allegheny 7,188 6,761 -5.9

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CHART, CHART: U.S. Census Bureau: (Where the people are in PG West;
communities)

                       Copyright 1997 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              101 of 247 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                     April 1, 1997, Tuesday, SOONER EDITION

BASEBALL WRAPS ITSELF IN WARMTH OF NEW SEASON

BYLINE: BEN WALKER, THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: SPORTS, Pg. C-5

LENGTH: 749 words


By the time Frank Thomas steps into the batter's box today to face Toronto's Cy
Young winner Pat Hentgen, one of the biggest changes in baseball this season
will be obvious.

Standing in SkyDome's on-deck circle will be Albert Belle in a White Sox
uniform. The next night, the Blue Jays show off their top newcomer when Roger
Clemens pitches against Chicago.

Opening day features 12 games, including the World Series champion New York
Yankees at Seattle and the new-look Florida Marlins, coming off a 26-5 record in
spring training, at home against the Chicago Cubs. No interleague games are
scheduled - those matchups begin in June.

This is the 50th anniversary of Jackie Robinson breaking the color barrier, and
the season is dedicated to his memory. Special commemorative balls have been
made to mark the occasion, and will be used in every team's home opener.

Another change: Having seen a snowout at Fenway Park and freezing temperatures
at Tiger Stadium and Wrigley Field for early home openers last year, baseball
adjusted its schedules in an attempt to beat the cold weather.

As a result, all five domes in the majors will be in use today, and every West
Coast club in both big leagues will begin the year at home.

Cincinnati and Baltimore, which traditionally play at home on opening day, are
the only typical cold climate clubs playing at their own, open-air parks today.

''It is in response to last spring,'' NL vice president Katy Feeney said. ''It's
hard to make it a 100 percent warm weather schedule, but we did the best we
could.''

A rough draft of the 1997 schedule already had been drawn up last summer when
baseball went to work changing it, prompted by the memory of 10 postponements in
the first week of the 1996 season.

''It's not perfect. A lot of East Coast teams don't want to start with nine or
10 games on the road, and a lot of West Coast teams don't want to have so many
home games in April,'' Feeney said. ''We tried this once before in the early
1980s. We wound up getting some rare rainouts on the West Coast and a blizzard
in the East Coast on April 15. But you do the best you can.''

All 14 National League teams play today. In addition to Chicago-Florida and
Colorado-Cincinnati, it will be NL champion Atlanta at Houston, St. Louis at
Montreal, Philadelphia at Los Angeles, New York at San Diego and the Pirates at
San Francisco.

The Braves, trying to win a record sixth straight division title, are to open
their new Turner Field on Friday.

In the AL, in addition to Chicago-Toronto and New York-Seattle, it's Kansas City
at Baltimore, Milwaukee at Texas, Detroit at Minnesota. On Wednesday, Boston
plays at the newly named Anaheim Angels and Cleveland visits Oakland.

While attendance is expected to rise this season, it surely will not reach the
level of pre-strike 1994. In fact, the Blue Jays, once one of baseball's best
draws, do not expect a sellout for Hentgen's start today.

''Quite frankly, when you have the Cy Young winner pitching - not from a revenue
point of view but strictly from an emotional point of view - it should be a
chance to show Pat some support,'' Toronto General Manager Gord Ash said.

Among the top players in new places are Matt Williams, Marquis Grissom and David
Justice with Cleveland and Moises Alou, Bobby Bonilla and Alex Fernandez with
Florida, whose Jim Leyland is one of six managers with new clubs.

Among the top players who won't be with their teams on opening day are Roberto
Alomar and Pedro Martinez. Alomar, Baltimore's All-Star second baseman, will
start serving a five-game suspension imposed for spitting in the face of umpire
John Hirschbeck last September, and Martinez, Montreal's top pitcher, must
finish a suspension imposed for a fight last season.

Umpires, upset that Alomar did not have to sit during last year's playoffs, have
professed a get-tough policy. In particular, they say they will not tolerate any
lip from players or managers, and seemed to mean business with several ejections
in exhibition games, a spring training rarity.

American League MVP Juan Gonzalez, St. Louis ace Andy Benes and highly touted
Montreal rookie outfielder Vladimir Guerrero also will be absent on opening day,
all because of injuries.

Mike Mussina, scheduled to start for the Orioles, was scratched yesterday
because of a calcium deposit in his elbow. Jimmy Key, signed by Baltimore after
winning the clinching Game 6 of the World Series for the Yankees, will pitch.

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              108 of 247 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                  November 27, 1997, Thursday, SOONER EDITION

SCIENTISTS DESCRIBE ASTEROID'S BIG SPLASH;
'COSMIC BOMB' HIT SEA OFF ANTARCTICA IN THE FIRST KNOWN IMPACT WITH WATER

BYLINE: PETER JAMES SPIELMAN, THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY & MEDICINE, Pg. A-3

LENGTH: 659 words

DATELINE: SYDNEY, Australia


An asteroid that tumbled through space for eons blasted into the sea off
Antarctica more than 2 million years ago with the force of ''a cosmic bomb,'' a
multinational team of scientists said in a research paper published yesterday.

Striking the Bellingshausen Sea with the explosive power of 100 billion tons of
TNT, the asteroid Eltanin blew a column of water three miles high and punched a
temporary ''oceanic crater'' in the sea, according to the paper, which appeared
in the British science journal Nature.

The researchers estimate the asteroid was at least six-tenths of a mile and
possibly up to 2 1/2 miles in diameter.

The blast in the ocean did not leave a crater on the seabed, but a similar
strike on land would have left a hole nine to 25 miles across.

Eltanin, the only asteroid ever known to have hit water, triggered waves 65 to
130 feet high, ''devastating mega-tsunamis'' that swamped the coasts of South
America and Antarctica.

''The tsunami . . . destroys enormous, large areas.  . . . In the Pacific Rim
there are signs of such things,'' one of the lead researchers, Rainer Gersonde
of the Alfred Wegener Institute for Polar and Marine Research in Bremerhaven,
Germany, told The Associated Press in a telephone interview yesterday.

Sediment spread up to 2,500 miles away and dust, vapor and salts wafted around
the world. Enough debris and hot vapors were emitted to possibly damage the
Earth's ozone layer, the researchers said.

''The dust and vapor probably caused a major change in climate, but whether that
persisted or was for just a few years, we just don't know,'' said Karsten Gohl,
a geologist from Macquarie University in Sydney who worked on the project.

There is no evidence that the climatic change caused the extinction of any
species.

New seismic and deep-sea surveys conducted in 1995 by the German research ship
Polarstern enabled the scientists to accurately date the blast to the late
Pliocene period, 2.15 million years ago, and to gauge its effects.

The blast was well after the Northern Hemisphere's Ice Age began but ''close to
one of the strongest cooling events in this time period,'' the researchers'
paper said.

''It might be that this strong cooling was related to the impact,'' Gersonde
told the AP.

The fallout from the blast may explain the ''Sirius enigma,'' the puzzle of why
marine fossils are found high above sea level in the Transantarctic Mountains.

The researchers believe fallout from the steam and vapor cloud dropped
micro-fossils directly on the mountains, an idea that geologist Peter Barrett at
Victoria University of Wellington, New Zealand, called ''reasonably plausible.''

David Harwood at the University of Nebraska, an expert on the Sirius fossils,
conceded that the fallout theory ''has potential,'' but said some Sirius
deposits do not fit the model. He is among those who think moving ice sheets may
have scoured fossil deposits and redeposited them in unexpected sites.

The Eltanin impact was a medium blast, as asteroids go.

About 65 million years ago, a six-mile-wide asteroid crashed into an area near
Mexico's Yucatan Peninsula, creating a 112-mile-wide crater. Some scientists
believe this event kicked up enough dust to blot out the sun, killing more than
80 percent of all animals on Earth and leading to the extinction of the
dinosaurs.

But rocks far smaller than Eltanin can cause massive damage: A meteorite only
150 feet across created Arizona's Meteor Crater, 4,000 feet wide and 600 feet
deep. A rock just 30 feet across, hitting Earth from outer space, releases
energy equal to about five Hiroshima-sized bombs.

Although the Earth's surface is 70 percent water, Eltanin is the only asteroid
to strike the ocean that scientists know about, compared with about 140 known to
have hit land, Jan Smits of the Research School of Sedimentary Geology at
Amsterdam's Vrije University noted in a commentary on the research in Nature.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              112 of 247 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                  December 20, 1997, Saturday, SOONER EDITION

EL NINO RESURGES, STRONGER THAN EVER

BYLINE: ROBERT LEE HOTZ, LOS ANGELES TIMES

SECTION: SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY & MEDICINE, Pg. A-2

LENGTH: 458 words

DATELINE: PASADENA, Calif.


The El Nino current wreaking havoc with the world's weather is resurging with
new strength across the tropical Pacific Ocean, according to satellite data from
NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory.

The new satellite measurements, which show the current regaining momentum after
receding dramatically earlier this month, bolster federal forecasts of a fierce,
tempestuous winter, climate experts said.

Drawn from the Topex/Poseidon satellite, the images indicate that El Nino grew
by 10 percent in the first 10 days of December, after shrinking by the same
amount at the end of November.

The JPL data offer National Aeronautics and Space Administration researchers a
glimpse of what they called the heartbeat of El Nino - the way the current ebbs
as its energy drains into the atmosphere and then grows again as it is
rejuvenated by periodic bursts of strong westward winds in the central Pacific.

''This takes you right into the heartbeat of El Nino,'' said JPL research
oceanographer Bill Patzert. ''The El Nino is pulsing. As long as we have this
pulsing, that means this baby is going to stay around.

''El Nino is going to enter 1998 at full strength,'' he said.

At the same time, a new survey of global temperatures offers the first detailed
look at how El Nino is affecting the atmosphere. It shows that the warm water -
a kind of floating hot plate roughly twice the size of the United States - has
heated a sea of air stretching from the Eastern Pacific and across the Atlantic
Ocean from Cuba to Libya, according to researchers at the University of Alabama,
Huntsville.

The atmospheric energy generated by the El Nino current has stirred dramatic
global disparities, with November temperatures over the Arctic coast of
northwest Canada running 13.5 degrees Fahrenheit above normal, while Siberia was
as much as 10 degrees below seasonal norms, the scientists said.

That warm air is elbowing aside normal seasonal weather patterns and fueling
other severe storm systems across both hemispheres.

At one extreme, El Nino's effect on the subtropical jet stream effectively cut
the number of Atlantic hurricanes in half this year; while in the Pacific, the
energy from its unusually broad pool of warm water allowed severe storms to form
closer to the North American mainland than usual, resulting in more major storms
battering Mexico.

The most recent El Nino advisory from the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration predicts this El Nino - the largest this century - will persist
at least until March before weakening.

To further confound experts trying to predict the effects of El Nino, a survey
of the average global temperature so far suggests that 1997 overall may be among
the coldest years on record.

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              124 of 247 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                    April 2, 1997, Wednesday, NORTH EDITION

ARCHITECTURAL MARVEL DUE FOR FACE LIFT

BYLINE: LAURIE DEVINE

SECTION: METRO, Pg. N-1

LENGTH: 793 words


North Allegheny's intermediate school on Cumberland Road, where a $ 13.2 million
renovation begins this week, has seen better days.

Much better days.

The flooring in the front corridor has buckled because of shifting shale
foundations.  Interior courtyards look bare and brown.  Too many of the school's
1,325 ninth- and 10th-graders are all but gridlocked in the hallways during
class changes.

All that should be remedied in a major infrastructure overhaul and classroom
expansion, slated to be completed by February, which North Allegheny officials
hope will give this tired school another two or three decades of use as an
intermediate school.

But once, and not so long ago, this school was the coolest, the trendiest and
certainly the most remarkable educational building in the North Hills.

So much so that in 1954, when the $ 2 million school opened as a junior-senior
high school, Progressive Architecture magazine called it the country's ''best
large high school among currently designed structures.''

Paul Zippel of Williams, Trebilcock, Whitehead of Pittsburgh, the architect in
charge of this year's renovations, walked the corridors one day last week and
pointed out the once-revolutionary design features. Those features, he said,
make the building worth saving as a functional school and worth treasuring as an
architectural gem.

''It's a little Frank Lloyd Wright,'' Zippel said.  ''Prairie school
architecture.  Lots of light.  Airy.  Trellises outside the windows so it
wouldn't get so hot inside all that glass.  A beautiful original design.''

What first strikes the eye, he added, is that it is all on one floor.

Since then, in districts all across the country, single-story school
construction has become the standard.  But in the early '50s, when Pittsburgh
architects James A. Mitchell and Dahlen K.

Ritchey drew up these designs, existing schools tended to be big, multistory,
small-windowed brick monoliths.

Not this one.  Zippel pointed out that the building was slung across a valley,
with not stairs but ramps making up the difference in ground elevation.  It is
built on a kind of checkerblock grid, with most classrooms leading out to their
own self-contained courtyards.

''These courtyards are very unique,'' Zippel said.  ''It's more of a Sunbelt or
a California approach, something you'd see in a Southern climate.''

In press clippings at the time of the building's opening, these courtyards
attracted the most attention.  Classes were to be held outside,
weather-permitting, although over the years - once the novelty wore off - that
became the dream more than the reality.

''I don't think the courtyards were ever used as much as they originally thought
they would be,'' Zippel said.  But in a stop at a biology classroom, teacher
Gene Modic points to his courtyard, where he's growing plants for use in
instruction.

Most of the courtyards, however, are bare.  One of Zippel's pet project ideas is
to enlist local garden clubs to take over individual courtyards, which he
envisons could one day be lush with flowers.

One design feature that cannot so easily be restored to its original concept,
however, is what Zippel characterizes as an extraordinary amount of natural
light in each classroom, with translucent panels and walls of glass providing
sunlight on two sides of every classroom.

Some of that revolutionary glass, however, was bricked over in subsequent
renovations in 1959, 1965, 1970 and 1985.  ''They did a lot of strange design
things in the '70s,'' Zippel said.  ''All that glass was really solar heating.
But the concern then was what they thought would be energy savings.  So they
bricked up some of the glass.''

He remained laudatory about the building's original design even in the front
corridor and one of the front entrances, where shifting foundations seem to
indicate a fundamental design flaw.  The floor has so buckled in places that the
carpeting is all bunched-up and locker doors tilt crazily against a wall.

''The problem,'' Zippel said, ''is the carbonaceous shale on which the building
sits expands on contact with air.  That will be remedied in this renovation by
ripping up the floor and inserting suspended slabs to stabilize the structure.

''I've looked at the original drawings, and the architects did call for
suspended slabs here.'' Zippel stomped on the uneven floor.  ''If they had done
what the architects wanted to in the beginning, we wouldn't have to rip it up
now and do it over, at a much higher cost.  But they were out to save money, and
they didn't do what the architects wanted.''

Yet Zippel smiled at his predecessors' design.  ''It's still a beautiful
school.''

NORTH ALLEGHENY Laurie Devine is a free-lance writer.

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (3), PHOTO: (For three photos) When North Allegheny Junior-Senior
High; School opened in 1954, it was the envy of other school districts.
Progressive; Architecture magazine called it the country's best large high
school. These; photos, taken in the school's first year of operation, show the
exterior, the; shop area (left), and the cafeteria (below). Now, 43 years later,
the; building, an intermediate school, is falling apart. A major infrastructure;
overhaul and classroom expansion is scheduled for completion during February.

                       Copyright 1997 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              129 of 247 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                     May 3, 1997, Saturday, SOONER EDITION

COMEDIAN IN CHIEF;
BILL CLINTON, FEELING SANCTIFIED BY RE-ELECTION, FINDS HIS SENSE OF HUMOR;
AGAIN

BYLINE: MARY MCGRORY

SECTION: EDITORIAL, Pg. A-7

LENGTH: 819 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The weather around President Clinton is improving: less fog and humidity. His
rhetoric is drying out. In the last couple of months he's gone from sodden to
sparkle at the podium. He has even been giving the highly implausible impression
that he likes being around the press. Twice he declined to end his latest press
conference, insisting that he and Japanese Prime Minister Ryutaro Hashimoto were
having a good time.

The man who moistly compared himself to Richard Jewell as a victim of
circumstance last November in Australia - Clinton thought the press was picking
on him about campaign sleaze - is now making jokes about it. The idea of the
most powerful man on the planet comparing himself with a wretched security guard
who lives with his mother was embarrassing. But this president, who prides
himself on his pity for others, has endless pity for himself whenever things go
wrong.

Clinton is a child of his age, which believes more in the thrust-out lower lip
than the stiff upper one. Also, he seems to feel his re-election somehow
sanctified him.

Possibly as a consequence, he underwent a brief attack of preaching, which
fortunately has passed. He and Hillary Rodham Clinton both addressed prayer
gatherings in February. They claim every prerogative of office - although, with
one thing and another (broken promises and missing documents, for instance), you
might think they should give up the sermonizing franchise.

Both Clintons seemed to be forgiving the press for doing what it is supposed to
do: that is, report on the conduct of holders of high office. The reaction was
poor. Being lectured to by Bill and Hillary Clinton on becoming ''repairers of
the breach'' is an imposition of a special sort, indicating an unacceptable
degree of self-righteousness on the part of the first couple and a spectacular
misunderstanding of the reporter's trade.

But spring has brought a change in Clinton's climate. The onset of blossoms and
blue skies has given him a more cheerful outlook and fraternal feelings toward
members of the press. He no longer wants to kill or convert us; his new goal is
to make us die laughing.

Maybe it began when he went before the American Society of Newspaper Editors at
its annual convention April 11. Papers had been pounding him for months with
daily stories of campaign squalors. He paid the editors back with a long, flat
speech about poison gas and global trade. No applause lines. No smiles. He took
four questions from the assemblage.

Editors do not ask questions like reporters. Clinton's interrogators made
speeches, showing off their boring mastery of abstruse details of obscure
subjects. One talked about his 11-year-old son whom he wanted the president to
usher into the 21st century.

You could almost see the wheels turning in Clinton's head. I've worried about
these guys? I resent them? They can turn people against me?

About this time, the laughs began. He went to the Radio and Television
Correspondents Dinner and wowed the audience with a hilarious comparison between
himself and his predecessor: George Bush, he pointed out, had skydived at 12,000
feet while Clinton fell down a six-inch step. He kept the giggles coming by
reading fake bulletins about Bush's further exploits: ''He has just successfully
jumped the Snake River Canyon on a rocket-powered motorbike.''

He topped that performance with another socko gig at the White House
Correspondents Dinner, which, although it was treated in the press as a
coming-out party for a lesbian, was an evening that belonged to Clinton.

Here's the man who has been pounded for withholding documents from investigators
and mortified by incriminating fragments of his own handwriting:

''Here's a memo from Harold Ickes to Leon Panetta: 'Leon, FYI, Maxwell House
coffee is on sale for $ 3.49 a pound.' ''

And from the master of the Lincoln Bedroom: ''The bad news is our only child is
going off to college. The good news is it opens up another bedroom.''

The White House staff says the brightening is due to several crack
speechwriters.

Some unkindly say the president has little to do beyond polishing his prowess as
an after-dinner speaker. Posterity won't count his improvement. It has another
measure. Right now Washington is awash in powerful memories of Franklin Delano
Roosevelt - his memorial opened this weekend. All presidents suffer by
comparison with FDR, but Clinton may suffer more than most for having repudiated
Roosevelt's undiluted, unapologetic liberalism.

Clinton can take cheer from the fact of different times. Roosevelt had to cope
with bank failures at home and tyranny abroad. Clinton has had prosperity and
peace. His causes are voluntarism and the expansion of NATO. Roosevelt had the
Battle of Britain and Lend-Lease on his hands. Grandeur was called for, and it
was provided.

Mary McGrory is a syndicated columnist for The Washington Post.

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING, DRAWING: The best medicine.

                       Copyright 1997 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              140 of 247 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                    June 15, 1997, Sunday, TWO STAR EDITION

GRACE IS RESTORED TO NY GARDEN'S CRYSTAL PALACE

BYLINE: NAEDINE JOY HAZELL, THE HARTFORD COURANT

SECTION: TRAVEL, Pg. F-6

LENGTH: 1127 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


Crystal Palace. The words conjure images of czarist Russia or Louis XIV
grandeur. The Bronx does not leap to mind.

Still, the New York Botanical Garden is home to the largest glasshouse in
America. And since its $ 25 million restoration, this palace is nothing to throw
stones at.

After being closed to the public for the four years it took for a complete face
lift, the palace, officially the Enid A. Haupt Conservatory, reopened last month
and has been turning heads ever since.

No detail was left untouched.

Each of its 17,000 eyes on the world was lifted and replaced; 52 coats of beauty
paint, applied over more than 90 years, were scraped away; and careful craftsman
rebuilt architectural ornaments that had been lost over time.

Before the restoration, the conservatory was breathtaking for its size, elegance
and dignity, even while it deteriorated.

Today, with grace restored, it welcomes visitors with aplomb. Doors with motion
sensors swing open as you approach.

'' . . . and presto! the inside is a thing of beauty and a joy forever, filled
with beautiful and rare plants.''

So wrote The New York Times in 1902 when the conservatory opened to record
crowds.

Almost everyone who enters has the same reaction - they look up, up above the
towering palms to the shimmering top of the 90-foot glass dome.

Today, the conservatory is home to more than 3,000 plants, some of them
descendants of plants donated for the first opening nearly a century ago.

While retaining the grace of a bygone age, the conservatory enjoys
state-of-the-art computerized climate controls that allow for more diverse
exhibits, including vegetation from rain forests and deserts of the Americas and
Africa.

When you walk into the Tropical Lowland Rain Forest, be prepared for humid,
moist weather and rain in some areas.

To give voice to the life within the conservatory, there are oversized
information signs throughout the various pavilions and environments.

Tropical rain forests cover 7 percent of the world's surface but have half the
world's plant and animal species, says one sign.

Like computers, rain forests have thousands of interconnected parts, according
to another.

Other signs have photographs and explanations about how New York Botanical
Garden scientists travel the world collecting samples and information.

In the Tropical Lowland Rain Forest visitors can peer inside the house of a
village healer, the local doctor who treats ailments with remedies such as
aspirin, codeine and quinine derived from plants in the rain forest.

''Cool, he gets to sleep in a hammock,'' said one elementary school boy.

''What makes you think the healer is a man?'' a girl retorted.

At the far end of the pavilion, visitors can climb stairs high enough to look
over the levels of the rain forest.

The platform at the top of the stairs is a favorite spot of schoolchildren who
stand and sketch the emergent layer of the rain forest, the canopy layer, the
understory and the forest floor.

The conservatory is very popular with school groups, so if you don't like crowds
or noise, consider visiting in the afternoon when most of the students have
left.

You can feel the temperature change as you walk through the doors protecting the
second large pavilion devoted to the Tropical Upland Rain Forest.

"Wow, look at all that smoke," one boy said.

"That's fog, man," his friend said.

The cool mist permeates the room, which is lush with palms and ferns and the
sound of rushing water. As in the first pavilion, the conservatory recedes into
the background and the rain forest embraces visitors.

The reverse is true in the arid, hot Deserts of the Americas and Deserts of
Africa pavilions, which are dominated by cactuses and desert fauna.

Saguaro cactuses are very slow growing. They take 40 years to bloom, 50 years to
grow branches and 150 years to reach a height of 40 feet. That's if they survive
the brutal elements.

''Think of the conservatory as a living museum . . . the only other way to do
all of this would be to take a trip around the world,'' according to the
self-guided tour available via the Acoustiguide.

An Acoustiguide is a hand-held, cell-phone looking device, that offers
information at specific sites throughout the conservatory.

''In the 1800s, plant collecting was in vogue and greenhouses were very popular
. . . '' the taped docent tells you at the start.

Plans for the Botanical Garden started about a decade after two American
botantists made an 1887 visit to London's prestigious Kew Gardens.

When it was built, the conservatory was hailed as one of the most beautiful and
modern in the world. Still, it had no drainage and no way to control the
temperatures inside, which placed great stress on the glass structure,
particularly during New York's harsh winters.

A 1925 storm shattered hundreds of the conservatory's windows, while a 1947
blizzard dropped so much snow on the glass panes that hundreds broke beneath the
weight and the plant collection was threatened.

The conservatory is the centerpiece of the garden's seven-year capital
improvement program. Part of the program included the newly opened brick Garden
Cafe and Terrace Room restaurant.

You could alsol pack a picnic lunch and head for the Twin Lakes picnic area. It
is just beyond the main building, which has a complete garden-themed gift shop
and an indoor visitor's center.

Since a walk through the conservatory takes only an hour or so, there's still
lots of time for a stroll around the garden's 250 acres with its 27 specialty
gardens and plant collections.

%BC% If you go . . . %EC%

The New York Botanical Garden is open Tuesday through Sunday, and Monday
holidays. The hours are 10 a.m.-6 p.m. April through October, 10 a.m.-4 p.m.
November through March.

Admission to the grounds is $ 3 for adults, $ 1 for seniors, students and
children, 6-16. Free admission all day Wednesday and Saturday 10 a.m.-noon.
Parking is $ 4.

Admission to the conservatory is $ 3.50 for adults and $ 2.50 for seniors,
students and children, 6-16.

The Acoustiguide, which looks like a cellular phone and provides information for
your self-guided tours, can be obtained by leaving a credit card or driver's
license at the desk.

Admission to the rock garden is $ 1 for adults and 50 cents for seniors,
students and children, 6 to 16.

Tram tours, which offer visitors a 25-minute orientation tour of the entire
garden property, cost $ 1 per person.

Golf-cart tours, which offer visitors a more in-depth and intimate tour of the
garden, cost $ 6 for adults, $ 4 for seniors, students and children, 6 to 16.

Guided walking tours of various parts of the garden are free.

For information call (718) 817-8700.

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (2), PHOTO: Richard Messina/The Harford Courant photos: (For Two
Photos); Towering palms frame the 90-foot glass dome, above, of the restored
Enid A.; Haupt Conservatory at the New York Botanical Garden. The conservatory,
below,; is the centerpiece of a seven-year capital improvement program.

                       Copyright 1997 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              142 of 247 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                    June 15, 1997, Sunday, TWO STAR EDITION

ALLEGHENY GENERAL'S $ 5 MILLION CHRISTENING;
DOCTORS MAKING USE OF NEW MAGNETIC RESONANCE MACHINE FOR BRAIN SURGERY

BYLINE: BYRON SPICE, SCIENCE EDITOR, POST-GAZETTE

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. B-1

LENGTH: 1764 words


Nurses wrapped Kurt Linza in surgical drapes, his beefy hands at his sides, and
eased his head and barrel chest into the 2-foot-diameter bore of a giant
doughnut-shaped magnet. Only his legs and size-15 feet remained outside.

A big man in a small place, Linza, 29, on Wednesday became the first patient at
Allegheny General Hospital to undergo brain surgery inside this new type of
magnetic resonance imaging machine.

Unlike other MRI scanners, which use magnetic fields to produce diagnostic
images of the brain or other body parts, this General Electric machine is
designed so that surgeons can operate on a patient inside it.

The patient can be scanned throughout the operation, guiding the surgeons'
instruments. It's sometimes called an MRT, for magnetic resonance-guided
therapy.

For Linza, the machine would help neurosurgeons Joseph Maroon and Takanori
Fukushima remove a tumor at the base of his brain. The tumor, pumping out high
levels of growth hormone, had triggered a sudden, dangerous growth spurt in an
already large man, swelling his hands, feet and face.

The tumor was benign but, growing inside the tight confines of Linza's skull, it
eventually could kill him.

Linza wasn't the only one in a tight place. The cream-colored MRT is large, its
twin magnets standing seven feet tall. But Maroon and Fukushima were wedged in a
two-foot gap between the giant, supercooled magnets, facing each other on each
side of Linza's head. A scrub nurse behind Maroon passed instruments to him over
his shoulder as he and Fukushima worked through Linza's nose to remove the tumor
growing in and around his pituitary gland.

The MRT itself could get squeezed by an increasingly cost-conscious medical
system. Housed in its own building within the Allegheny General complex, the MRT
represents a $ 5 million investment.

In today's climate, researchers here and at a handful of other MRT centers
nationwide can't be satisfied in just proving that the technology works. They
have to show that it is cost-effective before many hospitals will buy such a
machine.

Linza, a medical supply salesman from New Kensington, stands 6 feet, 1 inch tall
and weighs 290 pounds. He's always been a big guy, so when his hands and feet
started growing several years ago, he barely noticed.

But soon it became obvious. He could no longer squeeze rings onto his fingers.
His shoe size, once a generous 13, expanded to 15EEE. It was gradual, but it
worried him enough to ask his doctor about it.

''Well, you're a big guy,'' was the response. ''Don't worry about it.''

In fact, he had other health problems on his mind. Last fall, he had surgery to
replace a defective cornea and has had additional eye surgery to treat tears in
his retina.

Meanwhile, his ophthalmologist, Dr. Thierry Verstraeten, began to wonder about
Linza's large hands. They were big, but also soft and fleshy. His nose and brow
were fleshy also and Verstraeten thought Linza could have a hormone abnormality.
After Linza's recent eye surgery, about a month ago, Verstraeten ordered more
blood work.

Sure enough, the blood had high levels of growth hormone. An endocrinologist,
Dr. Daniel Mendlovic, confirmed that Linza had acromegaly, a growth abnormality
caused by a tumor of the pituitary gland. The pea-size gland, sometimes called
the body's master gland, secretes hormones regulating growth, reproduction and
metabolism.

Had the tumor appeared while Linza was an adolescent, the excess growth hormone
could have caused his bones to lengthen and turned him into a giant. As an
adult, however, the most noticeable effects are on the soft tissues of the
hands, feet and face.

''It's very important that we get all the tumor out,'' Maroon said before
Wednesday's surgery. The pituitary gland sits just beneath the optic chiasm, the
X-shaped crossing of the optic nerves from each eye. The tumor eventually could
compress the nerves, blinding him.

Also, unchecked growth hormone production would cause Linza's bones to grow
brittle and for his liver and heart to enlarge and fail.

Before the 1970s, surgeons would have removed the tumor by opening up the
cranium, lifting the brain and slipping past the optic nerve. In the '70s,
surgeons began approaching the tumor from below, making an incision in the gum
line under the upper lip.

More recently, Dr. Hae Dong Jho, a neurosurgeon at the University of Pittsburgh
Medical Center, developed a method of removing pituitary tumors by using an
endoscope - a long, thin viewing device - inserted through the nose and nasal
cavity. It usually requires one night in the hospital and sometimes can be done
on an outpatient basis.

Most pituitary tumors are quite small, Jho said, and it's easy to see both gland
and tumor, even while peering through the endoscope. But about 10 percent of
tumors are so large that it's difficult to find the gland, he said, and more
guidance would be helpful in those cases.

''We can see only in one plane'' through the endoscope, Maroon said. ''We can't
see up and to the sides.''

Increasingly, surgeons are relying on computers to help them navigate inside the
body, based on three-dimensional models of a patient constructed from MRI or
computerized tomography (CT) scans.

Inside the skull, however, soft tissues get pushed around once surgery begins,
making pre-operative scans obsolete, Maroon said.

In the case of endoscopic pituitary tumor removal, MRI scans during the
operation could help surgeons avoid such pitfalls as fatally puncturing one of
the carotid arteries or causing blindness by severing the optic nerves.

Because the MRI can distinguish between normal tissues and tumors, scans can
tell surgeons whether they've removed as much tumor as possible before the
operation is over.

Until Wednesday, no one had attempted to marry endoscopic pituitary tumor
removal with MRI guidance. It took eight months to prepare, including ordering
surgical instruments made from titanium and aluminum, metals unaffected by the
MRT's magnetic fields.

The instruments, in fact, did not arrive until Tuesday. Maroon's team performed
a dry run with a cadaver the night before Linza's operation.

The surgery began early Wednesday in a conventional operating room, where a
speculum was inserted into his nose to provide a clear path to the tumor. Linza
was then moved to the MRT room, where the giant machine was cloaked in surgical
drapes. A cryopump, part of the apparatus keeping the machine's superconducting
magnets cooled to minus 441 degrees, kept a steady drumbeat ''thweep, thweep,
thweep'' - throughout the operation.

Both Fukushima and Maroon are compactly built men, but the narrow gap between
the magnets made them huge. Each worked with his right shoulder leaning on one
magnet and only a few inches separating his left shoulder from the other magnet.
Each had to keep his head to the right to make room for 4-inch-diagonal screens
showing images from the endoscope.

A contrast solution was infused into Linza's arm, making the tumor look bright
white on the initial MRI scans. But Maroon and Fukushima had trouble seeing
through the Fukushima-designed endoscope; the light source wasn't bright enough.

Another light was located, but then a more serious and frustrating problem
arose. They needed to make a cross-shaped incision in the dura, the thick
membrane surrounding the brain. Through the endoscope, they could see the
now-brightly lit dura, rippling and reflecting light like the surface of a pond,
but they couldn't reach it with their knives.

The special, nonmagnetic knives would have reached the dura in a normal patient,
Maroon said, but not in a patient with Linza's oversized nose.

''This is stupid, this is just stupid,'' said a frustrated Fukushima as he
hopped on one leg, the other leg broken during a golf outing.

They found a solution by rummaging through the surgical instruments. They found
a ceramic-bladed knife with a plastic handle, and when they taped it to a long,
thin curette, it was long enough to reach the dura.

The operation then proceeded quickly and surgical residents took the places of
Maroon and Fukushima.

As the custard-like tumor was sucked out, a succession of MRI scans were
performed. Dr. William Rothfus, a neuroradiologist, stood behind the surgeons,
wearing a headset to communicate with MR technologist Sandy Smith in the control
room. His eyes examined each new image as it flashed on a screen from inside the
control room and he turned to the surgeons repeatedly to ask, ''How much do you
think you've removed?''

His concern is that as the tumor was sucked out, blood and cerebrospinal fluid
might flow into the empty space, making it difficult for the MRI scans to chart
how the operation was going. That possibility might limit the usefulness of the
MRI-guided surgery, he said.

After surgery was finished, more contrast material was infused into Linza's arm.
The large white mass was gone. Only a few traces of white remained.

''It's unbelievable,'' Rothfus said, impressed with the images. ''It's
fantastic.''

Fukushima, guided by the final MRI, scraped away some remaining tumor. Some
possible tumor remained near one of the carotid arteries, Maroon said, but
removing it was not worth the risk of causing a fatal bleed.

''I think from what I've seen today that (MRI guidance) is going to make it
safer and more thorough,'' Maroon said of the operation. Knowing where to look
for residual tumor - and where not to look - before ending the operation could
reduce the need for subsequent surgery or radiotherapy.

But after just one operation, it's impossible to know whether it will offer
enough advantages to justify the expense of the MRT technology. ''That's the big
question,'' Maroon admitted.

''This MR unit will be a valuable tool,'' predicted Pitt's Jho, particularly in
cases where it is important to precisely target a tumor to avoid essential brain
structures. ''It's also valuable to know if the job is done,'' he added,
referring to the MRI looking for remaining tumor.

In a few weeks, Linza will undergo blood work to see if growth hormone levels
have dropped as expected, Maroon said. If not, radiation may be needed to
eliminate the rest of the tumor.

Once the growth hormone production stops, most of the soft tissue changes in
Linza's face and extremities should melt away, he added.

As Linza prepared to go home Friday, he was suffering some nasal congestion, but
no pain. And he had no regrets about agreeing to the use of the MRT.

''I figured it was a better idea.''

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (2), PHOTO: Kurt Linza - A big man in a small place; PHOTO: Annie
O'Neill/Post-Gazette: Neurosurgeon Dr. Takanori Fukushima; finishes up the
operation.

                       Copyright 1997 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              146 of 247 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                     July 6, 1997, Sunday, TWO STAR EDITION

PUBLISHING AND PROFITS: THE PLOT THICKENS

BYLINE: JONATHAN YARDLEY

SECTION: EDITORIAL, Pg. E-4

LENGTH: 1075 words


It's easy to imagine the outrage that must have swept through lit'ry Manhattan
on Friday, June 27, as it awoke to find, plastered across a corner of the front
page of The New York Times, this headline: ''HarperCollins Cancels Books in
Unusual Step for Industry.'' Think of the toast that must have burned, the
coffee that cooled, the cream that curdled. The shock of it all!

Yes, more bad news on the publishing front. It seems only days ago, we mourned
the demise of the worthy and serious Basic Books, killed off by the selfsame
HarperCollins that, according to Friday's Times, ''within the last two weeks . .
. has canceled 36 titles the company deemed unpublishable in the current market,
including novels, cookbooks, a mystery, a biography and a European travel
guide.'' This was described as ''a cost-cutting move that is indicative of the
publishing industry's doldrums.''

Doubtless it is. But it is not red-hot news and it is not the end of the world,
though one might think as much from the snorts and gasps that reverberated
through the Times' report.

One of the rejected authors, a novelist named Rebecca Brown, understandably if
unoriginally groused that ''publishing now is not about supporting and nurturing
and having this inquiry into culture that Gertrude Stein and Hemingway and
Maxwell Perkins were trying to do,'' while an unnamed (of course) literary
agent, in highest dudgeon, claimed to ''have never witnessed a more cavalier
disregard for the bond that exists between author and publisher.''

Bond? Bond?

Any author in his or her right mind would laugh that one right out of the room.
Sentimentalists and romantics may like to evoke the halcyon days of Max Perkins
when, as the Times's report put it, ''publishing was not a business of
conglomerates but a gentleman's metier.''

But as Edith Wharton or Sinclair Lewis might have said (and probably did),
''That was no gentleman, that was my publisher.'' The notion that publishing was
once a gentleman's game is as much a fiction as anything either of those authors
ever wrote; publishing has always been about profits first, literature second,
the main difference now being that it gives even less attention to the latter
than it did before.

The real problem with publishing is not that it's indifferent to ''supporting
and nurturing'' literature but that it's an inefficient, antediluvian business.
It publishes too many books, too many of which are bad, too few of which have
any discernible market, almost all of which end up being published
inattentively.

Reading any publisher's catalogue is one of the most depressing acts an educated
person can commit. Its pages are crammed with marginal titles of no apparent
merit, hyped in boilerplate that routinely compares hack writers to contemporary
and/or ancient masters; turning page after page, one wonders over and over again
why this book was published, who can be expected to buy that book, how rapidly
the other book will advance to the remainder tables.

In substantial measure the explanation for this is that editors achieve respect
and financial reward more for the ''properties'' they ''acquire,'' as trade
lingo has it, than for their skills as editors. They are prized, that is, for
wastefulness rather than for economy, for adding bloat to the catalogue rather
than for trimming it to manageable size.

The result is not merely that too much mediocrity makes it into print but that
the demands on the promotional staff are too heavy; by the time each season's
big books have been taken care of, there's precious little money or energy left
for meritorious ''mid-list'' books, much less all that mediocrity.

This being the case, one can hardly blame the corporate lords of News Corp., the
present owner of HarperCollins, for insisting that its managers pay closer
attention to marketplace economies, even if it entails the embarrassment of
canceling books already contracted for and eating the cost of their authors'
advances.

It is easy for the illuminati to attack the head of News Corp., Rupert Murdoch,
and his chosen chief executive of HarperCollins, Anthea Disney; the former is
notorious for his apathy about editorial quality anywhere in his empire, and the
latter labors under a surname synonymous with lowest-common-denominator mass
culture as well as the burden of having previously worked not in book publishing
but as editor of TV Guide.

Easy, that is, but beside the point. Whatever one may think of Murdoch or
Disney, they are trying to turn HarperCollins, which lost $ 7 million in the
last quarter, into a profitable enterprise. This, in a capitalist economy, is a
not-unreasonable expectation. If it is the case, as the Times reported, that
''some editors at HarperCollins have told colleagues in the industry that they
are being encouraged to promote authors who because of their track records,
stature or celebrity can generate the kind of pervasive publicity that sells
books,'' well, then perhaps we had best excoriate the culture itself rather than
HarperCollins.

Since its acquisition by Murdoch, HarperCollins has drifted into that vast mass
of run-of-the-mill publishers whose lists are indistinguishable from each other
and whose interest in literary distinction is virtually undetectable; there is
absolutely no reason to believe that this will change under Anthea Disney's
editorship, if indeed ''editorship'' is the word for what she's up to.

But all that having been conceded, the truth is that in today's business climate
a publisher under the thumb of a corporation is not operating an autonomous
enterprise. Corporations have no patience with or interest in quality, except as
customers define and demand it; that is their nature. It is possible for serious
book publishers to survive and even turn a profit - viz., W.W. Norton or Farrar,
Straus & Giroux - but by the standards of a Murdoch or a Newhouse, those profits
are chicken feed. Anyone who sells a publishing house to a conglomerate must
expect to play by its rules, and anyone who offers a manuscript for publication
there must do likewise.

This is a pity. But it is also a pity that book publishing is so inefficient and
archaic in its editorial, production and promotional practices. It needs a swift
kick in the derriere, and if it's Rupert Murdoch who does the kicking, so be it.

Jonathan Yardley (yardleyj@clark.net) is a book critic and columnist for The
Washington Post.

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              149 of 247 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                     August 8, 1997, Friday, SOONER EDITION

SHUTTLE DEPLOYS SATELLITE TO STUDY OZONE DEPLETION

BYLINE: MARK CARREAU, HOUSTON CHRONICLE

SECTION: SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY & MEDICINE, Pg. A-13

LENGTH: 342 words

DATELINE: CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla.


Discovery rocketed into space yesterday with a U.S.-Canadian crew eager to begin
environmental research and tests of gear intended for use in the assembly and
operation of the planned international space station.

The shuttle and its six astronauts blasted off on their 11-day mission from
Kennedy Space Center at 10:41 a.m. EDT.

''We're ready to go to work in space,'' radioed shuttle commander Curt Brown.

Within eight hours of launch, astronauts used Discovery's long robot arm to
deploy their primary payload, a free-flying, retrievable satellite laden with
telescopes and other Earth-observing instruments.

The Christa Spas spacecraft, a $ 73 million German contribution to the mission,
is equipped to track two dozen reactive chemicals that circulate through Earth's
middle atmosphere.

Formed by man-made as well as natural processes, these chemicals have been
identified by researchers as primarily responsible for the destruction of
high-altitude ozone, the gas that shields Earth's surface and aquatic life from
the sun's harmful ultraviolet rays.

Sensors aboard the shuttle will measure energy levels radiated by the sun toward
Earth and reflected back into space by the planet's cloud cover, variables that
influence long-term climate change. An experimental low-power laser will pierce
Earth's atmosphere for measurements of surface foliage, another factor that
influences the planet's environmental health.

Researchers from 15 nations are involved in the mission. Starting next week,
they plan several dozen high-altitude balloon, aircraft and suborbital rocket
launches on four continents to gather readings also sought by the Christa Spas.

Scientists at the National Aeronautics and Space Administration say the mission
represents the most thorough assessment of Earth's atmosphere from space since a
similar exercise in late 1994.

A more ambitious program to monitor Earth's environmental health will begin next
year with the launching of the first wave of satellites involved in NASA's Earth
Observing System.

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              155 of 247 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                  September 16, 1997, Tuesday, SOONER EDITION

STEELERS SEEK END TO CURSE OF JAGUARS

BYLINE: GERRY DULAC, POST-GAZETTE SPORTS WRITER

SECTION: SPORTS, Pg. C-1

LENGTH: 731 words


John Jackson went home to Cincinnati over the weekend and attended a fund raiser
for a local politician named Phil Heimlich Jr. Jackson even got to meet
Heimlich's father, who is better known as the man who invented the Heimlich
Maneuver.

The timing couldn't have been better.

The Steelers always appear to get something caught in their throat when they
play at Jacksonville.

They have not won there since the Jaguars entered the league in 1995. And it
isn't just the game they seem to lose. Last year, they lost three linebackers,
including Greg Lloyd, and a starting quarterback in the same contest.

''We hope to change that soon,'' said Jackson, the Steelers' left tackle.

The Steelers (1-1) return to the buzz saw known as Jacksonville Municipal
Stadium on Monday night to face the 2-0 Jaguars, and the setting may be ominous
once again:

* Jacksonville has not lost a regular-season game since a 28-3 defeat in Three
Rivers Stadium on Nov. 17, 1996, a streak of seven consecutive victories.

* Since Nov. 10, the Jaguars have the best record in the NFL, including playoffs
(10-2). Carolina (9-2), Green Bay (9-3) and New England (9-3) are next.

* It is the first time a ''Monday Night Football'' game will be played in
Jacksonville.

''It's going to be special,'' said Jaguars tackle Leon Searcy, the former
Steeler. ''It doesn't get any better than that.''

Well, it might for the Steelers. After wilting in the Jacksonville heat each of
the past two seasons, they at least get to play this game at night, after
sundown. That, apparently, has always been a good setting for the Steelers: They
are 10-1 on ''Monday Night Football'' under Bill Cowher, 4-1 on the road.

''The heat is a factor if you're not used to playing in a hot, humid climate,''
center Dermontti Dawson said.

''It has a tendency to wear you down. But, we're going to play in all different
kinds of elements, so you can't worry about the weather.''

Make no mistake, though: When the Steelers visit, the paper mills aren't the
only things that stink in Jacksonville.

Two years ago, the Steelers made their first trip there an unforgettable one.

They gained only 66 yards with a running game that had ranked at or near the top
of the league and stalled three times in the red zone in a 20-16 defeat.

Last year, in the season opener, the offense managed only 187 yards in an anemic
performance that eventually cost Jim Miller more than just his starting
position. The defense lost linebackers Lloyd, Jason Gildon and Steve Conley, and
former cornerback Rod Woodson got burned on a 38-yard touchdown to Willie
Jackson in the opening six minutes that would be a portent of things to come.

''They play well at home,'' Jackson said, and he was right. The Jaguars are 9-1
in their past 10 home games, the second-best mark in the NFL.

''We have to go down there and put something together.''

Of course, after Jacksonville's miraculous run into the playoffs last year, the
Jaguars are not about to be cast in the same light as the past two years a
struggling expansion team.

''They're playing well . . . extremely well,'' Dawson said.

''It's always tough any time you play on the road because you have a lot of
extended factors you can't control.''

*

NOTES - Former Steelers cornerback Deon Figures has been getting a lot of
playing time with the Jaguars. He is the extra back in the Jaguars' nickel and
dime defensive packages, which were used extensively in the season opener
against the Baltimore Ravens. In Week 2, starting right cornerback Dave Thomas
injured his hamstring early against the New York Giants, and Figures played most
of the game. Figures and fellow cornerbacks Rod Woodson and Willie Williams left
the Steelers via free agency after last season. ''It was time to move on,''
Figures said.

The Jaguars' quarterback situation remains unclear. There is an outside chance
Mark Brunell could be activated in time for the game, but he is not expected to
play. His replacement, Rob Johnson, who sat out the team's 40-13 victory over
the New York Giants with a sprained ankle, might resume practicing tomorrow.

The Steelers did not have to report back to practice until 1 p.m. yesterday. TE
Mark Bruener, who did not practice last week because of a fractured big toe,
returned to practice. . . . CB Chad Scott (ankle) was the only player not to
practice.

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              161 of 247 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                  October 11, 1997, Saturday, 05SOONER EDITION

LABOR BOOSTS ALCOA PROJECT;
PENSION FUND LOAN WILL ALTER BUILDING

BYLINE: TOM BARNES, POST-GAZETTE STAFF WRITER

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. A-7

LENGTH: 670 words


The effort to convert the 45-year-old Alcoa Building into a regional economic
development center has gotten a major financial boost from a construction
union's pension fund.

The Employee Real Estate Construction Trust, a 10-year-old fund set up by nine
building trades unions, said yesterday it will provide a $ 10.3 million loan to
turn the 31-story Downtown landmark into a ''one-stop shop'' for economic
development in a six-county region around Pittsburgh.

The money will be used by the Southwestern Pennsylvania Corp., a nonprofit
regional planning and development agency, which will take ownership of the
skyscraper from Alcoa after the firm moves to its new headquarters on the North
Shore. That move is expected next July.

The loan, the largest in ERECT's history, ''represents a very clear signal from
labor of our willingness to be an active player on the region's economic
revitalization team,'' said David Hohman, president of the Pittsburgh Building
Trades Council.

''We hope this very substantial commitment by labor will help us in changing the
mistaken perception that this region has a tough labor climate,'' said
Washington County Commissioner Diana Irey, a member of the Southwestern
Pennsylvania Corp. board.

The nonprofit SPC board includes representatives from Allegheny, Armstrong,
Beaver, Butler, Washington and Westmoreland counties, as well as Pittsburgh and
three officials from the private sector.

Alcoa has already vacated 11 floors of the 31-story building. SPC has begun to
create space for a multitude of new tenants - agencies involved in regional
development, including the Allegheny Conference, the Pennsylvania Economy
League, the Allegheny County Department of Development, the Greater Pittsburgh
Chamber of Commerce and others.

Using the Alcoa building to house such agencies ''is a major step in regional
economic development initiatives,'' Irey said.

SPC President Robert Kochanowski said he expects the building eventually will be
at least 90 percent occupied, with rents in the range of $ 16 per square foot.
That should enable the building to be self-sufficient.

The union pension fund loan will run for 15 years. The interest rate wasn't
disclosed, but was said to be ''market rate.''

A year ago, Alcoa Chairman Paul O'Neill disclosed his idea to turn the company's
Downtown building into a ''regional resource center,'' after Alcoa moved to its
new headquarters. He said it's important for companies to have one central place
to go to in search of information about locating or expanding businesses.

''The concept of a one-stop-shop for economic development in this region is long
overdue,'' said Richard Stanizzo, business manager for the building trades
council.

The first two floors of the Alcoa Building, facing Mellon Square, may be turned
into a ''Hall of Counties,'' featuring famous sites, businesses and attractions
from the Pittsburgh region, along with university-run classes on environmental
science and health. The first floor may also contain art displays and exhibits
from museums such as the Warhol, Carnegie and the Carnegie Science Center as a
way of attracting visitors.

Kochanowski said SPC has already received a $ 1.5 million loan from the
Strategic Investment Fund, a private corporate group, to start the interior
rehab work. Even with the new pension fund loan, another $ 5 million or so will
be needed to finish the work, he said.

John Allen of Butler County, who is SPC chairman, said the Alcoa building is
''in A-1 shape,'' but work is still needed to convert it from a one-user
building into one housing a wide variety of tenants with differing needs.
Changes to make it more accessible to the handicapped also are scheduled.

The ERECT pension fund has made more than $ 80 million in loans to 22 different
projects since being created in 1988, union officials said. Unions involved
include carpenters, iron workers, laborers, electrical workers, heating and
air-conditioning workers and asbestos workers.

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              163 of 247 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                  October 22, 1997, Wednesday, SOONER EDITION

SOUTHERN COMFORT, NORTHERN DISCONTENT;
AMERICAN ARE FLOCKING SOUTH FOR NICE WEATHER AND OPEN SOCIETY. OLD AND COLD;
NORTHERN CITIES MUST DISTINGUISH THEMSELVES TO COMPETE

BYLINE: GENE MARLOWE

SECTION: EDITORIAL, Pg. A-19

LENGTH: 652 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


David Birch got a sharp rebuff when he tried to bring an employee back to Boston
who had been temporarily assigned to Atlanta.

''I told her, 'It's time to come back to the main office.' And, she said: 'No.'
''

Birch found that neither arguments nor time would change his employee's mind.
Mark one more Northeasterner lost to the growing American love affair with the
South and Southwest.

''She's still there. She'd been in Boston, grew up in Michigan, spent one year
in Atlanta and that was it. She said no coming back.''

Birch wasn't surprised. He's been watching this happen now for some time as
president of Cognetics Inc. and Cognetics Real Estate in Cambridge, Mass., which
tracks real estate trends.

There have been some improvements in the colder states, but nothing has really
changed the basic trend. The South is a nice place to live.

''Why live in the snow and ice? Why put up with it when you can live somewhere
where you can play golf (and) tennis all year long and jog and rollerblade and
live a very comfortable life?''

The trend toward the milder climates and easier lifestyles isn't about to end
anytime soon. Birch and other forecasters see it continuing well into the next
century.

Birch spoke at a recent conference of international investors in U.S. real
estate, where he delivered a warning that future growth does not lie in the
Northwest or Midwest - not even in his own city of Boston, whose recent real
estate comeback depends heavily on the growth of Fidelity mutual funds.

Not only are companies and their employees moving to lower latitudes, but
they're also moving West - the Rocky Mountain states are popular. Utah is hot
now.

The top 10 metropolitan areas for commercial growth are Atlanta, Phoenix,
Dallas-Fort Worth, Los Angeles, Orlando, Las Vegas, Austin, San
Francisco-Oakland, Seattle and Washington, D.C.

Martha O'Mara, a professor of management and organizational behavior at Harvard,
says many companies are looking for ''an easy place to live,'' which is
something more than quality of life.

''Ease of living is: Can you balance your home life and your work life? Is there
attractive, affordable housing nearby? Are the schools good? Can I go on a
business trip and get home in a reasonable hour?''

This is especially important in two-career families. Not every Southern
community has these things, but enough do to sustain the general migration, she
said.

The South and other newly popular places have other advantages. One is that
they're not only pleasant places, they're new. There's ''synergy in bringing
operations to a new building and starting something fresh and getting rid of the
old group, or bringing people to a new location,'' O'Mara said.

Not just anywhere in the South or West will do. Even Dallas is full of vacant
office buildings. Much of the growth in the South and West - as elsewhere - is
15 to 20 minutes from downtown, on the edge of the urban areas. Downtown Dallas
is losing its office workers to nearby Plano.

Cities that offer something special, like Baltimore's downtown waterfront, can
still hold companies. Some firms prefer cities because they value what O'Mara
calls ''the urban point of view. They think it is a more creative and exciting
environment for their employees.''

But those attending a conference of the Association of Foreign Investors in U.S.
Real Estate were warned to look carefully before putting money into downtown
areas anywhere.

Birch said Southern and Western states have an entrepreneurial attitude that
also accounts for their growing popularity. They welcome newcomers, help them
join clubs, put them on boards and treat them as first-class citizens.

Atlanta's Ted Turner wouldn't last 10 minutes in Boston, Birch said.

''He made his money recently,'' he said. ''Made a lot of it, too - that's even
worse.''

Gene Marlowe writes for the Media General News Service.

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              166 of 247 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                  November 2, 1997, Sunday, WASHINGTON EDITION

UNIVERSITY WORKS TO MAKE FOREIGN MOVE A SMOOTH ONE

BYLINE: DAVE ZUCHOWSKI

SECTION: METRO, Pg. W-1

LENGTH: 1092 words


For many college students, living away from the comforts of home for the first
time can pose a difficult transition. But the adaptation to new customs can be
even more trying for those studying in a foreign land.

Teresa Rouse, a graduate assistant working at the International Student Office
at California University of Pennsylvania, says that part of her job is to make
the educational experience and adaptation to new customs and lifestyle go as
smoothly as possible for the school's 69 foreign scholars.

In addition to offering her charges practical services like helping them with
their immigration paperwork and providing career guidance, Rouse says her office
also plans events specially geared to foreign students. Last year, during the
Thanksgiving holidays, her office scheduled an international student field trip
to Washington, D.C., and Baltimore.

''About two or three times a semester, we take them to Pittsburgh to shop in the
Strip District, ride the incline or to attend a performance of the Pittsburgh
Opera,'' she says.

About 20 of the current contingent of foreign students come from Canada. The
others come from more distant places like mainland China, Malaysia, the Middle
East, Europe and Taiwan. ''They add a lot of diversity to the campus,'' says
Rouse.

While the general intent is to have the international community fraternize with
and become an integral part of the student body, foreign students also have the
opportunity to meet collectively at the university's International Students
Club. The organization, which meets in the Student Union each Wednesday from 4
to 5 p.m. gives them a chance to share life experiences in a new and often alien
country.

Hind Mikou, a 27-year-old graduate student in communication studies, arrived in
the small Pennsylvania college town Aug. 28, only six days after receiving her
student visa. A native of Fez, Morocco, Mikou says her dream of studying in
America has finally been realized.

''I wanted to come to the U.S. right after high school,'' she says. ''But my
father was afraid I'd suffer from culture shock.'' Instead, she enrolled in the
Institute of Journalism and Mass Communications in Tunis, Tunisia, a neighboring
North African country with customs similar to those of Morocco, a place where
she also had relatives willing to give her emotional support.

Fluent in English as well as French and Arabic, Mikou returned home to Morocco
after graduating and prepared for the TOEFL exam, the equivalent of the GMAT,
which she had to pass to obtain a student visa to study in America. Then, with
three cousins already in northern California, Mikou applied for graduate school
at San Jose State. ''For me, it's nice to know I'd have family close by,'' she
says.

After waiting for six months to hear if she'd been accepted, she received a
rejection notice in March 1997, partly because she failed to provide the
translation of some of her official undergraduate documents from French and
Arabic, and partly because the college was unable to calculate the equivalent of
her overall QPA.

Looking for other schools that meshed with her background, she also applied to
CUP and received word in July that she had been admitted. After staying at the
university dormitory for three days, she found it wasn't her cup of tea and
moved into an apartment near campus.

Although she belongs to the International Students Club, she says she doesn't
have much time to socialize. ''My studies and job in the university's Food Court
keep me busy enough to dispel any feeling of homesickness.''

During her short stay, she's had to adapt to American food, which she finds more
expensive and not as fresh as in her native country.

''I do love pizza,'' she admits, ''but cook most often at home.'' Not yet able
to comment about western Pennsylvania winters, she feels that they shouldn't be
a problem because ''it snows not too far from Fez and it does get cold in
Morocco.''

Being a Muslim in a predominately Christian community does prevent her from
attending religious services. The nearest mosque is in Pittsburgh and she
doesn't have a car to get her there. However, her problem may soon be solved
because an Algerian professor at the university has offered to drive her there,
especially during holy days.

Anatas Stoilov, a 24-year-old Bulgarian, has been enrolled at the university
since 1993. Now a senior studying business and finance, Stoilov, who speaks
English with just a whisper of an accent, has grown so enamored of his adopted
country he plans to go on for an MBA, hopefully in Philadelphia. Afterward, he'd
like to become a permanent resident and tap into the contacts he's made both
here and Bulgaria by starting his own import-export business.

With Bulgarian friends in both Pittsburgh and Philadelphia, Stoilov applied and
was admitted to several schools in Pennsylvania after scouring Peterson's Guide
to Colleges and Universities. ''I didn't know that California was such a small
town,'' he says, adding that he spends his leisure time shopping at the malls,
going to movies and making the club circuit in Pittsburgh at least once a month.

In addition to his school work, he also puts in 10 hours a week working at the
university's Career Services Office and another 20 at the school cafeteria. He
got an International Student Tuition Waiver to help defray some of his education
expenses. He also found time to serve as vice-president of the International
Students Club two years ago.

Stoilov was born and raised in Svilengrad, three miles from the Greek border and
five or six miles from Turkey. His native diet consisted of a mix of Slavic and
Middle Eastern cuisine. However, he finds the university's cafeteria food much
to his liking. And western Pennsylvania's capricious climate hasn't been much of
a surprise because he says it's pretty similar to what he's used to in Bulgaria,
although he finds the summers here somewhat more humid.

While Stoilov has made several friendships since his arrival four years ago, his
overall impressions of Americans is that they're apathetic, caught up mainly in
their own personal lives and, as a result, are rather ''uninvolved in their own
society.''

During several trips back home, he's made some sociological observations about
changes in his native country.

''Bulgarians have become somewhat hostile in the past few years,'' he says.
''They're not as friendly as they used to be, not as sociable. They're also not
as happy.''

CALIFORNIA

Dave Zuchowski is a free-lance writer.

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, PHOTO: Lake Fong/Post-Gazette: Anatas Stoilov, a 24-year-old
from; Bulgaria, outside the campus library. The statue is Alan Cottrill's bust
of; university benefactor Robert Eberly.

                       Copyright 1997 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              171 of 247 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                  November 16, 1997, Sunday, TWO STAR EDITION

GLOBAL WARMING IS NOT SOMETHING WE CAN IGNORE

BYLINE: JOHN MIER, P.E.; SEWICKLEY

SECTION: EDITORIAL, Pg. C-2, LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 421 words


I read James A. Christenson's letter on global warming (''Nature More
Powerful,'' Nov. 5), with both interest and concern.

The global environment is, indeed, an enormous system. Yet throughout history,
human societies have wreaked permanent changes on a large number of the Earth's
ecosystems.

Through the actions of relatively small societies, major and lasting damage has
been done to a number of areas on this planet. The fertile crescent is fertile
no longer due to the massive irrigation and the resulting salinification,
undertaken by the Mesopotamians. The cedars of Lebanon, like the stands of oak
and pine which once covered the Iberian peninsula, are literally history.

There are, in fact, countless examples of the detrimental impact of human
activity on ecosystems throughout history.

Despite columnist Tom Hritz's lack of concern (''Global Warming Has Silver
Lining,'' Oct. 14) and Mr. Christenson's assertion that nothing humans can do
will affect our environment, in point of fact, in a large number of ways we have
already done just that.

Global warming, like the destruction of the ozone layer, is different from
earlier man-made environmental catastrophes in that our activity is now changing
the environment globally.

While both Messrs. Hritz and Christenson may prefer not to believe in these
phenomena, the scientific documentation is no longer in doubt (cf. Scientific
American, May 1997; ''The Coming Climate'').

In the case of Mr. Hritz, ignorance of the issues must make it easy to be
cavalier. More disappointing to me, however, is Mr. Christenson's seconding of
such short-sighted and selfish sentiments. I would have hoped that an engineer
would be either more informed or less vocal.

What is most frustrating to me, however, is that there are a growing number of
proven engineering techniques to minimize the release of greenhouse gases,
whether by energy reduction or alternate energy sources.

At Carnegie Mellon University, we are already using a number of these techniques
to maintain or improve space conditioning for a wide range of environments (from
clean rooms and state-of-art labs to lecture halls and classroom spaces) while
reducing actual energy consumption.

These approaches include variable speed pumping, air-to-air heat recovery,
building automation and enthalpy wheels, to name a few. These approaches are
economically viable.

Editor's note: The writer is mechanical project manager, Carnegie Mellon

University Facilities Management Services.

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              172 of 247 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                  November 23, 1997, Sunday, TWO STAR EDITION

NEW ORDER OUT OF OLD CHAOS;
NOW, MORE THAN EVER, WE NEED A THOROUGH REFORM OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT, SAYS JAMES;
B. BURNHAM

BYLINE: JAMES B. BURNHAM

SECTION: EDITORIAL, Pg. E-1

LENGTH: 1098 words


In politics, as in business, defeat is frequently a better teacher than success.
By this measure, the dismal failure of the Regional Renaissance Initiative's
proposal for a sales tax increase within the Pittsburgh region should be a
powerful learning event.

In fact, it was the ''success'' of the Regional Asset District tax - which
increased Allegheny County's sales tax from 6 percent to 7 percent - that
probably accounts, as much as any other factor, for the stinging defeat of the
attempt to add another 0.5 percent onto the levy.

After passage of legislation in Harrisburg, the earlier effort needed the votes
of only two county commissioners to become effective. The county got substantial
funding for its park system without a real estate property tax increase.
Political cover was provided by the simultaneous abolition of the county's
personal property tax - and the promise of a steady stream of funding to the
zoo, the aviary and numerous well-connected arts organizations.

The city of Pittsburgh was promised partial relief from the burden of
subsidizing Three Rivers Stadium plus another pot of money for ''economic
development'' in exchange for a partial reduction in the City's amusement tax.
It was all so easy.

The RRI promoters, many of whom were involved in the earlier tax increase, seem
to have started with more than a touch of overconfidence - ''We did it once; we
can do it again.'' And when legislation permitting the referendum was passed in
Harrisburg after considerable tussle, no doubt some supporters' optimism grew.

The most significant implication of the failed referendum is the revelation of a
huge, troubling political disconnect between RRI principals and the voters.
After a multimillion-dollar spending blitz and a not-so-subtle arm-twisting
exercise, RRI arguments and logic were decisively rejected.

Not because there isn't genuine concern among the voters about the future of the
region, but because the RRI ''solution'' - higher taxes and more government
spending - has been tried too often with too little success. How could so many
''well-informed'' people be so wrong?

Even among those who voted for the tax increase, one suspects that many of them
favored it only because of their sentiment that ''something - anything! had to
be done'' to create a positive climate for economic growth.

A central reason for the political disconnect is that many of the principal
supporters of the RRI are still working with ideas about economic development
that date back to the 1950s - and which seek to short-circuit private market
forces. The most notable achievement of this type of thinking gave us
Wheeling-Pittsburgh Steel's Mon Valley rail mill. Built in the early 1980s, this
project cost $ 105 million, operated for five years before it went out of
business and set taxpayers back more than $ 40 million.

The tax-and-spend mindset sees government-administered cheap capital (e.g.
construction grants and subsidized loans) and targeted tax breaks, nonprofit
development organizations (such as our own Regional Industrial Development
Corporation), subsidized rents and similar devices as the way to spur growth and
job creation.

But focusing on these types of measures takes attention off the things that
government directly controls - and which, collectively, can be far more
important in affecting - impartially - job-creating decisions.  These include
not just the overall level of taxation but the speed with which government
officials make decisions, the complexity and cost of state and local regulation,
and the deterrent to private investment posed by public and nonprofit
organizations, however good their intentions.

Why is it, for example, that with one of the finest airport terminals in the
country, we do not have an immediately-adjacent hotel?  Why is it that, up until
this year, the large, nationwide commercial real estate developers have
generally avoided the Pittsburgh region?

The answer generally lies in the quality of the political process - formal and
informal - which rules the region.

While our economic structure has been radically transformed over the past 20
years, the structure of politics still has too many roots in the past.

Elected leaders still come from the ranks of ladder climbing, career
politicians, with a handful of exceptions. The rest of us seem content to stay
as far away from the daily grind of the political process as we can get while
still ready to throw money to the politicians when our immediate interests are
at stake.

Maybe this is a residue of the old system, when ''downtown'' took care of
everything political, so far as the private sector was concerned.  But there is
dangerous disconnect in the political process today that no amount of business
as usual will overcome.

We need a small group of energetic and forward-looking individuals, with
genuinely new ideas, to grapple with the region's problems and the hurly burly
of elected office. While there are a few fresh faces with generally good ideas
moving effectively into the political process, we need more of them, whether
from business, the professions, or the academic world - and with greater
financial support from donors willing to discard mind-sets rooted in the past.

There will be an opportunity to shift Allegheny County's archaic and chaotic
political process into a new ''orbit.'' In May 1998, the voters will have the
opportunity to endorse a carefully thought-out and refined proposal for county
government.

It proposes a single county executive, an elected council and assured minority
party representation. Such a development, however modest in scope, could
constructively change the political dynamics of the county - and the region -
particularly if a few fresh faces step forward.

The proposed charter will establish a truly regional voice - in the person of
the single elected Commissioner. It should help redirect the energies and
ambitions of career politicians away from minutiae of county row offices (even
though they will still remain) toward the broader administrative and process
problems that hold back our region.

*

Do not mourn the death of the sales tax referendum.

Rather, celebrate the opportunity to get down to a far more important - and
difficult - task: rebuilding the process and structure of politics in our
region.

James Burnham is a professor of business at Duquesne University, where he holds
a chair in Global Competitiveness. He is a Allegheny County Republican
committeeman, and a former banker and Reagan administration official.

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              173 of 247 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                   November 28, 1997, Friday, SOONER EDITION

NASA WORKING ON REDEPLOYING SATELLITE

BYLINE: HOUSTON CHRONICLE

SECTION: SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY & MEDICINE, Pg. A-18

LENGTH: 306 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON


Experts will work through the Thanksgiving weekend assessing the prospects for
redeploying the Spartan solar observatory from the Columbia space shuttle, NASA
said Wednesday.

Their work will focus on ways to economize on shuttle fuel for the operation,
which could come late next week. If the automated satellite-based observatory
gets a second chance, it will almost certainly mean an extension of Columbia's
planned 16-day flight, which is scheduled to end Dec. 5.

''We are keeping our options open,'' said NASA's Lee Briscoe, the mission
operations director.

Astronauts Winston Scott and Takao Doi recovered the 3,000-pound Spartan Monday
night. Its battery power was somewhat depleted but in good shape.

The Columbia crew deployed the observatory Friday for what was to be two days of
preprogrammed observations of the sun's corona, or outer atmosphere. However, it
was not properly activated and an attempt shortly after the release to quickly
recover Spartan with the shuttle's robot arm instead sent the satellite into a
slow spin.

Astronomers want to coordinate Spartan's observations of the sun with those of a
second solar orbiting spacecraft. The studies are intended to improve
understanding of the high velocity solar wind and its influence on the Earth's
climate changes.

NASA's flight control team is assessing options ranging from six to 24 hours of
free flight for Spartan. In one case, the shuttle crew might remain several
thousand feet away from the satellite, in the other, dozens of miles.

A second Spartan mission will depend on how much fuel the shuttle crew can
conserve while doing other experiments. That fuel is required for thrusters in
Columbia's nose that are used in Spartan operations.

The level Friday was near 120 pounds. The goal for the operation is 200 pounds,
Briscoe said.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              175 of 247 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                    December 5, 1997, Friday, SOONER EDITION

U.S. DENIES REALITY;
EUROPE IS PUZZLED BY YOUR IGNORANCE ON GLOBAL WARMING

BYLINE: JOHN GUMMER

SECTION: EDITORIAL, Pg. A-39

LENGTH: 741 words

DATELINE: LONDON


Europeans are alarmed by the Clinton administration's proposals for reducing
carbon dioxide emissions. The entire scheme seems inspired by a misplaced
optimism that ''something will surely turn up,'' as if global warming were a bad
dream.

And we are offended by American accusations that European nations have somehow
cheated in already cutting greenhouse emissions to below 1990 levels, or that
our goals for 2000 and beyond are merely cynical grandstanding.

The examples of many countries, including the United Kingdom, show what
resourcefulness can accomplish. Moreover, history is littered with examples of
missed opportunities, as well as the inspiration of opportunities that were
seized.

Following the 1992 Earth Summit in Rio, the United States did almost nothing to
curtail its emissions of greenhouse gases, while Britain took action that will
put our emissions about 6 percent below 1990 levels by 2000. If we had not
acted, our emissions would be 18 percent above 1990 levels by the end of the
decade. Instead, we took a number of measures simultaneously, some of which
carried political risks, but these were more than offset by permanent gains.

Privatizing our domestic coal industry sent angry miners into the streets of
London, but it helped us to liberalize the U.K. electricity market, which cut
our carbon emissions almost in half. Another 30 percent of the reduction came
from across-the-board improvements in energy efficiency. The remaining 20
percent of Britain's accomplishment derived from heavier reliance on renewable
energy and nuclear power.

None of these measures precipitated economic hardship. To the contrary, industry
welcomed them, and manufacturing today in Britain is up 25 percent.

History has shown time and again that people on the cutting edge take the
prizes. Look at the U.S. steel industry, which fell behind its overseas
competitors by failing to adopt new technology. The same could well happen with
the global energy movement, if U.S. business leaders and politicians count on a
pollution credit trading scheme or a reorganization of the utility industry to
solve the greenhouse gas problem.

In a peculiar way, American business is behaving like old-fashioned socialists
by trying to protect itself from innovation.

The present situation with electric utilities presents abundant ''no-regrets''
opportunities to reduce greenhouse gases, improve air quality, lower prices and
achieve unparalleled efficiencies.

According to a recent report from your own Department of Energy, the United
States consumes 32 quadrillion Btu of primary energy from coal and other fossil
fuels to make 11 quadrillion Btu of electricity for end users. With two-thirds
of potential energy squandered, it is abundantly clear that millions of tons of
greenhouse gas could be eliminated from the atmosphere with improved efficiency.

Any company with aspirations to win and retain global markets will need to plan
for the economic realities of a new approach to global energy.

We in Britain are baffled by your government's apparent reluctance to join other
industrialized nations in promoting substantive reductions in greenhouse gas
emissions.

It is rank hypocrisy to argue that a nation responsible for one-fifth of world
emissions should not have to do anything until all the developing nations have
agreed to binding limits. As these countries develop their energy capacity,
there will be abundant technology for high-efficiency, low-emissions energy.
They will achieve an embarrassingly good environmental performance, well beyond
current U.S. standards.

Britain, along with the rest of the world, is beginning to wonder why the United
States - a nation that uses twice as much energy as all of Europe with only
one-third our population - continues to deny reality.

Businesses in the United Kingdom, Europe and Japan recognize that we must act to
curb the effects of climate change and that, far from imposing costs on
industry, this challenge actually provides new business opportunities and new
markets.

The present situation has all of us wondering what happens if America's system
of energy use - one that has been abandoned by the rest of the developed world -
finally collapses.

John Gummer, the Conservative member of Parliament for coastal Suffolk, was
secretary of state for the environment in the United Kingdom from 1993 to 1997.
He wrote this for The Washington Post.

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              177 of 247 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                    December 8, 1997, Monday, SOONER EDITION

PENGUINS TO THAW OUT ON CALIFORNIA SOJOURN

BYLINE: DAVE MOLINARI, POST-GAZETTE SPORTS WRITER

SECTION: SPORTS, Pg. E-1

LENGTH: 900 words


The Penguins could pretend that this is just another business trip, that going
to Southern California in December is pretty much the same as visiting upstate
New York.

They could pretend that spending a few days at resorts in Santa Monica and
Tempe, Ariz., is no different than holing up in a hotel in Ottawa or Detroit.
That applying sunscreen is a lot like pulling on thermal underwear.

They aren't bothering to make that argument, though, because they realize no one
would buy it.

When the Penguins flew to Los Angeles yesterday afternoon, they were quite aware
that they were changing climates, not just time zones. That the overcoats they
wore to the airport can be stashed away until they return home Saturday.

It's been pretty soggy around L.A. lately, but the Penguins know they can count
on temperatures in the 60s and higher while they're in California and Arizona,
and they plan to enjoy them.

At least as long as they don't let the conditions adversely affect their
preparations and performance on the three-game western swing that begins at
10:38 p.m. tomorrow against the Los Angeles Kings.

''We don't think about hockey 24 hours a day,'' defenseman Brad Werenka said.
''When you walk through those doors to get into the rink, that's s on your mind.

''There's no sand or sun inside the rink. Once you get in that rink, it's time
to go to work. As soon as you get back in the rink, it's business as usual.''

The Penguins have a history of struggling in warm-weather cities. They had lost
nine games in a row in Los Angeles before winning there Dec. 10.

This season, the Penguins have found the road to be a pretty pleasant place.
Their 9-5-2 away record is the league's fifth-best and a stunning upgrade on the
4-11-1 mark they had after 16 road games in 1996-97.

''I didn't expect to be bad on the road, and I didn't expect to be good on the
road,'' Coach Kevin Constantine said. ''We didn't know the answer to how good we
would be at anything.''

He found out just how well the Penguins could perform on the road early in the
season, however. They won their first away game, 4-3, at Carolina Oct. 3, and
went 4-0-1 to start of an eight-game odyssey later that month.

''For us to get a couple of road wins early in that big long stretch was a big
deal,'' center Tyler Wright said. ''Once you get a couple wins under your belt,
you start believing you can do it.''

Such intangibles are nice, but it's tactics and execution that have made the
Penguins' success away from the Civic Arena possible. They don't make any
fundamental changes in strategy when they leave town, but their trapping style
tends to be more effective on the road.

Crowds tend to get a bit testy when teams do little more than swap neutral-zone
turnovers for a couple of periods. Pleasing the fans isn't an issue for visiting
clubs, however, so its easier for them to remain patient.

''We've tried to emphasize a simple game, work on our defense and keep things
simple,'' Werenka said.

''When you go on the road, that's even easier to do because you're not playing
for your own crowd.

''You're trying to keep it even simpler, and that plays right into our game
plan. We take advantage of other team's turnovers and make smart decisions, and
on the road you do that even more than at home.''

The Penguins' defensive stats reflect that. They have allowed 47 goals in 15
home games, an average of 3.13, but just 30 in 16 games on the road, an average
of 1.88.

It's no coincidence that the Penguins have recorded their four shutouts on the
road. That's a reflection of their team-wide commitment to defense away from the
Civic Arena and evidence that goalie Tom Barrasso is more effective on the road.

At home, Barrasso is 5-3-3, with a 2.92 goals-against average and save
percentage of .887. On the road, he is 9-4, with a 1.63 GAA and .936 save
percentage.

''If you've got good goaltending, that's the key,'' right winger Jaromir Jagr
said.

Reliable goaltending tends to keep games low-scoring, and the Penguins, 7-1 in
games decided by one goal, are quite comfortable in close games.

''If we're down, 1-0, or it's 0-0 going into the third, we're still confident
we're going to play our system and come out on top,'' Wright said.

All this winning on the road comes with one complication, though. It's getting
increasingly difficult for the Penguins to sneak into a town and surprise the
home team.

''I suppose there are other mountains we're going to have to climb,''
Constantine said. ''One would be that, if you continue to be somewhat
successful, other teams will obviously prepare better and differently for you.''

*

NOTES - The Penguins, apparently reluctant to go west with just 20 healthy
players, recalled winger Robert Dome from their Syracuse minor-league team
yesterday. Dome, the Penguins' first-round draft choice in June, had nine goals
and seven assists in 11 games with the Crunch. His totals included two goals in
a 5-4 overtime victory over Albany Saturday. Dome was scoreless in three games
with the Penguins earlier this season.  . . . The minor penalty Jagr received
for an illegal stick during the Penguins' 5-2 victory over Anaheim Saturday was
his second such infraction in less than two weeks; he drew a similar call during
a 5-1 victory over Buffalo Nov. 24. In both instances, the Penguins held a 4-1
lead when Jagr was penalized.

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, PHOTO: John Heller/Post-Gazette: Ron Francis and the Penguins
have a; quick rematch with the Mighty Ducks Wednesday night in Anaheim.

                       Copyright 1997 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              181 of 247 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                  December 28, 1997, Sunday, TWO STAR EDITION

IGNORING THE EVIDENCE

BYLINE: RON VASSEL; BEN AVON

SECTION: EDITORIAL, Pg. C-2, LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 364 words


There is almost universal agreement among atmospheric scientists that little, if
any, of the supposed warming of the Earth can be attributed to man-induced
releases of greenhouse gases. Yet despite this agreement, your editorial staff
and other like-minded, well-intentioned but misguided individuals are clamoring
for a reduction in greenhouse emissions in this country (''Warming Trend: An
Improved Diplomatic Atmosphere on Climate Change,'' Dec. 14).

Do they question why, according to greenhouse models, temperatures have
increased only a half degree Celsius, not the two to four degrees their models
predicted based upon the greenhouse gas emissions of the past 100 years? No.

Does the fact that recent studies show that there is a strong correlation
between the magnetic activity on the sun and the temperature on our planet's
surface cause them a moment's hesitation before stepping on their soap boxes and
demanding a reduction in the levels of carbon dioxide?  No.

And does the recent volcanic activity and the historic temperature increases
associated with such activity give them pause to re-examine their position? No.

These are ''inconvenient'' facts and questions, which would halt the creation of
a global bureaucracy, and they must let nothing stand in the way of their
exporting this nation's greatest ''achievement'' - bureaucracy - to the
developing nations of the world.

Instead, they argue that because greenhouse emissions are ''high'' (which, no
small surprise, is a circular reaffirmation of their hypothesis), that this is
the ''cause'' of global warming.

Well, I brush my teeth every morning and the sun comes up, so does that mean
that I single-handedly am responsible for the rising of the sun? Of course not,
and I am not foolish enough to claim that one causes the other.

Maybe, just maybe, the purveyors of environmental doom should exercise the same
restraint on global warming, and then we can all consider rational and
intelligent policy decisions that will actually have a positive impact on the
lives of this nation's hard-working citizens and not go the way of the ''global
cooling/impending ice age'' craze of the 1970s.

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              182 of 247 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                   December 29, 1997, Monday, SOONER EDITION

MAYOR TOM MURPHY

BYLINE: MARYLYNN URICCHIO

SECTION: LIFESTYLE, Pg. E-2, BREAKFAST WITH...

LENGTH: 655 words


On the eve of both the New Year and his second term as mayor of Pittsburgh, Tom
Murphy took time to look back, look ahead and look around at the business of
running our city. A consummate politician, he even answered the trick questions.

Q. What's your New Year's resolution?

A. To listen better.

Q. Do you have a goal for your next term?

A. It really is to have Pittsburghers feeling better about themselves at the end
of four years. I think part of that happens by us beginning to see new
investments in Pittsburgh. That will encourage people to be more optimistic
about the future.

Q. Are there reasons for hope?

A. Yes. There are two parts to the puzzle. We need to give people jobs. People
have to have an opportunity to work or they won't stay here. The other part of
it is if you have a good job, you have a quality of life that is a summation of
lots of different things. It can be major league ball teams, great parks,
convention centers, good housing, nice neighborhoods, a safe community.
Generally speaking, the creation of jobs and the maintenance and continued
improvement of the quality of life are the two major focuses we have.

Q. What do you consider your greatest accomplishment of last term?

A. One is arriving at a structurally balanced budget for the city. The other is
having initiated a renewed interest in investing in Pittsburgh. You see a lot of
new buildings going up in Pittsburgh. I think over the last four years we've
created a climate for that to happen.

Q. What's your toughest challenge ahead?

A. The toughest challenge is what I think is the essence of Pittsburgh, which is
our greatest strength and right now our more difficult weakness: our
parochialism. I think we all love Pittsburgh for that very reason, but it makes
it difficult to change and to recognize how competitive the rest of the world is
and what's going on in other communities that has permitted them to do more
things.

Q. What's the most enjoyable part of being mayor?

A. The part I most enjoy is the give and take I have with the people of
Pittsburgh. I love the interaction. The other part I like, particularly in a
strong mayor system, is I can get things done.

Q. And the hardest part?

A. The crime, particularly juvenile crime, and the difficulty in finding
solutions for that and watching these kids throw away their lives. The second
most difficult part is the city's budget, which has not been the healthiest. It
is healthier this year than it has been in the last 10 years. We take some pride
in that, but it has not been without difficulty.

Q. How much spaghetti do you figure you eat a year at all those spaghetti
dinners?

A. I don't think people realize that as mayor of Pittsburgh you wear a number of
different hats. You play a management role. You manage a $ 314 million system
with 4,000 to 5,000 employees. You have a leadership responsibility and you need
to articulate a vision not only day to day, but where you want the city to be in
five years. Another part is being the No. 1 cheerleader for the city. That means
you go to a lot of social events. The other night I was at four different
events, and that's not unusual. As we all do, there are days when I'm more
sociable and days I would prefer to be all by myself with my dogs.

Q. Which councilman is the biggest pain?

A. For me the most difficult one to deal with is Jim Ferlo, because he tends to
always want to move from the policy to the personal.

Q. How would you most like to be remembered as mayor?

A. I'd like to be remembered as the mayor who rebuilt the riverfronts of
Pittsburgh. I think that we right now have an opportunity to re-develop the
riverfronts and reshape Pittsburgh and give a new definition of the heart and
soul of Pittsburgh.

Q. Which sports team do you like the best - the Pirates, the Steelers or the
Penguins?

A. It depends on the season!

MARYLYNN URICCHIO'S SEEN

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              183 of 247 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                  December 31, 1997, Wednesday, SOONER EDITION

FOR RIDGE, GOP '97 WAS A VERY GOOD YEAR

BYLINE: PETER J. SHELLY, POST-GAZETTE HARRISBURG CORRESPONDENT

SECTION: STATE, Pg. A-6

LENGTH: 552 words

DATELINE: HARRISBURG


Charter schools made the grade.

A $ 400 million package of gas tax and registration fee increases crossed the
finish line.

The state ushered in a new era of electric competition and taxes were cut yet
again. But Gov. Ridge's proposal to sell the state stores fizzled.

Legislators cracked down on criminals, toughening penalties for date rape cases
by making it a felony to give a person drugs without her knowledge.

And they targeted pedophiles, making it a crime to contact minors through the
Internet for illegal purposes.

This year saw the introduction of tough new welfare rules, which impose time
limits on recipients and put a heavy emphasis on people getting off the rolls
and into jobs.

What kind of year was 1997?

For the state GOP and Ridge, 1997 was pretty good.

''If you take a look back at what we started out trying to do three years ago,
we've come the furthest and the fastest of the three (in 1997),'' Ridge said.

Ridge ticked off the state's business climate, made more competitive by tax
cuts; the introduction of electric competition, and education reforms as
highlights for 1997.

Democrats, meanwhile, are not likely to gather around the fire to reminisce
about 1997 anytime soon.

Despite having 400,000 more registered voters than Republicans, the Democrats
lost five of six judicial races in November, including a seat on the Supreme
Court.

Here's a look back at some of the issues that dominated the Capitol in 1997:

* Education. The state authorized charter schools, public schools funded by tax
dollars that operate outside the bounds of local school boards.

To date, six charter schools are operating, five more have been approved and
applications for 50 more are under review. About 100 more groups or
organizations have been awarded planning grants by the Ridge administration.

The administration also introduced new academic standards.  The standards have
yet to be adopted by the State Board of Education, but the administration is
hopeful they will be in place by September.

* The gas tax increase. Ridge signed into law a $ 400 million gas tax and
registration fee increase.

Many Democrats said the state's surplus, not drivers' pocketbooks, should be
tapped to help fix roads.  The 3.5 cents-a-gallon boost went into effect May 1.
The 50-percent boost in registration fees took effect July 1.

Ridge has cut a host of business taxes, along with income taxes for poorer
Pennsylvanians, since he took office in January 1995.

* State liquor stores. Ridge proposed closing the state stores and auctioning
off licenses to private retailers to raise about $ 600 million and change in the
next decade.

Ridge wanted to use the proceeds to help pay the state's share for local
development initiatives, ranging from industrial parks to sports stadiums.

But Ridge's plan never went anywhere.

Unions representing the store employees, worried about jobs, along with some
conservative church groups worried about increased consumption, led the
opposition.

Ridge says his plan might return next year.

* Gambling. proponents made some headway in the Senate, where legislation
calling for a referendum on slot machines at racetracks was approved. But the
bill has stalled in the House and there is little hope of it coming back next
year.

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              189 of 247 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                    May 18, 1997, Sunday, FIVE STAR EDITION

50 YEARS AFTER EUROPE'S MIRACLE;
EUROPEAN UNION IS NEXT FALTERING STEP IN MOVE TOWARD COMMUNAL SUCCESS

BYLINE: RAY MOSELEY, CHICAGO TRIBUNE

SECTION: WORLD, Pg. A-4

LENGTH: 1499 words

DATELINE: LONDON


Fifty years ago, as Europe lay shattered from war, its governments near
bankruptcy, millions of its people facing starvation and the Cold War spreading
across the continent, the U.S. embarked on a historic endeavor.

Secretary of State George C. Marshall chose a Harvard University commencement
address on June 5, 1947, to announce what became known as the Marshall Plan. Its
purpose was to harness America's resources and European know-how to rebuild the
economies of Europe, remove the threat of starvation and save countries
threatened by Communist takeover.

The Kremlin promptly seized upon it as an act of imperialism that would enslave
Europe.

In Western Europe, some people were convinced the U.S. initiative was merely a
cynical attempt to open up markets for American exports and perhaps gain control
of European affairs.

In Congress, there were cries that it was yet another handout that was going to
bankrupt the U.S.

But the Marshall Plan confounded many of its critics and came to be seen as one
of the most enlightened acts of American foreign policy in the 20th century.

The plan provided $ 13.15 billion over four years to the 17 European nations
that agreed to participate in it. That was 5 percent of American gross national
product. A similar percentage today would mean about $ 350 billion. The outlay
was enormous, and the results spectacular.

President Clinton will join other European leaders in The Hague on May 28 for a
ceremony commemorating the 50th anniversary of the Marshall Plan. The Dutch seat
of government has been chosen because The Netherlands currently holds the
European Union presidency, and Dutch officials say the president will make a
major speech on Europe.

Europe today is a robust, thriving continent compared with 1947, but one still
beset by challenges that, in some cases, grew out of the war and the four-decade
Cold War that followed.

Within the next five years or so, Europe will face these momentous changes:

* Reform of the way it does business in its central institution, the 15-nation
European Union. An EU summit in Amsterdam on June 16-17 will be a landmark
development toward achieving this goal.

* Adoption of a single European currency, the euro, to replace the mark, franc,
lira and other national currencies. The startup date is Jan. 1, 1999, and
perhaps 11 EU nations will participate initially.

* Expansion of the 16-nation North Atlantic Treaty Organization to take in its
first new members from Eastern Europe. Overcoming once-fierce opposition from
Russia, this decision was sealed by the alliance's agreement with Moscow on
Wednesday and will be formalized at a NATO summit in Madrid. Unless the U.S.
Senate scuttles the plan, the first new members - Poland, Hungary and the Czech
Republic are the likely candidates - will join in time for NATO's 50th
anniversary on April 4, 1999.

* Carving out a new security relationship with Russia. There is no firm deadline
for this, but the groundwork has been laid in the agreement NATO concluded with
Moscow this week and plans to sign in Paris on May 27.

* Expansion of the European Union to take in its first eastern members,
including Poland, Hungary and the Czech Republic, and possibly others. The
earliest date is 2002.

To this list could be added the task of redefining Europe's relationship with
the U.S., which has gradually been changing since the end of the Cold War, and
of overcoming economic lethargy, which afflicts such countries as Germany and
France and keeps unemployment at high levels.

This all represents a tall order, and no one can say if Europe is up to it.

The European Union is continually beset by disputes that come down to the
question of how much sovereignty to yield in the common interest, and these
disputes may intensify as some nations push for greater integration.

There is little question that public enthusiasm for the European ideal has waned
considerably in recent years.

Europe's attempts to forge a common foreign policy have been a dismal failure
and are likely to remain so. Britain is not alone in wanting nothing to do with
this idea. Only modest progress has been made toward common defense policies.

A huge question mark hangs over the single currency. Nobody knows if it will
work, and the issue has proved deeply controversial.

Almost equally complex problems will have to be sorted out about harmonizing
West and East European economies and reforming EU finances so the Union will not
be bankrupted by taking in poor countries.

As for trans-Atlantic ties, the U.S. and Europe quarrel increasingly over trade,
Europeans sometimes question America's capacity for leadership and Washington
occasionally looks with dismay at Europe's failure to sort out its own problems.

The challenges seem almost endless, and the political will to meet them
uncertain. European governments marvel at the rapid growth of the U.S. economy
in recent years, but some are unwilling to take the political risks of ending
rigidities in their economies that hold back growth.

Yet others - Ireland, The Netherlands and Britain - have managed impressive
economic progress.

The Marshall Plan would appear to offer few lessons for the Europe of today,
which dispenses aid rather than receives it. The plan's success was a joint
effort, but it did not require the European-wide coordination that circumstances
today demand.

The Marshall Plan was different from conventional foreign aid programs. The U.S.
provided the money, but left to Europeans the choice of projects to be financed
and their management.

Marshall decided on the plan after he attended a Big Four meeting in Moscow in
March 1947 and concluded the Soviets were seeking a European collapse that would
help bring Communist governments to power. France and Italy, with large,
powerful Communist parties, seemed especially ripe for takeover.

A year earlier, Winston Churchill, Britain's wartime prime minister, had made
his famous ''Iron Curtain'' speech at Fulton, Mo. The Cold War was under way,
and a suffering Europe was the battleground.

Industrial production was only a fraction of its prewar level, and foreign
exchange reserves were nearly exhausted. The continent, desperately short of
coal, electricity and gas, had just shivered through its worst winter in more
than 50 years. A summer drought lay ahead.

Food production was lower than at any point in this century, rationing was in
effect, currencies were nearly worthless and hunger was spreading.

''Millions of people in the cities are slowly starving,'' a high-ranking State
Department official said after a tour of Europe.

The U.S. invited all European nations to participate. ''Our policy is directed
not against any country or doctrine but against hunger, poverty, desperation and
chaos,'' Marshall said.

Accepting the U.S. invitation were Austria, Belgium, Britain, Denmark, France,
Germany, Greece, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Norway,
Portugal, Sweden, Switzerland and Turkey.

The Soviets spurned the invitation, and Poland and Czechoslovakia, under Kremlin
pressure, withdrew their initial expressions of interest.

Politically, adoption of the Marshall Plan was a remarkable achievement because
Republicans controlled Congress, many were hostile to aid and even more hostile
to President Harry S Truman.

But Senate Majority Leader Arthur Vandenberg of Michigan was convinced of the
merit of the plan and turned it into a bipartisan success. Congress adopted it
on April 3, 1948.

Two and a half months later, partly in reaction to the plan, the Soviets imposed
a blockade on Berlin that lasted until May 12, 1949.

The four-year time limit fixed for the Marshall Plan was arbitrary, and recovery
was not complete when it ended. But industrial and agricultural output had
surged well above prewar levels, and Europe's gross national product had grown
at a rate several times the cost of the Marshall Plan itself.

Inflation was brought under control, and confidence in national currencies was
restored. Some of the larger aims - of eliminating trade barriers and freeing
Europe from dependence on aid - were partly realized.

Europe was back on its feet, and America was showered with praise and admiration
such as it could not hope to achieve in today's more competitive, sometimes
quarrelsome, climate.

British historian Arnold Toynbee called the Marshall Plan ''the signal
achievement of our age,'' more important than the discovery of atomic energy.

Churchill termed it ''the most unsordid act in history.''

Dean Acheson, who helped frame it and succeeded Marshall in office, described it
as ''one of the greatest and most honorable adventures in history.''

Marshall called it ''a near miracle.''

President Clinton will not be in a position to offer Europe anything approaching
a miracle on May 28, but a new vision of how Europe and the U.S. confront their
common destiny is within the realm of possibility.

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, PHOTO: George C. Marshall

                       Copyright 1997 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              192 of 247 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                     June 1, 1997, Sunday, TWO STAR EDITION

POPE RETURNS HOME TO POLAND WITH JOY;
EAGERNESS TO SEE HIM IS EVIDENT ALL OVER WROCLAW

BYLINE: JANE PERLEZ, THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: WORLD, Pg. A-4

LENGTH: 664 words

DATELINE: WROCLAW, Poland


In unseasonable cold and wet, Pope John Paul II returned to Poland yesterday and
expressed pleasure at being back ''under the roof of the parental home'' where
he said the tiniest details and objects recalled what was most precious to him.
Even the weather, he noted in a smiling, unscripted aside, was familiar.

''This is what I expected,'' the pope said, as rain pelted the side of a
yellow-and-white canopy erected on the windswept airport of this ancient city,
which is about 160 miles northwest of John Paul's native Krakow. ''I have to get
away from the sun that is so strong in Italy and come to a more austere climate.
''

On a more serious note that will be one of the themes of a pilgrimage taking
place as Poland awaits an expected invitation to join NATO, the pope said his
country was well qualified to become a full-fledged member of Europe. Poland has
the fastest-growing economy in Central Europe, and inflation and unemployment
are steadily dropping.

''I'm convinced that Poles, with their huge potential, talent, spirit and
intellect, can play a meaningful role in the family of European nations,'' the
pope said. ''This is what I wish for my motherland from the bottom of my
heart.''

The pope, who turned 77 on May 18 and is believed to be suffering from
Parkinson's disease, walked haltingly down the steps of his aircraft and moved
slowly along the line of awaiting dignitaries. As he stood for the Polish and
Vatican anthems, his left arm shook noticeably. It continued to tremble as he
sat in a high-backed wooden chair listening to welcoming speeches. He rejected,
however, a red blanket that was offered to him as he sat, exposed to gusting
winds, in the open-sided canopy.

The pope was greeted by President Alexander Kwasniewski, a former Communist who
was elected in 1995 and who went out of his way in his welcoming speech to
credit Pope John Paul and the Roman Catholic Church for their role in sweeping
away the Communist rule of which Kwasniewski had once been part as a junior
minister.

''This change would not have taken place without you and the Roman Catholic
Church,'' he said.

The pope's 11-day trip will feature several religious landmarks. Today, he will
close the 46th International Eucharistic Congress in Wroclaw and on Tuesday he
will celebrate in Gniezno the 1,000th anniversary of the martyrdom of St.
Adalbertus, who was killed trying to expand Christianity in Europe. He will also
attend a ceremony marking the 600th year of the theology department at the
prestigious Jagellonian University in Krakow.

In Gniezno, the pope will speak with seven Central and Eastern European leaders
at a meeting intended to stress what the pope considers the return of these
countries to their rightful place in Europe.

The visit has considerable domestic political bearing. Kwasniewski's party,
built on the remains of the former Communists, faces a stiff challenge in
approaching parliamentary elections from an alliance of parties grouped around
Solidarity, the labor union movement that helped bring down Communism in 1989
and expects to reap political mileage from the pope's visit.

A liberalized abortion law, signed by Kwasniewski and supported by his party,
was struck down by Poland's Constitutional Court on Wednesday, an action that
pleased the church hierarchy and Solidarity leaders, especially so soon before
the pope's arrival.

The pope appeared to signal in his opening address that he may not stay out of
the fight. ''Respect of the rights of each person and especially the most
defenseless and weak,'' must be maintained, he said, a reference to abortion,
according to his spokesman, Jaoquin Navarro-Walls.

Opinion polls have shown that since the fall of Communism, most Poles have
resented the involvement of the church in political matters. But support for
easier access to abortion, which became legal last year, has waned, apparently
due to the steady campaign against it by the church and Solidarity.

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, PHOTO: Leszek Wdowinski/Reuters: Pope-arazzi/Bishops take
photographs; of Pope John Paul II upon his arrival at the International
Eucharistic; Congress in the People's Hall in Wroclaw yesterday.; The Pope, who
is on an 11-day visit to his native land, said Poland was; well qualified to
become a fully-fledged member of Europe. It has the; fastest-growing economy in
Central Europe, and inflation and unemployment are; steadily dropping. (Photo,
Page A-1)

                       Copyright 1997 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              205 of 247 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                  November 30, 1997, Sunday, TWO STAR EDITION

PEOPLE IN AKRON KNOW HOW TO TALK ABOUT RACE RELATIONS;
CITY WILL HOST CLINTON'S FIRST FORUM ON TOPIC

BYLINE: ANN SCALES, THE BOSTON GLOBE

SECTION: NATIONAL, Pg. A-8

LENGTH: 1217 words

DATELINE: AKRON, Ohio


The conversation on race that President Clinton called for back in June has been
going on for years in Edward Gilbert's living room, across Mike Hendler's
kitchen table, among the Rev. Mark Frey's affluent white congregation, in the
local NAACP office, at Fannie Brown's pride and joy on Firestone Parkway.

This city, better known for making rubber tires than social policy, seems to
many an unlikely laboratory for experiments in race relations. But there has
been so much fruitful talk on the topic hereabouts that Brown's organization -
known as the ''Coming Together Project'' - was founded to make sure the point of
it all isn't lost.

Clinton will give residents another reason to join in dialogue when he hosts the
first, and long-anticipated, town meeting of his yearlong race initiative at the
University of Akron on Wednesday Clinton's goal is to trigger a broad and frank
discussion on the issue: In Akron, he should find no shortage of takers for the
tickets.

This city has been talking about race ever since the community, like the nation,
was shocked to see black motorist Rodney King savagely beaten in 1991 by white
Los Angeles police officers - and stunned when the officers were initially
acquitted by a jury the following spring. The conversation did not let up after
the local paper, the Beacon Journal, ran a series in 1993 that examined race
relations and became a leader in the effort to promote racial progress in the
area. The dialogue has extended beyond the two O.J. Simpson trials.

The vast racial gap those events and stories exposed has emboldened some
residents of this community of 237,000 to ask as Rodney King did, ''Can we all
get along?'' and then to commit themselves to try.

''It's a battle,'' said city councilor Michael Williams, who is black, and whose
family has a long tradition in local politics. ''This is a heart-by-heart,
person-by-person battle, but it's the only way it's going to be won.''

Churches have joined the fray. In 1992, the Rev. Mark Frey's mostly white
suburban church congregation linked up with the Rev. Luther Cooper's black
parishioners in downtown Akron.

The two congregations don't just worship the same God at what traditionally has
been the most segregated hour of the week, 11 o'clock on Sunday morning. The two
churches' Sunday schools, women's guilds, and choirs often get together for
exchanges. Last Sunday, Frey preached to Cooper's congregation. ''It was a great
day,'' Frey said.

When the city dedicated its new Memorial Parkway in May, choirs from both
churches sang at the foot of the bridge as a symbol of their efforts to improve
relations between the city's two predominant groups.

With their pastors leading the way, parishioners have formed friendships,
visited one another's homes - sharing meals, tending gardens together - even
joined, several of them, in a journey to Zimbabwe.

''If we're not working on breaking down barriers, we are not being truthful to
our calling as Christians, as being one in God's spirit,'' Frey said.

Mike Hendler and Edward Gilbert are also breaking down the barriers, piece by
piece, though in a very personal way. Four years ago, they bumped into each
other on the street. Both lawyers, they had known each other professionally for
years, but when the conversation turned to race relations, they realized they
didn't know each other very well at all. The first step toward reconciling with
other races, it became clear, is to know with whom you're trying to reconcile.

Since then, the men and their families have gotten together with other black and
white families every few months or so to sit and talk about issues, tackling the
hard questions about race, sometimes with a speaker they've invited, maybe the
local police chief. The children have gotten to know each other,too.

''I know it sounds kind of corny, but we are more alike than we are different,''
said Gilbert, a prominent civil rights lawyer.

Gilbert has gone to synagogue with Hendler; Hendler is going to celebrate
Kwanzaa with him next month.

''I'm not a person who I think ever distinguished people because of their
culture,'' Hendler said. ''But what has been most eye-opening for me is how we
tend to stereotype people in the opinions we think they are going to have.''

Brown, executive director of the ''Coming Together Project,'' is buoyed by these
types of exchanges, even though they began without the help of her project,
which operates out of a sparsely furnished one-room office near the city's
downtown.

The project was created by the Beacon Journal after the publication of its race
series in 1993, but has since spun off into a nonprofit organization that
sponsors workshops and events to promote racial harmony.

Many businesses have contributed money, and nearly every community organization
in town has signed up for membership, with more than 200 fraternities, schools,
country clubs, city agencies, and churches seeking to partake of its workshops
and speakers such as Barbara Love, associate professor of social justice
education at the University of Massachusetts at Amherst.

Brown said Akron is a perfect setting for Clinton to hold his first town meeting
on race relations. It guarantees him the participation of blacks and whites
already accustomed to speaking frankly about race.

''In order for people to get to know each other and form a relationship, they
have to talk to each other and dialogue, and it has to be in a setting where
people are comfortable,'' Brown said. ''This is comfortable.''

Akron is about 73 percent white, 24.5 percent black, with Asians, Hispanics, and
American Indians making up the rest. Like Boston, and other major cities that
are more diverse, it has had its share of racial tensions: from scattered
rioting in the late 1960s to evidence that white extremist groups have, of late,
been seeking to recruit students on the University of Akron campus.

And, like Boston, the city has been forced to operate under consent decrees
governing the police and fire departments and the school system, orders that
required greater hiring and promotion of minorities.

While pockets of poverty and segregation exist, and blacks were
disproportionately hit by the exodus of manufacturing jobs in the rubber
industry, there are also encouraging signs.

Whites are moving back to the city, in the big, fine homes in West Akron that
were built for the rubber company executives - a neighborhood that is home to
about half the city's black population. The school system, while
disproportionately black given the city's demographics, is still more than half
white. The police chief and fire chief are black, as are four of the 13 city
councilors, including Williams, who was the top vote-getter earlier this month
in an at-large election. It was an election in which voters resisted appeals to
vote along racial lines.

Hendler said the improved racial climate in Akron is a testament to the kind of
subtle, emotional change that the president, in his one-day visit, can only hope
to create.

''You can have all the meetings you want, or large funded groups that you want,
and it can't do any more than average, everyday people putting out their hands
to another person and saying, 'I would like to know you a little better.'''

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              206 of 247 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                   December 2, 1997, Tuesday, SOONER EDITION

FOR SOME, GLOBAL WARMING IS LAPPING AT THEIR FEET

BYLINE: DEXTER FILKINS, LOS ANGELES TIMES

SECTION: WORLD, Pg. A-10

LENGTH: 615 words

DATELINE: THULUSDHOO, Maldives


In this nation of sandbars, global warming is not some dry idea best left to the
scientists.

It's death by drowning.

Eighty percent of the Maldives, a sparkling sweep of 1,180 islands in the Indian
Ocean, sits less than 3 feet above the water's surface.

That means that under some of the more credible scenarios for rising sea levels,
the entire nation could vanish, Atlantis-like, into the sea.

''We would be environmental refugees,'' said Hussain Shihab, the Maldives'
former minister for environmental affairs. ''If nothing is done, our country
could be underwater sometime in the future.''

The fear has penetrated the consciousness of this nation of 263,000 people,
spurring talk and action of an intensity unseen in the West. And it has created
a deep sense of frustration, that a nation of fewer than 3,000
carbon-dioxide-emitting automobiles could perish from consequences it cannot
control.

As representatives of about 150 nations gather this week in Kyoto, Japan, to
negotiate cutbacks in the output of the heat-trapping gases linked to global
warming, few countries carry more urgent pleas than the 30-odd small island
states of the Atlantic, Pacific and Indian oceans.

For such countries - the Maldives, the Marshall Islands, Seychelles, and others
- even a small rise in the world's sea levels could mean not just washed-out sea
walls and eroded coastlines but national catastrophe and even extinction.

''We are not responsible for this problem, but we are the first to feel its
effects,'' said Tuiloma Neroni Slade, U.N. ambassador from Samoa, a nation of
islands in the South Pacific. ''We are facing a Goliath.''

With the most to lose, the small island states are pushing for the sharpest
reductions in greenhouse gases. While the U.S. has proposed that industrialized
countries begin in 2008 to reduce emissions to 1990 levels, the 35-nation
Alliance of Small Island States is pushing for a 20 percent cutback from 1990
levels by 2005.

''We don't think that's unreasonable,'' said Abdullahi Majeed, the Maldives'
deputy minister for the environment. ''This is a matter of life and death for
us.''

While the exact nature and timing of the threat probably won't be clear for
years, island countries such as the Maldives have every reason to worry. A
five-year study by the International Panel on Climate Change, a group of top
researchers from 25 countries, predicts that by 2100, sea levels could rise
anywhere from 6 inches to 3 feet.

If the high-end forecasts come true, most of the Maldives would be swallowed by
the ocean. Even the mid-range estimates - a rise of 20 inches would devastate
the Maldives, wiping away some islands, shrinking others, changing the shapes of
still more.

Strung out across 550 miles in 26 atolls, most of the Maldives take up less than
a square mile. Few have sea walls. Many of the isles, too small for permanent
populations, serve single purposes. One island, for instance, is dedicated to
oil storage. Another holds a prison.

At Male International Airport, an island unto itself, the ocean laps both sides
of the runway. Touching down there in a commercial airliner gives the sensation
of landing on an aircraft carrier.

The islands have begun to prepare for the worst. While total submersion of the
Maldives would take a century or more, the consequences in the meantime would be
grave. So with the help of a $ 30 million grant from Japan, the Maldives is
building a 9-foot-high concrete wall around Male to protect it from another big
storm. Other islands have already been ringed with breakwaters. The government
has banned most coral mining because the stony skeletons act as a natural
barrier.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              207 of 247 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                  December 10, 1997, Wednesday, SOONER EDITION

NATIONS NEARING WARMING ACCORD

BYLINE: WILLIAM K. STEVENS, THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: WORLD, Pg. A-1

LENGTH: 612 words

DATELINE: KYOTO, Japan


Negotiators from more than 150 countries moved closer yesterday to an agreement
requiring reductions in the emission of heat-trapping greenhouse gases by
industrial countries, but a firm deal continued to elude them.

With a deadline looming later today, the discussions focused on a proposal put
forth by Raul Estrada-Oyuela of Argentina, the chairman of the talks, that would
cut emissions of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases 5 percent below 1990
levels for the period 2005 through 2010. The 5 percent target would be
calculated as an annual average for the six-year period.

In meeting the overall target, different countries and groups of countries would
be assigned different targets according to their economic profiles. Thus, while
the United States would cut its emissions by 5 percent and Japan by 4.5 percent,
for instance, emissions of the European Union would be reduced 8 percent. But
all would fall within a narrow band ranging from that 8 percent reduction to
increases of 5 percent permitted in Australia and Norway.

''The trend is a very positive one,'' Estrada said after the talks recessed at
2:30 a.m.

European Union Environment Commissioner Ritt Bjerregaard said this morning she
thought an international agreement would be reached later in the day to cut
greenhouse gas emissions.

''I think we can make it today,'' Bjerregaard told Reuters after a meeting with
U.S. negotiators.

A senior U.S. official also indicated that an agreement was imminent. ''The
train is there and it's basically ready to ride,'' he said.

At issue are emissions of six greenhouse gases. The most important is carbon
dioxide, which is produced by the burning of fossil fuels like coal and oil. The
others are methane, nitrous oxide, hydrofluorocarbons, perfluorocarbons and
sulfur hexachloride.

All trap heat in the atmosphere, and some scientific advisers at the talks say
the gases will raise the average global temperature by 2 to 6 degrees Fahrenheit
by 2100 if emissions are not reduced.

By comparison, the world has warmed by 5 to 9 degrees since the depths of the
last Ice Age, and these scientists say the predicted warming would cause
widespread climatic and environmental disruption, including a rise in sea level,
heavier rains, more floods and droughts.

On the sticky question of how developing countries can be brought more closely
into the effort to control emissions, the proposal suggested setting up a
special fund to serve as a conduit for the transfer of money and technology from
rich countries to poor ones, so that the latter can adopt appropriate energy
technologies.

The United States ''welcomes'' this concept, said Stuart Eizenstat, the chief
American negotiator, who called it ''exactly the kind of bridge both worlds
should hope for.''

Estrada's proposal also provides for developing countries to submit to binding
controls on emissions at any time, at their option; some countries, including
Chile, have expressed interest in this.

The developing countries have been insisting that they will not accept any
further commitments under the 1992 Rio treaty on climate change, beyond general
ones already binding them to take measures to cut emissions, until the rich
countries submit to binding reductions.

But Dr. Mark Mwandosya, chairman of the developing-country caucus in the talks,
said yesterday that ''we will not be a stumbling block'' to Estrada's efforts to
forge a deal.

The United States signaled that it was moving in the direction of Estrada's plan
on at least one key element, that of the emissions-reduction target. Eizenstat
said the United States had proposed going below 1990 levels.

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              213 of 247 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                 May 18, 1997, Sunday, NORTH THIS WEEK EDITION

FOREIGN LANGUAGES PROLIFERATE IN SCHOOLS

BYLINE: MARY NIEDERBERGER

SECTION: METRO, Pg. NW-7

LENGTH: 1288 words


It's a warm sunny morning, and the kindergartners in Cassy Quince's class at
Chartiers Valley Primary School are wound up and ready for the weekend.

Dressed mostly in their warm-weather gear of bright-colored T-shirts and shorts
or jeans, the pint-sized students wiggle and giggle as they recite their numbers
and the days of the week, identify the shapes held in front of them and sing
songs naming their body parts.

It's a typical scene for a kindergarten class, except that the teacher and
students are all speaking Spanish.

The seven days of the week aren't just Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday,
Thursday, Friday and Saturday. They're domingo, lunes, martes, miercoles,
jueves, viernes y sabado.  And the square, rectangle, circle and diamond are
also cuadro, circulo, rectangulo and diamante.

''What we're doing is teaching them the same concepts in Spanish that they are
learning in English,'' Quince said. ''We're basically teaching them to be
bilingual, and if they stick with it they will be bilingual by the time they
graduate from high school.''

Such teachers as Quince, who are dually certified - in elementary education and
a foreign language - are a hot commodity in today's marketplace as school
districts throughout Western Pennsylvania develop foreign-language programs for
elementary grades.

The trend got its start in the spring of 1993 when state guidelines for
outcome-based education were adopted - guidelines that required districts to
make plans to graduate students who are proficient in a foreign language.

But although those guidelines have been set aside while the state Department of
Education writes new curriculum guidelines, school officials throughout Western
Pennsylvania say they are still interested in getting more students more heavily
involved in the study of foreign languages.

''We are becoming such a global society that students need this,'' said Mike
Vranesevic, curriculum supervisor for language arts in the Woodland Hills School
District, where plans call for Spanish to be taught in grades three through six
over the next three years. A fifth level of the language is to be added at the
high school.

Besides earlier instruction, some districts are adding nontraditional languages
such as Japanese.

In Washington County, Peters School District is unique in offering Japanese at
the high school, as well as Russian.

And other Washington County school districts have found a way to teach the two
nontraditional languages - by satellite dish.

Fort Cherry has the most extensive program, offering Japanese I and II, and
Russian I, II and III. Other districts using satellite dishes for language
instruction are McGuffey, Ringgold, Trinity, Burgettstown, Chartiers-Houston and
Bentworth.

''These districts can't afford to hire teachers for this area, so this is one
way of offering the languages,'' said Celeste DiCarlo Nalwasky, director of
information services for the Washington Intermediate Unit.

While language instruction has not become commonplace in Washington County
elementary schools, educators say it makes sense to offer the programs at the
lower grade levels. Studies show that students learn foreign languages more
easily at lower ages.

Thekla Fall, curriculum consultant for foreign languages at Pittsburgh Public
Schools, has seen students who've come through the international studies magnet
- which offers French, German and Spanish in its elementary schools - put their
language instruction to good use.

''We've had students graduate and use these language skills in their careers.
We've had them go on into international law,'' said Fall, of the program that
started in 1979.

It was, in fact, the city's international magnet program that Chartiers Valley
studied while creating the curriculum for the five-year pilot that's being
implemented in the elementary classes.

Katherine Gori, director of instruction at Chartiers Valley, said that as the
district created its strategic plan four years ago, administrators saw the need
for foreign language in preparing students to compete in a global economy.

An 18-month collaboration with professors in Carnegie Mellon University's
foreign language department and the University of Pittsburgh School of Education
produced the curriculum.

A survey of parents identified Spanish as the language of choice, and Quince was
hired to start teaching kindergarten students last fall.

Spanish seems to be the popular choice for elementary education programs.
Hempfield this year hired four teachers to introduce children in grades one
through five to Spanish and French.

At Hempfield Area, students take one 40-minute period of foreign language a
week, said Marinne Renton, chair of the department of world languages. Each
grade is introduced to conversing about topics relevant to its grade level.

The new program at the elementary schools is going to prompt changes in the
upper grades as well, Renton said. Students now take the first level of a
language in eighth grade and study up to level five. Soon they'll be able to
start with the first level in seventh grade, and a sixth level in French and
Spanish will be added at the high school.

At Hempfield Area, 10th-graders are offered Japanese, as are students in middle-
and high-school levels in Norwin, Shaler Area and Pittsburgh. At Upper St.
Clair, a six-week pilot is under way, teaching Japanese to second-graders.

The interest in Japanese is twofold. Some districts have seen an increase in
Asian students. And other districts believe that America's business ties with
the Japanese make it a logical language to study for students who are interested
in business careers.

Wanda ''Swan'' Anderson, who teaches Japanese at Hempfield Area and Norwin high
schools, said she makes a point of teaching about the culture as well as the
language.

Japanese is more difficult to learn because, unlike the European languages, it
does not follow the Latin alphabet. It uses three different levels: kanji, a
system of pictograms; hiragana, a system of 46 sounds that combine to become
words; and katakana, which is used to express more complex terms.

But the difficulty factor doesn't seem to be deterring students at Norwin and
Hempfield. Both schools offer the third level of the language, with 51 students
enrolled at Norwin and 34 and Hempfield.

Shilo Raube, a senior at Hempfield Area High School and president of the
Japanese club, said studying Japanese opened her eyes to a part of the world
that she never knew existed.

''The Japanese are so different from us. We are such a young country and they
are so old. They are an island nation, so they are just to themselves; they have
so many old traditional customs and festivals, and they share the same values.
We don't have any of that here,'' said Raube, who also studies Spanish and
French.

Anderson also teaches students to use the language in real-life situations. For
example, she brings to class such things as menus, flight schedules and theater
programs for the students to interpret.

At Upper St. Clair, second-graders are learning introductory, Japanese,
including basic greetings, numbers and colors, said Deanna Baird,
foreign-language curriculum supervisor.

The pilot program will be interdisciplinary. That means in history class they'll
learn about Japanese history. In geography, they'll learn the names of Japanese
cities. In music, they'll sing some Japanese songs.

''This is more than studying from books,'' Baird said. ''They get to see that
the world they are studying really exists there. And they get to see the people
in it. A lot of times they want to go back and study more.''

Mary Niederberger is a free-lance writer.

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (3), PHOTO: Robert J. Pavuchak/Post-Gazette: During a visit to
Fort Allen; Elementary School, members of the Hempfield Area High School
Japanese Club; helped youngsters get immersed in Japanese culture in a variety
of ways.; Dancers dressed in yukata, summer kimonos made of cotton instead of;
traditional silk, perform a summer festival dance called hanagasa.; PHOTO:
Darrell Sapp/Post-Gazette: Tokyo native Shigeko Beilstein of; Monroeville goes
over a lesson for second-graders at Baker Elementary School; in Upper St.
Clair.; PHOTO: Darrell Sapp/Post-Gazette: Fourth-grader Elysia Groschwitz shows
her; kimono to her classmates as part of a Japanese cultural event at Library;
Elementary School in the South Park School District.  Her mother Sylvia, who; is
part Japanese, gave her the outfit.

                       Copyright 1997 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              220 of 247 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                    April 30, 1997, Wednesday, SOUTH EDITION

FOREIGN LANGUAGES IN KINDERGARTEN

BYLINE: MARY NIEDERBERGER

SECTION: METRO, Pg. S-1

LENGTH: 1239 words


It's a warm, sunny Friday morning and the kindergartners in Cassy Quince's class
at Chartiers Valley Primary School are wound up and ready for the weekend.
Dressed mostly in their warm-weather gear of bright-colored T-shirts and shorts
or jeans, the pint-sized students wiggle and giggle as they recite their numbers
and the days of the week, identify the shapes held in front of them and sing
songs naming their body parts.

A typical scene for a kindergarten class.

Except for one thing: all the conversation between the students and teacher is
taking place in Spanish.

The seven days of the week aren't just Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday,
Thursday, Friday and Saturday. Instead, they're domingo, lunes, martes,
miercoles, jueves, viernes y sabado. And the shapes have two names, too. The
square, rectangle, circle and diamond are also cuadro, rectangulo, circulo and
diamante.

''What we're doing is teaching them the same concepts in Spanish that they are
learning in English,'' Quince said. ''We're basically teaching them to be
bilingual, and if they stick with it they will be bilingual by the time they
graduate from high school.''

Teachers such as Quince, who are certified to teach elementary education and a
foreign language, are a hot commodity in today's marketplace as school districts
throughout Western Pennsylvania begin teaching foreign languages in elementary
grades.

It's a push that got its start in the spring of 1993, when state guidelines for
outcome based education were passed - guidelines that required districts to make
plans to graduate students who are proficient in a foreign language.

Although those guidelines have been set aside while the state Department of
Education writes new curriculum guidelines, school officials throughout Western
Pennsylvania say they are still interested in getting more students more heavily
involved in the study of foreign languages.

And, educators say, it makes sense to offer the programs at the lower grade
levels because studies show that students learn foreign languages more easily at
younger ages.

In addition to offering foreign languages at lower levels, school districts are
adding additional levels of the languages - some offer up to the fifth level, in
traditional languages such as German, French and Spanish; at least one is
considering a sixth - and some are adding non-traditional languages such as
Japanese.

For example, the German curriculum at Upper St. Clair includes an exchange
program through which local students spend three weeks in Germany and then
German students come to Upper St. Clair.

Last week, students from Leverkusen, Germany, visited Upper St. Clair. They
re-created a German cafe for students at Fort Couch Middle School and taught
German lessons to students at Baker Elementary.

It's the kind of experience educators would like to see more of in their
curricula.

''This is more than studying from books,'' said Deanna Baird, foreign language
curriculum supervisor at Upper St. Clair. ''They get to see that the world they
are studying really exists there. And they get to see the people in it. A lot of
times they want to go back and study more.''

Students who take full advantage of these programs will likely be able to test
out of foreign language courses in college or to continue and become fluent in a
foreign language by the time they graduate from college, educators say.

Katherine Gori, director of instruction at Chartiers Valley, said as the
district created its strategic plan four years ago, administrators saw the need
for foreign language in preparing students to compete in a global economy. An
18-month collaboration with professors in Carnegie Mellon University's foreign
language department and the University of Pittsburgh School of Education
produced the curriculum.

A survey of parents identified Spanish as the language of choice, and Quince was
hired to start teaching kindergarten students last fall.

Quince, who is certified in elementary education and Spanish, teaches 20 minutes
of Spanish a day to each of the district's 11 kindergarten classes. She keeps
parents informed through a homework hot line on which she tapes the day's
lessons and newsletters that include a list of vocabulary words, in English and
Spanish accompanied by written phonetic translations.

This year's kindergarten class is the first to learn Spanish and will continue
with it through elementary school. The district will hire teachers to expand the
program as the Spanish-speaking students continue to the upper grades.

After five years, the district will evaluate the pilot program and how it fits
into its traditional foreign language program that offers an exploratory course
in French, German and Spanish in the eighth grade. Students then choose as an
elective a language that they want to study in high school, where each language
is offered up to the fourth level.

Districts that are creating elementary foreign language programs are finding
there's a smaller pool of teaching candidates to choose from with the
appropriate certification. Until the recent changes in programs, only middle and
high school teachers sought language certification.

The change has prompted new or expanded programs at universities that offer
education degrees. At Indiana University of Pennsylvania, a five-year program
that trains elementary education majors in Spanish started with three students.
It now has 25-30 students.

As with Chartiers Valley, most of the elementary foreign language programs feed
into more traditional middle school programs, where students have an exploratory
program for a year and then choose a language.

Among other districts offering Japanese at the middle and high school levels are
Peters, Hempfield, Norwin, Shaler and Pittsburgh. At Upper St. Clair, a six-week
pilot is under way teaching Japanese to second graders.

The interest in Japanese is two-fold. Some districts such as Fox Chapel,
Hempfield and Norwin have seen an increase in Asian students enrolled at the
schools. Other districts believe that America's business ties with Japan make it
a logical language to study for students who are interested in business careers.

Japanese is more difficult to learn because, unlike the European languages, it
does not follow the Latin alphabet. It uses three different levels: kanji, a
system of pictograms; hiragana, a system of 46 sounds which combine to become
words; and katakana, which is used to express more complex terms.

At Upper St. Clair, the second graders are learning introductory Japanese,
including basic greetings, numbers and colors, Baird said.

The pilot program will be interdisciplinary. That means in history class they'll
learn about Japanese history. In geography, they'll learn the names of Japanese
cities. In music, they'll sing some Japanese songs.

Upper St. Clair will use the pilot program to determine what techniques work
best in teaching foreign language to very young students. The district hopes to
soon introduce foreign languages in its elementary schools to feed into its high
school program.

Currently at Upper St. Clair, students take an exploratory language course in
fifth grade that includes German, French and Spanish. From there, they pick a
language that they study in sixth, seventh, and eighth grades as level one. At
the high school, levels two through five are offered in each language.

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (3), PHOTO: Darrell Sapp/Post-Gazette photos: Eight-grader Kelly
Fillman,; 14, chats with Ute Hedine, 17, a student from Leverkusen, Germany, who
helped; re-create a German cafe at Fort Couch Middle School, Upper St. Clair.
The; German visitors also gave German lessons to students at Baker Elementary.;
Photo: Tokyo native Shigeko Beilstein of Monroeville goes over a Japanese;
lesson for second-graders at Baker Elementary in USC.; Photo: Darrell
Sapp/Post-Gazette: Teacher Judy Casturo talks to students in; her
German-language class and foreign exchange students visiting the school; from
Leverkusen, Germany, in a classroom decorated as a German cafe at Fort; Couch
Middle School in Upper St. Clair.

                       Copyright 1997 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              222 of 247 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                      June 2, 1997, Monday, SOONER EDITION

TURBULENT SKIES;
EUROPE SHOULDN'T DAMPEN RELATIONS OVER BOEING'S MERGER

SECTION: EDITORIAL, Pg. A-12

LENGTH: 599 words


Japan, Canada and Mexico are the three nations with which America trades the
most, and much is made of China's potential, but in truth this nation's most
important trading partner is the 15-nation European Union trading bloc.
Moreover, as a bastion of free, affluent societies espousing the virtues of
capitalism, democracy and free trade, the EU is America's essential partner on
the international stage, helping to spread the gospel to developing nations.

In the Netherlands last week, President Clinton and EU officials, amid their
Marshall Plan commemorations, announced they would further deepen bilateral
commercial ties.

American and EU negotiators are completing an agreement to recognize and accept
each other's regulatory standards for a number of appliances, pharmaceuticals
and telecommunications equipment.

The notion is that if a German regulator finds a Krupp coffee maker to be safe,
American regulators should adopt this certification.

These so-called mutual recognition agreements are significant, because
regulatory burdens can be important barriers to trade, susceptible to political
manipulation in order to protect local manufacturers, in this age of low or
non-existent tariffs.  Because of the stakes involved, the two sides have been
unable to reach such mutual recognition agreements for automobiles or food
products.

That isn't entirely surprising.  Despite all the warm fuzziness in the
Netherlands this week, and the fundamental strength of the trans-Atlantic bond,
the EU and America have had their strong differences over the years, most
recently over American attempts to disrupt European trade with Cuba.
Agricultural subsidies have been another key battleground.

At times, simple old-fashioned competitive concerns get in the way of a
principled, united front on trade matters. Present European anxiety over the
Boeing-McDonnell Douglas aviation merger is threatening to do just that.

While European and American regulators have long deferred to each other's
regulators in ruling upon mergers, the Belgian EU commissioner overseeing
anti-trust matters, Karel Van Miert, is vigorously attacking the proposed
merger, even before U.S. regulatory agencies have weighed in on the proposed
merger.  This step away from regulatory reciprocity sets a troubling precedent.

Mr. Van Miert has every right to protect European consumers from
anti-competitive concerns; that is what he is charged to do.  But his grounds
for speaking out against the merger appear to have a great deal more to do with
standing up for European aircraft manufacturer Airbus Industrie than for any
consumer.  And a principled free trade system is not about standing up for local
manufacturers at all costs.

Ironically, Airbus' spectacular success in capturing a third of the commercial
airliner market is the reason American regulators may decide to approve the
Boeing-McDonnell Douglas merger.  Airbus had largely driven McDonell out of the
business.  Therefore the merger, though it may pose problems in the domestic
defense procurement industry, does not alter the dynamics of the global market
for commercial airliners.  Still, Mr. Van Miert frets about the merger's
strengthening of an Airbus competitor's balance sheet.

The EU must resist the temptation to adopt a parochial, political stance on this
merger. Over time, such squabbles are a lose-lose proposition, entailing endless
retaliations. Worst of all, to the extent that the EU and America are consumed
by bilateral trade differences, their ability to act in concert in the global
arena is diluted.

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              230 of 247 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                    April 20, 1997, Sunday, TWO STAR EDITION

A TOAST BEFORE ROADKILL

BYLINE: WILLIAM SAFIRE

SECTION: LIFESTYLE, Pg. B-8, ON LANGUAGE

LENGTH: 862 words


In our use of its recent slang sense, we have come to the end of history.

History, the with-it user of vogue lingo will recall, was a cheery term for
''goodbye,'' as in ''I'm history''; another sense was ''out of it; passe,'' as
in ''Nobody hums that tune anymore; it's history.'' A more extreme version of
that sense was ''finished, washed up, wrung out and cast aside,'' as in ''Forget
about her; she's history.'' (The word's demise seemed to be further hastened by
Francis Fukuyama's amusing musing about Clio in his book titled ''The End of
History.'')

But history, in its sense of ''hopelessly old-fashioned; last year's craze'' is
back in the mists with twenty-three skidoo. In our breathless run-up to the
millennium, the hot term for outcastedness - expressed in a combination of scorn
and revulsion - is toast.

''Hey, dude. You're toast, man'' was a passage in The St. Petersburg Times of
Oct. 1, 1987, the earliest citation the ''Oxford English Dictionary'' research
staff has of this usage. ''Actually, the trendiest way of saying someone is
finished is to say 'He's toast,' '' wrote the columnist George Will the
following year. ''The women in Bush's entourage also are turn-you-to-toast
toughies.''

Nearly a decade later, Tom Friedman, a foreign-affairs columnist for The New
York Times, envisioned Secretary of State Madeleine Albright urging Jiang Zemin,
the Chinese leader, toward the next stage of economic development because ''if
you can't deliver that next stage, you're toast.'' The columnist concluded his
imaginary dialogue by having Jiang ask, ''What does it mean to be toast?''

It means ''burned, scorched, wiped out, demolished'' (without even the
consolation of being remembered, as history offered). Makers of a movie about a
volcano in California wrote the tag line ''The Coast Is Toast.'' When Ted
Turner, the magnate who enjoys sailing, almost fell overboard, he told an
interviewer in 1992, ''I thought I was toast - I would have died.''

Thus has the simile warm as toast been thrust aside. The noun's standard meaning
- ''sliced bread singed by heat,'' from the Latin torrere, ''to burn'' - is
being temporarily overrun by its slang meaning.

If toast comes after the end of history, what will come after the scraping of
toast?

A far more horrific term: roadkill.

Rep. Peter King, R-N.Y., used the term as he played Casca to Speaker Newt
Gingrich's Caesar recently: ''As road kill on the highway of American
politics,'' he wrote in The Weekly Standard, ''Newt cannot sell the Republican
agenda.'' This followed the metaphor used by Tom Friedman, whose toast usage is
cited above, referring last December to nations that fail to get their
international economics right as ''road kill on the global highway.'' Frequent
use of roadkill with information superhighway can be expected, especially in
Internet prose.

The original meaning was ''an animal killed by a motor vehicle and lying on a
roadside.'' Now the metaphoric sense means ''no longer viable,'' with a second
sense of ''easy victim''; Charlie Nobles, a sports writer for The New York
Times, described the Miami Hurricanes college basketball team as ''formerly
viewed as Big East road kill.'' Drop the hyphen; close up the space and write it
as roadkill.

Will the vogue meanings of the nouns toast and roadkill follow the course of
all-but-forgotten history? We'll know when all is said and done. (At the end of
the day is toast, but roadkill will not soon be shunted aside by pavement
pizza.)

Doubt Is Out

Alarm shown here 18 months ago about the vogue use of I'm not sure that to mean
''I'm fairly certain that's a lot of hooey'' has failed to dampen the delight in
this locution shown by practitioners of sly derogation.

''I'm just not sure whether Sky is a mass-market service,'' a media-securities
analyst was quoted regarding Rupert Murdoch's planned satellite service that
might draw viewers from the cable industry. Note it was not the forthright I
doubt that or the even more resolutely opinionated ''Sky won't fly''; just that
certain uncertainty.

The verb doubt is obviously out. Not since when all is said and done was shoved
aside by the Britishism at the end of the day has the tried-and-true been so
thoroughly ousted by the trendy.

My philosophy: If you can't stop 'em, correct 'em. Should it be I'm not sure
that, or whether, or if? The answer rests on whether you want to express
uncertainty or disbelief. (I just used whether because I am in genuine doubt
about which you want to express.) If you're sincere about not being sure about
the future of Rupert's Sky venture, use whether or if. (I like whether better
because it's less ambiguous than if.) But if you're not really uncertain, and
your purpose is to cast doubt on or spread disbelief, use that.

I'm backed up by Randolph Quirk, the usagist who sits in the British House of
Lords as an independent spokesman on education: ''When I'm not sure is followed
by that, the meaning of I'm not sure is 'I doubt,' a polite denial. But when I'm
not sure is followed by whether or if, the meaning is either 'I wonder' or 'I
don't know.' There's a subtle difference.''

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              234 of 247 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                    July 27, 1997, Sunday, TWO STAR EDITION

SHARE A HOUSE, SHARE THE WORLD;
A HOMESTAY OPENS A LAND'S HEART AND SOUL

BYLINE: JIMMY CARTER

SECTION: TRAVEL, Pg. F-6

LENGTH: 1346 words


For a small-town boy brought up in the rural South, one of my good fortunes in
life has been the opportunity to travel: under the sea as a young submarine
officer with the U.S. Navy, on trade missions as governor of Georgia, throughout
the United States as a candidate, and around the globe as president.

In the 16 years since leaving the White House, my wife Rosalynn and I have
continued to travel, packing and unpacking so many times we've lost count.
Sometimes we go for pleasure - to be with family and friends and to fish the
remote reaches of the world - sometimes on missions for the Carter Center, such
as observing elections, negotiating between disputing parties and helping to
resolve problems in the developing world.

In all this travel, what I remember best - beyond the places I've been are the
people met along the way.

Seasoned travelers know that if you're going to experience life in another land,
you have to get as close as you can to the people. You must embrace them and
their ways, and the best way to do this is close up - in their homes.

Exchange programs in which students stay in private homes in other countries
have been around for a long time. But what I didn't realize until I was governor
of Georgia is that this mode of visiting doesn't have to be restricted to young
people. The homestay philosophy is just as valid for adults, and through
organizations like The Friendship Force, which marks its 20th anniversary this
year, they are readily available for all who are adventurous enough to give them
a try.

While I was governor of Georgia, Rosalynn and I helped carry out a series of
people-to-people exchanges between Georgia and Brazil.  It made us firm
believers in the homestay concept for enriching individual travel and as a means
of creating a more peaceful world.

Break down barriers

After entering the White House, Rosalynn and I helped create a new organization
that would promote a global homestay program for adults called Friendship Force.
It would be nongovernmental, the homestays would last one or two weeks, and it
would be available to everyone in the world. Our goal was to create a ''force,''
using the power of friendship to break down barriers by creating direct,
personal ties among the people of the world.

In 1987, Rosalynn and I were ambassadors on an exchange to Newcastle, England,
and lived in the home of the family with whom our daughter Amy had stayed years
before. I remember fondly our summer visit with Tony and Jenny Coates in
northern England, and we still keep in touch with them.

It was an unusual situation for me. Rosalynn, for once, had the busier schedule,
attending official Friendship Force functions, leaving me free to enjoy our
visit as an ordinary tourist would. I had quite a bit of time to be with Tony
and Jenny and their daughters, Amy, 10, and Charlotte, 7.

I like to jog in the morning and found that Tony likes to run as well. So early
on Saturday morning we went for a 3 1/2 -mile run through the beautiful
countryside outside Newcastle. Our route took us through a tiny village called
Riding Mill, and you couldn't ask for a better setting for an early morning run.
Then it was back home for a delightful English breakfast prepared by Jenny.

It is never quite possible for me to get out of the public eye altogether, and
some local reporters came around for an interview. But with Amy and Charlotte
sitting on my lap, even the interview took on a more relaxed tone.

One of the clearest advantages of a homestay program is that it puts you in
personal contact with the best tour guides: people who live in the area you're
visiting.

One afternoon while Rosalynn was involved in meetings, Tony and Jenny took me to
see Hadrian's Wall, a relic from the days of the Roman Empire. For the Coateses,
it was part of their local terrain, something that had always been virtually in
their back yard; for me, it was a tangible link to history.

After visiting Hadrian's Wall, we came across a cricket match. It had been years
since I had seen one.  I was pleased that I could remember as much as I did, but
it helped to have Tony, a sports enthusiast, by my side to help explain the
finer points of the game.

Before returning home we stopped by the local pub, the Wellington in Riding
Mill. There I met Tony's friends and passed a pleasant time, talking and
listening to a Saturday afternoon's conversations.

50 countries in plan

As cousins across the Atlantic, it is easy for Americans and British to assume
that our cultures are almost identical. After living for a few days with an
English family and meeting their friends, you discover some fascinating
differences, as well as many common characteristics. The sense of history,
literature and the theater that the English have is impressive. This, along with
their quick wit, made it easy for me to get along with those I met.

Exchanges between cultures as close as the American and British can be great
fun, but it is also gratifying to join exchanges between cultures whose
differences are more profound. The Friendship Force provides an opportunity to
experience a wide variety of cultures, with local chapters in more than 50
countries, including Japan, Indonesia, Ghana, Brazil - even a chapter in the
Siberian city of Irkutsk.

The first time a group came to the United States from the Soviet Union was in
May 1985. It was a small ''Georgia-to-Georgia'' exchange linking Tbilisi in the
then Soviet Republic of Georgia with my home state of Georgia. Rosalynn and I
participated in this historic exchange by attending church and a picnic in the
small community of Big Canoe, Ga., where the visiting Georgians were being
hosted.

Who could not have been affected by the events of the day, in that beautiful
mountain setting with Georgians from halfway around the world, sharing time
together? I don't know who was moved more during the church service: the Tbilisi
Georgians, listening intently to the sermon and the warm welcome, or the
Americans, marveling at the rich voices blended in harmony from a quartet of the
visiting delegation.

A two-way street

From talking with host families that day in Big Canoe, it was clear that they
were getting as much out of the homestay as were their guests. This is one of
the great attributes of a homestay program. By volunteering as a host family,
you can learn about another culture without ever leaving home.

In the past two decades, more than 500,000 people have participated in
Friendship Force programs alone - as goodwill ambassadors traveling to other
countries or as host families. Whether hosting or being hosted, they experience
a different culture in a way that no commercial travel package could possibly
provide.

For Rosalynn and me, this is the greatest significance of the growing
international homestay movement. The friendships gained can have a long-term
impact on creating international understanding.

There are more conflicts than ever all around the world. Quite often they arise
because people don't know each other; they simply don't understand each other.
The differences that separate people are deeply ingrained. When those
differences dominate our actions, serious misunderstandings can lead to
bloodshed.

A homestay is an adventure travel experience that is hard to beat: You have a
great time, and in the process know that you are part of a movement that is
creating a more harmonious world.

But a homestay experience is not for everyone. Certain values are essential,
such as a willingness to be open to new cultures and new ways of living. It's
also important to be curious about others and maintain a sense of humor.

For those who want to see beyond the tourist sites, into the heart and soul of a
country, this is by far the best way to travel.

For more information on the Friendship Force, write to 57 Forsyth, N.W., Suite
900 Atlanta, GA 30303, or call (800) 688-6777.

Jimmy Carter, 39th president of the United States, recently wrote

''Living Faith'' (Random House, $ 23).

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (2), PHOTO: Tony and Jenny Coates: Tony and Jenny Coates,
daughters Amy; and Charlotte, above, pause with Jimmy Carter at a local site,
Hadrian's Wall.; ''A homestay program . . . puts you in personal contact with
the best tour; guides: people who live in the area you're visiting,'' says the
former; president.; PHOTO: Jim Ryan: Alison Ryan pours tea for Jimmy Carter's
mother, Lillian,; during her homestay with Jim Ryan's family in Ireland.

                       Copyright 1997 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              236 of 247 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                   September 9, 1997, Tuesday, SOONER EDITION

FISHING CRAZE A CURRENT AFFAIR

BYLINE: JIM CARLTON, THE WALL STREET JOURNAL

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg. E-1

LENGTH: 582 words

DATELINE: NEWPORT BEACH, Calif.


Donnie Brockman, skipper of the sport-fishing vessel Freelance, is just three
miles off the coast when he encounters El Nino effects that almost no one had
predicted.

Fish. Schools of them, churning up the water. Strange fish rarely seen off
California are down there - opah, tripletail, barracuda, yellowtail tuna. The
Freelance, packed to the gills with wide-eyed anglers, drops anchor, and within
minutes fish are practically flying into the boat. Nearby boaters try to horn in
on the action.

''Look at that!'' an angry Freelancer shouts as a motorboat edges to within an
easy cast. Grabbing his microphone, the 375-pound Brockman bellows: ''Come on
guys, get off us! What do you think this is? Disneyland?''

Actually, the waters here have become a fishing fantasy land. The much-feared El
Nino, an equatorial current pushing northward and warming the Pacific Ocean, may
yet cause all of the global floods, droughts and disasters that many predict.
But so far, up and down the West Coast, it has been great for fishing.

El Nino is acting as a maritime moving sidewalk for prized warm-water fish that
rarely venture past Mexico. Their arrival has triggered an unprecedented fishing
frenzy, as wanna-be Ernest Hemingways grab tackle boxes and head out on charter
ships, rented boats, kayaks, jet skis - even surfboards.

''It's excellent, dude,'' says Jeff Hewitt, as he books another full load on
charter boats at Davey's Locker Sportfishing in Newport Beach. ''What we
normally get on a weekend we are getting every day.''

Adds Mark Mills, assistant manager of Dana Wharf Sportfishing in Dana Point,
Calif.: On Aug. 27, ''we had a record 272 passengers who caught 1,693 yellowtail
just three miles off the beach.'' In past years, he says, just catching double
digits of yellowtail would be ''like, 'Wow.'''

The fishing is awesome, but the same can't always be said for the behavior of
fishermen. With some charters overbooked, anglers have been stranded at the
docks, throwing tantrums. Grizzled veterans gripe about having to compete with
amateurs for space, both on the water and on crowded boats.

Recreational angler Guy Page accuses a commercial fisherman of stealing his
swordfish at harpoon-point after a territorial dispute over Labor Day weekend.
Page had boated the swordfish, but the rival said he had spotted it first and
brandished a harpoon.  Page surrendered the fish.

Eager anglers seem to be suffering from an El Nino-related malady identified by
fishing experts. ''Everybody talks about 'albacore fever,' '' says Peggy
Beckett, co-owner of Huck Finn Sportfishing near San Francisco. It is named
after the tasty subtropical tuna that weigh as much as 40 pounds. They usually
loiter off the Mexican coast, but have been showing up in large numbers as far
north as the Golden Gate Bridge.

''It truly is like an illness,'' Beckett says. ''You catch your first albacore
and you get butterflies in your stomach. And you've got to go out again.''

For commercial operators like Brockman, the El Nino fishing boom is a
once-in-a-lifetime adventure - and profit opportunity.

Brockman recalls the June day when boaters encountered schools of giant squid,
more common off Mexico. Since squids spurt water out of their suction holes when
pulled out of the ocean, the Freelance's clients were soaked as they hauled in
their catch.

''We were catching 900 squid a night after that,'' he says. ''That's when we
knew there was something strange this year.''

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              238 of 247 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                   October 30, 1997, Thursday, SOONER EDITION

COULD OCTOBER HAVE SPOOKED THE MARKETS?

BYLINE: LISA MILLER, THE WALL STREET JOURNAL

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg. F-8

LENGTH: 768 words


- There is something in October sets the gypsy blood astir.

''A Vagabond Song''

* William Bliss Carman

Let's see. Could it have been . . . El Nino? Sore Cleveland Indians fans? The
end of Daylight Saving Time?

Why not just blame Monday's stock market drop on the entire month of October?
Every month has its share of woes, but October is a month when bad things seem
to happen with spooky regularity.

Fully half of the dozen largest one-day percentage declines in the Dow Jones
industrial average have occurred in October - including the three biggest drops,
the one in 1987 and two very bad days in 1929.

October has been terrifying for centuries. Pagan people invented rituals to keep
evil demons away at that time of year. Halloween was initially a Celtic festival
in which the living greeted the spirits of the dead, who were thought to be
returning to their homes.

October is ''a dark season, a sinister season,'' says Rabbi A. James Rudin,
interreligious-affairs director of the American Jewish Committee in New York.
October inaugurates a time that is ''unknown, fearful, frightening.''

In Judaism, it's often the month for the holiest day of atonement, Yom Kippur.
Rabbi Rudin describes a somber prayer offered on that holiday: ''Who shall live,
who shall die . . . who will be tranquil, who will be troubled . . . who will be
poor, who will be rich . . .''

The month has certainly had its share of disasters. On Oct. 15 and 16, 1942, a
hurricane hit Bengal, India, killing 40,000 people. The earthquake that struck
San Francisco before a World Series game happened on Oct. 17, 1989. The famous
Berkeley, Calif., fire, which destroyed some of the Bay Area's toniest homes,
happened on Oct. 20-21, 1991.

It's also a perilous month for world leaders. Indira Gandhi was assassinated on
Halloween of 1984. On Oct. 14, 1912, Teddy Roosevelt was shot and wounded in
Milwaukee; on Oct. 12, 1984, Margaret Thatcher escaped a bomb explosion in
Brighton, England; and on Oct. 29, 1994, at the White House, Francisco Duran
shot at a tourist who resembled Bill Clinton.

Shelley Ackerman thinks it's no accident that markets plummet in October.
''Whenever there's been a crash, it's happened in late Libra or early Scorpio,''
says Ackerman, a New York astrologist with a radio show called ''Karmic
Relief.''

Scorpio, Ackerman says, represents ''what we're most afraid of.'' Also, she
notes, Scorpio (Oct. 23-Nov.21) is linked to money, power and the need for
control - what she calls ''the lower drives of man.''

Others attribute October market drops to a sort of mass onset of seasonal
affective disorder, often called SAD, because of the waning light. ''It has to
do with people not getting enough light on their pituitary glands,''' says Arch
Crawford, of Crawford Perspectives, which uses planetary analysis to predict
market changes. ''It's the changeover from being exuberant to depressed.''

Suzanne Kline, a psychotherapist in Anaheim, Calif., says October is a time of
increased anxiety and familial pressures. Why? The days get shorter, people are
cooped up more and report cards come out. When parents of small children see
negative reports, they grow frustrated. When teenagers get bad grades, they get
stressed.

As a result, Kline sees a noticeable increase in phone calls and appointments in
October. She's concerned that Monday's drop will ''exacerbate people already
depressed by the time change.''

Another popular culprit: October weather. ''Experts will try to blame El Nino,''
says William Gray, professor of atmospheric science at Colorado State
University, referring to the warm ocean water off the coast of Peru that occurs
every five or six years.

Broadly, October is not the worst month for stock markets, but it comes in a
close second.

Of the 100 worst-performing months this century, 13 were in September, 12 were
in October, and 11 were in November, according to a Wall Street Journal
statistical analysis.

Wall Street watchers attribute the market's fall on Monday not so much to
October superstitions but to the time of year in general: bonus time.

''The later you get in the year, the more nervous portfolio managers get about
what their performance will be,'' says William Meehan, chief market analyst at
Cantor Fitzgerald & Co. These managers are in a protective mode, he says, and
when things go wrong, they feel ''like somebody's reaching into their pocket.''

In seriousness, Meehan says, Monday's drop was the result of a kind of global
nervousness, which was not bonus-related. ''It was sell first, ask questions
later.''

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 P.G. Publishing Co.
