
                               5 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                             August 13, 2010 Friday
                                 SOONER EDITION

LONG, HOT SUMMER;
CATASTROPHIC FIRES, FLOODS FIT SCIENTISTS' PREDICTIONS

BYLINE: Charles J. Hanley, The Associated Press

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. A-4

LENGTH: 1063 words


NEW YORK -- Floods, fires, melting ice and feverish heat: From smoke-choked
Moscow to water-soaked Iowa and the High Arctic, the planet seems to be having a
midsummer breakdown.

It's not just a portent of things to come, scientists say, but a sign of
troubling climate change already under way.

The weather-related cataclysms of July and August fit patterns predicted by
climate scientists, the Geneva-based World Meteorological Organization says --
although those scientists always shy from tying individual disasters directly to
global warming.

The experts now see an urgent need for better ways to forecast extreme events
like Russia's heat wave and wildfires and the record deluge devastating
Pakistan. They'll discuss such tools in meetings this month and next in Europe
and the United States, under United Nations, U.S. and British government
sponsorship.

"There is no time to waste," because societies must be equipped to deal with
global warming, says British government climatologist Peter Stott. He said
modelers of climate systems are "very keen" to develop supercomputer modeling
that would enable more detailed linking of cause and effect, as a warming world
shifts jet streams and other atmospheric currents. Those changes can wreak
weather havoc.

The U.N.'s network of climate scientists -- the Intergovernmental Panel on
Climate Change, or IPCC -- has long predicted that rising global temperatures
would produce more frequent and intense heat waves, and more intense rainfalls.
In its latest assessment, in 2007, the Nobel Prize-winning panel went beyond
that. It said these trends "have already been observed," in an increase in heat
waves since 1950, for example.

Still, climatologists generally refrain from blaming warming for this drought or
that flood, since so many other factors also affect the day's weather.

Dr. Stott and NASA's Gavin Schmidt, at the Goddard Institute of Space Studies in
New York, said it's better to think in terms of odds: Warming might double the
chances for heat waves, for example. "That is exactly what's happening," Dr.
Schmidt said, "a lot more warm extremes and less cold extremes."

The World Meteorological Organization pointed out that this summer's events fit
the international scientists' projections of "more frequent and more intense
extreme weather events due to global warming." In fact, in key cases, they're a
perfect fit.

RUSSIA: It's been the hottest summer ever recorded in Russia, with Moscow
temperatures topping 100 degrees Fahrenheit for the first time. Russia's drought
has sparked hundreds of wildfires in forests and dried peat bogs, blanketing
Moscow with a toxic smog that finally lifted Thursday after six days. The
Russian capital's death rate doubled to 700 people a day at one point. The
drought reduced the wheat harvest by more than one-third.

The 2007 IPCC report predicted a doubling of disastrous droughts in Russia this
century and cited studies foreseeing catastrophic fires during dry years. It
also said Russia would suffer large crop losses.

PAKISTAN: The heaviest monsoon rains on record -- 12 inches in one 36-hour
period -- have sent rivers rampaging over huge swaths of countryside, flooding
thousands of villages. It has left 14 million Pakistanis homeless or otherwise
affected, and killed 1,500. The government calls it the worst natural disaster
in the nation's history.

A warmer atmosphere can hold -- and discharge -- more water. The 2007 IPCC
report said rains have grown heavier for 40 years over north Pakistan and
predicted greater flooding this century in south Asia's monsoon region.

CHINA: China is witnessing its worst floods in decades, the WMO says,
particularly in the northwest province of Gansu. There, floods and landslides
last weekend killed at least 1,100 people and left more than 600 missing, feared
swept away or buried beneath mud and debris.

The IPCC reported in 2007 that rains had increased in northwest China by as much
as 33 percent since 1961, and floods nationwide had increased sevenfold since
the 1950s. It predicted still more frequent flooding this century.

UNITED STATES: In Iowa, soaked by its wettest 36-month period in 127 years of
recordkeeping, floodwaters from three nights of rain this week forced hundreds
from their homes and killed a 16-year-old girl.

The international climate panel projected increased U.S. precipitation this
century -- except for the Southwest -- and more extreme rain events causing
flooding.

ARCTIC: Researchers last week spotted a 100-square-mile chunk of ice calved off
from the great Petermann Glacier in Greenland's far northwest. It was the most
massive ice island to break away in the Arctic in a half-century of observation.

The huge iceberg appeared just five months after an international scientific
team published a report saying ice loss from the Greenland ice sheet is
expanding up its northwest coast from the south. Changes in the ice sheet "are
happening fast, and we are definitely losing more ice mass than we had
anticipated," said one of the scientists, NASA's Isabella Velicogna.

In the Arctic Ocean itself, the summer melt of the vast ice cap has reached
unprecedented proportions in recent years. Satellite data show the ocean area
covered by ice last month was the second-lowest ever recorded for July.

The melting of land ice into the oceans is causing about 60 percent of the
accelerating rise in sea levels worldwide, with thermal expansion from warming
waters causing the rest. The WMO'S World Climate Research Program says seas are
rising by 1.34 inches per decade, about twice the 20th century's average.

Worldwide temperature readings, meanwhile, show that this January-June was the
hottest first half of a year since recordkeeping began in the mid-19th century.
Meteorologists say 17 nations have recorded all-time-high temperatures in 2010,
more than in any other year.

Scientists blame the warming on carbon dioxide and other heat-trapping gases
pouring into the atmosphere from power plants, cars and trucks, furnaces and
other fossil fuel-burning industrial and residential sources. Experts are
growing ever more vocal in urging sharp cutbacks in emissions, to protect the
climate that has nurtured modern civilization.

"Reducing emissions is something everyone is capable of," Nanjing-based
climatologist Tao Li told an academic journal in China, now the world's No. 1
emitter, ahead of the United States.

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Xinhua, Li Gang/Associated Press: A Chinese woman cries for her
relative killed by a landslide in Zhouqu, in northwest China's Gansu province.
Heavy rains caused more mudslides, which have already killed more than 1,100
people, with new floods leaving more missing.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              12 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                            November 29, 2010 Monday
                                 SOONER EDITION

FLEXIBILITY BY U.S. SOUGHT AS CLIMATE PARLEY CONVENES

BYLINE: Juliet Eilperin, The Washington Post

SECTION: HEALTH, SCIENCE, MEDICINE AND TECHNOLOGY; Pg. A-6

LENGTH: 894 words


As representatives from nearly 200 nations prepare to gather for United
Nations-sponsored climate talks in Cancun, Mexico, this week, a central question
looms: Can they achieve enough to keep the negotiations alive?

No one expects the two-week meeting, which begins today, to produce a pact that
would commit the nations of the world to curbing climate change. Such an
agreement seemed possible a year ago, when the last round of negotiations
concluded in Copenhagen, Denmark. At that session some of the world's biggest
greenhouse gas emitters struck a deal: Industrialized nations would cut their
emissions and by 2020 and would mobilize $100 billion a year in aid for the
poorest countries suffering the effects of global warming; in exchange, major
developing countries agreed to international scrutiny of their own emissions
cuts.

But this agreement -- the Copenhagen Accord -- has come under fire over the past
12 months as the procedural bickering that has dominated negotiations for years
has re-emerged. The collapse of domestic legislation in Congress and the recent
election of dozens of lawmakers opposed to federal limits on greenhouse gases
have further undermined prospects for a meaningful deal.

Still, those most invested in a global climate deal recognize that without some
modest progress in Cancun -- on issues such as preserving tropical forests,
transferring clean technology to developing nations and establishing the
framework for international climate aid -- the process might collapse
altogether.

"We cannot afford any more failures," said Erik Solheim, Norway's minister for
the environment and international development.

Failure, however, remains a real possibility. For months negotiators have argued
over whether to extend the 1997 Kyoto Protocol, which set binding targets for
reducing emissions and whose first period is set to expire in 2012 -- despite
the fact that the United States has never ratified the agreement, which imposes
no emission cuts on major greenhouse gas producers such as China and India. And
answers to the more fundamental questions facing the 193 nations that make up
the U.N. Framework Convention on Climate Change -- how rich nations can help
poor ones cope with the impact of global warming in the near and long term, and
to what extent rapidly industrializing countries will allow others to monitor
and verify their carbon cuts -- remain even more elusive.

"This is a much more important meeting than people give it credit for. We're at
the point where the focus of climate policy is shifting, and that requires
strong political leadership," said Michael Levi, a senior fellow at the Council
on Foreign Relations. He added that "if negotiators don't respect that
high-level political decision" forged in Copenhagen, "they're not left with
anything, and it takes things in a more marginal direction."

But several delegates from left-leaning countries -- such as Pablo Solon,
Bolivia's ambassador to the United Nations -- question the Copenhagen Accord
because it was initially negotiated among just a handful of global heavyweights:
the United States, China, India, Brazil and South Africa. "You cannot come up
with an agreement of only some countries and impose it on the world," Mr. Solon
said. "We can have a good outcome, a regular outcome or a bad outcome, but it
will be the outcome of all 193 countries, not the outcome of a small number of
countries."

At this point, many participants suggest that negotiators would be best off
trying to reach agreement on the less-controversial aspects of a climate deal,
including avoiding deforestation, encouraging technology transfer and
determining what sort of institution would deliver climate funding to poor
countries in the future. Mr. Solheim suggested that delegates shouldn't focus on
the central points of Copenhagen, the depth of emission cuts and the monitoring
of those cuts, because the United States' failure to adopt climate legislation
and other developments make it impossible to reach an agreement on these
matters.

"Everyone has appealed to the U.S. to be flexible in Cancun. We should agree
where we are in agreement, and not wait for the rest," Mr. Solheim said. "There
is no way we will be able to resolve the monitoring and verification issue for
major developing countries' emissions cuts, as well as we cannot resolve the
issue of nonemission reductions in the United States itself."

Luis Alfonso de Alba, Mexico's special representative for climate change, said
that, as the host country for this year's talks, his country will push for some
advances even if they don't meet the level of global agreement.

"We can go farther and do much better," Mr. de Alba said. "But the worst is not
to start."

However, U.S. special climate change envoy Todd Stern said the United States is
standing firm on its pledge to reduce its emissions 17 percent from 2005 levels
by 2020 even without domestic legislation having passed, and would not endorse
any deal in Cancun that did not embody the fundamental political agreement
forged last year.

"To say, 'Gosh, it's really hard to do these issues. ... Let's just do the
issues we all agree on,' you know what? No. That's not the way we think it
works," Mr. Stern said. If countries abandon some of the key elements of the
Copenhagen Accord, he said, they are moving "away from what we agreed to on a
leader level."

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              13 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                            March 11, 2010 Thursday
                                 SOONER EDITION

FINDINGS OF U.N. CLIMATE CHANGE PANEL TO BE REVIEWED

BYLINE: JOHN M. BRODER, THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. A-4

LENGTH: 537 words


A group of top scientists from around the world will review the research and
management practices of the U.N. climate change panel so it can try to avoid the
kinds of errors that have brought its work into question in recent months,
officials said Wednesday.

United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon said the InterAcademy Council, a
consortium of the world's most prestigious scientific societies, would name
scientists to take a thorough look at the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate
Change, or IPCC. The panel has come under sharp attack after revelations of
several mistakes in its most recent report, published in 2007, including a
poorly sourced and exaggerated account of how quickly the Himalayan glaciers are
melting.

Scientists and officials say the panel's finding that the Earth is warming --
probably as a result of human activity -- remains indisputable. But critics have
used the errors to raise doubts about the credibility of the entire 3,000-page
study.

At a news conference at the United Nations, Mr. Ban said he was requesting an
independent review of the panel to ensure that future reports are comprehensive
and free of errors. "Let me be clear," he said. "The threat of climate change is
real." But he said it was critical that policymakers and the public received
complete and impartial scientific evidence to inform any policies for addressing
it.

The climate change panel's chairman, Rajendra K. Pachauri, has also faced
accusations of conflict of interest for serving as a paid board member of
several profit-making energy and financial concerns. The payments go to a
nonprofit research center he runs in New Delhi, India.

In an interview, Dr. Pachauri said he and the hundreds of scientists who
contributed to the IPCC's reports had been taken aback by the volume and
intensity of criticism in recent months. "We've been through a very critical
period," he said. "We've learned, we've listened and we've decided to do
something about it. It is important for the public and scientific community to
know that we're sensitive to what happened."

He acknowledged that he and other climate scientists had done a "lousy job" of
communicating what is known and not known about the behavior of the earth's
climate, and that they had not responded adequately to critics of their work.

The review will be led by Robbert H. Dijkgraaf, a Dutch physicist and
mathematician who is co-chairman of the InterAcademy Council. The study group
will be financed by the United Nations but will operate wholly independently,
Dr. Dijkgraaf said at a U.N. briefing.

He said he was not certain how many members would serve in the group, but that
they would represent a variety of scientific disciplines. He expects to complete
the review by the end of August, before the IPCC officially begins work on its
next scientific assessment report, to be completed in 2014.

He said the group intended to look forward rather than backward and would make
recommendations on how to assure the accuracy of the next assessment and on
setting standards for the types of publications that can properly be cited. But
he also said the review would include a look at the management of the climate
change panel, including Dr. Pachauri's leadership.

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              21 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                            December 26, 2010 Sunday
                                TWO STAR EDITION

UP CLOSE AND PERSONAL WITH PENGUINS -- AND CLIMATE CHANGE

BYLINE: Roland Wall

SECTION: ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT; BOOK REVIEW; Pg. B-5

LENGTH: 497 words


Politicians and pundits endlessly voice conflicting views on global warming,
leaving many people wondering who and what to believe. Fen Montaigne suggests
that we ignore pundits and pay attention to a hardy, medium-sized bird that
lives on the ice at the bottom of the world.

In "Fraser's Penguins," he details a season on the Antarctic Peninsula, charting
changes in the populations of Adelie penguins. His experiences confirm that in
some parts of the world, climate change is already forcing a new and troubling
reality.

Obviously not averse to extreme travel, Mr. Montaigne, former Moscow bureau
chief for The Philadelphia Inquirer, stationed himself with a scientific team in
one of the world's harshest locations.

Written in the clean, descriptive style of a veteran journalist, the book
presents a careful explanation of how Antarctica is reacting to large-scale
climate change.

The story is dominated by the day-to-day activities of penguins and the
scientists who study them. The Adelies (Pygoscelis adeliae) are medium-size
birds adapted to life on the edge of the Antarctic ice shelf.

The Fraser of the title is Bill Fraser, one of a tiny cadre of scientists who
have spent their careers studying penguins. Since his first visit in 1975, Mr.
Fraser has seen their numbers plummet. Though still numerous, in many cases
once-thriving colonies are reduced to a handful of birds, or none at all.

As part of the research team, Mr. Montaigne is side by side with scientists as
they track, capture, count, measure and scrutinize flocks of birds. No one will
mistake these experiences for a Disney film.

It is not winged predators such as brown skuas that are decimating the Adelie
penguins, nor is it the harsh conditions. In fact, as Mr. Fraser notes, "the
future for the brown skuas isn't any brighter than it is for the Adelies."

Both species are the victims of unprecedented changes in Antarctic temperatures.
He explains how the complex interactions of the penguins, the shrimp-like krill
on which they feed, and the patterns of ice and snow are affected by
temperatures. The Verdansky weather station, located near Fraser's study sites,
reports a dramatic 11-degree Fahrenheit rise in average winter temperatures in
60 years, eroding the ice shelves on which the Adelies depend for feeding and
breeding. The fate of the Adelie penguins is not a warning; it is one of
countless outcomes the world is already living. If, as some scientists maintain,
we are moving toward a tipping point, this "new Antarctica" may be one of the
futures toward which we are tipping.

Mr. Montaigne's penultimate chapter, "The Melting," summarizes a crushing litany
of the expanding range of change induced by global warming in polar climates,
with ultimate impacts on the Earth's ecosystems.

"Never," Mr. Fraser says, "has change like this taken place with so many people
on earth who need these systems to survive."

b> "FRASER'S PENGUINS: A JOURNEY TO THE FUTURE IN ANTARCTICA"

/b>

By Fen Montaigne.

Holt ($26)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Roland Wall is director of the Center for Environmental Policy at the
Academy of Natural Sciences in Philadelphia. /

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Numbers of the tuxedoed Adelie penguins have plummeted since
Bill Fraser's first visit to Antarctica in 1975.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              34 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                             June 12, 2010 Saturday
                                 SOONER EDITION

U.S., CHINA OBJECT TO U.N. CLIMATE PLAN

BYLINE: Alex Morales, Bloomberg News

SECTION: HEALTH, SCIENCE, MEDICINE AND TECHNOLOGY; Pg. A-2

LENGTH: 494 words


BONN, Germany -- The United States, China and Brazil on Friday joined dozens of
nations in criticizing a draft climate treaty issued in Bonn, leaving in place
divisions holding up a United Nations agreement on global warming.

The negotiating text eliminates some potential targets to limit climate change
and greenhouse gas emissions, paring back alternatives from a document published
in May. As two weeks of talk concluded on Friday, delegates voiced concerns and
urged the diplomat who produced it, Zimbabwe's Margaret Mukahanana-Sangarwe, to
revise it.

"There is something wrong with your kitchen," Mohammad Al Sabban, Saudi Arabia's
lead negotiator, said at the meeting. "The recipe we have discussed over the
last two weeks has been taken by you, and you gave us a very strange meal."

The document is intended to guide discussions leading up to an eventual treaty
aimed at curbing greenhouse gas emissions from factories and power plants. It
also would channel aid to nations most at risk and encourage the spread of
clean-energy technologies, such as wind and solar power.

"The text contains a number of ideas that the United States could not accept in
an agreed outcome," U.S. negotiator Trigg Talley said.

Chinese delegation chief Su Wei called the text "unbalanced." Yemen, which spoke
on behalf of the G-77 group of developing nations, objected along with India and
Brazil. So did Spain, speaking for the European Union's 27 members.

"A number of countries are critical of the text; they find it unbalanced," said
Yvo de Boer, who supervises the talks as executive secretary for the U.N.
Framework Convention on Climate Change. "It isn't the perfect final document."
He said it was still an advance and a basis for future talks.

In Bonn, advances were made in two areas that may help unlock a wider deal, said
Jake Schmidt, climate policy director for the New York-based Natural Resources
Defense Council. They are the governance of climate aid and how to measure,
report and verify -- MRV in U.N. jargon -- emissions reductions made by
developing nations such as India and China, he said.

Bangladeshi envoy Quamrul Chowdhury said the new document postpones decisions
until the U.N.'s year-end summit in 2011 in South Africa, rather than this
year's meeting in Cancun. "The text is really watered down, and it's biased
against the least-developed countries," Mr. Chowdhury said in an interview.

The draft calls on developed nations to reduce emissions by 25 percent to 40
percent by 2020. It doesn't give a base year and eliminates previous options for
greater reductions. It calls for global emissions to peak by 2020 and scrubs
reference to goals for 2015. Global emissions reductions would total 50 percent
to 85 percent from 1990 levels in 2050.

The 1997 Kyoto Protocol's limits on greenhouse gases for more than 35 nations
expire in 2012, which would end the only global restrictions on heat-trapping
gases that scientists link to rising global temperatures.

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              38 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                            August 14, 2010 Saturday
                                 SOONER EDITION

FOOT-DRAGGING

BYLINE: JEANNE ZANG

SECTION: EDITORIAL; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR; Pg. B-6

LENGTH: 246 words


It is disappointing to see the Senate dragging its feet on a comprehensive
energy bill. As senators broke for their August recess, we are coming out of the
warmest April, May, June and second warmest July on record, according to the
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. Your article "Emissions Caps
Gone From New Energy Bill" (July 28) detailed the disappointing shift in the
Senate.

Sen. Robert P. Casey has the right idea by saying that he hopes for a larger
bill in the fall. Congress must pass strong legislation by the end of the year
to move the nation toward a stable climate and economy.

It is imperative that the Senate include a price on carbon, since the burning of
fossil fuels is the main culprit in climate change. A renewable energy standard
will promote the use of clean energy and help level the playing field for
renewable electricity. An energy efficiency requirement would lessen the overall
energy use in the country, and stabilize energy prices, resulting in consumer
savings.

Research by the Union of Concerned Scientists, among other groups, shows that
the technology we need to avoid the worst effects of climate change already
exists. What is lacking is the political will. We need to let our elected
officials know that we want a brighter future for our children and
grandchildren.

Call Sens. Casey and Arlen Specter and tell them to do all they can to pass
legislation to help stop climate change and stabilize our economy.

JEANNE ZANG

Leetsdale

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              44 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                           February 23, 2010 Tuesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

POWER OF SUPPORT;
OBAMA ADMINISTRATION GETS BEHIND NUCLEAR PLANTS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. B-6

LENGTH: 445 words


What presidents say in their State of the Union addresses are sometimes nothing
more than applause lines, but Barack Obama's endorsement of nuclear power before
Congress in late January was confirmed last week -- and that's good news for the
nation.

In Lanham, Md., on Tuesday, before a happy audience of union members for whom
clean energy efforts translate to new jobs, Mr. Obama announced that the U.S.
Department of Energy had conditionally approved $8.3 billion in loan guarantees
for new nuclear plant construction.

Southern Co. plans to build two advanced reactors at the Plant Vogtle power
station in eastern Georgia. When the company receives its construction and
operating license, this will be first new nuclear plant to be built in the
United States since the 1970s. The Nuclear Energy Institute, an industry group,
hailed the announcement as a milestone.

All of this will give some environmentalists heartburn -- especially as Southern
Co., which also has fossil fuel-burning plants, has lobbied strongly against
climate-change legislation in Congress. But there's a bigger picture to
consider. Environmentalists should ask themselves what is the greatest threat
facing the planet today. If their answer is climate change, they need to rethink
their position and move beyond one company's unhelpful behavior.

The United States has 104 nuclear power plants. Operating under stringent
federal safety requirements, they reliably provide about a fifth of the nation's
electricity and do it without producing greenhouse gases.

In supporting nuclear power, the Obama administration is not slighting other
forms of clean energy such as solar and wind. It is recognizing that nuclear
energy has an important role to play. Indeed, nuclear energy is less problematic
than opening up new offshore areas for oil and gas exploration -- which the
president also mentioned in his State of the Union address and again last
Tuesday.

Unfortunately, the administration has not followed the logic of its own policy.
It had previously pulled the plug on Nevada's Yucca Mountain, as a final
depository of nuclear waste, which will go piling up at individual plants.
Eventually, something will have to be done, but for the moment the Not in My
Back Yard syndrome rules.

Pittsburgh has a stake in a sensible approach to nuclear power, thanks to the
presence of Westinghouse Electric Co. headquartered in Cranberry, a giant in the
nuclear power industry. Westinghouse is designing the new reactors in Georgia.

That parochial interest happens to coincide with the national interest. If the
United States is going to get serious about climate change, it must also get
serious about nuclear power.

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              70 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                           December 1, 2010 Wednesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

MEXICAN LEADER: MOVE ON FROM CLIMATE BLAME GAME

BYLINE: Charles J. Hanley, The Associated Press

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. A-4

LENGTH: 460 words


CANCUN, Mexico -- Stuck in a blame game led by the "big players" -- the United
States and China -- the rest of the world should take on the climate crisis more
aggressively "with or without them," Mexican President Felipe Calderon contends.

That example -- through such basic steps as switching out Mexico's light bulbs
-- will rally public opinion and bring political pressure on the biggest
contributors to global warming, Mr. Calderon said in an interview this week.

"I do prefer to be very pragmatic. I don't want to spend 20 more years
discussing about the procedure and about the purposes and blaming each other --
developing countries blaming developed countries, and developed countries
blaming developing-country big emitters, and that is a never-ending story."

The Mexican leader met with the Associated Press as the annual two-week
negotiating conference of the 193-nation U.N. climate treaty opened in this
Caribbean resort under a heavy shield of Mexican warships offshore and soldiers
onshore.

The diplomatic effort to impose stronger controls on global warming gases --
carbon dioxide and other industrial, transport and agricultural gases -- has
been stymied by friction between the two biggest emitters, China and the United
States.

After a major disappointment last year at the Copenhagen climate summit, no one
expects Cancun to break the deadlock and produce a far-reaching accord. But
delegates hope for progress on secondary issues.

The United States has long refused to join the rest of the industrialized world
in the Kyoto Protocol, the 1997 adjunct to the climate treaty that mandated
modest emissions reductions by richer nations. The U.S. delegation complained
that it would hurt the national economy and that it exempted such emerging
economies as China and India.

The Chinese, for their part, have resisted pressure from the United States and
others in recent years to take on binding commitments -- not to reduce
emissions, but to limit the growth in emissions. They are still too poor to risk
slowing down their economy, the Chinese contend, and the rich industrial nations
bear historic responsibility for past emissions.

"It is very important -- the behavior in this matter of the big players," Mr.
Calderon said, mentioning both his northern neighbor and the Chinese.

One of the few key agreements at Copenhagen was for rich countries to funnel $30
billion over three years as "fast-track" financing for poor countries needing
quick help.

The European Union said Tuesday that it has mobilized the equivalent of $2.9
billion this year, and is on track to meet its pledge of $9.35 billion over
three years in short-term financing. Jonathan Pershing, the chief U.S.
negotiator, said Monday that Washington has allocated $1.7 billion for 2010.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              93 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                              July 2, 2010 Friday
                                 SOONER EDITION

PENN STATE SCIENTIST CLEARED OF RESEARCH MISCONDUCT

BYLINE: DAVID TEMPLETON, PITTSBURGH POST-GAZETTE

SECTION: STATE; Pg. B-2

LENGTH: 324 words


Penn State University has cleared Michael E. Mann, a leading climate scientist,
of a research misconduct allegation stemming from leaked e-mails about global
warming.

A university review committee reported Thursday that Dr. Mann did not deviate
seriously from accepted academic practices for proposing, conducting or
reporting research.

A university inquiry in February dismissed three related allegations and
recommended further investigation on a fourth. A five-member panel of professors
has dismissed that allegation.

Dr. Mann has long been criticized by skeptics of man-made global warming
theories. The review came after computer hackers obtained messages between U.S.
and British scientists in November.

Hundreds of e-mails illegally obtained last fall from the University of East
Anglia's Climatic Research Unit involved numerous messages to and from Dr. Mann,
among other prominent researchers. They included calls for information to be
deleted or hidden, references to research tricks and derogatory statements about
researchers and journals offering contrary evidence to human-induced climate
change.

The most controversial e-mails seemed to recommend that data unflattering to
global warming theories be hidden or deleted, with researchers bemoaning the
fact they cannot show such trends at the moment.

Dr. Mann, director of Penn State's Earth System Science Center, released the
following statement Thursday:

"I am pleased that the last phase of Penn State's investigation has now been
concluded, and that it has cleared me of any wrongdoing. These latest findings
should finally put to rest the baseless allegations against me and my research.

"I want to express my gratitude to the scientists and academics who conducted
Penn State's investigation, which required them to review and analyze voluminous
written materials and conduct multiple interviews. I am pleased that they and I
can now return to our research without further distraction."

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: The Associated Press contributed. / David Templeton:
dtempleton@post-gazette.com or 412-263-1578. /

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Michael Mann

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              95 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                             August 29, 2010 Sunday
                                TWO STAR EDITION

NORTHEAST U.S.;
NUMBERS CONFIRM IT: SUMMER WAS A SCORCHER

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NATIONAL; THE NATION AT A GLANCE; Pg. A-8

LENGTH: 301 words


New numbers confirm what the sweaty brows of Northeasterners have been saying
for months: The summer of 2010 was a record-breaking scorcher.

Preliminary figures provided by the Northeast Regional Climate Center at Cornell
University on Friday show 28 cities from Washington, D.C., to Caribou, Maine,
set record highs for average temperature from March through August.

A large swath of the country sweltered in early August, when scorching
temperatures and high humidity made it feel like at least 100 degrees in many
places and prompted heat advisories for 18 states. While unrelenting heat is the
norm in the Deep South, it's unusual in places like Burlington, Vt., and
Portland, Maine, which saw their hottest spring and summer in more than a
century.

The temperatures are consistent with a global pattern of severe heat-related
weather this summer. Meteorologists say 17 nations have recorded all-time-high
temperatures this year, more than in any other year.

Back in the normally temperate Northeast, the records are expected to stand. The
remaining days of August are forecast to be hot with readings around 90 in many
areas of the Mid Atlantic and Northeast.

The average temperature for a 30-day month is calculated by adding the high and
low temperatures of each day and dividing by 60.

Meteorologists caution against reading too much into the hot weather, saying
such a short-term weather pattern alone cannot be interpreted as a sign of
global climate change.

"Last summer was quite a bit below normal," said meteorologist Brian Edwards, of
Accuweather in State College, Pa. "It's just another portion of the cycle of ups
and downs that we've been going through."

The National Climatic Data Center reported that July was the second-warmest on
record worldwide, and 2010 is on track to be the hottest year.

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              109 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                            June 30, 2010 Wednesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

SENATE DEMS, GOP DIVIDED OVER ENERGY BILL

BYLINE: The New York Times

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. A-5

LENGTH: 237 words


WASHINGTON -- The senators who emerged from a White House meeting on energy
policy Tuesday with President Barack Obama made no effort to paper over the
large differences that remain between them.

Democrats continued to insist on putting some sort of price on greenhouse gas
emissions; Republicans continued to insist that to do so would be to impose a
tax that would smother the economy. "We have to take a national energy tax off
the table," said Sen. Lamar Alexander, R-Tenn.

"There is no energy tax," said Sen. John Kerry, D-Mass., sponsor of a bill that
would significantly raise the cost of greenhouse gas pollution.

This battle has divided the Senate for a year and must be somehow resolved in
coming weeks if the Senate is to produce a comprehensive energy bill that also
addresses the gases contributing to climate change.

It does not appear that Tuesday's meeting moved either side, although Mr. Kerry
said Tuesday that he was willing to scale back the bill that he and Sen. Joseph
I. Lieberman, I-Conn., proposed this spring to cut energy use and reduce global
warming pollution. Mr. Kerry suggested starting with electric utilities only, a
plan tentatively embraced Tuesday by Sen. Olympia J. Snowe, R-Maine.

Mr. Obama summoned the 23 senators, of both parties, to the White House. He
repeated his call for putting a price on climate-altering pollution through a
cap-and-trade system or some other sort of emissions tax..

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              110 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                             July 13, 2010 Tuesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

HOT AIR ABOUT ALTERNATIVES;
COAL REMAINS A MAINSTAY OF THE PENNSYLVANIA ECONOMY

BYLINE: George Ellis

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. B-7

LENGTH: 735 words


As Congress begins the debate again over federal cap-and-trade/climate change
legislation, Pennsylvanians need to wade through the thick air to get a true
assessment of our energy needs, along with the economic impacts associated with
the energy sources that produce the electricity we depend on daily.

While the recent oil spill and recovery efforts in the Gulf of Mexico appear to
have created momentum for federal action, I'd suggest such motives are
misguided. What's required is a careful analysis of the facts to avoid knee-jerk
reactions that fly in the face of the reality of our energy infrastructure.
Going along blindly ultimately would cause a long-term economic catastrophe for
Pennsylvania and the entire country.

It is clear that the bills being considered in Congress are focused on moving
the country's away from coal -- our most affordable and reliable source of
electricity for now and for many years to come.

Let's consider some facts.

A just-released study on the economic impacts of coal mining in Pennsylvania,
issued by the Pennsylvania Economy League of Southwestern Pennsylvania, reveals
that the coal industry contributes more than $7.5 billion and 41,500 jobs to the
commonwealth's economy every year.

It is also important to remember that more than half of the electricity consumed
by Pennsylvanians is derived from coal, while solar and wind provide just more
than 1 percent. What's more, 59 of our 67 counties have coal-related businesses
and coal equipment and machinery is one of the few industrial sectors in our
state experiencing growth.

While the various alternative energies have a role to play, they clearly cannot
meet the country's current demand for electricity nor will they do so as demand
grows by an estimated 31 percent over the next 25 years, according to the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency. These energy sources already receive
significant state and federal subsidies, despite the fact that they clearly have
not been practical, reliable or affordable.

The U.S. Energy Information Administration estimated the costs per kilowatt hour
for electricity generated by renewable sources in Pennsylvania for 2007 against
the cost for coal. Solar energy cost between $27 and $41 per kilowatt hour,
depending on the technology, and wind averaged $7.50 per kwh. The cost to
generate electricity from coal is only $5.70 per kwh.

Another theme raised in arguments to dump additional tax dollars into renewable
energy options and mandate a greater percentage of their use in our nation's
energy portfolio is the promise of "green jobs." Recent headlines even touted
the potential of 129,000 green jobs if Pennsylvania simply increased its current
alternative energy mandates.

According to a recent review by an energy and environmental forecaster, Energy
Ventures Analysis, Inc. of Arlington, Va., it turns out these "jobs" really are
"job years" stretched over a 15-year period, and even that number is
overestimated by a whopping 93,000 job years. The real number of sustainable
jobs from expanded alternative energy is closer to just over 2,000.

The coal industry isn't the only organization opposed to the climate change
legislation. The Pennsylvania Chamber of Business and Industry, and the American
Council for Capital Formation predict the enactment of a cap-and-trade bill
would cost Pennsylvania 90,000 jobs, increase gas prices by at least 19 percent
and cost each Pennsylvania family approximately $1,500 annually by the year
2030.

The average person consumes the equivalent of 20 pounds of coal a day to meet
energy needs for lights, cooking, electronics and other essentials. Driving up
the cost of electricity at a time when there is concern over pending expiration
of electricity rate caps and predicted rate hikes, along with pending expiration
of federal tax cuts and an overall unsettled economy, would impose an enormous
financial burden on taxpayers, especially in states like Pennsylvania.

The dog days of summer provide a reminder about the need for reliable
electricity, and coal is the source that keeps our homes and workplaces cool in
a cost-efficient manner when the temperature spikes. As taxpayers get the facts,
rather than hot air, about our electricity sources, their cost and their
potential, they should discourage our elected officials from going all in on
options that are unrealistic, not supported by fact and harmful to
Pennsylvania's economy.

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: George Ellis is president of the Pennsylvania Coal Association
(www.pacoalassn.com)./

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              111 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                              July 30, 2010 Friday
                                 SOONER EDITION

THE CLIMATE BILL IS LOST, BUT PROBLEMS REMAIN

BYLINE: DAVIN SAFER, Philadelphia

SECTION: EDITORIAL; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR; Pg. B-6

LENGTH: 191 words


This summer, we've witnessed the worst environmental catastrophe in our history
in the Gulf, the worst coal mining disaster in 40 years, and sweated through the
hottest six months of any year on record. Unfortunately, coal companies, other
polluters and their allies in the Senate were again able to stop the Senate from
comprehensive clean energy and climate change legislation.

The failure to act before the recess means that America will continue to spend
billions a day on energy sources that pollute our air and water; we'll continue
to depend on foreign oil, threatening our national security; and, we've missed
an opportunity to repower our economy with clean energy.

All is not lost, as the Senate still plans to take up legislation to weatherize
millions of homes, hold BP accountable for the oil spill, and hopefully, fund
clean energy and electric cars this fall.

Sens. Bob Casey and Arlen Specter fought hard for comprehensive legislation,
seeing the benefits for Pennsylvania and the need to act. And while we've lost
this one battle, the problem isn't going away and the Senate will have to take
action, hopefully before it's too late.

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: The writer is an intern at Penn Environment.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              113 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                           August 11, 2010 Wednesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

FLOATING ICE ISLAND PERILS OIL RIGS, SHIPPING LANES

BYLINE: Karl Ritter, The Associated Press

SECTION: HEALTH, SCIENCE, MEDICINE AND TECHNOLOGY; Pg. A-2

LENGTH: 288 words


STOCKHOLM -- An island of ice more than four times the size of Manhattan is
drifting across the Arctic Ocean after breaking off from a glacier in Greenland.

Potentially in the path of this unstoppable giant are oil platforms and shipping
lanes -- and any collision could do untold damage. In a worst case scenario,
large chunks could reach the heavily trafficked waters where another Greenland
iceberg sank the Titanic in 1912.

It has been a summer of near-biblical climatic havoc across the planet, with
wildfires, heat and smog in Russia and killer floods in Asia. But the moment the
Petermann glacier cracked last week -- creating the biggest Arctic ice island in
half a century -- may symbolize a warming world like no other.

"It's so big that you can't prevent it from drifting. You can't stop it," said
University of Oslo glaciologist Jon-Ove Methlie Hagen.

Few images can capture the world's climate fears like a 100-square-mile chunk of
ice breaking off Greenland's vast ice sheet, a reservoir of freshwater that, if
it collapsed, would raise global sea levels by a devastating 20 feet.

The world's newest ice island already is being used as a powerful emblem in the
global warming debate, with Rep. Edward Markey, D-Mass., suggesting that it
could serve as a home for climate-change skeptics.

Experts are in a scramble to plot the trajectory of the floating ice shelf,
which is moving toward the Nares Strait separating Greenland's northwestern
coast and Canada's Ellsemere Island. If it makes it into the strait before the
winter freeze -- due to start next month -- it would likely be carried south by
ocean currents, hugging Canada's east coast until it enters waters busy with oil
activities and shipping off Newfoundland.

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              117 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                            October 19, 2010 Tuesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

4TH U.S. HOUSE;
ALTMIRE IS THE BETTER CHOICE FOR CONGRESS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; CHOICES 2010; Pg. B-6

LENGTH: 547 words


Some Democrats would swear there are two Republicans running this year to
represent the 4th Congressional District. That's because GOP nominee Keith
Rothfus is challenging Rep. Jason Altmire, who has broken ranks with his
Democratic Party many times.

Mr. Altmire voted against the health care reform, the cap-and-trade
energy/pollution bill and the TARP banking rescue. He voted for allowing loaded
guns to be carried in national parks (a change pushed by the National Rifle
Association, which has endorsed him) and co-sponsored a bill to strip terror
suspects of their U.S. citizenship.

Congressional Quarterly Weekly reported that in 2009 Mr. Altmire was one of the
Democrats to vote most often against the majority of his party (22 percent of
the time). The National Journal ranked the two-term McCandless lawmaker as more
conservative than 53.5 percent of all House members.

Mr. Altmire, 42, calls this independence. Others, like this editorial board who
supported his last two campaigns against predecessor Melissa Hart, call it
frustrating.

His opponent is an intelligent, likable attorney. Keith Rothfus, 48, of
Edgeworth, served the Bush administration in 2005-07 in the Department of
Homeland Security, where he set up an office to work with faith-based groups
involved in disaster relief. His views are unflinchingly conservative.

He favors repeal of the federal health insurance law, calling it
unconstitutional and unprecedented in expanding government power. He called the
$787 billion stimulus "an abject failure" and said Congress should have cut
taxes to stimulate growth. Mr. Rothfus is not convinced that human activity is
causing climate change and he would not back federal policies on the subject
that might put jobs at risk.

Mr. Altmire would not repeal the health care law, saying it has delivered some
benefits; he would like Congress to work, however, on driving down the cost of
care. He voted for the stimulus, saying it was hard to tell if the nation was
headed for a depression, but he said no further stimulus is needed because the
economy is showing signs of a turnaround. Mr. Altmire believes science has shown
that global warming is real; he favors separate legislative approaches to
pollution control and to energy independence, rather than a single measure, like
cap-and-trade, that attempts to take on both.

Both candidates would extend all of the Bush-era income tax cuts, including
those to the rich; both believe military spending is ripe for cutting and both
want to give the Obama strategy in Afghanistan time to work.

While we've faulted Mr. Altmire for certain votes, we still believe he's a
hard-working congressman in the swing district that covers the North Hills of
Allegheny County, all of Beaver and Lawrence counties and parts of Butler,
Westmoreland and Mercer counties.

He has spoken out against the Chinese for actions that hurt American jobs, led
the charge for saving bonuses of combat veterans and intervened last January to
help airlift 54 orphans from Haiti. He views the struggles of average Americans
from the workers' and not the owners' point of view.

He may not be the congressman some thought they were choosing for Washington,
but he's the better choice for Congress in this year's matchup. The Post-Gazette
endorses Jason Altmire.

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              139 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                             April 11, 2010 Sunday
                                TWO STAR EDITION

MCEWAN, RASH OFF THEIR GAME MCEWAN AND RASH ARE OFF THEIR GAME

BYLINE: Bob Hoover

SECTION: ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT; Pg. B-5

LENGTH: 620 words


The mid-career slump can afflict any profession, from baseball players to
fiction writers. The creative juices dry up, the energy of youth dissipates on
long book tours or, in the cases of Hemingway and Mailer, the weight of
celebrity can interfere with messages from the muse.

This year, Ian McEwan and Ron Rash, two middle-aged writers with past successes,
released new books that fell short of their previous accomplishments.

b> Mad dogs and Englishmen go out in the midday sun

/b>

Mr. McEwan, 61, has been the darling of British novelists since he won the Man
Booker Prize in 1998 for "Amsterdam," then followed with the compelling
"Atonement" in 2002, the major novel that vaulted his trademark plot twist into
a powerful observation on the art of fiction itself.

Two subsequent works -- "Saturday" and "On Chesil Beach" -- showed the signs of
strain, the former with an unbelievable denouement and the latter, thin and
uninteresting.

Now in "Solar" (Nan Talese/Doubleday, $26.95), Mr. McEwan's interest has turned
to global warming, as evidenced by the acknowledgements citing his discussions
with scientists. The novelist said he warmed up to the subject after a 2005 trip
to Spitzbergen, re-created in the novel, right down to a description of Mr.
McEwan -- "a crop-haired fellow with rimless glasses."

Right there, readers should sense that this book is in trouble. It's a clumsy
tactic that indicates a lack of seriousness from the author, not a good approach
when you are writing satire, a serious pursuit.

The real misstep, though, is Mr. McEwan's hero, Michael Beard, a portly,
slovenly British physicist with a distant Nobel Prize and five ex-wives, thanks
to a never-ending stream of affairs. Yet this slob, whose waist expands in the
course of the story, manages to attract lovely women while scamming scientific
organizations with energy-saving projects.

Mr. McEwan remains a polished stylist and effective plotter, and his foray into
the comic novel draws a handful of chuckles from Beard's ineptitude, including
trying to urinate in subzero temperatures.

But there is such an opera bouffe quality to this important and complicated
subject that even the trademark McEwan pivotal incident lacks much punch because
it's improbable. Beard not only eliminates two of his ex-wife's lovers, but
steals an inventive system for producing alternative fuel, claiming it as his
own.

Even the novelist loses enthusiasm for his bouncy voyage into climate change and
slaps on a convenient ending.

Hard cheese, old boy

b> Nothing could be less finer than Carolina

/b>

Ron Rash's day job is teaching in the Appalachian Cultural Studies at Western
Carolina University (is there a course titled Sittin,' Spittin' and Whittlin'?).

He's also an accomplished novelist, the latest of which, 2008's "Serena," hit
the best-seller list with its powerful tale of forest despoliation in North
Carolina.

Mr. Rash continues the Carolina locale with a new collection of short stories,
"Burning Bright" (Ecco, $22.99). His characters are mostly ordinary folk --
widows, war wives, businessmen -- encountering hard truths about the supposedly
sylvan settings of their lives, then making the wrong choices.

The title story finds farm widow Marcie marrying Carl, a handyman with a
fondness for cigarette lighters. There's a drought on and someone who drives a
black pickup like Carl's has been setting the dry woods on fire.

Her decision is not the best, but circumstances require it.

Most of Mr. Rash's stories follow a similar track, so much so that there's a
predictability to them. His writing, too, varies little from a flat, almost
affectless course.

All add up to an unchallenging diversion into a land that, despite its
mountains, has few highs or lows.

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Bob Hoover: 412-263-1634 or bhoover@post-gazette.com/

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              153 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                            November 28, 2010 Sunday
                                TWO STAR EDITION

THE DIRT ON DIESEL;
CONGRESS MUST EXTEND A PROGRAM TO CURB EMISSIONS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. B-2

LENGTH: 342 words


Here's a harsh fact of political life: Congress is not going to pass an energy
bill that addresses climate change anytime soon. So what can be done by those
who care about the environment and the future of the planet? With the situation
being what it is, they can only do what can be done.

So how about reauthorizing a program that has a record of achieving good
results? In 2005, Congress with strong bipartisan support amended the Clean Air
Act to create a voluntary grant and loan program at the federal and state level
to reduce diesel emissions.

Among other features, the law authorized $1 billion in grants and loans over
five years ($200 million a year) for this purpose. Some 20 percent of the funds
allocated went to states to develop diesel retrofit programs with an incentive
for states to match federal dollars.

Diesel engines last longer and are more fuel efficient than traditional gasoline
engines, but the older models have significant environmental problems.
Environmentalists say that pollution from diesel emissions are linked to 21,000
premature deaths, hundreds of thousands of asthma attacks and other health
consequences every year. They also say that every $1 spent on reducing the dirt
in diesel emissions produces $13 in health and economic benefits, including job
creation.

The benefits of this measure have been seen here in Pittsburgh -- tow boats,
garbage trucks, dump trucks and school buses in Pittsburgh were refitted so that
they don't spew so much dirt into the air as a result of this program. That is
why the Allegheny County Partnership to Reduce Diesel Pollution -- a project led
by Clean Water Action and the Group Against Smog and Pollution -- are strongly
urging reauthorization of the law, which will expire after fiscal 2011.

The legislation to do this is in place. Senate Bill 3973, the Voinovich-Carper
Diesel Emissions Reduction Act of 2010, was introduced Nov. 18. Not much time
will be left in the lame-duck session after Congress returns from its
Thanksgiving holiday, but this bill deserves to be expedited.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              159 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                            April 21, 2010 Wednesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

SPECTER, SESTAK DEBUT DUELING TV ADS IN SENATE RACE

BYLINE: James O'Toole, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: LOCAL; CAMPAIGN 2010; Pg. B-1

LENGTH: 839 words


The campaign for the Senate opened on a new front on Tuesday as Rep. Joe Sestak,
the Democratic challenger, introduced himself to Pennsylvania viewers in the
face of a barbed attack by incumbent U.S. Sen. Arlen Specter.

The dueling messages made it clear that in the next month, Mr. Sestak would be
competing with his well-known opponent to define himself among a majority of
Democratic voters still unfamiliar with him.

Mr. Sestak, who had been husbanding more than $5 million in campaign funds until
the campaign's final month, finally took to the airwaves on Tuesday with a
noncontroversial, largely biographical commercial. The 60-second spot showcased
the retired admiral's Navy career and described his decision to enter politics
as an outgrowth of his daughter's experience as a brain cancer survivor.

The spot opens with a narrator's introduction of Mr. Sestak as "the Democrat
running against Arlen Specter." Subsequent references to the incumbent are
implicit but unmistakable.

"When I got to Washington, I found that too many politicians are concerned about
keeping their jobs instead of helping people," Mr. Sestak says in the ad. "If we
want real change in Washington, we can't keep sending the same career
politicians to represent us."

For the last week, the Specter campaign ran a trio of low-key but upbeat
commercials portraying Mr. Specter's interest in promoting jobs. That positive
tone contrasts with the new ad assailing Mr. Sestak's voting record and taking
direct aim at one of the perceived political strengths -- his background as a
senior naval strategist who commanded a carrier battle group at the outset of
the war in Afghanistan.

As a photograph of Mr. Sestak appears, the narrator of the Specter ad intones,
"Joe Sestak, relieved of duty in the Navy for creating a poor command climate."

"Joe Sestak," the voice continues, "the worst attendance record of any
Pennsylvania congressman. ... Last year alone, Sestak missed 127 votes."

The "relieved of duty" accusation refers to a five-year-old but still
contentious episode in which the congressman, then serving in a senior Pentagon
planning post, was transferred to a lesser position the day after Adm. Mike
Mullen was made chief of naval operations, the Navy's top job. Mr. Sestak had
been serving as a deputy to Mr. Mullen's predecessor, Adm. Vern Clark.

In a 2005 article, The Navy Times, a newspaper that covers the Pentagon, quoted
an unnamed senior officers' explanation that the transfer came because Mr.
Sestak had "created a poor command climate," in driving subordinates to work
unreasonable hours.

While acknowledging that he drove his staff hard, Mr. Sestak strongly disputed
that characterization on Tuesday, saying that his transfer came simply because a
new top officer, Adm. Mullen, wanted to bring in his own team.

Mr. Sestak pointed to a quote from his former boss, Adm. Clark, who, in
describing the events to the Philadelphia Inquirer earlier this year, said, "He
did what I asked him to do; I wanted straight talk, and this put him in the
crosshairs. People are going to say what they want to say, but he challenged
people who did not want to be challenged."

During an unrelated news conference at the University of Pittsburgh this week,
Adm. Mullen, now chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, refused to revisit the
controversy, which also was used without apparent damage against Mr. Sestak in
his first successful campaign for Congress.

Mr. Sestak also defended himself against Mr. Specter's frequent criticism of his
missed votes. Asserting that he maintained an overall voting and attendance
record of 95 percent, he acknowledged that he missed a series of votes last
summer as he toured the state while deciding on whether to enter the Senate
race.

"I missed a few votes because of that tour," he said, "I also missed votes
because of what any son would do -- I visited my father on his deathbed numerous
times between June and September when he never came out of [the intensive care
unit] except for one week."

Commenting on the ad in general, the Senate challenger assailed the man he wants
to retire, "for bringing his right-wing, Republican-style politics into a
Democratic primary."

The exchange comes as Mr. Sestak enters four crucial weeks in which he will try
to upend Mr. Specter's consistent lead in surveys of Democratic voters. Those
public polls show that Mr. Specter is familiar to the state's voters after his
three decades in office. Pennsylvanians already have been exposed to plenty of
information about him. In a Quinnipiac University survey earlier this month,
only 9 percent of Democratic voters failed to offer an opinion about the
incumbent; 71 percent said they had a favorable view of him and 17 percent an
unfavorable one.

By comparison, Mr. Sestak was a nearly blank slate. One-third of the Democrats
said they had a favorable view of the Delaware County congressman, and only 4
percent a negative view, but a significant majority of the Democrats, 61
percent, couldn't offer an opinion of him one way or the other.

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Politics Editor James O'Toole: jotoole@post-gazette.com or 412-263-1562.
/

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              163 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                             August 1, 2010 Sunday
                                TWO STAR EDITION

GREEN EXCHANGE;
PROGRAM BRINGS STUDENTS FROM NORTHERN IRELAND TO WORK WITH LOCAL COMPANIES ON
ENVIRONMENTAL PROJECTS

BYLINE: Jon Offredo, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. C-1

LENGTH: 1284 words


A new international exchange program is partnering some of the brightest minds
from one of the greenest places on earth (literally) with some of the most
green-minded businesses in Pittsburgh.

The Carbon Zero Northern Ireland program, in partnership with the Ireland
Institute of Pittsburgh, is sending 12 students to work with various companies
in the Pittsburgh area that specialize in renewable technologies or
sustainability strategies.

James Lamb, president of the Ireland Institute -- a Downtown-based nonprofit
that promotes mutual understanding of the Catholic and Protestant traditions in
Northern Ireland and economic development throughout all of Ireland -- said that
so far 11 of 12 positions have been filled. Six students are here and settled,
and six should arrive in the next month.

The interns are spread out across the region at 10 companies, ranging from
Alcosan, the county's sanitary authority, to the eCap network, an environmental
consulting firm based in the Hill District. The Ireland Institute is seeking one
more internship placement.

"When you look at Pittsburgh as a cluster of expertise, and an institute like
ours to manage this, it made sense to see this go forward," Mr. Lamb said.

Discussions for the program, which is being funded by the Department of
Employment and Learning in Northern Ireland and coordinated by South West
College in Dungannon, have been ongoing for the past three or four years.

The program follows a similar model that the Ireland Institute has used for the
past two decades in providing internships during the more tumultuous periods of
Northern Ireland's history when mostly Protestants supporting allegiance to the
United Kingdom clashed with mostly Catholics wanting to break away to the
Republic. The goal then was to promote reconciliation efforts.

In this case, the goal is to expand the set of skilled workers with skills in
green business.

"Pittsburgh was chosen, as it is a region that has gained an international
reputation for successful transformation into one of the greenest cities in the
U.S.," said Tom Mayers, program project manager at South West College.

When the program first began advertising and selecting interns, Mr. Lamb said
more than 200 applications were submitted.

"It's a fantastic program," said Mr. Mayers. "The idea would be [the students]
would learn new skills and then export those skills back to Northern Ireland and
to industries in Northern Ireland."

A delegation from Northern Ireland, including industry and academic experts, is
considering a visit to Pittsburgh later this year to further promote
sustainability and build connections. The details haven't been finalized. Mr.
Mayers is also exploring the option of bringing an additional 12 students to the
United States.

The first dozen interns are the first to take part in a clean green energy
technology exchange program in the United States as part of a continuous
education program in Northern Ireland.

"We're sort of going where no one has gone before," Mr. Mayers said. "I hope
that it would be much quicker this time because we have established contacts and
networks."

Mr. Mayers said the sustainability market in Northern Ireland was small, but was
growing at a rapid pace and mimicking trends in the rest of the United Kingdom.

"We have to reduce energy, and we need to be using more renewable technologies;
and the government is pressing and pressing for this on a continuous basis," Mr.
Mayers said, making the need for the current crop of interns to return with
skills in green technologies even greater.

Michelle McAteer, who recently earned a master's degree in environmental and
resource management with energy studies, arrived seven weeks ago as a stranger
to Western Pennsylvania, but not to the United States. She spent time in Montana
studying business management.

In Pittsburgh, she's worked with the eCap network.

A big part of eCap's work involves consulting on various projects in the area,
assessing energy consumption and how much it would cost to implement sustainable
strategies and benchmarks to receive state and federal rebates. The hard part,
John Werling, president of eCap, said, was sorting through and tracking the
ever-changing utility programs.

Ms. McAteer and fellow intern Mick O'Reilly are helping track those changes by
compiling and maintaining a database eCap. They work out of the Centre Avenue
office, going through the policy and the framework of grants and rebates for
energy efficiency.

Both say increased use of green power, like solar and wind, could benefit
Northern Ireland.

"I've always been interested in climate science, and when you're actually
reading papers and stories about how it is directly affecting people, I know
there is more that can be done," Ms. McAteer said. "I don't see why we don't
utilize something that is free and not bad for the environment."

While she has always homed in on green energy technologies, the Carbon Zero
project is a sidestep for Mr. O'Reilly. Since finishing a postgraduate program
in Belfast in 2001, he's focused on recyclables and running a community
recycling program.

"Just the way we live is not sustainable, and we need to do something about it,"
he said. "It's like we won't change our habits, so we need to change our
approach."

In addition to aggregating data for the database, they've been accompanying Mr.
Werling and other staff in the field for consultations and research.

The research requires the two students to look at buildings and the history of
energy usage, as well as the evolution of the purpose served by the buildings.
Mr. Werling has used the field work as an opportunity to show his interns around
the city.

The two have also done some exploring on their own. Both found apartments on the
South Side and have been to several Pirates games. During the World Cup games,
Ms. McAteer said, watched the games at Pipers Pub on East Carson Street.

Mr. Werling said the two brought a new perspective to the evolving business
model at eCap, established in January.

Generally speaking, he said he'd found that the company's work needs little
explanation to the younger generation -- they already get it. "They love the
ideas, and they're eager to learn about them," he said.

Still he noted that there were some key differences in energy consumption
between Western Pennsylvania and Northern Ireland.

In Northern Ireland, for example, many buildings aren't equipped with air
conditioning because there's no real need for it. The average high there during
the summer months stays around 64 degrees.

The transition for the students seems to have been pretty painless, with people
from the Ireland Institute, as well as eCap pitching in to help make things
easier. The one thing nobody can do much about is the overwhelming heat wave
that suffocated the region for most of July.

"Everyone is complaining about how hot it is," Mr. O'Reilly said. "It's still a
novelty."

CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS IN THE CARBON ZERO NORTHERN IRELAND PROGRAM

Alcosan

Offer made and accepted. Intern awaiting visa from U.S. Consulate, Belfast.

Allegheny County Department of Economic Development

Offer made and accepted. Intern awaiting visa from U.S. Consulate, Belfast.

AMTV/First Link

Intern in Pittsburgh, working.

Chester Engineers

Offer made and accepted. Intern awaiting visa from U.S. Consulate, Belfast.

E-Cap Network (2 placements)

Interns in Pittsburgh, working.

Epiphany Water Purification

Intern in New Castle, working.

Oxford Development/Stadium and Exhibition Authority

Offer made and accepted. Intern awaiting visa from U.S. Consulate, Belfast.

Taggart Global

Intern in Canonsburg/Southpointe, working.

Venture Engineering

Intern in Pittsburgh, working.

UPMC Corporate Construction

Interviewing candidates.

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Jon Offredo: offredo@post-gazette.com or 412-263-1410. /

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Robin Rombach/Post-Gazette: Mick O'Reilly and Michelle McAteer
of Northern Ireland are working for one year at eCap network, an environmental
consulting company based in the Hill District.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              165 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                           December 21, 2010 Tuesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

U.S. GASOLINE DEMAND AT START OF LONG-TERM DECLINE

BYLINE: Jonathan Fahey, AP Energy Writer

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. A-8

LENGTH: 875 words


NEW YORK -- The world's biggest gas-guzzling nation has limits after all.

After seven decades of mostly uninterrupted growth, U.S. gasoline demand is at
the start of a long-term decline. By 2030, Americans will burn at least 20
percent less gasoline than today, experts say, even as millions of more cars
clog the roads.

The country's thirst for gasoline is shrinking as cars and trucks become more
fuel-efficient, the government mandates the use of more ethanol and people drive
less.

"A combination of demographic change and policy change means the heady days of
gasoline growing in the U.S. are over," said Daniel Yergin, chairman of IHS
Cambridge Energy Research Associates and author of a Pulitzer Prize-winning
history of the oil industry.

This isn't the first time in U.S. history that gasoline demand has fallen, at
least temporarily. Drivers typically cut back during recessions, then hit the
road again when the economy picks up. Indeed, the Great Recession was the chief
reason demand fell sharply in 2008.

But this time looks different. Government and industry officials -- including
the CEO of Exxon Mobil -- say U.S. gasoline demand has peaked for good. It has
declined four years in a row and will not reach the 2006 level again, even when
the economy fully recovers.

In fact, the ground was shifting before the recession. The 2001 terrorist
attacks, the war in Iraq, Hurricane Katrina and pump prices rising to a
nationwide average of $3 a gallon for the first time in a generation reignited
public debates about the political and economic effects of oil imports and
climate change. Also, the popularity of SUVs began to wane, and the government
started requiring refiners to blend corn-based ethanol into every gallon of
gasoline.

Americans are burning an average of 8.2 million barrels -- 344 million gallons
-- of gasoline per day in 2010, a figure that excludes the ethanol blended into
gasoline. That's 8 percent less than at the 2006 peak, according to government
data.

The decline is expected to accelerate for several reasons.

* Starting with the 2012 model year, cars will have to hit a higher fuel economy
target for the first time since 1990. Each carmaker's fleet must average 30.1
mpg, up from 27.5. By the 2016 model year, that number must rise to 35.5 mpg.
And, starting next year, SUVs and minivans, once classified as trucks, will
count toward passenger vehicle targets.

* The auto industry is introducing cars that run partially or entirely on
electricity, and the federal government is providing billions of dollars in
subsidies to increase production and spur sales.

* By 2022, the country's fuel mix must include 36 billion gallons of ethanol and
other biofuels, up from 14 billion gallons in 2011. Put another way, biofuels
will account for about one of four gallons sold at the pump.

* Gasoline prices are forecast to stay high as developing economies in Asia and
the Middle East use more oil.

There are demographic factors at work, too. Baby boomers will drive less as they
age. The surge of women entering the work force and commuting in recent decades
has leveled off. And the era of Americans commuting ever longer distances
appears to be over. One measure of this, vehicle miles traveled per licensed
driver, began to flatten in the middle of the last decade after years of sharp
growth.

"People wildly underestimate the effect that all this is going to have" on
gasoline demand," said Paul Sankey, an analyst at Deutsche Bank. He predicts
that by 2030, America will use just 5.4 million barrels a day, the same as in
1969. Aaron Brady, an analyst at CERA, predicts a more modest drop, to 6.6
million barrels a day.

As a result, families will spend less on fuel, the country's dependence on
foreign oil will wane and heat-trapping emissions of carbon dioxide will grow
more slowly.

The shift from SUVs began in 2004 and has saved Americans $15 billion on
gasoline this year, according to the National Resources Defense Council. By
2020, improved fuel economy is expected to lower annual carbon dioxide emissions
by 400 billion pounds, the equivalent of taking 32 million cars off the road.

In reality, there will be 27 million more cars on the road -- a total of 254
million -- a decade from now, according to government projections.

Environmentalists are looking at the trend with a mixture of disbelief and
delight.

"Now you look and, wow, we've actually bent the curve," said Roland Hwang,
transportation director at the Natural Resources Defense Council.

If the U.S. economy booms and global oil prices fall, demand for gasoline could
rise.

"Sometimes what we think is a structural shift is really just a temporary
phase," said Antoine Halff, an analyst at the brokerage firm Newedge. "U.S.
demand has rebounded with a vengeance before."

To be sure, America will continue to burn more gasoline than any other country,
in total and per capita, for decades to come. China is second in total
consumption, but, despite its explosive growth, still uses just half of what the
United States uses.

Worldwide oil demand will hit a record 88.3 million barrels per day next year,
according to the consulting firm Wood Mackenzie.

Put simply, "we're entering a period where the U.S. motorist is no longer the
king of the road," Mr. Yergin said.

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: (No caption)
PHOTO: After seven decades of mostly uninterrupted growth, U.S. gasoline demand
is at the start of a long-term decline.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              185 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                              May 28, 2010 Friday
                                 SOONER EDITION

HURRICANES, SPILL COULD POSE DOUBLE THREAT

BYLINE: LEE BOWMAN, SCRIPPS HOWARD NEWS SERVICE

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. A-6

LENGTH: 577 words


WASHINGTON -- With thousands of workers struggling to contain the biggest oil
spill in U.S. history, the Gulf of Mexico appears headed for a double whammy
with the forecast of an "active to extremely active" hurricane season.

That early outlook issued Thursday by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration doesn't say any one part of the Atlantic or Gulf is targeted --
only that there will be more tropical-storm bullets to dodge than normal, 14 to
23, with as many as 14 developing into hurricanes and as many as seven becoming
major hurricanes, with sustained winds of at least 111 mph.

The Atlantic hurricane season runs from next Tuesday through Nov. 30.

"This outlook is not relevant to any specific area; the message is that anyone
living in the eastern third of the U.S. or the Caribbean needs to be prepared,"
NOAA Administrator Jane Lubchenco said.

There's been much speculation about what might happen should a hurricane pass
through the massive oil slick released by the BP Deepwater Horizon disaster. But
Ms. Lubchenco and Craig Fugate, director of the Federal Emergency Management
Agency, or FEMA, said some of the worst-case scenarios -- such as the hurricane
raining oil many miles inland or churning up gobs of oil from below -- are
unlikely.

The officials said the most likely way that a hurricane is going to move oil is
through storm surge -- a column of water pushed ashore by a hurricane that can,
in some spots, flood areas with seawater many miles inland.

FEMA's Mr. Fugate stressed: "We're not talking about a wave of oil. There's
going to be wave action on top of the surge that will mix things up. I don't
think it will come ashore in a hurricane like it is now."

He said any crude that might ride in on a surge in ports or other developed
areas would only add to a toxic soup of chemicals and oil released from tank
farms, sunken boats and vehicles, and other sources that always must be cleaned
up after a hurricane.

NOAA climate scientists say several factors are making for more storms being
predicted this year. Seawater-surface temperatures, for example, are as much as
4 degrees Fahrenheit above normal in the area of the Atlantic where storms need
heat to fire up.

Another major factor is that the El Nino pattern that causes tropical-wind
patterns to break up hurricanes has disappeared. NOAA forecaster Gerry Bell said
the higher-end estimates for the season were included because it appears that
the reverse La Nina pattern that encourages hurricane development is taking
hold.

The government outlook follows several leading private forecasters in predicting
above-average activity. Colorado State University forecasters also cite the end
of El Nino and an unusually warm tropical Atlantic in calling for 15 named
tropical systems during the season (160 percent of an average season), with
eight becoming hurricanes and four major storms.

Colorado State's forecasters William Gray and Phil Klotzbach also say they are
94 percent certain that at least one tropical storm will affect some part of the
U.S. Gulf coast, and they cite a 77 percent probability that at least one
hurricane will make landfall in the region.

Joe Bastardi, a long-range meteorologist for the private forecast service
AccuWeather.com, says his models indicate that the Atlantic hurricane season
could see 16 to 18 storms, and he expects that at least six will impact the U.S.
coast. In a normal season, about one in five storms affects the United States.

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              201 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                           September 13, 2010 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

ECONOMY TO OCCUPY CONGRESS;
SMALL BUSINESSES MAY GET ASSISTANCE DURING BRIEF SESSION; BUDGET MUST WAIT

BYLINE: Daniel Malloy, Post-Gazette Washington Bureau

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. A-1

LENGTH: 1235 words


WASHINGTON -- Congress returns from its summer break this week for an
abbreviated pre-election session as a cascade of poor economic news has put
Democrats in peril of losing both chambers.

On the agenda is a grab bag of initiatives intended to goose the economy, with
the Senate considering a bill to encourage small-business lending and the House
of Representatives talking up plans to spur American manufacturing.

But the biggest debate will be over the expiring tax cuts from the George W.
Bush administration. Democrats want to end the tax cuts for the highest earners,
while Republicans say any tax hikes would be folly in this stumbling economy.

The contentious atmosphere on Capitol Hill will only be heightened by the Nov. 2
elections, as Democrats are eager to look like they're doing something about the
economy and Republicans are riding the political benefit from their rejection of
the majority's agenda.

"They have been very dogmatic in opposing anything other than their way, and
they don't want to give President [Barack} Obama any victories," Sen. Arlen
Specter, D-Pa., said during a swing through Pittsburgh last week.

"But between now and Election Day it's going to be meaner than it has been, and
that's tough to do."

In the Senate, it starts with the small business bill, which offers rare
potential for bipartisanship.

The bill would provide $12 billion in tax breaks to small businesses and $30
billion to community banks to encourage lending to small businesses. The bill's
backers say the infusion could result in $300 billion in small-business lending
-- which would go a long way at a time when credit has become hard to come by.

The bill, which the Congressional Budget Office says is paid for and would not
add to the deficit, passed the House in June. In July, Republicans blocked a
vote on the bill amid a dispute over how many amendments they would be allowed.
Another 60-vote cloture motion on the bill could come Tuesday.

"It's the most important thing we can do in the next couple of weeks really, to
have another push, another kick-start in the economy," Sen. Bob Casey, D-Pa.,
said in Pittsburgh last week. "Twelve billion dollars in tax cuts for small
business. Who's against that? I'd like to have them explain it."

Mr. Specter, who switched parties last year, predicted that Maine centrist
Republicans Olympia Snowe and Susan Collins will end up backing the small
business bill, but he said it won't be easy.

"I think it has a chance," Mr. Specter said of the bill. "I've been inside that
Republican caucus, and they push your arm very far behind your back. You have to
be a contortionist to say yes after they tell you to say no."

On the House side, Democrats will continue to push their "Make it in America"
agenda -- designed as a boost to U.S. manufacturing and an attempt to restore
confidence in the economy.

"We need to create an environment from a tax standpoint, a regulatory standpoint
and a confidence standpoint that we can make it in America," said Majority
Leader Steny Hoyer, D-Md., in a conference call last week, touting private
sector and manufacturing job growth as signs of light, despite the nation's 9.6
percent unemployment.

This summer the House passed several manufacturing-related initiatives. Some,
including a bill to reduce tariffs on materials American companies import to
manufacture products, have already become law. Others, such as a bill to create
a clean energy technology export assistance fund, await the Senate's approval.

During the conference call Mr. Hoyer boasted of the bills the House already has
passed and said more are under consideration but did not provide specifics. As
for the biggest proposal on the table -- Mr. Obama's pitch for $50 billion in
infrastructure spending and $130 billion in business tax cuts -- Mr. Hoyer said
it is not likely to come up during this four-week session.

"The president is now talking about additional investment in infrastructure,"
Mr. Hoyer said. "We're looking at that, but it will be difficult to get a broad
agenda through because, as in the past, Republican obstruction has not been
allowing us to do so."

Republicans and some Democrats have balked at the price tag for Mr. Obama's
plans. Rep. Mark Critz, D-Johnstown, who won a special election in May to fill
the seat of the late Rep. John P. Murtha, issued a statement saying, "We simply
cannot afford to spend this money."

That's been the line coming from Republicans as well.

In a speech last month in Cleveland, House Republican Leader John Boehner -- the
likely speaker come January if his party takes control of the lower chamber --
called on Mr. Obama to send an immediate and massive deficit reduction plan to
Congress.

"This would show Washington is ready to get serious about bringing down the
deficits that threaten our economy," he said.

But the No. 1 item on Mr. Boehner's wish list: a full extension of the Bush tax
cuts.

The cuts, enacted in 2001 and 2003, will expire at the end of this year unless
Congress acts. Mr. Obama has said he would like to extend them for middle class
taxpayers but allow taxes to rise on the highest earners.

But allowing taxes to rise on individuals making $200,000 and families making
$250,000 per year would also affect some of the small business owners who have
become such a prized constituency.

"If the president wanted to have an immediate impact on hiring, he could begin
by changing his mind and announcing today his opposition to the job-killing tax
hikes on small businesses," Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., said
in a statement.

In the forthcoming standoff, Mr. Specter said Republicans have the edge.

"I think we ought to not have those tax cuts stay in effect," Mr. Specter said.

"I think it's going to be rank politics, however. I think Republicans are going
to say, 'Unless the tax cuts are extended for everybody, they won't be extended
for anybody.' It's going to be a political fight, and it depends how much
political pressure there is. The odds are the Republicans will win. They will
stick to that."

The election-driven bickering on the economy will leave little time for the
central yearly function of Congress: passing a budget. Mr. Hoyer said the House
will "address the issue of funding government for a period of time," meaning
passing a continuing resolution to keep the federal government funded at current
levels while Congress continues work on the 2011 budget past the Oct. 1 start of
the fiscal year.

The Senate already is scheduled to return in November and the House likely will
do the same for a "lame-duck" session. In addition to spending bills, many
Democrats and interest groups are hopeful that a post-election session can
produce movement on comprehensive climate change legislation and a bill to
encourage unionization, both of which have run aground in the Senate.

Would any outgoing senators have a sudden change of heart on controversial
pieces of legislation? Republicans aren't eager to find out.

"Democratic leaders refuse to rule out the possibility of forcing these
job-killing bills through in a lame-duck session, after the election, after the
voters have had their say," Mr. Boehner said in his speech.

"Their failure to level with the American people only compounds the ongoing
economic uncertainty. President Obama should announce that he would veto these
job-killing bills, and I pledge that Republicans will work with him to sustain
those vetoes."

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Daniel Malloy: dmalloy@post-gazette.com or 202-445-9980. Follow him on
Twitter at PG_in_DC. Mackenzie Carpenter contributed from Pittsburgh./

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              205 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                           October 14, 2010 Thursday
                                  WEST EDITION

CENTRAL VALLEY FROSH ADVANCES

BYLINE: Joe Koch, Tri-State Sports & News Service

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. W-9

LENGTH: 609 words


Central Valley High coach Larry Milosh believes the best is yet to come for his
girls' golf team, especially with freshman standout Macky Fouse expected to be
back for the next three seasons.

Before Milosh and Fouse plot the future, though, they must finish the 2010
season. So much is on the line for Fouse, a 15-year-old from Center Township.
She's the only freshman from the WPIAL to qualify for the PIAA Western Regional
Monday at Tom's Run Golf Course near Blairsville.

"Macky doesn't have any weaknesses in her game," said Milosh, who coached at
Center High for the past 10 years before the school merged with Monaca High this
year to form Central Valley. "She can drive a ball about 220 to 225 yards. She
has a nice short game, and she putts well."

Fouse, whose nickname derives from her given name, MacKenzie, said the only
weakness in her game shows in a shot about 75 yards from the green.

"I've been working with a gap wedge, but I still have a lot of work to do," she
said.

Fouse said she's not feeling pressured, despite being the only freshman to tee
up in the regional final.

"I have three more years," she reasoned.

But she wants to make the most of her opportunity this year: "I want to do as
well as I can and move on."

She shot an 86 to place second in the sectional qualifier at Delmar Golf Course,
then placed second in the Division II individual championships at The Club at
Nevillewood with a 91, eight strokes behind Waynesburg junior Emily Rohanna.

Rohanna and Fouse qualified for the Western Regional along with two Penn
Trafford golfers -- Haley Borkovich and Gianna Pro -- and eight qualifiers rom
the Division I field.

"Nevillewood was a lot harder [than Delmar]," Fouse said. "The greens were a lot
harder, and [the course] required a lot more placement shots. Plus, it was
[raining], and that forced me to make a lot of adjustments."

Fouse, who has been playing golf just five years, said her strategy can change
daily because of Pennsylvania's unpredictable autumn climate.

"When there is bad weather, you have to think two or three shots ahead," she
said. "On a good day, you are just thinking about the next shot."

Her experience of golfing outside high school competition helped a lot during
her first high school season, she said. Fouse believes she picked up some
strength from playing basketball, and she hopes to keep playing both sports
throughout high school.

"I'm stronger and more fit because I've been playing basketball," she said.

At 5 feet 7, Fouse was a forward on the middle school team last year. That might
change this year, though.

"There are girls who are a lot taller than I am," she reasoned.

Fouse has not played at Tom's Run but will get a practice round in before the
tournament. And she received a scouting report from Annie Bozich, a former
Center High standout now playing at Robert Morris.

"She told me what the course was like and how she had to plan her shots," Fouse
said.

Milosh is confident about the young golfer's chances this month and for the next
three years.

"My daughter, Samantha, and [Bozich] were the two best golfers that I ever
coached," Milosh said. "Macky is better than both of them as a ninth-grader. She
played alongside them, watched what they were doing, and she's hitting a ball
farther than they did in ninth grade, and she putts better than both of them."

Samantha Milosh played at Saint Francis College in Loretto and won the Northeast
Conference individual championship on two occasions.

Fouse knows the future is bright. Right now, though, she's focused on Monday's
event.

"I think I can qualify for the state finals," she said. "But it depends on how
I'm playing and how the day goes."

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: WPIAL GOLF CHAMPIONSHIPS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              208 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                           November 11, 2010 Thursday
                                 SOONER EDITION

FORECLOSURE PROBE ON 'FAST TRACK'

BYLINE: Compiled from news services

SECTION: NATIONAL; NATIONAL BRIEFS; Pg. A-9

LENGTH: 547 words


NEW YORK -- The investigation by attorneys general in 50 states into banks'
foreclosure practices is on "a fast track" and any resolution might involve
multiple settlements, Iowa Attorney General Tom Miller says.

"We'd like to resolve this sooner rather than later," Mr. Miller, who is leading
the attorneys general task force, said in an interview. "We want to move quickly
if we can, but not so quickly that we don't do it right."

A global settlement of the task force investigation is unlikely, said Mr.
Miller, 66, who also leads a separate foreclosure prevention group of state
attorneys general.

All 50 states on Oct. 13 announced the coordinated inquiry into whether banks
and loan servicers used false documents and signatures to justify hundreds of
thousands of foreclosures.

Holiday flight squeeze

NEW YORK -- Airline passengers face a Thanksgiving holiday travel season in
which they'll pay more to squeeze onto planes flying at their fullest since
World War II.

The U.S. industry's trade group projects airlines will carry 24 million people,
3.5 percent more than in 2009, in the 12-day holiday period starting Nov. 19.

Cracks in shuttle fuel tank

CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. -- NASA discovered cracks in Discovery's fuel tank
Wednesday, an added problem that will complicate trying to launch the space
shuttle on its final voyage this year.

The two cracks -- each 9 inches long -- were found on the exterior of the
aluminum tank, beneath a larger crack in the insulating foam that covers the
15-story tank. The cracks are in an area that holds instruments, not fuel.

NASA spokesman Allard Beutel said engineers believe the tank can be repaired at
the launch pad, although it's never been tried before. It's unclear, though,
whether the work can be done in time to meet a Nov. 30 launch attempt.

Study: ADHD is rising

ATLANTA -- A government survey says 1 in 10 U.S. children has ADHD, a sizable
increase from a few years earlier that researchers think might be explained by
growing awareness and better screening.

ADHD, or attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, makes it hard for kids to pay
attention and control impulsive behavior. It's often treated with drugs,
behavioral therapy, or both.

The new study found that about two-thirds of the children who have ADHD are on
medication. The estimate comes from a survey released Wednesday that found an
increase in ADHD of about 22 percent from 2003 to the most recent survey in
2007-08.

EPA emissions rules

WASHINGTON -- Pressing ahead with plans to reduce greenhouse gas emissions
despite a congressional stalemate over global warming, the Environmental
Protection Agency on Wednesday issued guidelines that gave states considerable
discretion in regulating carbon dioxide emissions from large industrial
facilities like power plants, refineries and factories.

On Jan. 2, the country's largest emitters of greenhouse gases will have to show
state regulators how they plan to curb such emissions when they build new
facilities or make major changes in existing facilities that result in increased
discharges of the gases that most scientists link to climate change and global
warming.

The guidelines gave states latitude to determine on a case-by-case basis the
"best available" pollution control technology that industrial facilities could
use.

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              220 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                           January 21, 2010 Thursday
                                 SOONER EDITION

STARS ALIGNED FOR THE HOYAS

BYLINE: Gene Collier

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. D-1

LENGTH: 778 words


You can blame young Ashton Gibbs' unscheduled vanishing act, and you can be
pretty certain that Pitt coach Jamie Dixon will be able to identify and write
prescriptions for at least a dozen potential long-range calamities as the winter
grinds forward, but nothing that happened inside The Pete last night against a
brilliantly antagonistic Georgetown team should diminish the Panthers in any
way.

Sure, it's painfully evident that Gibbs, the super-slick sophomore who is
supposed to pull Pitt out of any fire with his ready flash and his touch from
distance, went 2 for 8 from behind the 3-point line, missing twice from the same
spot with about 100 seconds to play. Either swish would have dragged the
Panthers to within a highly manageable three points of the Hoyas.

A lot more foreboding from Pitt's perspective was a second-consecutive
performance in which it was unable to trump superior defense with its own
patented version of that very thing. On a night when two consistently excellent
basketball programs built on the grittiest elements of Eastern Seaboard defense
collided at speed, Georgetown played it better in the most critical stretches.

Let's not complicate it.

"There are so many different teams you can say this about in this conference,"
Hoyas boss John Thompson III was saying after watching his guys hold on for a
74-66 victory, the first for a visiting team in Oakland in 32 shows. "The
players are too good, the coaches are too good; they'll figure out your plans
every time. You just have to hope the stars align.

"There are a whole lot of great teams in this league and no one's going away.
That's Big East basketball every night. You're going against the best players,
the best coaches, the best fans in the country every night. There's no rest."

All of that frames the general climate for Pitt's 5-0 start in the conference,
explains the intense excitement that glommed onto these Panthers, and no
40-minute period in which the stars temporarily realigned ought to change
anyone's opinion of Pitt.

It happened that Georgetown's stars aligned behind junior guard Chris Wright,
who poured in 27 points and established an unwavering rhythm in which no Hoyas
guard missed a 3. Wright, Austin Freeman and Jason Clark went 7 for 7, while
Pitt's guards were clanking 3 for 16.

In just about any game just about anywhere, that kind of long-distance imbalance
will have a similar result, but the typical litany of Big East subplots made
this a far-more-florid mid-January drama. It wasn't just that Georgetown had
rumbled back from 15 points down to Villanova on the road last weekend, only to
lose by five, and it wasn't just that Pitt had done something even more
improbable, pulling itself by the fingernails out of a five-point deficit in the
final 54 seconds against Louisville, then winning in overtime.

Those were the favorable karmas the Panthers and Hoyas brought to the floor, and
Georgetown's didn't transform into the dominant feng-shui purely by accident.

"We just came out very aggressive in the second half," said Wright, who had 15
after the intermission. "We feel like we're a great second-half team and we've
proven that. We were just trying to be attentive to what was going on and take
what the defense was giving us."

And Pitt's defense startled the sold-out campus hot house by giving generously
in those critical early minutes that turned a 31-31 halftime tie into more
Georgetown momentum than could ultimately be overcome.

The Hoyas got field goals on its first six trips upcourt in the second half,
four of them on layups that might have indicated Pitt had no knowledge of the
principles of the Princeton offense adapted for the big stage by Thompson, the
noted Ivy alum.

"No," said Pitt's Gilbert Brown, "it wasn't that. We knew the plays. There was
just some miscommunication on our part."

Really.

Where have I heard that before other than in the Steelers' secondary?

The Hoyas, on the other hand, had no trouble applying the defensive heat when
they had to, such as after Pitt hopped back to leapfrog to a 56-54 lead on
Jermaine Dixon's 3 from the right corner with 7:48 left. Pitt got exactly two
field goals on its next 12 possessions.

Gibbs finally hit a 3 with 31 seconds left, nudging his line to eight points on
the night, or 9.5 below his average.

"Ashton had open 3s he'd normally knock down," said Jermaine Dixon, who knocked
down only one of four himself. "But it wasn't that. Defensively, we just weren't
there tonight."

You don't have to be absent on defense for one night to lose in this league. You
can do it being absent for five minutes. This is very some very tough business,
and as JT III rightly said, no one is going away.

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Gene Collier can be reached at gcollier@post-gazette.com/

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              222 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                           January 30, 2010 Saturday
                                 SOONER EDITION

BLAIR DEFENDS IRAQ WAR STANCE

BYLINE: Compiled from news services

SECTION: WORLD; WORLD BRIEFS; Pg. A-5

LENGTH: 611 words


LONDON -- Almost seven years after he ordered British troops to join the
U.S.-led invasion of Iraq, former Prime Minister Tony Blair mounted an
unwavering defense of his actions on Friday, saying he would take the same steps
again to counter what he depicted as a threat from Saddam Hussein that had
assumed far greater dimensions after the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001.

In an appearance before an official inquiry into Britain's role in the Iraq
conflict, Mr. Blair sought to reshape the unflattering legacy molded since he
left office in 2007 by his many critics in Britain.

He has been accused, often bitterly, of pliantly following former President
George W. Bush's lead into an illegal and unpopular war, and misleading his
countrymen about his reasons for doing so.

For Mr. Blair, a grueling six hours of broadcast testimony amounted to a rare
return to the public spotlight at home after 30 months of frenetic travel as a
Middle East peace negotiator.

Hamas operative killed

DAMASCUS, Syria -- A senior Hamas commander was assassinated last week in a
Dubai hotel room by electrocution, the Palestinian militant group said Friday.
It accused Israeli agents of killing him and vowed to avenge his death.

Hamas said Mahmoud al-Mabhouh was one of the founders of the group's military
wing, which has been responsible for attacks and suicide bombings targeting
Israelis since the 1980s.

Dubai's government confirmed Mr. Mabhouh was found dead in a hotel room on Jan.
20, a day after entering the Gulf city. It said in a statement that initial
investigations show the crime was likely committed by a "professional criminal
gang."

Israel's government, which had sought Mr. Mabhouh for two decades, had no
immediate comment.

Bin Laden blasts the U.S.

CAIRO -- Osama bin Laden sought to draw a wider public into his fight against
the United States in a new message Friday, dropping his usual talk of religion
and holy war and focusing instead on an unexpected topic: global warming.

The al-Qaida leader blamed the United States and other industrialized nations
for climate change and said the only way to prevent disaster was to break the
American economy, calling on the world to boycott U.S. goods and stop using the
dollar.

The audiotape was aired on the Arab TV network Al-Jazeera.

Irish accord faces obstacles

DUBLIN -- Rival leaders of Northern Ireland's faltering Catholic-Protestant
administration edged closer to a new power-sharing deal Friday following a
marathon diplomatic effort, but negotiators on both sides said the final hurdles
might be too high to clear.

Northern Ireland's peacemaking coalition -- the central achievement of the
province's 1998 peace accord -- has teetered on the brink of collapse since the
major Irish Catholic party, Sinn Fein, warned it could end its awkward
partnership with the major British Protestant party, the Democratic Unionists.

The Irish Republican Army-linked party is demanding that the Protestant side
stop blocking a plan to transfer control of Northern Ireland's security and
legal system from Britain to local hands.

Nigerian militants end truce

LAGOS, Nigeria -- The main militant group in the oil-rich Niger delta called off
its cease-fire with the Nigerian government today.

The government had offered militants an amnesty program that included cash
payments to lay down their weapons under the direction of President Umaru
Yar'adua.

Militants in the Niger Delta have attacked pipelines, kidnapped petroleum
company employees and fought government troops since January 2006. They demand
that the federal government send more oil-industry funds to Nigeria's southern
region, which remains poor despite five decades of oil production.

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              231 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                          February 10, 2010 Wednesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

AMERICAN-MADE CARS TAKE CENTER STAGE

BYLINE: Don Hammonds, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. F-2

LENGTH: 1182 words


It may be cold outside, but it will be hot inside David L. Lawrence Convention
Center this week.

That's because the Pittsburgh International Auto Show opens this week, and there
are plenty of new cars on the show floor hot enough to send a car lover's
temperature rising.

The show opens Thursday and runs through Monday. General admission tickets are
$10, and children under 12 are admitted free.

This year, more than ever, it's American automakers front and center, with a
host of new, attractive products to draw plenty of attention. Let's take a quick
look at a few of those that you'll find at dealerships and at the auto show:

b> CADILLAC CTS SPORTWAGON

/b>

If you haven't seen this sexy devil yet, get to the exhibit at the show. You'll
be in for a treat.

Low-slung, aggressive, and featuring an overall design that's ready for the 21st
century, this car, with prices beginning at $38,265, is a real sleeper. It
hasn't been getting much attention on showroom floors in Pittsburgh, but it's a
hot seller elsewhere.

It's easy to see why. How else can you haul people and goods and look really
good doing it? It has the same classy, eye-catching dashboard and seating design
that is used in the sedan CTS with the added advantage of plenty of cargo space
behind that rear seat.

It comes in all-wheel and rear-wheel drive powered by a 304-horsepower,
3.6-liter V-6 that is rated at 18 miles per gallon city and 26 highway. Handling
is razor sharp, and the ride is beyond compare for long-distance travel.
Acceleration is impressive, too. Check it out.

b> FORD FUSION

/b>

So much has been said about the Fusion, all of it richly deserved. This is a
state-of-the art family car with looks; performance; top-drawer quality, fit and
finish; and good fuel economy, particularly with the hybrid version.

Ford has made the most of a midcycle styling change by making the Fusion look
more aggressive up front, more expensive in the back and just plain rich-looking
overall. You can get an in-line four or one of two V-6 engines. If you get the
hybrid, you can expect 41 miles per gallon in the city and 36 on the highway.

Prices range from $20,345 to $28,755.

b> BUICK REGAL

/b>

Talk about hot. Buicks are big this season, and you don't want to miss one of
the most dramatic transformations you'll ever see in a car brand.

The most recent entry in the do-over is the Buick Regal, a sporty,
European-based sedan that is a strong handler and a first-class road car. Regal
was a name given years ago to Buick's sporty and luxurious intermediates, and
the name was resurrected to be used on an Opel sedan from Germany that has been
transformed into a Buick -- and a darned good one at that.

Power for the Regal will come from a 2.4-liter Ecotec four-cylinder engine
producing 182 horsepower. The engine is backed by a six-speed automatic
transmission. This summer you will see the introduction of the "Interactive
Drive Control System," which allows the driver to choose several suspension,
acceleration and performance settings.

Standard equipment includes front and side curtain air bags, satellite radio,
six-speed automatic, traction and stability control, and the OnStar system.
Prices weren't available, but I'm guessing around $26,000.

b> FORD FIESTA

/b>

Ford's all-new entrant in the subcompact class, the Fiesta, has snazzy,
European-inspired good looks, peppy acceleration and strong handling, along with
what Ford says are 15 class-exclusive technologies generally found on cars that
are much more expensive.

These features -- both standard and optional -- include automatic climate
control; Ford SYNC, which integrates a driver's mobile phone with Fiesta's
on-board, voice-activated communication and entertainment system; an auxiliary
input; keyless entry and push-button start; and tilt-telescoping steering wheel.

Ford has said Fiesta will have best-in-class highway fuel economy of 40 mpg,
with a 1.6-liter engine, advanced PowerShift six-speed automatic transmission
and electric power-assist steering.

By the way, did we say it also would look good?

Ford says the Fiesta's looks are an expression of "kinetic design."

The company said in a release that the design "imparts a sense of movement --
even while standing still -- harmonizing character elements to reflect global
Ford identity, enabling Fiesta to project its own air of confidence, style and
individuality. Fiesta targets a youthful 'design progressive' mind-set, a
consumer group that values style and diversity as worthy assets."

While these American brands may be hot, automakers from around the globe have
plenty to shout about, too.

Make sure you don't miss the following:

b> HYUNDAI TUCSON

/b>

Newly svelte with looks all of its own in the small crossover class, Hyundai's
Tucson has a flowing look that I predict will wear well in years to come. This
is Hyundai's very first crossover to be engineered and designed in Europe, and
this becomes apparent when you notice how sporty it is.

Like all Hyundais, Tucson comes extraordinarily well-equipped, including
six-speed automatic with brake hold and hill-descent control. Options include
the brand's first panoramic sunroof, heated leather seats, Bluetooth phone,
streaming audio and satellite radio.

Power comes from a 176-horsepower, four-cylinder engine. Fuel mileage is rated
at 21/28, and prices are expected to start at less than $20,000.

b> AUDI A8

/b>

This is one glorious luxury car that you won't want to miss. It comes equipped
with a 372-horsepower V-8, eight-speed automatic transmission, full-power
accessories, of course, and an interior to die for, including wood accents on
the front seat backs. The unusual transmission shift lever fits nicely into your
hand. The exterior resembles the previous model, but moves the bar higher with
light bars in both front and rear lights that have several artistic
configurations to them when they are engaged. Price and fuel mileage figures are
not yet released.

b> VOLKSWAGEN GOLF

/b>

This one used to be known as the Rabbit, which used to be known as the Golf,
which used to be known as the Rabbit.

But no matter what you call it, the all-new Golf has an interesting combination
of sports, luxury and performance attributes. While it maintains a familiar
shape that dates back to the very first Rabbit, it still has the clean features,
aggressive front end and unadorned flanks that say "contemporary design" to
onlookers.

As is almost always the case with Volkswagen, the interior is nice and elegant
enough for a luxury car. Aluminum fittings are tastefully and sparingly used,
and all of the fabrics and materials are of premium quality.

Driving, however, is what most people buy Volkswagen for, and the new Golf
enhances the already enviable reputation that the brand has for terrific
handling, aggressive cornering and precise steering and braking.

Gas mileage for the new Golf equipped with a 2.5-liter four is 30/30, with a TDI
diesel engine available at 41/42.

Be warned, however, that the diesel model is in extremely short supply with only
2,000 units being made for the United States. So the word from dealers is if
really you want one, buy it now.

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: NEW CAR & TRUCK BUYERS GUIDE / Don Hammonds: dhammonds@post-gazette.com,
412-263-1538.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jeff Kowalsky/Bloomberg News Service: The new Buick Regal GS
sits on stage after being unveiled during the 2010 North American International
Auto Show in Detroit.\
PHOTO: Jeff Kowalsky/Bloomberg News Service: Hyundai Motor Corp.'s Tucson sport
utility vehicle is displayed in Detroit.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              232 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                           February 13, 2010 Saturday
                                 SOONER EDITION

LASER SHOOTS DOWN MISSILE

BYLINE: Compiled from news services

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. A-6

LENGTH: 545 words


LOS ANGELES -- A flying Boeing 747 jumbo jet equipped with a massive laser gun
shot down a Scud-like missile over the Pacific late Thursday night, marking what
analysts said was a major milestone in the development of the nation's missile
defense system.

The test shoot-down at 8:44 p.m. PST over a military test range near Point Mugu
is expected to renew debate over spending billions of dollars for a system that
seemed so far behind schedule that the Pentagon decided to significantly curtail
its budget last year.

The airborne laser is designed to defend against ballistic missiles by shooting
them down while they are in the boost stage, or when they are lifting off.

b> COAST GUARD BUDGET CUTS

/b>

WASHINGTON -- The U.S. Coast Guard will risk a drop in readiness and become a
more "fragile" force to accommodate cuts in President Barack Obama's proposed
2011 budget, its commandant, Adm. Thad W. Allen, was expected to say Friday in
his annual report.

Under the Coast Guard's 2011 spending plan, its funding and active-duty
personnel would drop about 3 percent, to $10.1 billion, and 41,984,
respectively.

b> SOUTH GETS SNOWED IN

/b>

ATLANTA -- Snowstruck Southerners tossed snowballs not far from the Gulf of
Mexico as winter took its biggest whack at the region in decades Friday, coating
areas from Texas to the Carolinas and grounding all but a few flights at
Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport, the world's busiest airport.

The storm also put a treacherous glaze on highways ahead of the holiday weekend.
A car plunged off an icy road into a pond outside Montgomery, Ala., killing two
brothers ages 4 and 2, State Trooper Kevin Cook said. The boys' mother, who was
driving, survived.

b> EPA REGS CHALLENGED

/b>

WASHINGTON -- The U.S. Chamber of Commerce announced late Friday that it would
challenge the Environmental Protection Agency's decision to regulate greenhouse
gas emissions under the Clean Air Act, setting the stage for a protracted legal
battle with the Obama administration over global warming.

The chamber said it was filing a petition with the agency challenging the EPA's
process in determining that greenhouse gases endanger human health and are thus
subject to Clean Air Act regulation. The challenge is likely to lead to a court
battle.

b> 3 DEAD IN ALA. SHOOTING

/b>

HUNTSVILLE, Ala. -- Officials at the University of Alabama's Huntsville campus
say three people have been killed and another injured in a campus shooting.

University spokesman Ray Garner says one suspect is in custody.

The shooting occurred Friday afternoon in the university's Shelby center.

b> ALSO IN THE NATION...

/b>

About 57 million Americans, or slightly over 18 percent of the population, have
contracted pandemic H1N1 influenza since April, federal public health officials
said Friday. About 11,690 people have died from the viral infection, also known
as swine flu, according to the Centers for Disease Control...Former President
Bill Clinton on Friday seemed to have returned to multitasking, just a day after
having a clogged artery reopened and two stents inserted into his chest. "I feel
great. ... I even did a couple miles on the treadmill today," Mr. Clinton said,
speaking to reporters outside his home shortly after being released from a New
York City hospital.

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              241 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                              March 7, 2010 Sunday
                                TWO STAR EDITION

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. B-4

LENGTH: 723 words


New Ideas, Sharp Opinions


b> THE RISE OF 'MILITAINMENT'

/b>

P.W. Singer in Foreign Policy writes a nuanced piece about the rapid growth of
"militainment" -- the merging of violent civilian video games and their use for
military training. The Pentagon now spends $6 billion a year on video training.
And in the civilian world?: "Modern Warfare 2" came out Nov. 10 and racked up
$310 million in sales by the end of the next day. The first-day take for the
blockbuster movie "Avatar" (following an ex-Marine remotely fighting through a
video-game-like battle environment), was "a measly $27 million."

Mr. Singer points out that realistic video games can provide excellent training
and are used to teach soldiers about battlefield medicine, sexual harassment and
other noncombat things. But the big concern is that U.S. troops will come to see
combat as a game as they sit at computers firing missiles or operating robots.
He quotes Ken Robinson, a Special Forces veteran:

"You lose an avatar; just reboot the game. In real life, you lose your guy;
you've lost your guy. And then you've got to bury him, and then you've got to
call his wife."

b> FLY THE TRASHY SKIES

/b>

Erin Schneider at emagazine says "airplane exhaust and greenhouse gases go
hand-in-hand. But aviation waste of a different kind has also become a serious
environmental concern. Air travelers produce an estimated 7.5 million pounds of
trash every day from improperly discarding paper, plastic and food waste both
while waiting in the terminal and on board.

"The Natural Resources Defense Council, an environmental advocacy group, reports
that 75 percent of the trash produced by air travelers is recyclable, and that
only 20 percent of that matter actually reaches a recycling center. Although
recycling procedures vary by airline and airport, recycling at airports needs a
serious overhaul."

b> TAKE MY BROTHER ... PLEASE

/b>

The Infinonymous blog says Adam Ravenstahl's run for state representative may no
longer "[rest] solely on his status as the even-younger brother of [Pittsburgh
Mayor] Luke Ravenstahl." It notes that Adam Ravenstahl now "complains about
politicians who put 'self-interest ahead of the public interest' " and goes on
to remark:

"Some might have been too quick to dismiss Adam Ravenstahl as just another
unaccomplished, juvenile product of nepotism. His first piece of campaign
literature indicates he will conduct a principled reform campaign committed to
ridding local politics of the likes of Luke Ravenstahl."

b> TIPPING TOWARD SOCIALISM?

/b>

The Heritage Foundation:

"Despite the famed 1996 Welfare Reform Act and the more recent welfare
adjustments in 2006, 60.8 million Americans remain dependent on the government
for their daily housing, food and health care. The number of taxpayers is
shrinking -- and the country may be rapidly approaching the point where more
than one-third of Americans do not pay taxes for benefits they receive.

"In February 2009, the Democrat-controlled Congress and the new Obama
administration may have driven the final stake into the heart of any semblance
of fiscal responsibility when they enacted the American Recovery and
Reinvestment Act -- essentially overturning the fiscal foundation of welfare
reform. Starting in 2016, Social Security will not collect enough in taxes to
pay all of the promised benefits ... Add in spiraling academic grants, flat-out
farm socialism and the swelling ranks of Americans who believe themselves
entitled to public-sector benefits for which they pay few or no taxes, and
Americans must ask themselves whether they are near a tipping point in the
nature of their government."

b> TALK-SHOW PARTISANS

/b>

The local blog Eight Days to Amish takes sides in the talk-show wars:

"In two weeks/two months/two years, it will be like it was before Conan moved to
'The Tonight Show.' Jay will still be on top by margins large enough to madden
Letterman and his supporters. Jimmys Fallon and Kimmel will continue to perform
to numbers equivalent to large family reunions, and Craig Ferguson will quietly
continue to put on the best show of the whole bunch. And people who like third-
or fourth-ranked Conan will continue to be furious that the rest of us don't
appreciate his apparent genius.

"We live in times of such jaded partisanship we feel forced to take sides in
silly talk-show wars. Really, who cares?"

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Compiled by Greg Victor (gvictor@post-gazette.com).

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              243 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                             March 14, 2010 Sunday
                                TWO STAR EDITION

RETURN OF THE RIGHT;
QUAKE GIVES NEW CHILEAN PRESIDENT, FIRST CONSERVATIVE IN POWER IN 50 YEARS,
CHANCE TO BE SEEN AS TOUGH, MODERNIZING FORCE

BYLINE: Alexei Barrionuevo, The New York Times

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. A-4

LENGTH: 1141 words


SANTIAGO, Chile

Chile's powerful earthquake buried people and homes in a broad swath of the
coastal south, but it may also have given the country's new right-wing coalition
government a chance to entomb the ghosts of the former dictator Gen. Augusto
Pinochet.

The Feb. 27 quake struck during a pivotal transition, just as Sebastian Pinera,
a billionaire businessman and former senator, prepared to assume the presidency
as the first elected right-wing leader in Chile in 50 years. He is the first
president from the right of any kind since Gen. Pinochet stepped down in 1990,
returning Chile to democracy after a bloody dictatorship.

Mr. Pinera, who campaigned on a platform of job creation and law and order, may
now have a freer hand to crack down on delinquency and drug-trafficking. He is
already billing himself as the "reconstruction president," embarking on an
open-ended endeavor that could give him a lasting edge over the rival
center-left Concertacion coalition, which was viewed as responding slowly in the
immediate aftermath of the disaster.

Benjamin Leal, 38, a psychology professor, survived the tsunami that barreled
through the port city of Talcahuano, leaving close to half of its 250,000
residents homeless. Then he endured the riotous aftermath, as looters and
vandals stole what they could while the government of the departing president,
Michelle Bachelet, hesitated for 36 hours to call in the military.

"We were just shown a shameful example that delinquency was not being attacked
well by this previous government," Mr. Leal said. He stood nervously last week
outside his apartment building, where truck-sized shipping containers that had
been blown onto the street by the tsunami were threatening to topple onto his
building.

"Here there is extreme poverty and sometimes it's a jungle, where the law of the
strongest rules," he said. "We expect Mr. Pinera to change that."

The political climate has changed since Mr. Pinera was elected in January. Then
there were pressing questions about his vast business holdings and ties to
former military and Cabinet officials from the Pinochet era.

Now, Mr. Pinera appears to have a fresh opportunity to be seen as the tough,
modernizing force that voters were clamoring for when they elected him over
former President Eduardo Frei, the candidate for the Concertacion coalition,
which had held power for two decades.

Mr. Pinera's 22-member Cabinet is composed almost exclusively of technocrats
from the corporate right. Most are economists from the conservative Catholic
University in Santiago who hold master's degrees and doctorates from prestigious
American universities. Mr. Pinera himself has a doctorate in economics from
Harvard.

"He has the business management experience that we need now," Claudio Torres, an
oil refinery subcontractor, said last week in Talcahuano, while pushing a
grocery cart up a hill after filling a cooking pot with potable water from a
municipal truck.

"This is a twist of fate that after 50 years of the right not being in power Mr.
Pinera has the chance to modernize the country, to make it something better than
it was before," said Marta Lagos, who runs a polling agency here. "If the right
is smart and does at least a decent job, it will be around for a while."

For the first time since the Pinochet government, the military was patrolling
Chilean streets last week, swiftly restoring order and winning praise from
residents for their benevolence and professionalism. Mr. Pinera has said he
would like to see the army stay in the earthquake zone beyond the 30-day limit
imposed by law.

Despite the military's best efforts to avoid clashes, news broke late Wednesday
of a possible deadly episode. Five members of a navy infantry patrol were
detained by the navy on suspicion of participation in the death of a civilian in
Hualpen early Wednesday morning, during the military curfew, Adm. Roberto
Macchiavello told Radio Cooperativa.

Most Chileans under 35 years old are too young to remember the brutally
repressive role the military played under Gen. Pinochet. Many soldiers on the
streets of Concepcion last week were toddlers when the dictatorship was coming
to an end.

But its conduct during the quake's aftermath underscored that the military is no
longer a political actor in Chile. Generals no longer make political statements,
offer opinions on public issues or try to intervene in public affairs as they
did in the past.

"What is important right now is that the army is on the side of our
compatriots," Gen. Juan Miguel Fuente-Alba said Tuesday during a ceremony in
which he took over as commander in chief of the army.

The quake has been less beneficial to the left, at least for now. Ms. Bachelet
originally surged onto the national political scene in 2002 after a famous
incident when, as the minister of defense, she jumped atop a tank in the rain
during an operation to help flood victims. But after last month's quake Ms.
Bachelet, who herself was imprisoned and tortured during the military
dictatorship, hesitated to send in troops to keep peace on the streets.

"Her term began with criticism that she didn't know how to lead and ended with
that same criticism," Marta Lagos said. "At the end she showed weakness. For her
the earthquake will be like Chappaquiddick was for Ted Kennedy."

Mr. Pinera was one of the founders of the right-wing parties created in the
latter half of the 1980s that supported the military government but also played
an intermediary role between the dictatorship and the opposition -- later to
become the Concertacion -- in negotiating the terms of the transition to
democracy.

Some analysts said Mr. Pinera's honeymoon could be short-lived if he appeared to
favor private business interests in the reconstruction effort, estimated to cost
at least $12 billion. His choices for governors in Santiago and Maule, in the
quake zone, were chief executives of engineering and construction companies.

His refusal to leave the management of his business affairs to others had
already drawn comparisons to Italian prime minister Silvio Berlusconi. Since the
earthquake, Mr. Pinera, the fourth-richest man in Chile, has said he will delay
his divestment of his remaining 11 percent stake in Lan Airlines until April 30
because of the "serious consequences of the earthquake and tsunami," according
to a press release from Bancard, one of his investment groups..

"All of this has put the issue of Pinera's business interests and possible
conflict of interest on the back burner, but not for long," said Robert Funk,
academic vice director at the Institute of Public Affairs of the University of
Chile.

"If reconstruction efforts start leaning toward the private sector, many people
will start to question what ties members of government have with companies
involved in reconstruction projects.," he said. "People will be on alert."

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Aliosha Marquez: Chile's President Sebastian Pinera waves to
supporters after his swearing-in ceremony in Valparaiso, Chile, on Thursday.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              250 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                             March 28, 2010 Sunday
                                TWO STAR EDITION

CATHOLIC SCHOOLS DEPENDENT ON FOUNDATIONS FACE A STRUGGLE

BYLINE: Eleanor Chute, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. A-11

LENGTH: 1528 words


Donations have been critical for the survival of some Catholic schools.

But in the changing economy, some of that support is shifting, triggering school
closings and causing some parents to dig deeper to pay tuition in the Catholic
Diocese of Pittsburgh.

Consider these examples:

* The Maronda Foundation -- led by the late William Wolf of Maronda Homes to
help Catholic education and other programs -- relies primarily on contributions
from Maronda Homes. Its IRS return shows its total contributions fell from $16.5
million in 2007 to $506,201 in 2008, the year Mr. Wolf died. Figures are not
available for 2009.

The foundation's net assets or fund balance was $43.15 million at the end of
2008, a decrease of about $10 million from a year earlier.

* The Extra Mile Education Foundation -- formed about 20 years ago and
instrumental in keeping Catholic schools open in low-income city neighborhoods
-- recorded a $4.5 million loss on investments in 2008, with $13.9 million
listed in net assets or fund balance at the end of the year, according to an IRS
return. Figures for 2009 are not yet available.

* The state reduced its Educational Improvement Tax Credits -- which, among
other things, provide tuition assistance to parochial students through tax
credits to businesses -- from $75 million to $60 million this fiscal year. The
total will fall to $50 million next year in a budget-reduction move.

The tally isn't in yet for how this will affect the diocese's Scholastic
Opportunity Scholarship Fund -- which received about $3 million in 2008-09 to
help families pay for a Catholic K-12 education -- but the Rev. Kris Stubna,
diocesan secretary for Catholic education, expects less money this year.

* The Bishop's Education Fund, which now has an endowment of nearly $20 million,
helps pay tuition assistance for families with financial need. The assistance
had reached about $800,000 a year, but fell to about $650,000 this year because
of investment losses, according to Father Stubna.

The economy presents challenges for both funders and families.

Overall, Father Stubna said, "I think it affects us directly. I believe that
many of our schools have to obviously continue to work hard at finding
additional new sources of revenue. We're certainly tightening up every way we
can on expense.

"I think clearly the tuition aid continues to be a tough issue. There are some
families that depend on that greatly. If the amount of aid they receive becomes
significantly less, they may not be able to keep their children in school. If we
lose the enrollments, that becomes a problem."

There are 108 Catholic schools in the six-county diocese, with 24,000 students
in pre-K through 12th grade. Not counting any closings this coming fall, the
diocese has lost 10 schools and about 6,000 students since fall 2004.

A traditional reason for school closings is a change in demographics, with fewer
school-age children in some areas.

Following the traditional pattern was this month's announcement that the
101-year-old St. Athanasius Catholic School in West View -- which has 79
students -- will close in June because of declining enrollment.

In some areas, enrollment has grown: St. Kilian in Cranberry, the first new
school in the diocese since the 1960s, opened in fall 2007.

Father Stubna said more than half of Catholic schools in the diocese have
growing or stable enrollments.

"The real challenge is when a school gets to be too small. The economics become
a much larger problem," he said.

In some cases, schools face challenges beyond the size of their enrollments,
such as a gap left when a major contributor pulls out.

St. John of God in McKees Rocks relied on the Maronda Foundation for more than
half of its budget; St. Joseph in Coraopolis counted on it for about a third of
its budget. This month, the foundation announced the grants will be
discontinued.

While no formal decisions have been made, both schools are in danger of closing.

"When that goes all of a sudden like that, it's almost impossible to recover,"
Father Stubna said.

At St. John of God, families received so much tuition aid that families paid an
average of $650 a year, well below the average elementary tuition rate of about
$3,000 a year.

If the schools were to stay open, each would need to charge $7,000 a year, a
figure near the average high school tuition in the diocese, Father Stubna said.

Our Lady of the Sacred Heart High School in Coraopolis, which is operated by the
Felician Sisters, also has received Maronda money, but the school's president
did not return phone calls.

Combined, St. John of God in McKees Rocks and St. Joseph in Coraopolis received
more than $9 million from the Maronda Foundation over the years.

"The flip side of that is that's really why they're still open. They would have
closed years ago under the normal scenario," Father Stubna said.

St. John of God and St. Joseph were the last two Catholic elementary schools in
the diocese to receive Maronda money. Three other schools -- Elizabeth Seton
Regional in Sheraden, St. Titus in Aliquippa and Mount Gallitzin in Baden --
closed at the end of last school year after they were told they would no longer
receive Maronda money.

Two Catholic high schools -- Bishop Canevin in the Oakwood neighborhood of the
city and Quigley in Baden -- managed to survive when money was cut even though
each received more than $1 million from Maronda in 2008.

Their enrollment figures show that the tuition assistance made a difference.

At Bishop Canevin, for example, enrollment grew steadily as Maronda gave money,
from 334 in 2004-05 to 379 the following year to 441 the next year to 484 the
year after that to 510 in 2008-09.

But when Maronda's tuition assistance ceased, enrollment fell to 462 this school
year, a decline of 48 students, largely freshmen.

Even so, Father Stubna said that high schools are better prepared than
elementary schools to weather the storm because high schools typically are
larger, have a board of directors and have a full-time development office.

"There are other means to try to augment the loss of funding. It continues to be
a struggle, but they have more resources," he said.

Given the decline in its endowment, Extra Mile executive director Ambrose Murray
said, "In terms of both the financial performance and in terms of the overall
climate for fund-raising, we've felt an impact certainly."

He said the foundation had a "great couple of years with some nice generous
gifts. Some of that was not repeated in 2009. That has affected us."

But he added, "We're still very much in the hunt. We still have a great group of
donors who are very generous and believe as we do that this is very important."

Earlier this month, Extra Mile announced it was consolidating four schools into
two as a way to ensure the future of the program.

Holy Rosary in Homewood and St. James in Wilkinsburg will combine this fall. The
location is expected to be at the St. James site under a new name.

St. Benedict the Moor in the Hill District and St. Agnes on the Lower Hill will
be combined the following fall at a location to be determined by the end of the
calendar year.

Mr. Murray said Extra Mile had been working on a long-range plan for a couple of
years. The consolidation, he said, will "solidify our ability to do this for a
long, long time."

Once the plan is fully in effect, the foundation expects to subsidize the two
consolidated schools at $1.7 million a year. This year, the subsidy was $2.2
million for the four schools, a figure that would have grown to $2.6 million
this fall.

In a couple of years, the foundation may be able to offer more scholarships to
other Catholic schools as well, said Father Stubna.

Despite some of the losses in endowments, he said, "There are many people in the
community who continue to provide resources so that our Catholic schools can
remain viable."

Applications from families throughout the diocese who need financial assistance
to attend Catholic schools are due May 1.

Tuition rates are likely to be set around May, with the financial aid awards
going out in late June or early July. Last year, more than 8,000 students
applied.

The actual awards will depend on how many apply and how much money is available.
Depending on school and need, awards could range from 10 percent of need to
about 65 percent, with the higher figure more likely at the high schools.

"The parents may have to give a little bit more, but we're all going to work
together to see if we can get through this period," Father Stubna said.

If St. John of God does close, Patty Paul of McKees Rocks plans to send her
daughter, Jennifer, now a third-grader, to St. Malachy in Kennedy, about 2.5
miles away.

But Ms. Paul will be giving up a piece of her history. Her grandparents,
parents, her two brothers, she herself and her daughter all attended parochial
schools within a McKees Rocks parish.

"The school means everything to me," she said. "It's great school."

In Homewood, Holy Rosary School next month will celebrate 100 years in the same
building.

Holy Rosary President Gwendolyn Young hopes to keep the school's legacy alive
but also has told the children that "it's a new adventure, new experiences and
ways to grow and expand."

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Education writer Eleanor Chute: echute@post-gazette.com or 412-263-1955./

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              255 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                             April 3, 2010 Saturday
                                 SOONER EDITION

WINDOW FIRM BASKS IN STIMULUS SPOTLIGHT

BYLINE: Jennifer Lin, Philadelphia Inquirer

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. A-7

LENGTH: 759 words


A year ago, had you asked Alan Levin about the highest accolade of his career,
he probably would have pointed to his mention as an up-and-coming manufacturer
by Window & Door Magazine.

But that was before the White House came calling.

And President Barack Obama cited him in the 2010 State of the Union address.

And CNN and ABC World News interviewed him.

And Vice President Joe Biden's staff blogged about him.

The last few months have been nothing short of "crazy," marvels Mr. Levin's
wife, Fran.

And it got crazier Friday around Philadelphia's Northeast Building Products --
the window factory that Washington has anointed its star of stimulus spending.

A phalanx of reporters followed the 42-year-old Mr. Levin as he gave a tour of
his Bridesburg plant to U.S. Secretary of Housing and Urban Development Shaun
Donovan, with Mayor Michael Nutter and Gov. Ed Rendell in tow.

"You are the best example in the country," Mr. Donovan told Mr. Levin, "of what
the economic recovery act has done in getting the economy back on track."

Not one of the best.

The best.

Since last summer, more than $100 million in stimulus funds have flowed from HUD
into Philadelphia's housing and redevelopment agencies -- and from there, into
construction-related businesses. At Northeast Building Products, thousands of
orders for windows have come in.

Homeowners, meanwhile, are buying up the company's energy-efficient windows in
order to take advantage of $1,500 tax credits.

Sales are up 39 percent. The factory has almost doubled its work force, to 285,
and gone to a 24/7 schedule.

Friday's visit felt like a pep rally, and indeed, Mr. Donovan had something to
cheer. Earlier in the day, the Obama administration announced an increase of
162,000 jobs in March, the highest employment jump in three years.

After a one-hour tour of the factory's production line, Mr. Donovan stood before
an American flag and proclaimed to workers, "More than 100 of you are here for
one reason -- because President Obama signed the Economic Recovery Act into
law."

All the screeching and banging and pounding on the factory floor stopped for a
moment as political VIPs took turns talking up the stimulus spending.

Standing on the factory floor with other employees, Dave Dorman, 27, who was
hired 10 months ago, said he was skeptical of the president's plan at first. But
"you can see it right in front of your face," he said. "It's working."

Northeast Building Products was started 35 years ago in the garage of Irv and
Elaine Levin, Alan's parents.

Last year, its workers made 200,000 energy-efficient windows, of which 130,000
qualified for tax credits.

In HUD stimulus money for Philadelphia, PHA got $126 million for capital
projects, while the RDA recently won a competitive bid for $44 million to
restore foreclosed homes.

The housing authority is adding 900 apartments, requiring 8,000 windows from
Northeast Building Products, said Carl Greene, PHA's executive director.

After the Inquirer featured Northeast Products in a front-page story on Sept.
20, 2009, ABC News picked up the story, and HUD and the White House took note.

On the morning of Jan. 27, Mr. Levin got a call from a White House speechwriter.
She said the president might want to mention his company in the State of the
Union address. Would that be OK?

"Ten minutes before 9, she called back and said, 'You made the cut. Go watch
TV,' " Mr. Levin recalled.

In defending his stimulus plan, Mr. Obama told the nation, "Talk to the window
manufacturer in Philadelphia who said he was skeptical of the Recovery Act until
he added two shifts due to the business it created."

"Within three minutes of that, I got an e-mail from CNN saying, 'We need Alan
immediately,' " said Fran Levin, 39, an executive vice president of the
business.

ABC News and Bloomberg TV included the company in stories about stimulus
spending. U.S. Secretary of Commerce Gary Locke, meanwhile, held up the company
as an example of "green" jobs at a 2009 U.N. Climate Change conference in
Copenhagen.

On Monday, Fran and Alan were packing for a family trip to Germany and England
when they got the call from HUD.

Mr. Donovan wanted to visit.

Fran and the couple's two children canceled their vacation, but Alan had to keep
an appointment to inspect a new $2 million production line made in Stuttgart,
Germany.

He returned Thursday afternoon -- just in time to take a call from a staffer in
the vice president's office. The White House included an item about Mr. Levin on
a blog about recovery success stories.

"He's floating," Fran said of her husband after his whirlwind week.

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jewel Samad/Agence France-Presse/Getty Images: President Barack
Obama speaks at a town hall meeting at Celgard, an advanced battery technology
manufacturer, in Charlotte, N.C. Mr. Obama said that "encouraging" data
indicates that the U.S. economy is creating jobs again, proving the country is
beginning to turn the corner on high unemployment.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              268 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                             April 30, 2010 Friday
                                 SOONER EDITION

BELGIUM VOTES TO BAN FULL VEILS

BYLINE: Compiled from news services

SECTION: WORLD; WORLD BRIEFS; Pg. A-4

LENGTH: 544 words


PARIS -- Belgian lawmakers on Thursday approved a nationwide ban prohibiting
women from wearing full-face Islamic veils in public places, the first move of
its kind in Western Europe.

The unanimous vote came in response to growing irritation in Belgium and other
Western European countries over the increasing numbers and visibility of Muslims
whose customs and attitudes often present a challenge to the continent's largely
Christian heritage.

The bill forbids anyone to appear in public with his or her face hidden in a way
that makes identification impossible. Violators face fines of $18 to $28 and
prison terms of one to seven days.

The law must now be voted on by the Senate. With elections on the horizon and a
caretaker government in place, it could be some time before it can go into
effect.

Putin wants 'spring clean'

MOSCOW -- Prime Minister Vladimir Putin demanded a "spring cleaning" of Russia's
section of the Arctic Thursday as he joined an expedition to study the region's
threatened polar bears.

Mr. Putin said the clean-up was needed to deal with the aftermath of oil drums
and scrap metal abandoned by the Soviet army. As many as 60,000 tons of oil
products were dumped on Franz Josef Land, Russia's northernmost territory,
according to the premier's website.Russia is seeking to expand its presence in
the Arctic as climate change opens up access to resources as the ice cover
recedes.

Credit downgrade looms

ATHENS, Greece -- Prime Minister George Papandreou warned of more "painful"
decisions for Greeks Thursday amid violent protests and a caution from ratings
agency Moody's of a possible "multi-notch downgrade."

Mr. Papandreou hinted strongly at the need to take broader new austerity
measures, as bailout negotiations with the European Union and the International
Monetary Fund appeared to be drawing to a close.

India, Pakistan pledge

NEW DELHI -- Senior Indian and Pakistani officials pledged Thursday to improve
frosty relations between their nations after a meeting between their prime
ministers at the periphery of a regional summit in Bhutan.

While India and Pakistan have been here many times before, only to see relations
quickly deteriorate, the positive tone represents a break with months of
squabbling and sniping. As a next step, the foreign ministers are expected to
meet, reportedly without preconditions.

Thais want 'anarchy' to end

BANGKOK -- Thai pro-establishment activists demanded military action against
anti-government protesters and an end to "anarchy" in the capital Thursday, a
day after clashes turned a busy expressway into a deadly battle zone.

Chamlong Srimuang, a top Yellow Shirt leader, suggested that martial law be
imposed, handing over most state functions to the military, and warned that
civil war might ensue if the rival "Red Shirt" protesters are not stopped.

Tougher cigarette rules

SYDNEY -- Australia said Thursday it will force tobacco companies to strip all
logos and color from their packaging, a move that will leave cigarette packs
decorated with only a few words and graphic warning images of shriveled,
diseased lungs or gangrenous toes.

The government said the move would make Australia the world's toughest country
on tobacco advertising and is aimed unashamedly at driving more people away from
the habit.

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              270 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                              May 4, 2010 Tuesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

BIG GOVERNMENT VS. SMALL BUSINESS;
BUSINESS OWNERS REMAIN PESSIMISTIC EVEN AS THE ECONOMY REBOUNDS

BYLINE: Bill Dunkelberg

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. B-7

LENGTH: 498 words


What is the third-largest country in the world based on output? It is America's
small businesses. Collectively, they produce half of the U.S. private gross
domestic product, employ over 60 percent of the private-sector workforce, create
the majority of new jobs in the country and, being innovators, "out patent" the
larger companies in the economy.

Small business is the "R&D" of the U.S. economy. It is where new ideas, new
products and new methods are tested.

If successful, a small enterprise is rewarded with profits to finance expansion
and imitation, as new competitors seek to capitalize on successes. It is the
entrepreneurial spirit of America that has energized our economy and made it the
most successful in history.

But small business is under assault.

Historically, the job of the small business owner has been to produce goods and
services for consumers at the lowest possible cost, which, in turn, creates
jobs. Over the years, Congress and state legislatures have steadily attempted to
convert our nation's small businesses into tools of social change. Unable to
"sell" voters on financing their social agendas, governments have attempted to
shift more and more of the cost of such programs onto the nation's small firms.

The most valuable asset a small firm has is the time and energy of its driving
entrepreneur. These have been slowly drained and diverted by government policies
-- by higher taxes, more regulations and more mandates.

The health care bill just passed will further strain the resources of our small
businesses. It includes such requirements as the issuance of 1099 statements for
all transactions amounting to $600 or more (why is this in a health care bill?)
and the construction of separate facilities where new mothers can nurse their
babies in private (specifically excluding the use of bathroom facilities).

It seems like every bill Congress passes is stuffed with these little trifles,
which may be small items on someone's personal agenda but which cumulatively
deplete the energy and resources of small businesses.

It is no wonder that for the past two years small business owners have been in a
funk.

The Optimism Index of The National Federation of Independent Business has
registered below 90 for eight quarters. In comparison, during the 1980-1982
recession, the index fell to this level in only one quarter. Hiring and
capital-spending levels continue at 35-year lows.

At the bottom of the 1980-1982 recession, a net 47 percent of federation members
expected business conditions to be better six months into the future. Today,
that figure is minus 8 percent (8 percent more members expect the economy to
weaken than expect it to improve), 55 percentage points worse.

Meanwhile, the economy has grown for the past nine months and the "bottom" is
thought by many observers to have occurred last July. The stock market is back,
too.

So why do small business owners remain so pessimistic?

Uncertainty. And the major source of this uncertainty is government.

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Dr. Bill Dunkelberg is chief economist for the National Federation of
Independent Business and a board member of the Commonwealth Foundation, a
nonprofit research and advocacy organization based in Harrisburg that supports
limited government and free markets (www.commonwealth foundation.org)./

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              271 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                               May 7, 2010 Friday
                                 SOONER EDITION

SESTAK AD CRITICIZES SPECTER'S PARTY SWITCH

BYLINE: James O'Toole, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. B-2

LENGTH: 569 words


Challenger Joe Sestak spotlights Sen. Arlen Specter's decades as a Republican in
a new ad that attempts to undermine Mr. Specter's standing with Democratic
voters with his own tactical analysis of his Democratic conversion.

Footage repeated at the beginning and end of the ad shows Mr. Specter
explaining, "My change in parties will enable me to be re-elected."

Those moments bookend images of Mr. Specter appearing with former Sen. Rick
Santorum and former President George W. Bush at a rally where the ex-president
refers to Mr. Specter as "a firm ally."

As the 30-second spot dissolves away from a shot of Mr. Specter standing with
Sarah Palin, a narrator says, "Arlen Specter changed parties to save one job --
his, not yours."

The 30-second commercial seeks to convey Mr. Sestak's central argument against
the veteran senator -- that he is a political opportunist exploiting Democratic
voters for his own gain. The new ad followed earlier Sestak commercials in which
he had introduced himself to voters, and responded to the incumbent's charges
about the circumstances surrounding the retired admiral's removal from a senior
position in the Pentagon.

Mr. Specter continued his attacks on the Delaware County congressman in ads in
which he repeated earlier criticism over missed congressional votes and the low
salaries Mr. Sestak pays to many of his campaign staffers.

While trying to play offense with the new commercial attack, the Sestak campaign
continued to defend the former admiral's naval record in a conference call
showcasing an endorsement from a veterans' group, VETPAC. Various speakers
rebutted the Specter campaign's criticism, contending that it amounts to
swift-boating of the 31-year Navy veteran.

Mr. Specter has repeated charges that Mr. Sestak was fired from a top Navy post
for creating a poor command climate. Mr. Sestak insisted he was transferred in a
normal course of a transition from one chief of naval operations to another. Mr.
Specter has encouraged his challenger to prove his version of events by
releasing his personnel records. Mr. Sestak contends that the attacks are a slur
on a 31-year record of defending his country.

"Specter's tactics are far too reminiscent of the dishonest attacks we saw
against Max Cleland and John Kerry," said Lorin Walker, a VETPAC official.
"Admiral Sestak is right to not dignify these tactics and give in to Specter's
insulting demands."

The Specter campaign counter-programmed the veterans' endorsement Thursday with
its own announcement of the formation of a Veterans for Specter coalition.

In a statement distributed by the campaign, a former state VFW commander, Tom
Dougherty, called the senator, "someone who's shown his concern for veterans,
and has delivered for us with additional funding for health care and education
programs."

On the eve of the last full week of the campaign before the May 18 primary, the
two contenders will continue their cut-and-thrust today in dueling appearances
in Western Pennsylvania.

Mr. Sestak hopes to draw attention to his critique of the incumbent with a
lunchtime appearance at the Hill House. Mr. Specter will demonstrate his support
from the Democratic establishment as he tours a proposed maglev transportation
facility in McKeesport with U.S. Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood. Later, he
is scheduled to speak at the dinner of the Allegheny County Labor Council, one
of the many labor groups supporting him.

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Politics Editor James O'Toole: jotoole@post-gazette.com or 412-263-1562.
/

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              276 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                             May 19, 2010 Wednesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

HOUSING STARTS JUMP AS WHOLESALE PRICES FALL

BYLINE: Shobhana Chandra and Courtney Schlisserman, Bloomberg News

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. A-10

LENGTH: 561 words


Work began on more U.S. houses in April than at any time in over a year and
wholesale prices unexpectedly decreased, showing the economy is strengthening
without stoking inflation.

Housing starts rose to a 672,000 annual rate last month, exceeding the median
forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News and the highest level since
October 2008, according to Commerce Department figures Tuesday in Washington.
Another report showed producer prices dropped 0.1 percent, the second decrease
in the past three months.

Permits fell last month by the most since December 2008, a sign homebuilding
will pause after a tax-induced jump in sales boosted companies like D.R. Horton
Inc. Rising raw-material costs aren't making their way up production lines, the
price report showed, underscoring why Federal Reserve policy makers project
inflation will be contained.

"It's encouraging to see starts gain some traction, but the decline in permits
takes some of the luster off," said Jonathan Basile, an economist at Credit
Suisse in New York, who forecast the increase in construction and the drop in
prices. "Inflation is subdued. There are cost pressures in the pipeline, but
they're not leaving the factory."

Stocks fell and Treasury securities rose as Germany's plan to ban certain types
of bearish investments sent the euro to a four-year low against the dollar. The
Standard & Poor's 500 Index dropped 1.4 percent to 1,120.8. The S&P
Supercomposite Homebuilding Index declined 1.1 percent.

The 10-year Treasury note increased, pushing down the yield to 3.38 percent from
3.50 percent late Monday.

Building permits, which are considered a leading indicator for home building,
fell 12 percent to a 606,000 annual rate last month, the report showed.
Applications for both single-family and multifamily projects decreased.

"With the first-time homebuyer credit behind us, we are not going to see the
strength of housing demand we have in the last few months as people rushed to
take advantage of that program," Harvard University economics professor Martin
Feldstein said.

Mr. Feldstein is a member of the National Bureau of Economic Research's Business
Cycle Dating Committee, the panel charged with determining when U.S. recessions
start and end.

Starts were forecast to rise to a 650,000 annual rate, according to the median
projection of 77 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Estimates ranged from 620,000
to 700,000. The Commerce Department revised March data up to 635,000 from a
previously reported 626,000.

Starts rose 41 percent in April from the same month last year, the biggest
year-over-year gain since 1994, while permits increased 16 percent.

Construction of single-family houses increased 10 percent to a 593,000 rate in
April, while permits fell 11 percent. Work on multifamily homes, such as
townhouses and apartment buildings, dropped 19 percent to an annual rate of
79,000.

Building is climbing after sales jumped following a government incentive of as
much as $8,000 helped reduce the number of unsold new houses. Sales of new homes
surged in March by the most since 1963, while purchases of existing homes rose
for the first time in four months.

The jump in sales brought the number of new houses for sale down to 228,000, the
lowest since March 1971, allowing builders more room to begin projects even as
they compete with foreclosed homes coming back on the market.

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              280 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                              May 25, 2010 Tuesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

OUTDOOR SUPER BOWL ON SLATE

BYLINE: From wire dispatches

SECTION: SPORTS; NFL NOTEBOOK; Pg. D-7

LENGTH: 320 words


Ready for an outdoor Super Bowl in cold, possibly snowy weather? Thinking that
new overtime rule adopted for playoff games should be used in the regular
season, too?

NFL owners will discuss those things and more today in Dallas.

The 2014 Super Bowl site definitely will be picked. It's widely expected to go
to the new $1.6 billion Meadowlands stadium in New Jersey that will become home
to the Jets and Giants this season, although Miami and Tampa, Fla., also are
bidding.

The new stadium would seem like a natural site for the NFL's marquee event,
especially with league headquarters in Manhattan. But there's a fundamental
problem: the Meadowlands doesn't have a roof and temperatures are usually in the
20s during early February in East Rutherford, N.J. There's even a league rule
aimed at ensuring good weather, either by playing in a warm climate or by having
a roof, but that rule was waived for this bid.

When owners previously met in March, they voted to change the sudden-death rule
so that if a team losing the coin toss immediately gives up a field goal, they
still get a chance to score and either tie it or win -- but only in the
playoffs. There's a sentiment that the rule also should be used in the regular
season.

Broncos

There is speculation that Denver is considering trading starter Kyle Orton to
make room for Brady Quinn and Tim Tebow or maybe even Tom Brandstater. But coach
Josh McDaniels said none of the quarterbacks have been the subject of trade
talks.

Texans

Receiver Andre Johnson is no longer relying solely on his uncle for contract
advice. Johnson said he hired Kennard McGuire as his agent. Johnson wants a new
contract. He has five years left on an 8-year deal worth $60 million.

Elsewhere

A congressional committee criticized the NFL's research into equipment,
particularly helmets, questioning if player safety is indeed being given top
priority in an "infected system that needs to be cleaned up."

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              288 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                              June 13, 2010 Sunday
                                TWO STAR EDITION

$50 BILLION SOUGHT TO AID STATES, TOWNS

BYLINE: Lori Montgomery, The Washington Post

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. A-7

LENGTH: 770 words


WASHINGTON -- President Barack Obama urged reluctant lawmakers Saturday to
quickly approve nearly $50 billion in emergency aid to state and local
governments, saying the money is needed to avoid "massive layoffs of teachers,
police and firefighters" and to support the still-fragile economic recovery.

In a letter to congressional leaders, Mr. Obama defended last year's huge
economic stimulus package, saying it helped break the economy's freefall, but
argued that more spending is urgent and unavoidable. "We must take these
emergency measures," he wrote in an appeal aimed primarily at members of his own
party.

The letter comes as rising concern about the national debt is undermining
congressional support for additional spending to bolster the economy. Many
economists say more spending could help bring down persistently high
unemployment, but with Republicans making an issue of the record deficits run up
during the recession, many Democratic lawmakers are eager to turn off the
stimulus tap.

"I think there is spending fatigue," House Majority Leader Steny Hoyer, D-Md.,
said recently. "It's tough in both houses to get votes."

Democrats, particularly in the House, have voted for politically costly
initiatives at Mr. Obama's insistence, most notably health-care and climate
change legislation. But faced with an electorate widely viewed as angry and
hostile to incumbents, many are increasingly reluctant to take politically
unpopular positions.

Last month, the House stripped Mr. Obama's request for $24 billion in state aid
from a bill that also would extend emergency benefits for jobless workers.
Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, D-Nev., has said he hopes to restore that
funding, but with debate in that chamber set to resume this week, Democrats say
they have yet to assemble the votes for final passage. And neither chamber has
mustered support for another Obama priority: $23 billion to avert the layoffs of
as many as 300,000 public school teachers.

Senior Democratic aides said the White House is partially at fault because it
has not made additional spending on the economy a clear priority.

In recent weeks, the White House has appeared more intent on cutting spending --
calling for the sale of vacant buildings, threatening to veto a defense bill
over a jet engine project the Pentagon views as unnecessary and urging every
agency to come up with a list of low-priority programs for elimination. Mr.
Obama has also proposed a three-year freeze in discretionary spending unrelated
to national security, an idea endorsed by leaders of both parties at a meeting
at the White House last week, according to White House chief of staff Rahm
Emanuel.

With the letter, however, Mr. Obama makes a direct and unequivocal case for
additional "targeted investments," including state aid and several
less-expensive initiatives aimed at assisting small businesses, and he asks
lawmakers to be patient on the deficit.

"It is essential that we continue to explore additional measures to spur job
creation and build momentum toward recovery, even as we establish a path to
long-term fiscal discipline," the president wrote. "At this critical moment, we
cannot afford to slide backwards just as our recovery is taking hold."

In an interview, Mr. Emanuel said the letter is intended to settle the growing
debate over the opposing priorities of job creation and deficit reduction and
"where you put your thumb on the scale."

"While some people say you have to spend and some people say you have to cut,
the president wants to talk about both cuts and investing," Mr. Emanuel said.

Don Stewart, a spokesman for Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky.,
called the letter full of "contradictions."

"He's calling on Congress to pass a [jobless] bill that will add about $80
billion to the deficit, but then calls for fiscal discipline; he says these
measures need to be targeted and temporary, but then calls for extending
programs passed in the stimulus more than a year ago," Mr. Stewart said in an
e-mail.

Mr. Stewart said Republicans have offered an alternative package that would cut
deficits by nearly $55 billion over the next decade, according to the
nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office.

The politics of the Democratic bill before the Senate are further complicated
because it has become a grab bag of must-pass provisions. In addition to state
aid and more money for jobless benefits, it includes a plan to extend $32
billion in expired tax breaks for individuals and businesses and a separate
provision, known as the "doc fix," that would postpone until 2012 a scheduled
pay cut for doctors who see Medicare patients.

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              292 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                              June 20, 2010 Sunday
                                TWO STAR EDITION

WASHINGTON \;
SUSPECT IN DISORDER: AUSTRALIAN HONEYBEES

BYLINE: McClatchy Newspapers

SECTION: NATIONAL; THE NATION AT A GLANCE; Pg. A-8

LENGTH: 375 words


Disease-carrying honeybees imported from Australia may be responsible for a
mysterious disorder that's decimated bee hives around the country, and federal
regulators say they'd consider import restrictions if necessary.

By some estimates, beekeepers in the past several years have lost from a third
to half of their hives to what's called colony collapse disorder. Each hive, or
colony, can contain as many as 100,000 bees. The bees are disappearing from the
hives never to be seen again.

Honeybees pollinate about 100 crops, mostly fruits, vegetables and nuts. By some
estimates, more than a third of the food that humans consume is pollinated by
honeybees.

"Honeybees are important if you want a healthy and nutritious diet," said Robyn
Rose, the Agriculture Department's national program manager for honeybee health.

"We could live without them, but our diet would be pretty bland."

Scientists are unsure what's causing the problem, though it could involve a
combination of factors. The possible culprits include mites, viruses, other
diseases, pesticides, habitat loss, stress and even climate change. The latest
suspect, however, is the imported honeybee from Australia.

"A link between the disorder, first reported in the United States in 2006, and
honeybee imports from Australia has been suggested," according to a recent
notice in the Federal Register by the Agriculture Department's Animal and Plant
Health Inspection Service.

The department was seeking comment on a draft report that concluded
"zoosanitary" measures or restrictions may be need to reduce the risk that
viruses carried by Australian honeybees could reach the United States. Such
measures might include inspections, quarantines and genetic testing. Agriculture
Department officials don't rule out a ban on imports of Australian bees.

Honeybees aren't native to North America; they were first brought to the
continent by European colonists in the early 1600s.

Officials at the Australian Embassy in Washington insist that their bees aren't
a threat to U.S. beekeepers, though they admit that Australia is facing an
invasion of exotic Asian honeybees. Some scientists think the Asian bees might
carry different viruses and mites than those carried by the European honeybees
in the U.S.

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              295 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                              July 5, 2010 Monday
                                 SOONER EDITION

THIS CITIZEN IS SERIOUS ABOUT WAVING THE FLAG

BYLINE: Stephanie Lee, The Washington Post

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. A-2

LENGTH: 542 words


COLUMBIA, Md. -- It's a given that Nick Artimovich will display an American flag
outside his home on the Fourth of July. The only question is: Which one?

Mr. Artimovich, 56, has collected upward of 800 U.S. flags and thousands of
pieces of flag-inspired memorabilia since the 1970s. When not at his day job --
highway engineer for the U.S. Transportation Department -- he is a vexillologist
who devotes himself to the study of flags. He takes this time of year more
seriously than most.

"It's time to celebrate our nation's history," he said. "We've had over 225
years as a country, and we've had a lot of changes in those years. And my
interest in preserving these artifacts is a way of helping key my interest in
American history to things that were actually produced back in the good old
days."

Mr. Artimovich rattles off flag characteristics with the fervor that others
devote to baseball statistics. Peering through wire-rimmed glasses, he unfurls a
vivid flag from the 1870s on which stars are grouped into a larger star.
Manufacturers arranged them however they pleased until 1912, when the orderly
rows of today's flag became standard.

A novelty flag mixes the banners of the United States, Britain and France --
Allied forces in World War I -- into a kaleidoscope of red, white and blue.

Another, with 38 stars honoring Colorado's statehood, was won along with dozens
of others at what he considers a particularly lucky auction.

The oldest flag in Mr. Artimovich's possession is a 28-star banner from the
1840s, its stripes now muted shades of salmon and gray. The biggest: a yacht
flag measuring 15 by 23 feet. The most expensive: a Lincoln campaign flag,
bought for $2,000 (and later sold for $12,000).

In all, Mr. Artimovich has spent an estimated $75,000 on his collection, which
also includes stars and stripes emblazoned on pins, patches, bookmarks, fans,
card games, "Star-Spangled Banner" sheet music, cigars, illustrations, ribbons,
soldier figurines, valentines and postcards.

There are more than a thousand books on flag history. Civil War-era
advertisements invoke Old Glory to promote Betsy Ross-brand shoes, Wrigley's
gum, a German shipping company, a Japanese silk manufacturer, a rowing club,
bone fertilizer, a printing press and a piano store.

"There are so many ways you can collect flag antiques. You just have to look for
them," Mr. Artimovich says. "It sounds like a very narrow theme, but the variety
you find is just amazing."

Born in North Andover, Mass., Mr. Artimovich grew up touring Lexington,
Plymouth, Cape Cod and other historical sites. He fell into collecting at an
early age, starting with stamps and coins. But his interest in flags was sparked
in high school when a teacher gave him a 48-star flag he'd been eyeing.

So began a lifetime of hunting through antique shops, auctions and online
retailers such as eBay. These days, Mr. Artimovich is cataloguing his collection
-- stored in acid-free folders and a climate-controlled basement -- with Flickr,
a picture-sharing website.

Mr. Artimovich belongs to, and once oversaw, the North American Vexillological
Association, comprising 400 flag lovers. With them, he launched a scholarly
journal and once gave the Secret Service a tour of the White House's seals and
flags.

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              296 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                              July 11, 2010 Sunday
                                TWO STAR EDITION

PALACE PENNY-PINCHING;
IN A PAINFUL ERA OF BRITISH AUSTERITY, EVEN QUEEN ELIZABETH II IS CUTTING BACK

BYLINE: Anthony Faiola, The Washington Post

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. A-4

LENGTH: 958 words


LONDON -- With historic budget cuts about to change the way the British live --
slashing children's benefits, freezing public salaries and trimming welfare
roles -- one must do one's part: Even the queen is cutting back.

Financially ailing Britain is dramatically shifting away from an era of big
government, entering a new age of austerity to fend off the same kind of fiscal
crisis now gripping Greece. With her subjects facing a barebones budget and a
bevy of higher taxes, Queen Elizabeth II has launched what some here describe as
a preemptive strike against those who say that this deeply indebted nation can
no longer afford the gilded trappings of its monarchy.

The queen is freezing salaries for royal servants and aides earning more than
$73,500, and reviewing all vacant slots with an eye to reducing her staff of
1,400 -- which includes a royal piper who plays under her window in the mornings
as well as an official counter of swans. For the first time in her 58-year
reign, the queen has also agreed to regular audits of royal expenditures by the
same national agency that reviews education, defense and other types of
government spending.

The queen's household is reportedly preparing to cut back on official
engagements and reduce spending by 25 percent or more in the coming years as
government financing of the monarchy is potentially scaled back. Already, palace
officials say, roof leaks at Buckingham Palace will be temporarily patched
instead of pristinely repaired. Plans to rip out asbestos and Victorian-era lead
water pipes at the palace will also be put off, potentially for years, as will
the refurbishment of Queen Victoria's dilapidated mausoleum at Windsor Castle,
the royal family's weekend retreat.

After a fit of public outrage at the cost of providing security to minor royals,
the queen's granddaughters, Princesses Eugenie and Beatrice, are also set to
lose their 24-hour bodyguards, which have reportedly cost taxpayers here upwards
of $700,000 a year.

As a result of steps already taken, the cost of the monarchy to British
taxpayers fell by roughly $4 million over the past year, the palace proudly
disclosed last week. Overall, the queen spent $56 million in government funds in
2009-2010 -- or 91 cents per British citizen -- down from $61 million a year
earlier. That figure, however, does not include the massive and jealously
guarded cost of providing security to the major royals, including the
84-year-old queen and her husband, Prince Philip, the Duke of Edinburgh, 89.

"The royal household is acutely aware of the difficult economic climate and took
early action to reduce its expenditures in 2009," Sir Alan Reid, the Keeper of
the Privy Purse -- the Queen's top accountant -- said in a statement this week.
He himself agreed to a $20,000 cut in pay, to $264,000 a year. "We are
implementing a headcount freeze and reviewing every vacancy to see if we can
avoid replacement."

To be sure, the queen still lives like a queen. This year, the palace is
budgeting $1.18 million for garden parties alone, an increase of $150,000 over
last year. Though saving a pretty penny by cutting back on travel, when the
queen does hit the road, it is in rarified style. The queen's four-day royal
visit to Bermuda last November with Prince Philip, for instance, set British
taxpayers back no less than $550,000.

Fortunately for Britain, the cost of those trips has sometimes been borne by the
citizens of its former colonies. The queen's trip to New York last week to
address the United Nations for the first time since 1957 was underwritten by
Canada, where she is still the official head of state.

Yet the queen, some royal watchers insist, is holding fast to a legacy that saw
her parents, King George VI and Queen Elizabeth, ration food and electricity
during World War II along with their subjects. Though she remains one of the
wealthiest women in the world by the grace of inherited estates, masterpieces of
art and magnificent jewels, the queen is also famously frugal.

"She is said to wander the halls of Buckingham Palace at night, turning off
lights," said Robert Lacey, the well-known royal biographer. "Yes, she is a
person of enormous wealth, but she does not waste money or spend it loosely."

Though the vast majority of Britons still strongly support the monarchy, a poll
released in June showed 87 percent favored a freeze on public funds provided to
the royal family. Some cuts have already come down the pike, with the government
slashing a maintenance fund for royal estates by $750,000 next year.

Nevertheless, some critics have been intensifying their opposition, arguing the
monarchy is a luxury Britain can no longer afford at a time when the national
budget is so strained that schools cannot be repaired and basic services are
being cut. That is particularly true, they say, with government spending on the
monarchy expected to be temporarily ramped up in 2012 to cover the cost of
celebrating the queen's Diamond Jubilee, or 60th year on the throne.

The queen, critics say, might also be trying to build good will with the new
coalition government as it conducts a major review of how the royal family
receives public money over the next 12 months. Additionally, although the
monarchy indeed took less money from the British Treasury last year, skeptics
note that at the same time, the queen's household dipped into a reserve fund of
previously unused taxpayer money earmarked for the royals to cover other
expenses.

"She's not saving any money because it's not her money to be begin with -- it's
the money of the British taxpayers," Graham Smith, campaign manager of Republic,
an anti-monarchy group. "This is the most expensive monarchy in Europe, and the
truth is, we just can't afford it anymore."

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: John Stillwell/Getty Images: The tough economy hasn't forced her
to take a second job -- yet -- but Queen Elizabeth II tours a Research In Motion
factory last week in Waterloo, Canada, where BlackBerry devices are made.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              299 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                              July 19, 2010 Monday
                                 SOONER EDITION

TOM VILSACK

BYLINE: PATRICIA SHERIDAN, PITTSBURGH POST-GAZETTE

SECTION: LIFESTYLE; BREAKFAST WITH; Pg. C-1

LENGTH: 1250 words


Secretary of the U.S. Department of Agriculture Tom Vilsack, 59, began his life
as an orphan in Pittsburgh. Adopted in 1951 by local couple Bud and Dolly
Vilsak, he graduated from Shady Side Academy in 1968 and went on to Hamilton
College in New York, where he met his future wife, Christine Bell. They married
in her hometown of Mount Pleasant, Iowa, where he practiced law and began his
political career as mayor of that city. In 1998 he was elected the first
Democratic governor of Iowa in 32 years. He made a bid for president in 2008 but
dropped out of the race. President Barack Obama appointed him agriculture
secretary in 2009. The Organic Consumers Association opposed the choice,
claiming he was a champion of genetically modified crops. The Senate confirmed
him unanimously.

Of all the things you wished and worked for did you ever imagine it would be
secretary of agriculture?

[laughing] No, no. I've been saying as I traveled across the state if my mom and
dad knew that I was the secretary of agriculture, they might think there was
something radically wrong with the country -- based on my early years. But the
fact that I was governor of the great state of Iowa for eight years and
practiced law representing farmers in a variety of capacities and worked as a
mayor and a state senator on issues that impacted farmers put me in a position
to be able to accept this responsibility. It is an everyday, every way USDA.
It's involved in so many different aspects.

What kind of impact does this oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico have on the USDA?

To a certain extent it somewhat depends on the extent to which the spill
involves wetlands that could potentially involve our conservation resource
service; the [National Resources Conservation Service] has some responsibilities
in terms of federal wetlands. If it compromises those, then we get called into
action. Right now our role is limited to the animal and plant folks who are
working with any kind of habitat that's damaged by the oil spill and making sure
they are properly treated, as well as making sure we are in a position to help
states and particularly families that have lost income and jobs as a result of
the spill to be able to meet their basic food needs through our food assistance
program. Whether we get engaged any further depends on how ultimately severe
this situation is going to turn out to be.

How has being a politician affected other aspects of your life?

Actually that's -- in one sense it has allowed me to reconnect with friends;
people I went to high school with, people I went to college with, people I went
to law school with because you have to reach out to just about anybody who ever
knew you to be able to raise the money to run for office. It has also allowed my
children to have exposure to experiences that impact and affect the way they
look at life.

As secretary of agriculture what keeps you up at night?

The deep concern I have about the economic opportunity or the lack of economic
opportunity in rural America. Because of the extraordinary productivity of
American agriculture, the rest of us not only enjoy an abundant supply of food,
but we also enjoy an affordable supply of food. Most Americans spend 10 to 15
percent less of their take-home pay on food than anybody else in the world. The
challenge is there are a shrinking number of folks who produce that food in
terms of production agriculture.

Are states like Pennsylvania (which have a lot of farmland) going to become
increasingly important in a world faced with food shortages?

I'd say they are going to become important for three reasons. One, we must
continue to produce and be productive and help to feed the world. Today one
farmer in America feeds 155 people. When I was born it was about one farmer for
every 12 people. Two, they will be the source of a good deal of the solution for
the country in terms of carbon emissions and climate change. The capacity to
sequester carbon in crops and in soil is significant. They will be part of the
solution. Finally, if we want to wean ourselves off of foreign oil and oil that
has to be drilled in environmentally sensitive areas, then we've got to create
an alternative. It's rural American, bio-fuels and renewable energy that will be
that alternative.

On one hand we have to feed a massive population, and factory farming is
efficient. But factory farming fouls the land and is often not considered humane
treatment of farm animals. How do you deal with that?

It is important for people to recognize that reports of certain abuses are often
very isolated and represent not the norm and not the rule. The farmers that I
know, the farms that I've seen, they are extraordinary stewards of the
environment, and they understand they need to treat their animals well. That is
their bread and butter. That's how they make their living. The better they treat
their animals the chances are they will have a more prosperous living. You
should see the extraordinary lengths that American agriculture, farmers and
ranchers are going to improve the environment. The resources they are spending
from their own pocket to make sure waters are preserved, to make sure we have
rich and nutritious soil to produce that abundant source of food.

What about the controversy over the safety of genetically modified seeds and
animals?

There's no scientific evidence, proof, test, that anyone can point to that
establishes in any way, shape or form any known hazard associated with
genetically modified crops to individuals or to animals.

So why all the fuss?

I think there is a set of challenges in terms of how we create a world in which
those who want to farm organically and those who wish to use the opportunities
that genetically modified organisms present can do so and co-exist. In my view
it isn't an either or situation. It is how do we ensure that both have a good
opportunity to survive and succeed.

Is urban farming a feasible solution -- the skyscraper as farm, with floors of
crops, that protect crops from drought, frost, floods?

It is. In fact the city of Detroit is looking at a very extensive urban farming
idea. It has thousands and thousands of square feet of factories and dilapidated
commercial structures that need to be torn down. The question is what do you do
with that open space? Urban farming is one of the strategies. We are encouraging
people to consider gardening through The People's Garden Initiative and the
First Lady's White House Garden initiative as a way of reconnecting with how
food is produced and reconnecting with nature in urban centers. We are
particularly interested in young people being engaged in that because it allows
them to get outside and be physically active. That will help us on the obesity
issue we are dealing with. We have a serious challenge with a third of our
youngsters being obese or at risk for being obese. Part of the reason is the
school lunch and school breakfast program.

You have admitted to being an overweight kid who was bullied in school. Did that
experience help you develop the kind of thick skin needed to get into the public
arena?

Well, I think it helped me develop the thick skin, but unfortunately my skin is
too thick because I haven't quite figured out this eating situation. You know, I
struggle with my weight. I think most people who start out life overweight, many
of us struggle [with it] on a daily basis. I'm pretty good at working out and
being physically active. I think that's helped me maintain my weight, but it's a
struggle.

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Patricia Sheridan: psheridan@post-gazette.com or 412-263-2613. /

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: TOM VILSACK

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              305 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                            August 10, 2010 Tuesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

BRITON FIRST PERSON TO WALK THE LENGTH OF AMAZON RIVER;
2 1;
2-YEAR QUEST FULFILLS PERSONAL CHALLENGE

BYLINE: Filipe Almeida, The Associated Press

SECTION: HEALTH, SCIENCE, MEDICINE AND TECHNOLOGY; Pg. A-2

LENGTH: 748 words


MARAPANIM, Brazil -- He fought tropical disease and deadly snakes, was held
captive at one point and collapsed just short of his goal.

Still, Ed Stafford ended his 2 1/2-year journey Monday as he planned -- leaping
into the sea as the first man known to walk the length of the Amazon River.

"I've been told I was going to be killed so many times," the 34-year-old former
British army captain told The Associated Press. "But I'm not dead. I'm here now,
and ... I've proved that if you want something enough, you can do anything!"

Mr. Stafford had collapsed at the side of the road early Sunday, just 53 miles
short of his destination. He was back on his feet after a few hours of rest,
however, and looked like he had all the energy in the world Monday morning as he
ran into the Atlantic Ocean at Crispim beach in northern Brazil -- popping
champagne and spraying Peruvian forestry worker Gadiel "Cho" Sanchez Rivera, his
expedition partner.

It was not the quest of an eco-warrior, Mr. Stafford is quick to point out,
though he hopes that the feat will raise awareness of the Amazon and the complex
forces that are leading to its destruction. Rather, it was the personal
challenge for a man who left the military to be a stockbroker, was bored by
finance and ended up leading student expeditions in Belize, then supervising the
building of a BBC base camp in Guyana.

"The crux of it is, if this wasn't a selfish boy's own adventure, I don't think
it would have worked," he said before completing his quest. "I am simply doing
it because no one has done it before."

There are at least six known expeditions along the course of the Amazon River,
from its source high in the Peruvian Andes across Colombia and into Brazil
before its waters are dumped into the ocean 4,200 miles away. But those used
boats to advance their travel.

Mr. Stafford and a British friend began the walk on April 2, 2008, on the
southern coast of Peru. Within three months, his pal left. Mr. Stafford carried
on, walking bits of the route with hundreds of locals he met along the way. Mr.
Sanchez Rivera, 31, joined him a few months into the walk -- which cost $100,000
and is paid for by sponsoring companies and donations -- and completed it with
him.

Mr. Stafford saw vast swaths of demolished jungle on the journey, deepening his
understanding of the Amazon, its role in protecting the globe against climate
change and the complex forces behind its destruction. "It's the people in power
who are benefiting from the extraction of the natural resources here," he said.
"That's why there are corrupt politicians and laws that aren't enforced and
loads of unconstrained deforestation still going on."

Mr. Stafford lived off piranha fish he caught, rice and beans and store-bought
provisions found in local communities along the river. To relax at night, he
downloaded podcasts by British comedian Ricky Gervais and episodes of the TV
show "The Office" via Internet satellite phone.

Mr. Stafford and Mr. Sanchez Rivera encountered 18-foot-long caiman crocodiles,
enormous anaconda snakes, illness, food shortages and the threat of drowning.

After they were welcomed in one Indian community in September 2008, its leaders
offered to radio ahead to the next village for permission for Mr. Stafford and
Mr. Sanchez Rivera to walk through their territory. "The response came back
crystal clear: If a gringo walks into their community, they will kill him," Mr.
Stafford wrote on his blog at that time.

He decided on an alternate route, but still found himself in the territory of
Indians who remain distrustful of outsiders, after suffering extreme violence
under Peru's Shining Path terrorist movement. They grabbed him and Mr. Sanchez
Rivera and presented them to village leaders.

After being dressed down and having their possessions thoroughly picked over --
only a machete was confiscated -- the pair's repeated explanations of their
expedition's purpose won over the Indians. They were allowed to walk on the
land, but only if they hired guides from the tribe.

Mr. Stafford said he ended the walk with some optimism. "I think the average
Brazilian is a lot more environmentally conscious than the people in power," he
said. "I think when the next wave of Brazilian politicians come through --
fingers crossed -- they will be more conscientious."

His feat earned the praise of no less an adventurer than Sir Ranulph Fiennes, a
fellow Briton whom the Guinness Book of World Records describes as the "world's
greatest living explorer."

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Renato Chalu/Associated Press: Ed Stafford of England, left,
shakes hands with Gadiel "Cho" Sanchez Rivera of Peru, as they arrive at
Marapanim in Brazil's Para state Monday. Stafford's Amazonian journey took him
859 days and thousands of miles.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              321 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                            October 15, 2010 Friday
                                 SOONER EDITION

MISSILE SHIELD GAINING SUPPORT

BYLINE: Compiled from news services

SECTION: WORLD; WORLD BRIEFS; Pg. A-4

LENGTH: 553 words


BRUSSELS, Belgium -- U.S. and NATO officials said Thursday that they expect the
military alliance to formally participate in the Obama administration's plan for
a missile defense shield over Europe, scheduled to be activated next year.

"Based on today's discussion, I am quite optimistic," NATO Secretary General
Anders Fogh Rasmussen told reporters after a joint meeting of foreign and
defense ministers from the alliance membership.

NATO is scheduled to vote at a summit in Lisbon, Portugal, next month on whether
to make missile defense a formal part of its mission. If it does, European
alliance members would plug their individual defense systems into a broader
missile shield that the Obama administration is building to guard against
potential attacks from Iran.

China's ruling elite gathers

BEIJING -- For China's small band of liberal intellectuals, this is the
springtime of hope.

But as the Communist Party's elite gather in Beijing for the opening of their
annual plenum today, there is little suggestion that the climate for political
change is anything but wintry.

So hazy are the party's internal politics that the most seasoned outsiders can
only speculate on what the leadership will discuss when the Central Committee's
approximately 370 members gather to talk strategy and pave the way for a
leadership succession in 2012.

Southern Sudan's borders

UNITED NATIONS -- The United Nations will move peacekeeping troops in Southern
Sudan to the region's northern border to deter violence stemming from a
referendum that might split the country, a senior U.N. official said.

U.N. troops will move within weeks to "hot spots" along the border, Alain LeRoy,
head of U.N. peacekeeping, said in an interview after briefing the Security
Council on the plan.

Oil-rich Southern Sudan is scheduled to vote Jan. 9 on whether to secede from
Sudan. The region pumps most of Sudan's crude, which at 490,000 barrels a day
makes the nation the third-largest producer in sub-Saharan Africa, according to
the BP Statistical Review of World Energy.

Somali leader has U.S. ties

MOGADISHU, Somalia -- The Somali president Thursday named a Somali-American to
succeed the prime minister whose resignation last month brought the weak
transitional government to a standstill.

The appointee, Mohamed Abdullahi Mohamed, worked in the Somali Embassy in
Washington from 1985 to 1988, according to a statement on the government's
website, The Associated Press reported. He has a master's degree in political
science and taught conflict resolution and leadership skills at Erie Community
College in Buffalo, N.Y., The AP said, citing his resume.

The previous prime minister, Omar Abdirashid Ali Sharmarke, resigned Sept. 21
after months of intense pressure from the president.

Also in the world

The aluminum plant behind the recent toxic waste spill in western Hungary is to
resume production Friday, a government spokesman confirmed Thursday. ... A
European terrorist plot is still enough of a threat for the United States to
keep its current travel advisory, the U.S. State Department's counterterrorism
coordinator said Thursday. Earlier this month, the State Department advised
American citizens living or traveling in Europe to take more precautions about
their personal security following reports that terrorists may be plotting
attacks in Europe.

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              322 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                           October 16, 2010 Saturday
                                 SOONER EDITION

SWISS CELEBRATE LONGEST TUNNEL

BYLINE: Frank Jordans, The Associated Press

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. A-2

LENGTH: 455 words


SEDRUN, Switzerland -- Workers hugged, cheered and set off fireworks as the huge
drill broke through the last stretch of rock deep in the Swiss Alps. There was
delight at the end of the tunnel -- the world's longest -- when it was completed
Friday.

The $10 billion, 35.4-mile tube will connect Europe's high-speed rail network
and is part of a larger effort to cut in half the number of trucks -- now at 1.2
million -- that thunder through the Alps each year.

The joy and pride felt throughout Switzerland over digging the Gotthard Base
Tunnel reflected the one cause that unites the country's wealthy city dwellers
with those living in traditional villages: Protecting the beauty of the
mountains.

"Together, we risked a lot," Swiss transport minister Moritz Leuenberger said.
"Together, we achieved a lot."

TV stations across Europe showed the event live. The embraces and cheers by the
hard-hatted workers brought to mind the successful rescue of 33 trapped miners
earlier this week in Chile.

Swiss voters approved the tunnel's construction in a series of referendums
almost 20 years ago. Despite some criticism at the cost -- almost $1,300 for
every citizen -- the proposal passed by a wide margin.

Mr. Leuenberger, who is also in charge of environment issues, praised Swiss
voters and took a swipe at neighboring Germany, where popular opposition
threatens to halt construction of new high-speed rail links and underground
train stations. "Today proves how sustainable, strong and efficient our direct
democracy is," he told miners, VIPs and reporters amid the raucous underground
celebrations.

His words were echoed by one of the 2,500 workers who toiled for more than a
decade. Dieter Meyer, an electrician from Germany, expressed his awe that
Switzerland -- a country of just under 8 million people -- had chosen to pursue
such an ambitious project.

Mr. Meyer said Germans should reconsider their opposition to new rail projects
if they are serious about protecting the environment and halting climate change.
"This tunnel is the future," he said in an interview.

Protesters in Stuttgart view the $5.7 billion project to move the southwest
German city's station underground as a waste of money. Supporters say it will
free up the city's packed center and help shorten journeys across Europe.

Already Switzerland transports some 62 percent of freight by rail -- far more
than any of its neighbors. Mindful that heavy goods traffic has contributed to
the steady erosion harming fragile Alpine plants and animals as well as
cherished scenery, Switzerland has been tunneling through the Alps for decades.

The Gotthard Base Tunnel -- first conceived in 1947 by engineer Eduard Gruner --
beats Japan's Seikan Tunnel, which is 33.5 miles long.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Arno Balzarini/Associated Press: Miners celebrate after a
tunnel-drilling machine broke through the last section of the Gotthard Base
Tunnel in the Swiss Alps near Grisons, Switzerland, on Friday. At 35.4 miles
long, it is the world's longest tunnel and makes possible a continuous
high-speed rail connection between northern and southeastern Europe. Hopes are
to begin the train service by 2017. The tunnel took 15 years to dig at a cost of
$10 billion. (Photo, page A-1)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              325 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                           October 20, 2010 Wednesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

SESTAK GAINS IN SENATE RACE;
POLLS SHOW DEMOCRAT INCHING AHEAD OF TOOMEY AS VOTE NEARS

BYLINE: Daniel Malloy, Post-Gazette Washington Bureau

SECTION: STATE; ELECTION 2010; Pg. A-1

LENGTH: 870 words


PHILADELPHIA -- As the two contenders for Pennsylvania's open U.S. Senate seat
take the stage to debate here tonight, there may be a new leader for the first
time.

A new survey released Tuesday by Public Policy Polling shows Democrat Joe Sestak
ahead of Republican Pat Toomey, 46 percent to 45 percent. A second poll released
Tuesday night showed an even greater advantage for Mr. Sestak. An Allentown
Morning Call/Muhlenberg College Tracker poll showed the Mr. Sestak leading Mr.
Toomey 44 percent to 41 percent with 15 percent undecided.

Democrats released internal polls last week showing a tight race, but these were
the first public independent poll showing Mr. Sestak leading in a contest Mr.
Toomey has led consistently since the general election campaign began.

In August, a Public Policy poll showed Mr. Toomey with a 45-36 lead on his
Democratic rival, a second-term congressman from Delaware County and former Navy
admiral. At that point, Mr. Toomey and conservative allies had been airing
television ads almost unopposed for months.

Around Labor Day, the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee and Mr. Sestak's
campaign hit the airwaves and now Pennsylvania television viewers have been
inundated with competing ads featuring everything from sock puppets to dog
feces. The media campaigns coincided with a general rise in interest in the
midterm elections as Nov. 2 neared.

Tom Jensen, the director of Raleigh, N.C., based Public Policy Polling, said
that the Sestak surge was driven primarily by two factors. First, Mr. Sestak has
brought nearly all of the undecided independents into his corner. Mr. Toomey led
that category 50-23 percent in August, but now leads 49 percent to 48 percent.

Secondly, Mr. Jensen said, "We found that Democrats are much more likely to vote
than we were seeing in August -- that's what we're finding across the country.

"It's not going to be the major turnout that they had in 2008, but it's starting
to look like less of a gap than we saw over the summer."

A comeback by Mr. Sestak would not be unprecedented. He stormed back to overtake
Sen. Arlen Specter in the final days of this year's primary race and in 2006 he
unseated U.S. Rep. Curt Weldon after trailing by a large margin until the end.
Still, in those two races, Mr. Sestak was running in a Democratic primary
against a 30-year Republican and against a candidate under FBI investigation.

This time, Mr. Jensen noted that Mr. Sestak still has a tough task in winning
over the remaining undecided voters, who disapprove of the job Mr. Obama is
doing by a 49-36 margin.

Both candidates will attempt to woo that final group today at 7 p.m. at the
National Constitution Center. The debate, moderated by ABC's George
Stephanopoulos, will air live on WTAE-TV in the Pittsburgh area. The second of
the two scheduled Senate debates is Friday in Pittsburgh.

With the race so tight, the mantra for both candidates will be: Don't screw up.

"[Debates] don't draw large audiences usually and therefore they're not going to
be able to sway enormous sectors of the electorate," said Muhlenberg College
political science professor Christopher Borick, "unless somebody makes a
statement that is a major gaffe."

But the debates will showcase two candidates who disagree on core national
policy -- from taxes to Social Security to health care to climate change. Each
has tried to paint the other as an extremist.

Mr. Toomey is a former three-term congressman from the Allentown area who used
to run the conservative Club for Growth, a group that attempted to purge the GOP
of moderates. While in Congress, he took a hard line on fiscal issues, and his
stances on deregulating the financial industry -- where he used to work as a
trader -- have taken strident criticism from Mr. Sestak.

Sarah Palin, the former Alaska governor, vice presidential candidate and
galvanizer of the Republican base, endorsed Mr. Toomey on Tuesday on her
Facebook page, along with six other Senate candidates, for his opposition to a
cap-and-trade system to reduce carbon emissions. The endorsement could help
mobilize conservatives for Mr. Toomey, while also advancing the Democratic
argument against him.

"Governor Palin is right that the cap-and-trade energy tax would be devastating
to jobs and the economy in manufacturing states like Pennsylvania," Toomey
spokeswoman Nachama Soloveichik wrote in an e-mail. "We've been saying that
throughout the campaign."

Mr. Sestak, meanwhile, has been a consistent backer of the agenda of Mr. Obama,
which has proven unpopular in Pennsylvania and elsewhere, while advocating that
he go even further: He pushed for a "public option" in the health care bill and
said the stimulus should have been bigger.

Philadelphia-based Democratic media strategist Larry Ceisler said Mr. Toomey
will try his best to rope Mr. Sestak in with Mr. Obama and House Speaker Nancy
Pelosi, while Mr. Sestak will compare Mr. Toomey with former Sen. Rick Santorum
and Delaware Republican Senate nominee Christine O'Donnell -- both of whom are
viewed as right wing.

"This is not personality driven," Mr. Ceisler said. "This is about sharp
distinctions on substantive issues. You're not going to be seeing any fireworks
... This is what a debate should be."

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Daniel Malloy: dmalloy@post-gazette.com or 202-445-9980. /

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Rep. Joe Sestak
PHOTO: Pat Toomey

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              333 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                            November 2, 2010 Tuesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

DON'T MAKE MEDIA THE NATIONAL SCAPEGOAT

BYLINE: TONY NORMAN

SECTION: LIFESTYLE; Pg. A-2

LENGTH: 756 words


Please allow me to introduce myself: I'm a newspaper columnist. I work for a
rapidly disappearing institution called the American newspaper.

A newspaper, for those who may have forgotten already, is that ink-smeared,
rolled-up hunk of tree pulp that used to land on your porch every morning.

I'm part of a cabal of un-American scoundrels known as [cue the sinister music]
"The Media." This includes network news, 24-hour cable news, magazines, websites
and blogs. Sometimes we're called the Fourth Estate.

Despite the fact that we are one of the pillars of American democracy, it has
come to our attention that we're not very popular with any segment of the
population these days. How do we know this? People yawn at our travails. You
don't care that what we do is sanctioned by the U.S. Constitution and that our
mission is enshrined in the First Amendment. You hate our guts.

When we're not physically detained by thugs working for conservative Alaskan
senatorial candidates or threatened with assault by New York gubernatorial
hopefuls, we're being called "corrupt bastards" by Sarah Palin on national
television. Everyone applauds if a candidate refuses to answer a reporter's
"impertinent" question.

Liberals don't necessarily have a higher regard for us. We're called
establishment stooges, prostitutes and lapdogs by those who consider the status
quo an irredeemable horror. We're blamed for our inability to inform and educate
an inattentive public about how it is being robbed blind by corporate rulers.

Admittedly, an uncomfortably high percentage of those at the top of our
profession are a little too invested in the system and its players. We are also
not very diverse in terms of class background, race or ideology. This may
account for a striking unanimity of opinion and perspective in what Ms. Palin
calls "the lame-stream media."

Over the weekend, Jon Stewart, patron saint of ironic cool, told an estimated
200,000 admirers at the "Rally to Restore Sanity and/or Fear" in Washington that
it was the fault of Keith Olbermann and Bill O'Reilly that America is too angry
to function as a 234-year-old democracy should.

Sure, dastardly politicians do their best to polarize the electorate for
narrowly partisan gain, but that's to be expected. The real villain, according
to Mr. Stewart, is the brain-sucking media, especially evil-doers on cable who
give the bad guys a platform with which to fill the public's otherwise beautiful
mind with triviality and lies.

During the rally, Mr. Stewart broadcast a montage of dueling talking heads from
MSNBC and Fox that was intended to show a moral equivalence between the two that
only an idiot would take at face value.

Without making any distinction between the commentators, Jon Stewart made an
argument that is ridiculous to anyone who actually chooses to watch, say,
MSNBC's "The Rachel Maddow Show" over Fox's "Hannity." Political ideas and
philosophies have real-world implications. Presenting them as morally equivalent
is the height of shallowness when the fate of great initiatives like health care
reform or comprehensive climate change legislation are at stake.

In a blissfully ahistorical way that only a comedian -- or a columnist -- can
engage in without shame, Mr. Stewart indicted cable news, and by extension the
rest of "Big Media," for instigating fights in the school yard of American
democracy. If only Ed Schultz, Rush Limbaugh and Glenn Beck would tone it down,
America could get back to the business of being a light unto the rest of the
world, he would have us believe.

"The country's 24-hour, political pundit, perpetual, panic [machine] did not
cause our problems," Mr. Stewart conceded in his show-ending speech. "But its
existence makes solving them that much harder. If we amplify everything, we hear
nothing."

It isn't as if America had any problems before cable news came along, right? It
isn't as if the media are merely broadcasting arguments Americans have been
having since the days of the Federalists vs. the anti-Federalists in colonial
Philadelphia.

As much as Mr. Stewart obviously dislikes Mr. Olbermann's schtick, he's closer
to the spirit of the over-the-top pamphleteer and honorary Founding Father
Thomas Paine than any of his antagonists at Fox.

Mr. Stewart's self-congratulatory piety and overweening sense of importance left
me cold by the program's end. It's always embarrassing whenever a liberal
pretends to be a raging moderate. It's like watching a bad Jason Altmire
commercial.

But what do I know? I'm just a member of the brain-sucking media.

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Tony Norman: tnorman@post-gazette.com or 412-263-1631./

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              360 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                          September 23, 2010 Thursday
                                 SOONER EDITION

HURRICANE GURU OR BLOWHARD?;
ACCUWEATHER'S JOE BASTARDI THRIVES ON CONTROVERSY SWIRLING AROUND HIS BELIEFS

BYLINE: MACKENZIE CARPENTER, PITTSBURGH POST-GAZETTE

SECTION: HEALTH, SCIENCE, MEDICINE & TECHNOLOGY; Pg. A-1

LENGTH: 1207 words


STATE COLLEGE -- Summer is just so yesterday.

Or is it?

Today may be the first day of autumn, but Joe Bastardi, the exuberant, colorful,
controversial AccuWeather hurricane forecaster -- indeed, the only meteorologist
probably ever to appear on both Stephen Colbert's and Bill O'Reilly's shows --
was hunched over three computer screens Tuesday shaking his head.

"I don't think you'll need your fall clothing in October, but you're going to
need it in November," he said, noting that after Wednesday's late-day storms
cooled things off a bit, Friday's temperatures in Pittsburgh would be 10 to 15
degrees above normal and will remain relatively mild through the end of next
month -- when it will suddenly get cold.

But what was really consuming Mr. Bastardi's attention at AccuWeather's
headquarters wasn't the balmy weather system draping itself over the Northeast
and Mid-Atlantic for the next six weeks or so, but rather two blobs at the
bottom of his screen.

"That's Lisa, she's not a worry to us," he said, pointing to a hurricane in the
eastern Atlantic. "And that," he said, pointing to a fuzzy area near South
America, his voice lowering to a whisper, "is not quite alive yet, but it's
going to be Matthew. By this time next week you could have two more going at the
same time."

Lisa and Matthew may either signal the beginning of the end of the hurricane
season, which officially started June 1 and ends Nov. 1 -- or merely the end of
the beginning.

Indeed, at State College-based AccuWeather, one of the two big for-profit
weather services (The Weather Channel, a cable channel with an online site, is
the other), that means a big, sexy, if initially somewhat incomprehensible
headline -- "Get Ready for Troptober" -- on a Tuesday afternoon press release.

"AccuWeather.com Hurricane Expert Joe Bastardi remains very concerned that the
raging La Nina and its associated cool waters in the tropical Pacific have
created a tremendous imbalance" leading to a very tropical October in the
southeastern U.S. (Troptober, get it?) and "a barrage of tropical cyclones
appearing to form in succession over the Caribbean and the southwestern Atlantic
during the last few days of September through the first part in October."

Which is to say, Katy bar the door, at least if you live anywhere between
Louisiana and the Carolinas -- and Pittsburghers should pay attention, too,
since any storm coming through the Gulf of Mexico could end up as remnants here.

In this busiest of seasons for hurricane forecasters, Mr. Bastardi, who says he
got three hours of sleep the night before, has a lot riding on whether this
year's count is correct. In February, he forecast 16 to 18 storms, including
what he called 7 "impact events" (i.e. those with winds of 40 miles an hour that
impact the U.S., either brushing or hitting the coast directly). In June, he
upped that figure to 18 to 21 storms, with eight impact events, four or five of
which would be hurricanes. Of those hurricanes, he added, two would be major,
with winds of 110 miles an hour or more.

So far, he's up to five impact events but only one hurricane affecting the U.S.
-- Earl. It still has been a year for the history books, though. For the first
time in 84 years, two category 4 storms -- Igor and Julia -- reached that
intensity in the Atlantic, on the same day, even if they never did reach the
U.S.

Mr. Bastardi, chief hurricane and long range forecaster -- and, at 55, a
national bodybuilding competitor in his spare time -- calls himself "a warrior
for the weather." He hasn't always been right -- after five nearly flawless
years in a row, he stumbled a bit in 2007 when he got the total number of
hurricanes correct but predicted that Florida would be "a bull's eye," when it
wasn't.

But 2008 and 2009 were on target, which is important for Mr. Bastardi's private
clients around the world, mostly energy traders, retailers, agricultural
interests, as well as readers of AccuWeather.com's professional and free sites.

This year, the weather patterns are "just like 1964. And 1950," said Mr.
Bastardi, who relies not just on computer modeling but climate history to inform
his forecasts, noting that the Atlantic has been in a warm phase since 1995,
when the latest active-hurricane era began, and will start entering a cooling
down period in about 10 years.

"The greatest thing about Joe is that he loves the weather," said William Gray,
the 80-year old dean of hurricane scientists at Colorado State University, who
issues his own forecasts in December and also predicted a busier than usual
season.

Which brings us to a slightly sticky subject: Dr. Gray, like Mr. Bastardi,
firmly believes that human-generated global warming isn't happening but is just
part of a natural phenomenon of long-term warming and cooling trends.

Both have received considerable flak for this -- New Yorker writer Elizabeth
Kolbert called Mr. Bastardi's position "ridiculous" in a column -- but Mr.
Bastardi loves a good argument, so he appeared on Bill O'Reilly's Fox News
program last year to debate the issue with Bill Nye, "The Science Guy." Then, in
April, he faced off on Comedy Central's "The Colbert Report" against Brenda
Ekwurzel of the Union of Concerned Scientists.

"He's among a minority of meteorologists, mostly on television, who say these
things and who don't have expertise in what's happening with our climate from a
long-range perspective," said Aaron Huertas, a spokesman for the Union of
Concerned Scientists. "It's about as valid as a climate scientist criticizing
Mr. Bastardi's annual hurricane predictions."

Mr. Bastardi is unapologetic and, more than that, regards Dr. Gray as something
of a father figure -- next to his own father, who was also a meteorologist.
After telling Dr. Gray he'd been conceived in October of 1954 during Hurricane
Hazel, he says the senior hurricane scientist fixed him with a glare.

"Think Christopher Lloyd, the mad scientist in 'Back to the Future,' " Mr.
Bastardi said. "Dr. Gray just looked at me and said, 'That's remarkable,' and
went on to say that he'd been in the hurricane forecast center in Washington,
D.C., the night Hazel hit, 'and the forecaster watching the storm had a coronary
and died. That means HIS spirit must have entered your body!' "

Mr. Bastardi laughs at the memory, then turns serious.

"My mother called me in tears once," he said, after she'd read the comments
section of The Huffington Post during the global warming controversy when some
poster called him "the meteorological equivalent of Glenn Beck ... while some
facets of what he says might be true, Bastardi has a horrific record of crying
wolf."

"I told her, 'Mom, you shouldn't read that stuff.' "

Still, in the Sept. 21 column "Do I even want to be right?" published on
Statecollege.com, Mr. Bastardi described how conflicted he has felt in the past
for being right, because "If I'm right, it means misery, pure and simple." But
when "your personality accepts nothing less than winning," being wrong is
painful, too, he said.

Still, he takes comfort from words spoken by his Accuweather boss, Joel Myers,
made during one of many impassioned arguments over weather they'd had over the
years.

"He said, 'You know you're among the best when you start getting judged by your
worst day.' "

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Mackenzie Carpenter: mcarpenter@post-gazette.com or 412-263-1949./

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Michael Henninger/Post-Gazette: Meteorologist Joe Bastardi files
a report from his desk at AccuWeather's headquarters in State College on
Wednesday.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              371 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                               May 2, 2010 Sunday
                                TWO STAR EDITION

EURO SLIDE LEAVES CEOS WRINGING HANDS

BYLINE: Rachel Layne and Carol Wolf

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. C-4

LENGTH: 677 words


United Technologies finance chief Greg Hayes sets aside some wiggle room in his
profit forecast every year for swings in the euro. By March, half his safety net
had already evaporated.

The maker of Otis elevators and Pratt & Whitney jet engines, which gets about a
quarter of its sales from Europe, started 2010 assuming a $1.48 euro exchange
rate. Mr. Hayes cut it to $1.37 last month as concern mounted that Greece would
default on its debt. Last week, the euro dropped below $1.32 for the first time
since April 2009.

"It's one of those things that you can't control," Mr. Hayes said in an
interview April 23.

Terex, DuPont, McDonald's and Johnson & Johnson also said in the past weeks that
the euro's slide is affecting profit or may hold back growth. The 8.2 percent
decline in the currency so far this year makes U.S. exports more expensive and
lowers overseas sales when euros are translated to dollars, threatening a
potential rebound in revenue and a lift to the economy.

Analysts, who have cut their second-quarter forecast for Europe's common
currency every month this year, expect it to trade at $1.35 in June and $1.32 by
December. The euro will weaken to $1.30 by the first quarter of 2011, according
to the median of economists' estimates compiled by Bloomberg.

"U.S. CEOs are going to be doing a lot of hand-wringing over the next couple of
quarters," said Thomas Laming, a money manager with Scout Investment Advisors in
Kansas City, Mo., which manages $10 billion in assets. "There is going to be an
impact on U.S. multinationals. It may cause some companies to miss the earnings
estimates that are out there."

DuPont, the third-biggest U.S. chemical maker, is expecting the euro to average
$1.34 this year, Chief Financial Officer Nicholas Fanandakis said. Currency
exchange added 10 cents to per-share earnings in the Wilmington, Del.-based
company's first quarter, and that may deteriorate to as little as 5 cents for
the year, he said.

"As the dollar strengthens, for us it is a headwind," Mr. Fanandakis said.

McDonald's recorded a 5 cent benefit to earnings per share in the first quarter.
That was at the low end of a 5 cent to 6 cent forecast the company gave in
January because of the strengthening U.S. dollar against the euro and the pound.

Currency fluctuations will hurt earnings in the second half of the year, based
on current exchange rates and McDonald's business outlook, Chief Financial
Officer Peter Bensen said on an April 21 conference call with analysts. For the
year, the company still anticipates exchange rates will add to earnings, he
said. Mr. Bensen said his outlook could change.

"We recognize this estimate becomes outdated within days," he said.

McDonald's got about 40 percent of its $5.61 billion in revenue from Europe in
the first quarter.

"McDonald's sells more hamburgers overseas than they do in the U.S.," said Marc
Chandler, global head of currency strategy at Brown Brothers Harriman & Co.
"That will have a notable impact, especially when you couple that with the fact
that the euro has been falling for the better part of six months."

At Hartford, Conn.-based United Technologies, Mr. Hayes had a "contingency plan"
-- a cushion in his forecast -- of $250 million because he was concerned about
the euro. In March, he told investors he cut it in half, to $125 million, with
the euro at a rate of $1.35.

He says that by controlling costs he can still make the profit forecast -- for
$4.50 to $4.65 a share this year -- if the euro were to drop to $1.25. Because
most of its goods, which also include Carrier air conditioners and Sikorsky
helicopters, are made or assembled in the countries where they are sold, the
unknown is the quarterly reconciliation to translate sales back to dollars.

"The dollar ought to weaken over time versus the euro just because of the
deficit spending we have in the U.S.," Mr. Hayes said, barring a financial
meltdown in Portugal, Ireland, Greece and Spain. "So the view long-term is
bearish on the dollar. The problem is, on a quarter-to-quarter basis, it gets
bumped around a little."

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: With assistance from Jack Kaskey, Meg Tirrell and Burt Helm in New York,
Shruti Singh in Chicago and Candice Zachariahs in Sydney./

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              373 of 383 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                            August 26, 2010 Thursday
                                 SOONER EDITION

NOT RED VELVET BUT RED CARPET 'CAKES

BYLINE: Margi Shrum

SECTION: FOOD; SAUCE; Pg. E-5

LENGTH: 1323 words


My e-mail brings two recipes featuring the perfect marriage of chocolate and
raspberries.

One is from a Duncan Hines competition and the other comes from the Pittsburgh
Job Corps Center, whose culinary arts team took second place last month in an
Iron Chef "Eat Right, Cook Light" competition in Atlantic City, N.J.

The team competed in two rounds that allowed three hours of prep and two hours
of cooking and plating time. In each they were allotted some ingredients and
given $100 to $150 to buy the rest for entrees, salads, soups, starches,
vegetables and desserts. The last included Chocolate Ricotta Mousse, garnished
with raspberries, with the calories skimmed a bit by using light ricotta cheese.
Members of the team were Iron Chef Richard Hornaman of Erie, Sous Chef Richard
Watkins of Sheridan, Garde Manger Elizabeth Schwartz of Baldwin Borough and
assistants Jordan Scott-Gregory of Bellevue and Brittany Koehler of York.

Find that recipe online at post-gazette.com/food.

For the cake, no calorie appears to have been spared in a recipe by Katie
Rousonelos of Madison, Wis., who won the Duncan Hines Red Carpet Cupcake
Challenge. Her prize is a trip for two to Los Angeles for Sunday's Primetime
Emmy Awards, where she has two seats in the Fans in the Stands along the red
carpet. Tomorrow night, her cupcakes will be sampled by nominees and guests at
the Performers Nominees Reception. Her recipe won after being selected as one of
10 finalists in online voting and then scoring with a panel of culinary judges.

Raspberries are in season and can be picked in the region. However, check with
your farm before you go. The crop is early this year.

Pick this: the fifth Savor Pittsburgh: A Celebration of Cuisine, benefiting the
American Respiratory Alliance of Western Pennsylvania, begins at 6:30 p.m. next
Thursday, Sept. 2, at the SouthSide Works.

Have a cocktail or two and dine on the works of some of the city's finest chefs
and restaurants under white canopies. Place bids at two auctions, dance to No
Bad JuJu, and vote for best culinary creations. Sponsored by Mosaic Consulting
and presented by the SouthSide Works and McCormick & Schmick's Seafood
Restaurant.

Judging appetizers, entrees, desserts and more will be more than a dozen food
and media professionals, including my Sauce-y self. This will be my second year.
I have to tell you, the food is to die for and I am looking forward to this one,
fork in hand.

Participating restaurants include Bella Frutteto, Bistecca, Bistro 19, Capital
Grille, Cassis, Church Brew Works, Cioppino, Donato's Fox Chapel, Elements,
Grand Concourse, India Palace, McCormick & Schmick's, Mitchell's Fish Market,
Sonoma Grille, Spoon, Steelhead Brasserie and Wine Bar, Tree Tops, Tusca Global
Tapas and Walnut Grove Restaurant and Bar.

Tickets, $60 each. Call 724-772-1750 or visit savorpgh.com. For more on the
Respiratory Alliance, visit healthylungs.org.

More good works: Friends and family of the Keibler family, Ford City, are
holding a benefit all-you-can-eat spaghetti dinner from 3 to 9 p.m. Saturday in
the Logan's Ferry Heights Fire Hall, 1001 Summit St., New Kensington. The
Keiblers' son, Nathan, was killed in a car accident in July. The dinner is
scheduled to help lift some of the financial burden, if not some of the
emotional burden, of such a loss. Tickets are $7 each and the event also
features a ticket auction with prizes including Steelers tickets. Contact Kevin
Kranik, 724-472-5775, or Joan Kranik, 724-889-6680.

The ninth National Buffalo Wing Festival will be held Labor Day weekend, Sept.
4-7, in (gee, guess where?) Buffalo, N.Y. Details, buffalowing.com,
716-565-4141. But if you want to keep your wing noshing local, head to our own
Buffalo -- Buffalo Drive in South Park, where the Allegheny County Fairgrounds
hosts the South Park Rib and Wing Challenge beginning at noon Sept. 4 and
wrapping up at 10 p.m. Sept. 6. Music (Fuel, Marshall Tucker), "Allegheny Idol"
competition, 5K race benefitting the Luke Hadley Foundation, children's zone,
crafts, and, of course, wings, etc., sold by vendors. $17 weekend pass includes
three tickets. Or $7 individual tickets; family pass, $5 per family member per
day. Southparkrib.com; 412-405-9631.

Chef Justin Severino of Elements Contemporary Cuisine, newly opened in the
former Palomino in Gateway Center, Downtown, will host a benefit farm dinner for
Friends of Grandview Park. Begins at 6 p.m. Sept. 4 at the park, 499 Bailey
Ave., Mt. Washington. Five-course menu, to be announced, will feature locally
sourced ingredients. The $75 ticket includes a cocktail reception and wine
pairings. Not to mention the breathtaking Mt. Warshington view and one of the
best seats in the Pittsburgh house for SkyBlast Fireworks afterward. For
tickets, go to elementscuisine.com or e-mail grandviewfriends@gmail.com

You can't put that city view in a can. Too bad, cuz yesterday was the 200th
anniversary of the can, says the Can Manufacturers Institute. Peter Durand was
granted a patent on Aug. 25, 1810 to "preserve food in tinplate vessels," says
an institute news release.

The rest is history, no expiration date. To learn more, go to canniversary.com,
where Al the Can (uh, yes; see him on Page E-6) leads your tour.

b> RED CARPET GLAMOUR

PG Tested

/b>

The problem with many cake mixes is they tend to taste alike: monotone textures,
a bit dusty. The sour cream, ganache and cream cheese-laced icing in this recipe
takes care of those little problems in a big way. I found the ganache drained
through some of my cupcakes, so I recommend using paper or foil tin liners.

-- Margi Shrum

b> For the chocolate ganache filling

/b>

4 ounces bittersweet chocolate

1/2 cup heavy cream

1 tablespoon confectioners' sugar

b>For the batter

/b>

1 package Duncan Hines Red Velvet Cake Mix

11/4 cups water

1/3 cup vegetable oil

3 large eggs

1/2 cup sour cream

3 teaspoons raspberry flavoring (I used Torani)

b>For the vanilla bean frosting

/b>

1 container Duncan Hines Buttercream Frosting

1 vanilla bean, split lengthwise and insides scraped out

1 teaspoon vanilla extract

4 ounces cream cheese

Fresh raspberries for garnish (optional)

Preheat oven to 350 degrees. Grease muffin pans or line with paper baking cups.

Place ingredients for filling in a medium, microwave-safe bowl. Heat until
mixture is warm (20 to 30 seconds on high). Whisk until smooth, put in
refrigerator to stand until just chilled, no longer than 30 minutes.

Blend cake mix, water, oil and eggs in large bowl at low speed until moistened
(about 30 seconds). Add sour cream and raspberry flavoring. Beat at medium speed
for 2 minutes. Spoon batter into muffin pan or paper cups. Place 1 rounded
teaspoon of filling on the top of each cupcake.

Bake cupcakes for 19 to 22 minutes. Add 3 to 5 minutes to bake time for dark or
coated pans. Cupcakes are done when toothpick inserted in center comes out
clean.

Cool in pan on wire rack for 15 minutes. Cool completely before frosting.

For frosting, place canned frosting, vanilla bean, vanilla extract, cream cheese
in a bowl. Beat until mixed, about 1 minute. Refrigerate frosting for 30
minutes. Frost cupcakes and decorate if desired. (Ms. Rousonelos' cupcakes are
shown by Duncan Hines with a single raspberry in the center of each.)

Makes 2 dozen cupcakes.

-- Katie Rousonelos of Madison, Wis.

b> CHOCOLATE RICOTTA MOUSSE

/b>

The Pittsburgh Job Corps Center culinary team took second place in a competition
in Atlantic City, N.J., with menus that included this easy dessert.

12 ounces dark chocolate

30 ounces light ricotta cheese

1/2 cup half and half

1 teaspoon vanilla

Raspberries and mint leaves for garnish

Melt chocolate and put aside (you can melt it over a double boiler, or slowly in
a microwave). Add remaining ingredients to a food processor or blender and
quickly blend. Add melted chocolate while processor is running; process until
well combined. Spoon into small cups, garnish with raspberries and mint and
serve.

-- Pittsburgh Job Corps Center culinary team

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: PG TESTED / Can it in Sauce. Contact Margi Shrum,
mshrum@post-gazette.com, 412-263-3027.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Al the Can, the mascot of the Can Manufacturers Institute.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 P.G. Publishing Co.
