
                               1 of 396 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                              July 20, 2008 Sunday
                               FIVE STAR EDITION

BURY THE CARBON;
IT WOULD COST EACH U.S. HOUSEHOLD ONLY A PENNY A DAY TO HELP SLOW THE PACE OF
GLOBAL WARMING

BYLINE: EDWARD S. RUBIN

SECTION: EDITORIAL; THE NEXT PAGE; Pg. G-6

LENGTH: 1531 words


Much-awaited legislation on climate change went down in flames in the Senate
last month in the face of a filibuster. Despite the goodies added to garner
support for the measure, Congress was not ready to limit emissions of carbon
dioxide -- the major greenhouse gas linked to global warming -- for fear it
would harm the economy. So what now?

Many in Congress say: "Wait till next year!" But crafting a viable climate
policy will not be easy or quick, whomever the next president. Meanwhile,
atmospheric levels of CO2 will continue to rise, making future action to stem
climate change all the more difficult.

There is a something Congress can do this year, right now, to make that future
task easier and much less costly. A bipartisan bill introduced by Rep. Rick
Boucher, D-Va., and 14 cosponsors -- including Reps. Mike Doyle, D-Oakland, and
John Murtha, D-Johnstown -- would raise $1 billion a year from a small fee on
fossil fuel electricity to advance the technology of carbon capture and storage.

Here's why this measure is so important.

Mitigating global climate change requires changing two things people really
love: their electricity and their cars. About 40 percent of U.S. CO2 emissions
come from burning fossil fuels -- mainly coal -- to generate electricity. On
average, keeping the lights on -- and enjoying all the appliances, entertainment
devices and everything else you plug in -- depends on coal for 12 hours every
day. Natural gas, another fossil fuel, keeps things running another 5 hours, as
do nuclear plants. In contrast, wind and solar energy together provide power for
less than 10 minutes a day, while all other sources (mainly hydro) account for
less than 3 hours. So we have a long way to go before carbon-free renewables can
replace fossil fuels for electricity generation.

As for cars, as things now stand, the highly touted "zero emission"
alternatives, such as hydrogen-fuel-cell cars and plug-in electric hybrids that
run on batteries, are not really carbon-free. That's because fossil fuel is used
to manufacture hydrogen and to recharge all those batteries. CO2 emissions are
simply shifted from the tailpipe to the power plant.

Thus, without major reductions in CO2 from power plants there is no hope of
controlling climate change. Carbon capture and storage is the only way we know
to get big reductions at coal-fired plants. Meanwhile, the Intergovernmental
Panel on Climate Change -- the world's pre-eminent climate scientists -- warns
that we must reduce global emissions by 50 percent to 85 percent to avoid
serious global-warming effects, such as more severe floods, fires and droughts
that ruin lives and livelihoods. This is a call for urgency, not delay.

Current technology can capture 80 percent to 90 percent of the CO2 emitted from
power plants. Concentrated CO2 then can be compressed to a liquid and injected
deep underground into formations sealed by thick layers of impermeable rock. The
CO2 dissolves and slowly transforms into solids, making it more certain over
time that it will not be released into the atmosphere. Climate strategies around
the world are banking on carbon capture and storage to achieve large reductions
in CO2 as we transition to more sustainable energy sources.

To date, however, experience with carbon storage is limited. The three largest
industrial projects in the world have been capturing and sequestering more than
a million tons of CO2 per year for up to 12 years. A few U.S. power plants also
routinely capture smaller amounts of CO2 for sale to the food industry (who use
it for dry ice and fizzy drinks).

All experts agree that the next essential step is to deploy full scale carbon
storage technology at several types of power plants to be sure it can be used
safely, effectively and reliably in different settings. Only then will the
utility industry and the public be confident that it can be widely used to
tackle climate change.

The main stumbling block has been cost -- carbon capture and storage is
presently expensive and would cost roughly $700 million to $1 billion for a
modern power plant to run a five-year test. Despite a lot of promises, neither
government nor industry has been willing to put up that much money. While
important legal and regulatory issues also need to be resolved, money currently
is the main barrier.

The Boucher bill (HR 6258) would break the stalemate in a creative and efficient
way by having utilities that sell electricity from fossil fuels share the cost
of demonstration projects for 10 years. Fees would go into a dedicated trust
fund run by a nongovernmental organization that would identify and fund needed
projects; ensure they are properly selected and managed; and deliver timely
results that benefit everyone.

This would accelerate progress on a technology that will be critical to whatever
long-term climate policy ultimately emerges. When the congressional debate
resumes next year we will not have lost valuable time.

Getting on with carbon storage also would send a strong signal to other
coal-burning countries such as China and India that the United States is serious
about developing a way to reconcile the realities of coal use with the urgency
of drastically reducing its emissions. It would show other countries how they
too can rein in emissions while continuing to rely on coal for energy -- as
surely they will -- to expand their economies.

While the current version of the Boucher bill is not perfect, it enjoys
bipartisan support and can be modified to sharpen the mission and oversight of
funded projects. Ultimately, all consumers of fossil fuel electricity would bear
the costs under this bill. However, my estimate is that it would add no more
that a penny a day to the average home electric bill, or about $3 to $5 a year.

An extra penny a day for urgently needed progress on climate change, even in
these days of rising prices, is still a bargain.

* * *

WHAT'S THE GREENHOUSE EFFECT?

Sunlight travels through the atmosphere mainly as ultraviolet radiation, which
warms the Earth. This causes the ground to emit infrared radiation, but only a
small portion of this heat escapes into space because infrared radiation is
absorbed by greenhouse gases in the atmosphere. The higher the concentration of
greenhouse gases, the more heat is trapped and the warmer Earth gets.

Greenhouse gases include water vapor, carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide,
hydrofluorocarbons, perfluorocarbons and sulfur hexafluoride. The first four
gases occur naturally and are necessary to keep our planet at a comfortable
temperature.

But since industrialization, atmospheric levels of greenhouse gases, especially
CO2, have significantly increased as a result of human activity, particularly
the burning of fossil fuels. And unlike other air pollutants, greenhouse gases
stay in the atmosphere for centuries, not just days or weeks. Virtually all
climate scientists believe this contributes to global warming, which could cause
unwelcome shifts in regional climates.

Studies by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change show that carbon
capture and storage can play an important role in stabilizing greenhouse gases
in the atmosphere. Other measures include energy conservation, improvements in
energy efficiency, shifting to fuels with little or no carbon such as nuclear
and renewables, and reducing non-CO2 greenhouse gas emissions.

* * *

IT'S NOT SIMPLE

Why do we need as many as 10 large-scale demonstrations of carbon dioxide
capture and storage technology, as provided for in the Boucher House
legislation?

Because the technology is complicated. It consists of three steps -- CO2
capture, transport and storage -- that must be linked seamlessly. The capture
step accounts for most of the cost. Power plants might use one of three
different approaches, so all must be tested at full scale to be confident they
would work reliably at large facilities.

Today's coal-burning plants would use "post-combustion" capture systems that can
strip up to 90 percent of the CO2 from spent flue gases before they go up the
chimney. "Pre-combustion" capture can do this at lower cost, but it requires a
more expensive type of power plant that first converts coal into a gas, which is
then cleaned and burned to generate electricity. A third approach, not yet as
mature, uses near-pure oxygen instead of air to burn coal, producing a
concentrated CO2 stream that is relatively easy to capture. However, the oxygen
plant adds considerably to the cost. Ideally, all three approaches would be
tested at both existing and new power plants.

All the capture systems would compress CO2 into a liquid, and CO2 in this form
already is being transported by pipeline, so that technology is well
established.

As for storage, there are different types of geological formations for
sequestering CO2. The most plentiful are saline formations -- layers of salt
water, sand and rock deep beneath the surface. These hold the most promise
because they can absorb large amounts of CO2, which slowly dissolves in the
brine and becomes part of the formation. Impermeable rock above the formation
helps ensure the CO2 cannot escape to the surface. Depleted oil and gas fields
also are potential storage sites.

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: he Next Page is different every week: thenextpage@post-gazette.com,
412-263-1915/ Edward S. Rubin, a professor of engineering and public policy at
Carnegie Mellon University, was a lead author of the Intergovernmental Panel on
Climate Change's Special Report on Carbon Dioxide Capture and Storage
(rubin@cmu.edu).

GRAPHIC: INFORMATIONAL GRAPHIC: Stacy Innerst/Post-Gazette: STORING CARBON
UNDERGROUND
\ INFORMATIONAL GRAPHIC: James Hilston/Post-Gazette; U.S. Energy Information
Administration: WHERE OUR ELECTRICITY COMES FROM

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              11 of 396 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                            March 20, 2008 Thursday
                                 SOONER EDITION

EARLY BLOOMERS;
SHIFTING SPRINGTIME IS LINKED TO GLOBAL WARMING

BYLINE: SETH BORENSTEIN, THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: HEALTH SCIENCE MEDICINE AND TECHNOLOGY; Pg. A-4

LENGTH: 937 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The capital's famous cherry trees are primed to burst out in a perfect pink peak
about the end of this month. Thirty years ago, the trees usually waited to bloom
till around April 5.

In central California, the first of the field skipper sachem, a drab little
butterfly, was fluttering about on March 12. Just 25 years ago, that creature
predictably emerged there anywhere from mid-April to mid-May.

And sneezes are coming earlier in Philadelphia. On March 9, when allergist Dr.
Donald Dvorin set up his monitor, maple pollen was already heavy in the air.
Less than two decades ago, that pollen couldn't be measured until late April.

Pollen is bursting. Critters are stirring. Buds are swelling. Biologists are
worrying. "The alarm clock that all the plants and animals are listening to is
running too fast," Stanford University biologist Terry Root said.

Blame global warming. The fingerprints of man-made climate change are evident in
seasonal timing changes for thousands of species on Earth, according to dozens
of studies and last year's authoritative report by the Nobel Prize-winning
international climate scientists. More than 30 scientists told The Associated
Press how global warming is affecting plants and animals at springtime across
the country, in nearly every state.

What's happening is so noticeable that scientists can track it from space.
Satellites measuring when land turns green found that spring "green-up" north of
the Mason-Dixon line is arriving, on average, eight hours earlier every year
since 1982.

Biological timing is called phenology. Biological spring, which this year began
at 1:48 a.m. EDT today, is based on the tilt of the Earth as it circles the sun.
The federal government and some university scientists are so alarmed by the
changes that last fall they created a National Phenology Network at the U.S.
Geological Survey to monitor these changes.

The idea, said biologist and network Director Jake Weltzin, is "to better
understand the changes and, more important, what do they mean? How does it
affect humankind?"

There are winners, losers and lots of unknowns when global warming messes with
natural timing. People may appreciate the smaller heating bills from shorter
winters, the longer growing season and maybe even better-tasting wines from some
early grape harvests. But biologists also foresee big problems.

The changes could push some species to extinction because certain plants and
animals are dependent on each other for food and shelter. If the plants bloom or
bear fruit before animals return or surface from hibernation, the critters could
starve. And plants that bud too early can still be whacked by a late freeze.

University of Maryland biology professor David Inouye noticed an unusually early
February robin in his neighborhood this year. "Sometimes," he said, "the early
bird is the one that's killed by the winter storm."

The checkerspot butterfly disappeared from Stanford's Jasper Ridge preserve
because shifts in rainfall patterns changed the timing of plants on which it
develops. When the plant dries out too early, the caterpillars die, said Notre
Dame biology professor Jessica Hellmann.

It's not easy on some people, either. A controlled federal field study shows
that warmer temperatures and increased carbon dioxide cause earlier, longer and
stronger allergy seasons. "For wind-pollinated plants, it's probably the
strongest signal we have yet of climate change," said University of
Massachusetts professor of aerobiology Christine Rogers. "It's a huge health
impact. Seventeen percent of the American population is allergic to pollen."

While some plants and animals use the amount of sunlight to figure out when it
is spring, others base it on heat building in their tissues, much like a
roasting turkey with a pop-up thermometer. Around the world, those internal
thermometers are going to "pop" earlier.

This past winter's weather could send a mixed message. Globally, it was the
coolest December through February since 2001 and a year of heavy snowfall.
Despite that, it was still warmer than average for the 20th century.

Phenology data go back to the 14th century for harvest of wine grapes in France.
There is a change in the timing of fall, but the change is biggest in spring. In
the 1980s, there was a sudden, big leap forward in spring blooming, scientists
noticed. And spring keeps coming earlier at an accelerating rate.

Unlike sea ice in the Arctic, the way climate change is tinkering with the
natural timing of day-to-day life is concrete and local.

* You can see trees and bushes bloom earlier. A photo of Lowell Cemetery, in
Lowell, Mass., taken May 30, 1868, shows bare limbs. But the same scene
photographed May 30, 2005, by Boston University biology professor Richard
Primack shows them in full spring greenery.

* You can smell the lilacs and honeysuckle. Out West, they bloom out two to four
days earlier each decade for more than a half-century, a 2001 study found.

* You can even taste it in the honey. Bees, which sample many plants, are
producing their peak amount of honey weeks earlier. The nectar is coming from
different plants now, which means noticeably different honey -- at least in
Highland, Md., where Wayne Esaias has been monitoring honey production since
1992.

Instead of the rich, red, earthy tulip poplar honey that used to be prevalent,
bees are producing lighter, fruitier black locust honey. Mr. Esaias, a NASA
oceanographer as well as beekeeper, says global warming is a factor.

In Washington, seven of the last 20 Cherry Blossom Festivals have started after
peak bloom. This year will be close, the National Park Service predicts.

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mike Lawrence/The Gleaner: Rescue squad members in Henderson
County, Ky., save a family from their flooded home yesterday. Residents of
low-lying towns stacked sandbags or grabbed belongings and evacuated after a
foot of rain pushed rivers and creeks out of their banks in the nation's
midsection. At least 13 deaths had been linked to the weather, and three people
were missing. Record or near-record flood crests were forecast at several towns
in Missouri. Flooding was reported in large areas of Arkansas and parts of
southern Illinois, southern Indiana and southwestern Ohio, and schools were
closed in parts of western Kentucky because of flooded roads. The National
Weather Service posted flood and flash flood warnings from Texas to
Pennsylvania.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              15 of 396 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                            January 3, 2008 Thursday
                                 SOONER EDITION

BERT BOLIN;
MARCH 15, 1925 - DEC. 30, 2007;
CO-FOUNDER OF CLIMATE CHANGE PANEL

BYLINE: MALIN RISING, THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: OBITUARY; Pg. D-5

LENGTH: 254 words


Bert Bolin, a Swedish climate scientist and co-founder of the Nobel
Peace-winning U.N. panel on climate change, has died at age 82.

Dr. Bolin died Sunday in a hospital in Stockholm, Sweden, of stomach cancer, but
was active until three days before his death, said his colleague Henning Rodhe,
a professor in chemical meteorology at Stockholm University.

As early as the 1950s, Dr. Bolin produced research about the circulation of
carbon in nature that remains relevant to the debate on climate change. He
played a key role in communicating the dangers of climate change and served as
the first chairman of the U.N.'s Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change from
1988 to 1998.

The panel won the 2007 Nobel Peace Prize along with former Vice President Al
Gore for helping alert the world to the threat of global warming.

Visiting Sweden in December after accepting the Nobel Prize in Norway, Mr. Gore
said: "Bert, you set up the framework for the IPCC and without your
contributions we would not have come to where we are today. Thank you for
starting the process."

When he learned he had won the Nobel, Mr. Gore first called IPCC chairman
Rajendra Pachauri, and then Dr. Bolin, he said.

According to Stockholm University, Dr. Bolin was initially supposed to travel to
Oslo, Norway, to accept the prize on behalf of the IPCC, but was unable to do so
due to poor health.

Dr. Bolin was a professor of meteorology at Stockholm University between 1961
and 1990. He had also served as the scientific director of the European Space
Agency.

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              17 of 396 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                             October 5, 2008 Sunday
                               FIVE STAR EDITION

THE NEW GREEN FRONTIER;
WE GOT TO THE MOON IN A DECADE; LET'S LAUNCH AN APOLLO-LIKE PROJECT TO TURN
AMERICA GREEN

BYLINE: PETER COLE

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. G-1

LENGTH: 694 words


John F. Kennedy challenged Americans to put "a man on the moon" by the end of
the decade. As during the Cold War, again the nation faces many challenges,
including economic collapse and climate change. Like the space program, an
equally bold solution exists to our problems today. With the political will, we
could restore America's economic strength and tackle global warming by
transforming the Rust Belt into a post-industrial Green Belt. It's called the
Apollo Alliance and it's the best idea in a generation that you've never heard
of ... yet.

A coalition of business, environmental and labor groups, the Apollo Alliance
champions the so-called green economy. At the core of this effort is the United
Steelworkers union, which understands that green jobs can rejuvenate an American
manufacturing sector devastated by decades of job losses. This "blue-green"
coalition wants us to reduce our dependence on fossil fuels, foreign suppliers
and oil corporations.

Instead, we want to ramp up investments in wind, solar and other renewable
energies. Not only would this policy jump-start flagging efforts to seriously
address climate change, it also would employ millions of Americans in
well-paying manufacturing jobs that have a future while decreasing our
dependence on foreign oil. Can you say no-brainer?

Just as JFK's idea inspired a generation and proved successful, the Apollo
Alliance hopes, among other goals, to generate 25 percent of the nation's power
from renewable and recycled energy by 2025. Of course, that will require an
enormous shift in public policy and an equally large capital investment. But,
really, we have no choice.

Green jobs are those decoupled from fossil fuels. Some already exist. For
instance, hundreds of Pennsylvanians work at a plant not far from Johnstown,
built literally on the site of an old U.S. Steel factory, that manufactures wind
turbines -- alas, for a Spanish company.

This New Green Frontier includes planting green roofs in Chicago, working for
Amtrak, installing solar panels on a Denver library and retrofitting houses in
suburban Miami. As New York Times columnist Paul Krugman and others have
observed, "We don't produce anything anymore. We buy and sell houses with money
borrowed from China." Let's start doing so again.

Despite the risks of outsourcing and climate change, the last eight years have
seen little leadership from either the federal government or corporate America.
Sure, in his 2006 State of the Union address, President Bush finally
acknowledged that "America is addicted to oil." But he did not follow up with
action.

Instead, he feeds our addiction by pushing for more domestic production. For
though it sounds good, more domestic oil drilling won't solve our addiction, nor
will it reduce gas prices today or next year. The better approach is to wean our
nation off fossil fuels rather than support our "habit." Enter energies produced
by wind, the sun and other renewable sources.

John McCain gives lip service to green jobs but has made drilling the
centerpiece of his energy plan -- which would not produce many jobs, would not
help our environment and most definitely would not address the impending crises
caused by rapid climate change.

In contrast, Barack Obama talks far more often and in more detail about our need
for a green future. He claims that embracing the green economy can create five
million new jobs and promises an investment of $15 billion annually for 10
years.

The Apollo Alliance contends that at least twice that amount is needed, still
but a fraction of the annual federal budget and a pittance compared to the
amounts being discussed in the current fiscal crisis. Yet no matter who gets
elected, the Apollo Alliance agenda is a must.

Just as JFK's bold pledge succeeded, if we embrace the vision of the Apollo
Alliance we would clean up the environment, produce millions of well-paying
American jobs that won't be outsourced, avoid sending almost a trillion dollars
a year to OPEC, improve our strategic position in the world and attack the
profound, global consequences of climate change. If, as with JFK in the 1960s,
we have the political will.

Can we afford not to act?

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Peter Cole is an associate professor of history at Western Illinois
University in Macomb, Ill., and the author of "Wobblies on the Waterfront:
Interracial Unionism in Progressive-Era Philadelphia" (p-cole@wiu.edu).

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              24 of 396 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                            February 10, 2008 Sunday
                               FIVE STAR EDITION

CONGRESS WARMING TO CLIMATE-CHANGE LEGISLATION

BYLINE: Richard Simon, Los Angeles Times

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. A-3

LENGTH: 1006 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Scores of climate-change bills are stacking up in the legislative queue.
Numerous hearings, the most recent on the polar bear, are highlighting the
issue. And some regulation-averse corporate executives have even called on
Congress to step in.

But despite the dramatic shift in the Capitol in favor of doing something to
reduce greenhouse-gas emissions, global-warming legislation remains a long shot
for this year.

Proponents always knew it would be tough to get a bill with mandatory limits
through a narrowly divided Congress and past President Bush. But the first bill
to advance since Democrats won the majority in 2006 has run into unexpected
roadblocks.

Some environmentalists are complaining that it isn't strong enough, and they
worry that it may even be watered down. They want to wait to take up a bill
after the November election, when Democrats might capture more seats in
Congress, and also the White House.

Numerous business groups aren't any more enthusiastic, saying the bill would
drive up costs and make it harder for them to compete globally at a time of high
anxiety about the economy.

And if the criticism from both sides isn't enough, this is an election year -- a
time when partisan tensions heighten in Congress, making it difficult to pass
anything controversial.

Still, congressional leaders are determined to press ahead.

"We must pass the strongest bill we can," said Sen. Barbara Boxer, D-Calif., the
chairwoman of the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee, "but we must
remember that the perfect cannot be the enemy of the very good."

Those hoping to pass the bill point out that just a year ago it was unimaginable
that environmentalists would win a decades-long fight for tougher fuel-economy
standards. After the auto industry relented, the measure passed and Mr. Bush
signed it. Environmentalists hope that scenario will be repeated with global
warming.

"You now have a big chunk of industry saying, 'Let's just get this done,' " said
Manik Roy, director of congressional affairs for the Pew Center on Global
Climate Change.

The Senate has moved faster than the House. Ms. Boxer's committee has approved a
bill by Sens. Joe Lieberman, I-Conn., and John W. Warner, R-Va., that would cap
greenhouse gas emissions from power plants, factories, oil refineries and other
polluters. The bill, called "America's Climate Security Act," would require
companies that exceed the limits to buy credits from other companies that more
than meet them.

The House is still working on its bill. Its leaders said they are determined to
try to send a bill to the president before Congress adjourns this year, but
acknowledge it will be difficult.

Today, more senators support mandatory emission reductions than the last time
the issue came up for a vote. That was in 2005, when a bill drew the support of
38 senators.

With Democrats holding a narrow working majority in the Senate (the two
independent senators generally vote with them), the bill's supporters need
Republican votes to reach the 60 required to overcome a filibuster. But when the
measure passed the Senate's environment committee, it received the support of
only one Republican: Warner.

And a prominent Republican who was an early advocate of mandatory emission
reductions opposes the bill. Sen. John McCain of Arizona, the likely Republican
presidential nominee, objects that the measure doesn't promote nuclear power, a
low-emission energy source he sees as a critical part of the solution.

The bill has generated concern from industry groups ranging from airlines to
oil-and-gas producers. The American Iron and Steel Institute said the bill would
make U.S. businesses less competitive, explaining that it "applies an uneven
standard to American manufacturers, while not addressing the carbon footprint of
our major foreign competitors."

William Kovacs, vice president for environment, technology and regulatory
affairs at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, dared Democrats to pass a bill he said
would drive up utility costs at a time of high economic anxiety.

"Go for it," he said, warning that lawmakers could expect their votes to become
a campaign issue.

In a sign of the difficult road ahead, Duke Energy Co., one of the companies
that has supported an emissions cap, objects that the measure "unduly penalizes
consumers in the Midwest, Great Plains and Southeast who depend on coal for much
of their electricity." Opposition from coal-using utilities is important because
a large number of senators hail from states that produce coal or rely on it to
produce electricity.

Still, there are companies, including Pittsburgh-based Alcoa, that see the bill
as a way to end the uncertainty over regulation they believe is inevitable. The
aluminum producer called the bill a "strong enough start."

Some environmentalists agree with Ms. Boxer that the time to act is now, noting
that the bill is the strongest yet to come before the Senate. They are hopeful
that it could pass, citing senators who voted against the 2005 bill -- including
Elizabeth Dole, R-N.C., and Max Baucus, D-Mont. -- who support this year's bill.
And they believe it's important to bring up the bill to keep climate change in
the forefront of the election debate.

Some environmental groups hope to strengthen the measure. But that is likely to
be difficult in the narrowly divided Senate. And some fear that the bill's
sponsors will make "further concessions to an already compromised bill," said
Frank O'Donnell of Clean Air Watch.

Environmentalists worry that industry groups are eager for action this year only
because they think they stand a better chance of shaping a bill to their liking
than if a measure were to be crafted after the November election.

"The political reality is -- and I think it's unfortunate -- today in the United
States Senate, we do not have a 60-vote majority on a strong global warming
bill," said Chris Miller, director of Greenpeace USA's global warming campaign.
"The only way you move anywhere close to getting the 60 votes you need is to
weaken the bill even further."

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              44 of 396 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                              May 25, 2008 Sunday
                               FIVE STAR EDITION

STUDY FINDS COST OF DOING NOTHING ON CLIMATE STEEP

BYLINE: RENEE SCHOOF, MCCLATCHY NEWSPAPERS

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. A-12

LENGTH: 591 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Doing nothing about global warming would cost America dearly in the rest of this
century because of stronger hurricanes, higher energy and water costs, and
rising seas that would swamp coastal communities, according to a new study by
economists at Tufts University.

The study concluded that it would be cheaper to take aggressive action to cut
greenhouse gas emissions than it would be to suffer the consequences of a
dangerously changing world. "The longer we wait, the more painful and expensive
the consequences will be," it said.

The Senate in early June will consider legislation to set a declining limit on
emissions and establish a market for pollution permits that would reward
companies that reduce pollution. The system is designed to reduce total U.S.
emissions by an estimated 66 percent from 1990 levels by 2050.

"Most of the debate we expect will be about how much it will cost to implement
the bill. This report provides the other side of the ledger -- how much it will
cost if we don't act," said Dan Lashof, the director of the climate center at
the Natural Resources Defense Council, an environmental group that commissioned
the study.

The Tufts study included a "bottom-up" analysis of the economic impacts in four
categories and found that by 2100, annual costs would be $422 billion in
hurricane damage; $360 billion in real estate losses, with the biggest risk on
the Atlantic and Gulf coasts, particularly Florida; $141 billion in increased
energy costs; and $950 billion in water costs, especially in the West. (The
estimates are expressed in today's dollars.)

That adds up to an annual loss by 2100 of 1.8 percent of gross domestic product,
the sum of the nation's output of goods and services.

The study's "business as usual" scenario, in which emissions of greenhouse gases
continued at an increasing rate, was taken from the high end of the range of
likely outcomes of inaction described by the Nobel Prize-winning
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change last year. The Tufts study also
incorporated some later scientific findings.

The study projected that the average temperature would increase by 13 degrees in
most of the United States and by 18 degrees in Alaska in the next 100 years,
bringing more severe heat waves, hurricanes and droughts.

The report also forecast stronger hurricanes as a result of higher sea surface
temperatures; sea level rises of 23 inches by 2050 and 45 inches by 2100 that
would inundate low-lying coastal areas; and higher air-conditioning bills in the
Southeast and Southwest that wouldn't be offset nationally by lower heating
bills in the North.

The authors of the Tufts study also used a revised version of the model used by
Nicholas Stern for his 2006 assessment of the cost of inaction on a global
scale. Using that model, the Tufts economists found a U.S. loss of 3.6 percent
of GDP by 2100.

There have been more than six studies of the cost of reducing U.S. greenhouse
gas emissions as outlined in the bill that will be debated in the Senate. All
use different assumptions and have different outcomes.

None of these studies looked at the costs of not acting, said Eileen Claussen,
the president of the Pew Center on Global Climate Change.

The Pew Center's economists found that many of the studies of the costs of
reducing emissions disregarded cost-saving technologies and programs. They also
said that all models of the costs predict that if the measures outlined in the
bill were put into effect, the economy would continue to grow. The costs would
be felt as a reduction of future growth.

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              70 of 396 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                            January 18, 2008 Friday
                                 SOONER EDITION

DREAM TICKET;
CLINTON-OBAMA? OBAMA-CLINTON?

BYLINE: Ellen Goodman

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. B-7

LENGTH: 731 words


Maybe I forgot to get my vaccination against the false-hope flu. Maybe the
change mantra has finally overwhelmed my immune system. Or maybe it's just the
spirit of Martin Luther King Jr. hovering over this week. But I have a dream. Or
at least a dream ticket.

Why not the two Democratic front-runners on one ballot? Yes, I am aware that I
must immediately hand over my press card to the professional cynic police.

But the Democrats have just recovered from a panic attack over the possibility
that a primary fight between Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama over race and
gender will leave both in the dirt. At the kiss-and-make-up debate in Nevada, a
reassuring Mr. Obama said that "there's much more that we hold in common than
what separates us." Mrs. Clinton said that "we're all family in the Democratic
Party." Exhale deeply.

"This is a moment worthy of celebration," said Mrs. Clinton last week. "Many of
our parents and our grandparents -- and, I dare say, probably many of us --
never thought they would see the day when an African American and a woman were
competing for the presidency of the United States."

Well, I'll see your "change" and raise you one. Our parents and our grandparents
really never expected to see an African American and a woman on the same ticket.

I will now pause for the requisite paragraphs explaining why this is a nutty
idea. The two-fer could be two-for-defeat, double the trouble. As "hope-less"
strategists will tell you, there are plenty of folks who don't want to see a
white woman and black man dance together, let alone run for the top jobs
together.

The common wisdom says that we need a balanced ticket. But these are both
senators, one from New York and one from Illinois. Moreover, the Democratic
Party already has racial and gender gaps. Want chasms? But what if "there's no
such thing as false hopes"? -- thank you, Mr. Obama. What if "what we need is
somebody who can deliver change"? -- thank you, Mrs. Clinton. What if a new,
improved idea of a balanced ticket goes beyond demography and geography? What if
balance rests on different personal and political strengths?

Mr. Obama is cast as the candidate of inspiration. Mrs. Clinton wears the mantle
of experience. Tuesday night, Mrs. Clinton described her idea of a president as
"the chief executive officer." Mr. Obama described his greatest strength as "the
ability to bring people together from different perspectives."

Historian Doris Kearns Goodwin also blushingly confesses to being seduced by the
possibility that the sum of this ticket would be greater than its parts. She
compares it to other historic partnerships between those who motivated change
and those who implemented it, including, yes, Martin Luther King Jr. and Lyndon
Baines Johnson. "King's marching and sit-ins and his oratory created a climate
that Congress had to respond to," says the biographer, but LBJ's political
skills wrestled the legislation through Congress.

"In this case, we wouldn't just be combining a black and a woman, but the two
narratives of the campaign: inspiration and experience, both of which are needed
for change," she adds.

Up to now, you will notice, I haven't said who would be at the top of the
ticket. Which is where my little attack of idealism may stumble.

In America, as Mrs. Clinton noted in the debate, we put "the head of state and
the head of government together in one person." Frankly, I think of Mrs. Clinton
as prime minister and Mr. Obama as royal philosopher. If Mrs. Clinton wins, it's
easier to imagine the younger candidate taking the second spot. If Mr. Obama
wins, it's harder to see her settling for Number One Observatory Circle after
eight years in the White House. But at the same time, she has had a whole lot of
experience partnering with a president.

This game plan depends, I am fully aware, on Super Tuesday. It also depends on
whether the country is, in fact, eager for something different, in a
"post-polarization" frame of mind.

But Mr. Obama said, "I run so that a year from today there's a chance that the
world will look at America differently and that America will look at itself
differently." And Mrs. Clinton told Tyra Banks which reality show she'd choose:
"I think it would have to be 'Dancing with the Stars,' especially if I could
have one of those really good partners."

Against the low, incessant, chant for change, do I hear aT-E-A-M? Or only a
dream?

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Ellen Goodman is a syndicated columnist for The Boston Globe
(ellengoodman@globe.com).

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              74 of 396 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                            November 21, 2008 Friday
                                 SOONER EDITION

WAXMAN REPLACES DINGELL AS ENERGY PANEL HEAD

BYLINE: John M. Broder, The New York Times

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. A-5

LENGTH: 587 words


WASHINGTON -- Rep. Henry A. Waxman yesterday wrested the chairmanship of the
powerful House Energy and Commerce Committee from Rep. John D. Dingell in a coup
that is expected to accelerate passage of energy, climate and health legislation
backed by President-elect Barack Obama.

Mr. Waxman, 69, of California, who mounted a quiet but effective two-week
campaign against his longtime Michigan colleague, won the chairmanship with a
137-122 vote in the Democratic caucus. The vote was secret, but many allies of
Speaker Nancy Pelosi backed Mr. Waxman's move, and several members said they
voted on the assumption that the California leader tacitly approved.

Democrats also read the signals coming from the president-elect's transition
office, which this week announced the intention to name Philip Schiliro, a
longtime aide to Mr. Waxman, as the new White House director of congressional
relations.

The ouster of Mr. Dingell was another blow to the reeling U.S. auto industry,
which learned yesterday that it will not get any financial assistance from
Congress until it shows how it can be profitable again.

Mr. Dingell, who represents a suburban Detroit district, has been the auto
industry's most stalwart defender in Congress, having slowed or blocked many
safety and environmental standards that the auto companies argued they could not
meet.

At a meeting of the House Democratic caucus yesterday morning, Mr. Dingell and
his supporters delivered an impassioned plea to let him keep his post as the
panel's senior Democrat, which he has held for 28 years. But Mr. Waxman's
argument that he would be a more vigorous and effective advocate for Mr. Obama's
agenda won the day. Mr. Dingell, 82, has been hobbled by health problems and is
in a wheelchair recovering from knee-replacement surgery.

Mr. Waxman described the battle with Mr. Dingell as painful, but praised his
rival's half-century of service in Congress. Without directly criticizing Mr.
Dingell, Mr. Waxman said he would move more quickly on the president-elect's
priorities.

"I went before the caucus and argued we needed a change in leadership, and the
public was clamoring for the change," Mr. Waxman said in a post-vote interview.
He said he hoped to move on comprehensive climate and health care legislation,
simultaneously if possible.

"I think we need to act on both issues, even though they're complex and may be
contentious," he said. "When a new president is elected, there's often a limited
opportunity to get through major bills that he's backed."

Mr. Dingell was surrounded by staff members after the vote, some of them in
tears, others furious. He did not speak immediately to reporters but issued a
statement later.

"Well, this was clearly a change year, and I congratulate my colleague Henry
Waxman on his success today," Mr. Dingell said. "I will work closely with him on
the issues facing the Energy and Commerce Committee and for a smooth
transition."

Mr. Waxman represents Santa Monica, Beverly Hills and well-to-do areas of West
Los Angeles. He has long championed clean air legislation and measures to
strengthen consumer protections. He supports tougher nursing home regulation,
increased federal support for disease research and subsidies for prescription
drugs for the poor and the elderly.

As ranking member and chairman of the House Oversight and Government Reform
Committee, Mr. Waxman has been Congress' grand inquisitor, conducting
high-profile investigations of Wall Street, Major League Baseball, Pentagon
contractors and the tobacco industry.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Chip Somodevilla/AFP/Getty Images: House Oversight and
Government Reform Committee Chairman Henry Waxman, D-Calif., talks to the media
after the House Democratic Caucus meeting on Capitol Hill yesterday. Mr. Waxman
wrested control of the influential Committee on Energy and Commerce from its
current chairman, Rep. John D. Dingell, D-Mich., by a vote of 137 to 122.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              75 of 396 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                            February 24, 2008 Sunday
                                TWO STAR EDITION

MONEY GETTING GREENER;
ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY INVESTMENTS BECOMING EVER MORE POPULAR TODAY

BYLINE: Bill Toland, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. C-1

LENGTH: 1016 words


Apparently it's not enough to buy fluorescent light bulbs anymore. These days,
your retirement investments ought to be environmentally friendly, too. And while
one individual's $500 investment in a green fund might not reduce global carbon
levels appreciably, state treasuries across the country could if they divert
part of their trillions in investment capacity toward the planet's most
responsible stewards.

And they're starting to.

With that much financial muscle behind the effort, says Pennsylvania Treasurer
Robin L. Wiessmann, "green investing" soon could go mainstream as institutional
investors incorporate environmental and geopolitical factors into the investing
equation.

Because climatic and environmental issues are claiming international importance,
green investment strategies have grown in popularity the past few years -- even
though, as a school of thought, you can arguably trace this all the way back to
the Quakers, who have a history of mixing money and morals.

Pennsylvania began testing these waters this month, when Ms. Wiessmann, on the
dais at the Philadelphia Stock Exchange, announced that the state would be
investing $15 million in publicly traded funds that hold stock in companies that
either deal directly with energy and environmental issues, or have been
recognized for their Earth-friendly business practices.

It's part of the state's new "Keystone Green Investment Strategy." The second
component is direct investing, perhaps $50 million, in publicly held,
yet-unidentified green energy companies based in Pennsylvania.

From Philadelphia, Ms. Wiessmann was off to New York for the United Nations'
"Investors Summit on Climate Risk," the third such summit since 2003. State
treasurers, city comptrollers and financial service firms convened to talk about
the latest investing trend.

There are dozens of investment firms that have at least one green portfolio,
even though the majority of the portfolios didn't exist even two years ago,
according to the San Francisco Chronicle.

"There's much more of a groundswell," said Ms. Wiessmann. Focusing the clout of
institutional investors is "a great way to propel" green energy firms.

It's sexy, but is it safe?

Portfolios that focus on firms that directly produce goods and services related
to environmental conservation can be a crapshoot, because they often include
only a handful of companies. The Free Enterprise Action Fund -- a mutual fund
that is tired of "left-wing social and political activists harnessing the power,
resources and influence of publicly owned corporations to advance their agendas"
-- says shareholders and pensioners should be wary.

"We believe many companies are failing to do adequate due diligence on climate
change profiteering schemes," said Tom Borelli, who runs the fund.

Others aren't so partisan, but still wonder if the investment houses aren't
engaging in a bit of "greenwashing" -- exaggerating the environmental bona fides
of their largest holdings in an effort to cash in on the "social investment"
trend. Indeed, some funds are thin on solar and alternative energy companies,
and are rounded out by, say, the Chipotle burrito company (because it tries to
buy local ingredients) or Hewlett-Packard (because it's a "best-in-breed"
company, greener than its competitors).

Pennsylvania has split its initial $15 million among three well-known green
funds -- PowerShares WilderHill, an exchange traded fund; Winslow Green Growth,
a mutual fund; and Green Century Balanced Fund. Green Century's fund, managed by
Bank of New York Mellon, includes Microsoft Corp., Xerox and Allentown's Air
Products & Chemicals, plus two other Pennsylvania companies. WilderHill, as of
this month, held stock in more than 40 companies, most of them directly involved
in green energy (Nova Biosource Fuels, Pacific Ethanol, First Solar Inc.,
FuelCell energy Inc. and more).

Winslow Green Growth invests in clean energy as well as companies that promote
active, healthful lifestyles -- Whole Foods Market Inc. and Life Time Fitness,
for instance.

Each investor uses different parameters and screening methods to determine which
companies qualify as good stewards, said Erin Gray, head of marketing for the
Boston-based Green Century Capital Management.

"Part of it, too, is just getting knowledge and data from these companies on
this issue," she said. Some companies are more forthcoming than others about
just how green they are: How do they discard their industrial waste? Do their
products include more recyclable material today than they did five years ago?

"You can easily compare companies on financial factors," she said. "But it's
much more difficult to say, 'Here's company A and here's company B, and let's
compare them on environmental and sustainability factors.'

"Everyone sets their own kind of standards" for compiling a portfolio, Ms. Gray
said.

Sure, the companies are environmental winners, but how do they perform
financially?

Pretty well, through 2007. The Winslow fund's annual returns have been at 25
percent for the past five years. Green Century boasts a 13.6 percent annual
return over five years (but is below the Lipper Balanced Fund Index the last
three years).

But, as with any investment portfolio that zeroes in on one market sector, some
of these funds have the potential for volatility. Generally, funds that invest
in larger, best-in-breed companies would have more built-in stability than a
portfolio made up entirely of green firms.

The risk could be reduced, though, with more variety, both in terms of the
number of companies that qualify as green investments, and the number of firms
offering such portfolios. And that could happen, says Ms. Wiessmann, if
institutional investors get serious about considering qualitative factors, not
just earnings per share, as part of an investment philosophy.

The treasurers and comptrollers at the UN summit, for example, brought a
combined $1.75 trillion to the table.

The goal, Ms. Wiessmann said, is to get companies to realize that the biggest
investors will work "climatic factors and energy factors into all of our
business decision-making."

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Bill Toland can be reached at btoland@post-gazette.com or 412-263-2625.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO ILLUSTRATION: By Anita Dufalla/Post-Gazette:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              84 of 396 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                             June 21, 2008 Saturday
                                 SOONER EDITION

HOUSE PASSES WIRETAP BILL

SECTION: NATIONAL; NATIONAL BRIEFS; Pg. A-4

LENGTH: 566 words


WASHINGTON -- The House yesterday easily approved a compromise bill setting new
electronic surveillance rules that effectively shield telecommunications
companies from lawsuits arising from the government's terrorism-era warrantless
eavesdropping on phone and computer lines in this country.

The bill, which was passed on a 293-129 vote, does more than just protect the
telecoms. The update to the 30-year-old Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act is
an attempt to balance privacy rights with the government's responsibility to
protect the country against attack, taking into account changes in
telecommunications technologies.

The House's passage of the FISA Amendment bill marks the beginning of the end to
a monthslong standoff between Democrats and Republicans about the rules for
government wiretapping inside the United States. The Senate was expected to pass
the bill with a large margin, perhaps as soon as next week.

U.S. warns of terror risks

WASHINGTON -- The federal government will tell 7,000 businesses next week that
they are considered high risk-terrorist targets because they house large amounts
of chemicals.

The sites -- which range from major chemical plants to universities, food
processing centers and hospitals -- will need to complete a vulnerability
assessment so the government can decide how to regulate their security measures
in the future.

U.S. intelligence officials say terrorist organizations, including al-Qaida,
favor chemical attack methods because of the severe consequences they can
inflict.

Earlier this year, 32,000 businesses with large amounts of chemicals had to
complete an online survey that the Homeland Security Department used to
determine which facilities' security measures should be regulated. The list was
pared down to 7,000. These businesses will go through another vulnerability
assessment, and the department will place them into four categories, based on
the risk they face.

Bush withholds records

WASHINGTON -- President Bush asserted executive privilege yesterday to withhold
documents from a congressional investigation into whether he pressured the
Environmental Protection Agency to weaken decisions on smog and greenhouse
gases.

White House officials notified the House Oversightand Government Reform
Committee of the rare assertion about 15 minutes before the committee was to
vote on holding the head of the EPA and a White House budget official in
contempt of Congress for not providing the documents.

Executive privilege, while not explicitly mentioned in the Constitution, is
grounded in the constitutional doctrine of separation of powers and is sometimes
invoked to keep executive branch deliberations private.

King memorial revisions

WASHINGTON -- Artists working on a Martin Luther King Jr. Memorial submitted
changes this week to address concerns that a proposed rendering made him look
confrontational and like a socialist leader.

Changes to the 28-foot "Stone of Hope" sculpture were requested by the U.S.
Commission of Fine Arts, a federal panel that helps oversee monuments and
memorials on the National Mall. The commission didn't vote, but members
indicated they would approve the changes.

Ed Jackson Jr., the project's executive architect, said designers softened
King's face slightly at the brow and the mouth. The updated design maintains
King's look of consternation but turns his mouth up slightly to resemble the
hint of a smile.

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              86 of 396 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                             August 22, 2008 Friday
                                 SOONER EDITION

3 CANADIAN SOLDIERS KILLED

SECTION: WORLD; WORLD BRIEFS; Pg. A-4

LENGTH: 555 words


KABUL, Afghanistan -- Canada's Department of National Defense says a roadside
bomb in southern Afghanistan has killed three Canadian soldiers.

The blast that killed the Canadians happened Wednesday in a dangerous district
west of the main southern city of Kandahar -- two days after a Taliban ambush
killed 10 French troops -- and was announced yesterday

This year will likely be the deadliest for international troops since the 2001
invasion. Some 184 international soldiers, including about 96 Americans, have
died in Afghanistan this year, according to an Associated Press count. That pace
should far surpass the record 222 international troop deaths in 2007.

Meanwhile, the U.S.-led coalition said yesterday it had killed more than 30
insurgents in a battle in eastern Afghanistan, fighters an Afghan governor said
were responsible for an attack that killed 10 French troops this week.

Lutfullah Mashal, the governor of Laghman province, said coalition bombs
targeted fighters on the border of Laghman and Kabul provinces. He said the
insurgents were fleeing the valley where Monday's attack on the French took
place

UK loses prisoner data

LONDON -- In another embarrassing stumble with computerized data, Britain's
government confirmed yesterday that a contractor lost a memory device containing
information on every prison inmate in England and Wales, about 84,000 people.

British officials have been humiliated by a series of such blunders that has
raised questions about its ability to safeguard personal information of citizens
even as it works on final details for an ambitious national identification
program and an expanded DNA data base.

Millions of names and personal details from across the country have been
reported lost because computers or memory devices went missing over the past
year. The latest comes after the government published a report in June on how it
hoped to improve data handling practices.

'Climate shocks' predicted

ACCRA, Ghana -- Africa already is suffering from "climate shocks," the president
of Ghana told a 160-nation climate conference yesterday, joining a chorus of
calls to speed up the pace of talks on a new agreement to rein in carbon
emissions.

More than 1,600 delegates and environmental experts began a week of tough
U.N.-sponsored negotiations, hoping to start drafting language for a treaty due
to be adopted next year. The agreement would succeed the 1997 Kyoto Protocol,
which expires in 2012.

President John Kufuor said Ghana had witnessed devastating drought and floods in
recent years, underscoring scientific predictions that Africa will be the
worst-hit continent if the Earth's average temperature continues to rise.

Iraqi journalist freed

BAGHDAD -- The U.S. military released an Iraqi television cameraman for the
Reuters news agency and other news organizations without charges yesterday after
23 days in detention.

Ali al-Mashhadani, who also works for the British Broadcasting Corp. and
National Public Radio, had been detained twice before, including for a
five-month stretch.

Al-Mashhadani was freed "because he was deemed not to be a security threat,"
Maj. John C. Hall, a U.S. military spokesman, said in a statement. He did not
elaborate.

The advocacy group Reporters Without Border demanded that the military halt what
it described as arbitrary arrests of journalists in Iraq.

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              87 of 396 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                             April 27, 2008 Sunday
                                TWO STAR EDITION

'EARY' INDICTMENT: CORN BLAMED FOR EVERYTHING

BYLINE: Teresa F. Lindeman, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. C-1

LENGTH: 2137 words


The handful of yellow dent corn that Fayette County farmer Richard Burd keeps in
an old coffee can in his office doesn't look like something that could affect
the price of gas at GetGo or the cost of a chicken at Shop 'n Save.

Yet the small, hard nuggets that feed poultry as well as make fuel have become a
flashpoint for a debate over the future of the nation's energy policies vs. the
rising cost of feeding a family.

A chicken company in Texas this month blamed the government's "misguided ethanol
policy" in part for rising corn prices. And a grocery industry group complained
all-time high corn prices were a factor in milk, meat and bread prices rising
faster than inflation.

Not everyone is buying it.

"Corn is being blamed for, good grief, every malady," said Mr. Burd in disgust.
"Probably kids breaking out in acne is because of corn prices."

Well, perhaps not quite that. But decisions being made on the future of ethanol
and other biofuels aren't just the stuff of international policy, congressional
hearings and Midwest farm news.

In Western Pennsylvania, many have a stake in the discussion, from the region's
farmers to food companies such as the H.J. Heinz Co. to investors in ethanol
plants to consumers shopping for groceries.

Corn prices aren't the only thing going up lately but the government's role
makes it a topic of some controversy.

Ethanol has been around for decades but oil dominated the nation's energy
choices because it was easy to use and the price was right. But governments
moved to encourage alternative energy development, including subsidies for
corn-based ethanol.

It worked so well that rising demand was seen as a driving factor behind the
spike in corn prices toward the end of 2006. Farmers responded by producing one
of the largest corn crops since World War II. Typically, a bumper crop would
drive prices down. But corn prices continued to rise.

Ethanol was part of the picture. So was the falling value of the U.S. dollar and
the growing affluence of countries such as China that now can afford to buy
American grain to feed livestock. Speculators who aren't finding a lot to like
on Wall Street also may be bidding up prices. Buying corn for $4 a bushel and
reselling it for $6 can mean a nice return.

If it were just corn going up, it might not be a big deal. But the price hikes
have come against a backdrop of rising oil prices, a surge in wheat demand,
tightening credit and other economic issues.

Food companies and ethanol plants worry corn prices will stay high and throw
their bottom line out of whack, while grain farmers -- watching seed, fertilizer
and crop insurance costs soar -- worry prices won't hold up until harvest.
Consumers just worry.

LOOKING FOR CLUES

On days like March 31, the phones never stopped ringing at the Deerfield, Ohio,
offices of Deerfield Farms Services. That's when the annual predictions on what
the nation's farmers plan to plant came out of the U.S. Department of
Agriculture's National Agricultural Statistics Service.

"Everybody wants to know what I think the markets are going to do," said Jenifer
Weaver, grain department manager. She laughed. If she knew that, she said, she'd
be wealthy and spending the winter months in a balmy climate.

Deerfield Farms is a midsize country elevator that will handle more than 5
million bushels of corn, soybeans and wheat this year, much of it grown in
fields in Ohio and Pennsylvania. It has grain elevators in five locations,
including in New Wilmington.

Farmers have the choice of selling directly to end users, such as pet food
plants or nearby dairy farms, or doing deals with businesses like Deerfield
Farms that turn around and sell to the commodity on the Chicago Board of Trade.

By the end of April, Mr. Burd was planning to start putting in corn seed, a
10-day job that would quickly give way to the 10-day task of planting soybeans.
His Uniontown farm includes about 1,700 acres spread in patches over a several
mile area.

Two years ago, corn was selling around $2 a bushel and it was difficult to cover
costs. At that rate, he figured he'd make it one more year and then be wiped
out. "There was a lot of us in that boat."

Then the market took off. Prices shot up and the spike lasted into 2007 when,
thanks to cool nights and warm days, his Fayette County fields overflowed. Corn
yields were up 15 percent over average and soybeans up 25 percent. "It's kind of
like, 'Wow, this is great. Maybe I can pay some bills,'" he said.

This year feels like one of riskiest he's seen during his three decades in the
business. Prices for his mix of crops have about doubled since the fall of 2006.
"Unfortunately, my inputs have more than doubled." Inputs is the term used for
things such as seed and fertilizer. He estimates fertilizer costs are up more
than 200 percent.

Mr. Burd doesn't change crop mix much year to year, even as prices rise and
fall. Soybeans do good things for the soil and his budget so he plants those in
about half of his acres, rotating that mainly with a corn crop. He grows some
wheat, too.

He also spends a lot of time trying to track what's going on around the world.
He attends seminars and reads anything he can to understand how his patch of
earth will be affected by the rise of the middle class in China, a drought in
Australia, the value of the dollar and a backlash against biofuels as the world
suffers food shortages.

Farmers can sell the right to crops that they haven't grown yet or they can hold
onto unsold product searching for the right moment to sell. "We have one and
half years to market a crop," he said. "We have six months to grow it."

Mr. Burd thinks blaming biofuels for the world's problems is a convenient
excuse. He'd like to see continued support for ethanol, which gives farmers
another place to sell a crop that they've typically produced in surplus.

Not all farmers agree. At a recent county farm bureau meeting, he ended up in an
argument with a friend convinced ethanol production had caused hikes in corn
prices that were hurting his dairy farm operation.

TIME TO MAKE SAUSAGE

Running a sausage plant means buying a lot of corn-fed hogs. Which might help
explain why Charles S. Armitage isn't happy. "The government in all its wisdom
interfered with business again," he said flatly.

The owner of Uncle Charley's Sausages in Vandergrift, Westmoreland County,
produces sausage for sale in Western Pennsylvania, as well as in parts of West
Virginia, Ohio, New York and Maryland. He buys meat from producers in Ohio and
Illinois.

At the moment, pork prices aren't too bad. Mr. Armitage expects that to change.
"Meat is going to be going up. By the end of summer, it's going to be very
high."

For now, prices are down because producers are trimming their herds and sending
more meat to market. Smithfield Foods Inc. announced in February plans to reduce
its U.S. sow herd by 4 to 5 percent. "Grain costs continue at record levels,
with the potential of escalating, given the current U.S. government policy
favoring corn for ethanol," said Chief Executive Officer C. Larry Pope, in a
prepared statement.

In March and again in April, Pilgrim's Pride moved to reduce chicken processing
capacity. The company's top executive cited feed-ingredient costs due largely to
"the U.S. government's ill-advised policy of providing generous federal
subsidies to corn-based ethanol blenders."

In a recent report, Credit Suisse analyst Robert Moskow wrote that chicken and
red meat supplies in cold storage were up. "Both chicken and pork producers have
a lot of cutting to do this year if they are going to improve the price
environment for their commodity meats."

When herd sizes drop, Mr. Armitage expects his costs will go up in a hurry.

INVESTING IN ETHANOL

Meanwhile, ethanol plants have been seeded all over the region. Site clearing
has been done for a project in Westmoreland County. Development is under way for
another in Harrison County, Ohio, not far from Steubenville. A operation
headquartered on McKnight Road is working toward opening plants in Aliquippa and
Curwensville.

"We still intend on starting construction midyear" for the Curwensville site,
said Harry Joseph Cranston Jr., president of Consus Ethanol LLC and Sunnyside
Ethanol LLC, in an e-mail response to the status of those projects. The
Aliquippa project is in the process of pre-engineering in support of
environmental permits.

Last year, the U.S. ethanol industry's capacity to produce the corn-based fuel
rose by nearly 2 billion gallons to an annualized rate of more than 7.8 billion
gallons, according to the Renewable Fuels Association. The group predicted
another 4 billion gallons of capacity should come online this year.

In addition to fuel, corn-based ethanol plants produce a feed that can be used
for livestock. The plant proposed for Harrison County is meant to have an
adjacent dairy that will use the feed produced as a by-product there without
unnecessary transportation costs.

The Pennsylvania Farm Bureau this month was out actively lobbying for continued
state investment in biofuels, noting other states have supported such growth.
All of the regional developments have had government support.

Rising corn prices don't help ethanol producers any more than they do livestock
companies, and development of new plants may slow nationally. "You can't make a
$3 product out of a $7 product," said Nathaniel Doyno, co-founder of Steel City
Biofuels, a nonprofit advocating for production and use of biofuels in
southwestern Pennsylvania.

Eventually, he believes that plants built during this wave of development will
be adapted for use with other types of renewable resources, such as an inedible
crop that can be grown on marginal land. Just this past week, developers
announced plans for another plant in Westmoreland that would run on waste
products.

But Mr. Doyno has been glad to see entrepreneurs willing to venture into
biofuels. "I'm very grateful that the corn industry stepped up and invested in
ethanol infrastructure."

FOOD VS. FUEL

No one can argue that consumers are paying more at the grocery store and at the
pump. Is one related to the other? The answer seems to be a complicated "yes"
and "no."

About one-third of the national corn harvest is being used to make ethanol,
according to Wally Tyner, a Purdue University professional of agricultural
economics. Increasingly, fuel suppliers are mixing ethanol in the gas blends
sold to consumers.

In a February presentation in Boston, Dr. Tyner said that when oil is running
above $100 per barrel, as it is at the moment, ethanol production costs are
close to gas production costs so the government's standards requiring companies
to buy ethanol don't cost consumers much. When oil is down around $40 a barrel,
ethanol costs more to produce from corn than gas costs to produce from crude
oil.

If corn-based ethanol doesn't turn out to be the replacement for gas that some
may have hoped, it could open pipelines to alternatives. Dr. Tyner advised that
policies need to support the move to investment in cellulosic ethanol, which is
made from grasses and waste materials, and could be more efficient than ethanol
from corn.

When researchers at Texas A&M University recently looked into the food vs. fuel
debate, the data they examined supported the argument that corn prices have had
little to do with rising food costs. The farmer's share of the value of most
retail products, especially those that involve processed foods, is lower than it
was in 1970 and lower than labor costs.

A typical 12-pack of soda contains roughly 11 cents worth of corn when the price
per bushel is $2.06. If the price rose to $4, the value of the corn in that soda
would rise to 22 cents, the researchers said. While the impact on products such
as eggs is heftier, it is still not as large as other factors, the researchers
found.

They said each farm commodity has its own issues pushing prices up or down, from
a drought in Australia that helped increase global demand for U.S. milk products
to the poultry industry coping with a combination of higher feed costs and large
production levels keeping costs down.

The market is constantly adapting to supply and demand signals, and higher
prices have meant land that lay fallow has been brought back into crop
production. Those interested in land-use policies hope rising interest in
supplies of corn, soybeans and other agricultural products will spur better
protection for good farm land that can so easily morph into a housing
development or shopping center.

In the end, putting the spotlight on farmers may not be a bad thing. The World
Bank this month said the move to biofuels has been a factor in high food prices
that threaten global gains in overcoming poverty and malnutrition. But the
organization also described higher grain prices as an opportunity to stimulate
investments in the agricultural sector.

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Teresa F. Lindeman can be reached at tlindeman@post-gazette.com or at
412-263-2018.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: VWH Campbell/Pittsburgh Post-Gazette: Richard Burd with his
companion "Q" as he spreads fertilizer over a field that will be used in the
production of corn to be used for ethanol production.
\ PHOTO: VWH Campbell/Post-Gazette: Higher prices have meant land that lay
fallow has been brought back into crop production.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              98 of 396 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                              July 27, 2008 Sunday
                               FIVE STAR EDITION

DENIAL MUST END

BYLINE: ROBERT J. REILAND, O'Hara

SECTION: EDITORIAL; ISSUE ONE: AL GORE ON THE CLIMATE; Pg. G-3

LENGTH: 271 words


When it comes to the double crisis of climate change and energy shortages, many
of us seem to be stuck in one or more of the stages of grieving. It is clear
that we can't continue with business as usual without great costs in the near
and distant future. Instead of accepting this and taking action, as we are told
is the American way, we respond with denial, anger, bargaining and depression.

Al Gore just challenged us to stop the grieving process and to do something
("Gore Sounds Alarm," July 18). Regardless of personal opinions of Mr. Gore,
either we take control of the situation as a nation or we will have even more to
grieve over.

The history of civilization includes reduced energy costs and increases in
efficiencies. Those civilizations that have prospered have done so in part by
taking advantage of cheaper ways of getting energy. The other side of the coin
is that when the costs of energy sources are rising with no long-term hope of
falling, our survival requires that we choose new energy sources whose costs are
falling and likely to do so far into the future. It would be depressing if we
did otherwise.

Fossil fuels are now a dead end in more ways than one. Solar power is dropping
in price. The smart thing to do is to invest in more of it now to hasten the
time when it will be cheaper than current sources.

With intelligent approaches to building construction and renovation, we can
reduce energy use in the building sector by more than 50 percent by 2020.

There are many other things that can be done. Instead of grieving over
technologies that never were good for the environment, work for a better future.

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              104 of 396 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                            November 9, 2008 Sunday
                                TWO STAR EDITION

OBAMA SETTING PRIORITIES;
DECIDING WHAT AND HOW MUCH TO DO ALWAYS DIFFICULT

BYLINE: Peter Baker, The New York Times

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. A-1

LENGTH: 913 words


WASHINGTON -- With the economy in disarray and the nation's treasury draining,
President-elect Barack Obama and his advisers are trying to figure out which of
his expansive campaign promises to push in the opening months of his tenure and
which to put on a slower track.

Mr. Obama repeated yesterday that his first priority would be an economic
recovery program to get the nation's business system back on track and people
back to work. But advisers said the question was whether they could tackle
health care, climate change and energy independence at once or needed to stagger
these initiatives over time.

The debate between a big-bang strategy of pressing aggressively on multiple
fronts versus a more pragmatic, step-by-step approach has flavored the
discussion among Mr. Obama's transition advisers for months, even before his
election. The tension between these strategies has been a recurring theme in the
memorandums prepared for him on various issues, advisers said.

"Every president is tempted to take on too much," said one Obama adviser, who
spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss internal deliberations. "On the other
hand, there's the Roosevelt example and the LBJ example, which suggest an
extraordinary president can do an awful lot. So that's the question: Is it too
risky for the president to be ambitious?"

Much of the issue may be out of Mr. Obama's hands. The $700 billion financial
bailout threatens to push the deficit into the stratosphere. "The poor man has
his hands tied by the economic and financial mess we have right now," said John
Tuck, a former aide to President Ronald Reagan. "I don't know what his options
are. They're very, very limited."

At a news conference Friday and again in a radio address yesterday, Mr. Obama
signaled that he intends to move quickly to address the nation's financial
problems, despite any obstacles. "I want to ensure that we hit the ground
running on Jan. 20 because we don't have a moment to lose," he said yesterday.

The argument for an aggressive approach in the mold of Franklin D. Roosevelt or
Lyndon B. Johnson is that health care, energy and education are all part of
systemic economic problems and should be addressed comprehensively. But
Democrats are discussing a hybrid strategy that would push for a bold economic
program and also encompass other elements of Mr. Obama's campaign platform, even
if larger goals are put off.

Congressional leaders want to move swiftly in January to pass a major expansion
of the Children's Health Insurance Program -- a plan vetoed by President Bush --
as a step toward the broader coverage Mr. Obama promised. Likewise, Democrats
plan to incorporate his proposed middle-class tax cuts in the economic
legislation or pass them in tandem. And Mr. Obama could increase investment in
alternative energy as a down payment on a far-reaching climate plan.

"I believe it would be important to show fairly early on that change is here,"
said Rep. Chris Van Hollen of Maryland, a member of the House Democratic
leadership. "One of the very visible ways to show that would be to pass some of
the bills George Bush vetoed."

Mr. Obama has acknowledged that the economy will force him to recalibrate his
program but insists that he has not backed off his commitments. "We can't afford
to wait on moving forward on the key priorities that I identified during the
campaign, including clean energy, health care, education and tax relief for
middle class families," he said yesterday.

During the campaign, Mr. Obama identified many other priorities -- withdrawing
from Iraq and talks with Iran, tackling immigration and the issue of detainees
at Guantanamo and trade negotiations with the country's North American
neighbors.

At the same time, his team is tamping down expectations of instant action by
discouraging talk of a 100-day program.

Mr. Obama's transition advisers studied how Presidents Kennedy, Roosevelt,
Johnson, Reagan and Clinton used their first months. The lesson many drew was
that even if various agencies moved forward in many directions, a new president
must husband his time, energy and political capital for three dominant
priorities at most. Several Obama advisers cited Mr. Reagan, who concentrated
his early efforts on pushing through major tax cuts and increased military
spending.

But advisers also worry that putting off sweeping initiatives makes them harder
to pass later, when a president's mandate and momentum have faded. Again, they
pointed to Clinton, who delayed his ultimately doomed health care plan while he
passed a deficit reduction package and the North American Free Trade Agreement.

The pent-up demand from Democrats who waited out the Bush administration will be
enormous. "In the next three months before they take over, the list of demands
on the table is going to be staggering, absolutely staggering," said former Rep.
Jim Leach of Iowa, a Republican who endorsed Mr. Obama during the campaign.

Mr. Obama recognizes that. In an interview on CNN days before the election, he
explicitly ranked his priorities, starting with an economic recovery package
that would include middle-class tax relief. His second priority, he said, would
be energy; third, health care; fourth, tax restructuring; and fifth, education.

But then he hedged, foreseeing the unforeseen. "We don't know yet what's going
to happen in January," he said. "And none of this can be accomplished if we
continue to see a potential meltdown in the banking system or the financial
system."

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Stan Honda/Agence France-Presse/Getty Images: Sens. Barack Obama
and Joseph R. Biden Jr. meet with the Transition Economic Advisory Board Friday
in Chicago.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              111 of 396 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                          December 31, 2008 Wednesday
                                  EAST EDITION

ECONOMY, ELECTION MAKE BIG NEWS;
NATIONAL EVENTS HAVE BIG EFFECTS IN LOCAL SUBURBS

BYLINE: Rick Shrum, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: METRO; Pg. EZ-4

LENGTH: 2748 words


The economy has overshadowed everything in 2008, including a compelling,
contentious and, ultimately, historic presidential election.

Some are calling it Depression II, and it may be the worst financial downturn in
this country since the 1930s. This latest recession has cost many people their
jobs and/or homes, and forced previously viable companies and industries to
close or teeter on the brink.

Government bailouts have been extended to Wall Street and Detroit.

Life has been tough locally, nationally, globally, and the eventual healing may
take a while.

The PG East region has absorbed some formidable hits in 2008, including the
recent revelation that Sony plans to shut its plant in East Huntingdon. But not
all of the bad news has been financially related.

In March, a young girl was injured and her grandfather killed in a home
explosion in Plum. Woodland Hills and Penn Hills had tumultuous school years end
in June. (A Woodland Hills update is on page EZ-2.) Sunny Carney, of Plum, a
37-year-old mother of three, is battling carcinoid, a form of cancer, and will
head to Switzerland this week for the first of a series of treatments.

There were positive headlines in 2008 as well, proving Charles Dickens correct
again: the worst of times for some can be the best of times for others.

A Penn Hills family had an extreme home makeover that will be televised
nationally on Sunday. The Westmoreland County Courthouse turned 100 and still
looks fabulous. The boys' basketball teams at Jeannette and Serra Catholic high
schools secured WPIAL and PIAA championships, and Greater Latrobe senior Natalie
Bower won an unprecedented fourth WPIAL cross-country title.

Hempfield became a focal point of the Democratic primary in early spring, as
Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton addressed large crowds in different parts of
the township. Mrs. Clinton spoke at the University of Pittsburgh at Greensburg
March 25, three days before Mr. Obama appeared at Hempfield Area High School.

She took the Pennsylvania primary, but Mr. Obama, an African-American, will
become our 44th commander in chief Jan. 20.

So, hours before the massive, pulsating ball descends in Times Square, let's
take a look at several newsworthy stories that occurred in this region over the
past 366 days. They are excerpted from accounts by Post-Gazette reporters.

EXPLOSION IN PLUM

(March 6 edition, by Wade Malcolm, Cindi Lash and Moriah Balingit) -- Lynn Celia
was in her kitchen talking on the phone when she heard -- and felt -- a blast so
loud and powerful, she at first thought her roof had collapsed.

She ran outside her home on Mardi Gras Drive in Plum yesterday, and saw the
house of her neighbors, Nino and Tina Pettinato, reduced to a pile of burning
debris.

She ran across the street, scanning the burning wreckage to see if anyone was
trapped.

Out of the corner of her eye, she spotted the Pettinatos' 4-year-old daughter,
Gianna.

The force of the explosion, strong enough to blow out Ms. Celia's front windows,
had catapulted Gianna almost into a next-door neighbors' lawn.

"I just saw her there, sitting on her fanny amongst all this smoke and wood and
rubble," said Ms. Celia, 56. "So I just ran over to her, grabbed her and pulled
her toward me."

Ms. Celia said she knew Gianna's grandfather, Richard Leith, would come over to
care for her most days.

She started looking for him and shouted his name, but couldn't find him.

Mr. Leith, 64, of Penn Township, was thrown into the front yard by the blast,
Holiday Park Fire Chief Larry Glass said. He was burned over 50 percent of his
body and died shortly after 3 p.m. at UPMC Mercy Hospital, according to the
Allegheny County Medical Examiner's office.

Gianna was taken to Children's Hospital and treated for a broken leg. Officials
declined to release her condition last night, but her injuries were not
life-threatening, Plum Police Chief Frank Monaco said.

No other injuries were reported.

[A gas leak leveled the Pettinatos' house and damaged at least 15 others.]

SONY PLANT CLOSING

(Dec. 10, by Ann Belser) -- Sony Corp. yesterday informed the 560 employees at
its Westmoreland County television plant -- the Japanese company's last
remaining television plant in the United States -- that their jobs would be
phased out over the next 16 months.

The cuts come as part of a global reduction of the company's massive work force
that will ultimately slash 8,000 full-time jobs and 8,000 temporary jobs as Sony
works to save $1.1 billion by 2010.

"The current economic climate was a key factor that led us to make the strategic
business decision to streamline our manufacturing operations not only in the
U.S. but worldwide," said Stan Glasgow, president and chief operating officer of
Sony Electronics, in a news release.

Production at the East Huntingdon site would be reduced in phases. Television
assembly will stop by February, with a service and repair portion to close in
the fall. Finally, a logistics and distribution operation will shut down by
March 31, 2010.

"It was surprising. We really didn't expect it," said Kim Crowl, 49, of
Greensburg, who has worked in Sony's service section for 15 years. "We'll work
as long as we can, then take it one day at a time. It's the economy; we'll just
have to deal with it."

MONROEVILLE SITE FOR UPMC

(Nov. 13 East, by Deborah Todd) -- Residents, officials and businesses in
Monroeville are eyeing UPMC's plans to build a full-service hospital in the
municipality with a mixture of hope and skepticism.

UPMC will discuss plans to build a 333,798-square-foot hospital at 2775 Mosside
Blvd. at the Monroeville planning commission's meeting [Nov. 19]. The
full-service hospital would feature a state-of-the-art cancer center, emergency
room and more than 100 beds for inpatient services.

Monroeville Mayor Greg Erosenko and municipal Manager Marshall Bond said the new
hospital would be a welcome addition.

Representatives from West Penn Allegheny Health System, however, have questioned
the motives of UPMC, saying the new hospital would duplicate services already
available at West Penn's Forbes Regional Campus on Haymaker Road in Monroeville
and at UPMC's own hospitals in Braddock and McKeesport.

"This is clearly a business decision, not a clinical decision," said Tom
Chakurda, spokesman for West Penn Allegheny Health System. "They see the eastern
suburbs being treated by a successful and capable facility and, clearly, they're
responding to that."

Mr. Chakurda noted that $24 million in upgrades have been made to Forbes
Regional over the past few years, including a new emergency room and obstetrics
department. He also noted the vitality of the hospital's heart and vascular
center, which recently performed its 100th open heart surgery.

"This is not about need," he said. "Very simply, there's no need for another
hospital in this area. There's no need for a 125-bed facility.

"This site they're going to build this on is only a mile away from the Forbes
facility. This is driven out of their desire to completely control health care
in this region."

UPMC spokesman Frank Raczkiewicz said: "We responded to demands by our patients
and physicians in the area for UPMC's high-quality, patient-focused care in a
new state-of-the-art facility. It is part of our commitment to and investment in
the Pittsburgh region."

[On Dec. 9, Monroeville council voted to approve a rezoning request, a
consolidation plan and three conditional use requests for the proposed hospital
site. The facility is expected to open in late 2011 or early 2012.]

PENN HILLS SCHOOL CHANGES

(May 22 East, by Tina Calabro) -- The Penn Hills school board has passed two
resolutions that will have a positive effect on district finances, but bring
about significant change for many students.

The board voted [May 20] to eliminate the high school vocational education
program, close two elementary schools and reconfigure grade levels at the
remaining four elementaries.

Savings from the closings and other cost-cutting measures approved by the board
in recent weeks are expected to lead to a balanced budget for the 2008-09 school
year.

The district has had operating deficits ranging from $734,929 to $5.3 million
over the past three years. The district had expected to face a $5 million
deficit in the 2008-09 budget unless spending cuts were made.

Shenandoah and William Penn elementary schools will close at the end of the
current school year. Starting with the 2008-09 school year, all fourth- and
fifth-grade students will attend Penn Hebron Elementary. Dible, Forbes and
Washington elementary schools will serve students in kindergarten through third
grade.

The new elementary school configurations are approved for the next school year
only, and the two building closings are considered temporary.

The two school closings will produce a $3.1 million savings in the 2008-09
operating budget.

The high school vocational program will close at the end of the current school
year. It serves 189 students in five areas -- auto technology, auto collision
repair, cosmetology, culinary arts and graphic arts.

Penn Hills School District enrollment has been declining for a decade. A recent
study of district management, conducted by The Education Management Group LLC
and paid for by the Pennsylvania Department of Education, reported that
enrollment has declined by about 10 percent over the past decade and the trend
will continue. Current district enrollment is 5,175.

PENN HILLS MAKEOVER

(Oct. 18, by Gretchen McKay) -- A Penn Hills couple who have spent many hours
helping those less fortunate turn their lives around are about to get a giant
helping hand of their own.

A little before 10 a.m. yesterday, Ty Pennington and his TV crew from "Extreme
Makeover: Home Edition" knocked on Frank and Tracy Slaughter's front door on
Grandview Avenue and with a bullhorn, delivered this good news: They'd been
selected for a total home makeover by producers of the popular ABC reality show.

More than 600 volunteers working around-the-clock are expected to chip in over
the course of the weeklong build, which will come to a close about 2 p.m. on
Friday.

During construction, the Slaughters, both 44, and their five children will enjoy
a vacation in Disney World, compliments of the ABC-TV show.

"It is such a blessing," said Mrs. Slaughter while her husband chatted with Mr.
Pennington on the front porch of their 80-year-old two-bedroom house.

"We're so overwhelmed and excited," she continued. She shook her head and
grinned. "I still can't believe it."

Producers of the long-running feel-good home improvement show are bombarded with
thousands of applications each month. Each episode features a deserving family
who can't afford to renovate its severely damaged or run-down home.

Led by the crew of TV designers, a horde of contractors, builders and community
volunteers join forces to tear down the offending structure and build a new
dream house with donated materials in an awe-inspiring whirl of activity.

The family's story, submitted by Mrs. Slaughter's youngest sister, Joanne
Garcia, of Tampa, is particularly uplifting.

Mr. Slaughter is a sergeant with the Allegheny County Bureau of Corrections, and
has worked at the jail since 1997.

But 15 years ago, he was incarcerated there for a short time on an assault
charge. Upon getting out, he vowed to turn his life around and became a deacon
at his church. He also implemented a program at the jail that helps inmates find
jobs before they're released and helps coordinate mentors for the men at his
church.

Mrs. Slaughter, who served 61/2 years as a radioman in the Navy, mentors single
mothers and provides care for children, seniors and the homeless at their home,
which sits at the end of a quiet dead-end street.

Battered a few years ago by gale-force winds, the rear of the house is partially
wrapped in a tarp because of heavy water damage. All five children share one
small bedroom, with just a curtain to separate their four daughters, ages 2 to
15, from their 10-year-old son.

[The show will air at 8 p.m. Sunday on WTAE.]

REGOLA ENDS RUN

(Aug. 12, by Milan Simonich) -- State Sen. Robert Regola ended his re-election
campaign yesterday, quitting the race one month after a jury acquitted him of
perjury and gun charges in the suicide of a teenage neighbor.

Mr. Regola, a Republican from Hempfield, said he thought he could win a second
four-year term, but was driven from the campaign by the media.

"Despite my acquittal, it is easy to see that voters can have doubts about my
character, given what the media unfairly wrote about me," Mr. Regola said in a
statement.

"Their tabloid-like reporting has tarnished my reputation in this community and
made it more difficult to seek re-election."

[Mr. Regola, 46, was to run in the general election against Youngwood
chiropractor Anthony Bompiani, 54, a Democrat from Hempfield.

Kim Ward, 52, of Hempfield, a Westmoreland County commissioner at the time, got
the endorsement of the state Republican committee and ran against Mr. Bompiani.
She won in a close race.]

CARCINOID TREATMENT

(Dec. 11, by Kate Luce Angell) -- An avid skier, Sunny Carney has always dreamed
of going to Switzerland.

But although the Alps will be nearby when she and her husband, Mark, arrive in
Basel on Jan. 2, Mrs. Carney won't be in any shape to ski. She's traveling to
Switzerland to pursue a different dream -- relief from the rare form of cancer
that threatens her life.

The Carneys, of Plum, plan to come home Jan. 13 if doctors at the
Universitatsspital Basel approve. But they would have to return overseas up to
three more times for Mrs. Carney to complete her treatment.

"There's really no other choice," noted Mrs. Carney, who has exhausted the
treatment options available for her condition in the United States.

Mrs. Carney, 37, has carcinoid, a cancer of the neuroendocrine system, in which
tumors cause an overproduction of hormones such as serotonin. She has three
sons, ages 10, 11 and 12.

If the tumors are detected and removed before they spread, carcinoid can be
cured. But because carcinoid is rare and difficult to diagnose, for some, it
becomes a fatal condition in which the cancer slowly spreads to organs and
bones.

Mrs. Carney had one ovary removed in 1995, shortly before her wedding. But it
wasn't until tumors necessitated the removal of most of one lung in 2004 that
her doctors began to talk about her condition being carcinoid.

Then, last May, doctors found the tumors in her liver and bones. The standard
treatment for carcinoid, injections of a drug called octreotide, have slowed the
cancer's march and extended her life -- but that is all it can offer her.

Mrs. Carney has spent hours on the Internet, tracking down information on new
treatments, and following up everything with her doctors.

It was during these searches that she discovered a promising treatment that had
not yet been approved for use in the United States. During two to four weeklong
sessions, carcinoid patients are given infusions of octreotide that has been
combined with a radioactive isotope. The isotope then binds directly to tumor
sites.

The treatments are not covered by insurance, and Mrs. Carney will need to return
overseas one to three more times to get the best results for her carcinoid,
which is advanced. She and her husband are hoping that contributions to the
Sunny Carney Carcinoid Cancer Fund can help them offset the costs, which could
run into the hundreds of thousands of dollars.

COURTHOUSE CELEBRATION

(Jan. 31 East, by Rick Shrum) --It stands on a bluff, four stories of opulence
with thousands of stories to tell.

The panorama from its celebrated dome, 175 feet above street level, is striking
-- but rivaled by the view of the building from all entrance points to the city.

Granite, marble, stone and the law are the foundations of this place, which was
unveiled during the Teddy Roosevelt administration. And which means the wheels
of justice there have turned almost as long as the wheels of cars.

Unlike Joan Rivers, however, this stately edifice in Downtown Greensburg has had
only one face lift. And it was well done.

The Westmoreland County Courthouse, at the convergence of Main and Pittsburgh
streets, is celebrating its centennial today. Inside and outside, it is one of
most beautiful county seats sites chronicled in the National Register of
Historic Places.

"The building didn't change much, just subtle changes," said Lou DeRose, an
attorney who has worked in the Westmoreland courthouse since he was in law
school in 1968. "All in all, it probably looks as good as it did in 1908."2

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Edward R. Gavalek: One man was killed and a 4-year-old girl was
injured in explosion at a house in the 100 block of Mardi Gras Drive in Plum
this afternoon; 15 other homes were damaged, police said.\
PHOTO: Andy Starnes/Post-Gazette: Members of the Slaughter family -- Frank, his
daughter, Tayana, and wife, Tracy -- get their first look at their dream home
yesterday as Ty Pennington, host for the TV show "Extreme Makeover: Home
Edition," looks on.\
PHOTO: Bill Wade/Post-Gazette: Sunny Carney, who has a rare form of cancer, in
her Plum front yard.\
PHOTO: Lake Fong/Post-Gazette: Natalie Bower, of Latrobe, finishes way ahead of
the pack to claim her fourth WPIAL girls' Class AAA cross-country title in a row
Oct. 23 at Cooper's Lake Campground.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              117 of 396 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                           February 9, 2008 Saturday
                                 SOONER EDITION

LEADERS SEE 'A LOT OF WORK' FOR BUSINESS CLIMATE

BYLINE: BILL TOLAND, PITTSBURGH POST-GAZETTE

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. A-8

LENGTH: 520 words


Four days after Gov. Ed Rendell unveiled his proposed 2008-09 state budget,
local business and political leaders continued to push for long-sought reforms
to the state's business tax code, measures they say will make Pennsylvania a
more attractive place in which to build and grow a company.

"We have a lot of work to do in Pennsylvania," said Bob Randall, chief executive
officer of Cranberry glass- and window-maker Traco, which hosted a meeting on
the issue yesterday along with CompetePA, a coalition of Pennsylvania
businesses.

"Brute force, sometimes, is the only answer," he said, suggesting that business
groups will need to band together, and lobby more intensely than before in order
to get results in Harrisburg.

The results they are hoping for, in no particular order, are:

* The continued, on-schedule phaseout of the capital stock and franchise tax.
The governor proposed that the tax rate drop from 2.89 mills to 2.49 mills, but
previously the rate had been scheduled to drop to 1.89 mills.

* An elimination of the cap on "net operating losses." Pennsylvania, unlike
virtually every other state, doesn't permit companies to carry forward the full
extent of their net operating losses to offset future income: A company that
lost $10 million one year, then made $50 million the next, would be taxed on the
$47 million of that, due to a $3 million cap on carry-forward losses. Most other
states let a company carry the $10 million in losses to the next tax year.

* Change the corporate net income tax formula, so that a company's net income is
based on sales, and not on property and payroll elements. Businesses say
including property and payroll in the formula discourages in-state investment.

Rep. Mike Turzai, R-Bradford Woods, seemed in no mood to negotiate the issues,
even if that's precisely what Mr. Rendell had in mind when he suggested the
higher-than-scheduled capital stock and franchise tax.

"No partial increments. Let's get it all done. This is year," he said. "If we
want a competitive Pennsylvania, we must have tax cuts first. ... If you have
good, family-sustaining jobs, you will have good communities and good schools.
And that's far more important than increasing the welfare rolls in the state."

Mr. Turzai has been working on business issues like these for four years -- in
2004, he introduced a Keystone Manufacturing Initiative aimed at making some of
the same tax code revisions he's promoting this year.

Meanwhile, the new CEO of the Pittsburgh Technology Council, Audrey Russo, has
been at her job for just a few months. She said Pennsylvania's confusing tax
structure is an impediment to all companies, but especially to the small
start-ups included among the 1,400 member firms she represents.

"It's a problem, it's costly and it's very inefficient. It takes our eye off the
ball of doing the work that we want to do," she said.

Ms. Russo, Mr. Turzai and others suggested that the tax code changes are all the
more necessary because the U.S. economy is showing signs of a recession; more
capital in company hands improves the chance companies will take financial risks
in 2008 and beyond.

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Bill Toland can be reached at btoland@post-gazette.com or 412-263-2625.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              145 of 396 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                          December 10, 2008 Wednesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

LAID-OFF WORKERS WIN BIG ROUND

SECTION: NATIONAL; NATIONAL BRIEFS; Pg. A-6

LENGTH: 548 words


CHICAGO -- The creditor of a Chicago plant where laid-off employees are
conducting a sit-in to demand severance pay said yesterday it would extend
limited loans to the factory so it could resolve the dispute, but the workers
declared their protest unfinished.

The Republic Windows and Doors factory closed last week after Bank of America
canceled its financing. About 200 laid-off workers responded by staging a sit-in
at the plant, vowing to stay until getting assurances they would receive
severance and accrued vacation pay.

A resolution appeared closer when the bank announced that it had sent a letter
to Republic offering to "provide a limited amount of additional loans" to
resolve the employee claims.

Crucial union vote

TAR HEEL, N.C. -- A 16-year confrontation over union representation at the
world's largest pork slaughterhouse in the country's least-unionized state comes
down to a two-day vote this week.

About 4,600 workers at the Smithfield Packing Co. slaughterhouse and packing
plant in Tar Heel, about 80 miles south of Raleigh, will vote today and tomorrow
on whether the United Food and Commercial Workers should negotiate for them with
the plant's owners, Smithfield, Va.-based Smithfield Foods Inc.

The plant, which employs about 5,000 people, is the size of a major shopping
mall at nearly 1 million square feet and draws its labor force from across rural
southeast North Carolina.

Obama, Gore meet

CHICAGO -- President-elect Barack Obama yesterday praised former Vice President
Al Gore's ideas on the environment as one part of helping the nation's
struggling economy recover.

Mr. Obama, Mr. Gore and Vice President-elect Joe Biden met privately at Mr.
Obama's transition headquarters here for almost two hours. Mr. Obama said they
discussed so-called green jobs as a way to boost employment across the country,
improve national security by reducing reliance on foreign oil, and reduce energy
costs.

Mr. Gore sought the presidency in 2000 but lost to then-Texas Gov. George W.
Bush in a disputed election that was settled by the Supreme Court. He then
became a leader in the movement to draw attention to climate change and global
warming. He won the Nobel Peace Prize in 2007.

Simpson's ex-pals

LAS VEGAS -- Four former O.J. Simpson co-defendants who took plea deals and
testified against the former football star were sentenced to probation yesterday
for their roles in the gunpoint robbery of two sports memorabilia dealers.

Clark County District Court Judge Jackie Glass imposed terms of probation
ranging from three to eight years on Michael McClinton, Walter Alexander,
Charles Ehrlich and Charles Cashmore.

Mr. Simpson, 61, was sentenced Friday to nine to 33 years in a Nevada state
prison, and co-defendant Clarence "C.J." Stewart, 54, was sentenced to 71/2 to
27 years after a jury found them guilty of kidnapping, armed robbery, assault
with a deadly weapon, burglary and conspiracy.

Also in the nation

Idaho Sen. Larry Craig has lost his latest attempt to withdraw his guilty plea
in the Minneapolis airport men's room sex sting in 2007 that effectively ended
his Senate career....Three weeks after announcing he would not seek another term
as chairman of the NAACP's national board, veteran civil rights activist Julian
Bond said yesterday that he has changed his mind.

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              153 of 396 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                              June 22, 2008 Sunday
                                TWO STAR EDITION

IOWA FLOODS: BAD LUCK OR BAD PLANNING?;
CRITIC SAYS LANDSCAPE HAS BEEN RADICALLY CHANGED TO HELP AGRICULTURE,;
MAKING IT MORE VULNERABLE TO FLOODING

BYLINE: JOEL ACHENBACH, THE WASHINGTON POST

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. A-6

LENGTH: 1255 words


As the Cedar River rose higher and higher, and as he stacked sandbags along the
levee protecting downtown Cedar Falls, Kamyar Enshayan, a college professor and
City Council member, kept asking himself the same question: "What is going on?"

The river would eventually rise six feet higher than any flood on record.
Farther downstream, in Cedar Rapids, the river would break the record by more
than 11 feet.

Mr. Enshayan, director of an environmental center at the University of Northern
Iowa, suspects that this natural disaster wasn't really all that natural. He
points out that the heavy rains fell on a landscape radically reengineered by
humans. Plowed fields have replaced tallgrass prairies. Fields have been
meticulously drained with underground pipes. Streams and creeks have been
straightened. Most of the wetlands are gone. Floodplains have been filled and
developed.

"We've done numerous things to the landscape that took away these
water-absorbing functions," he said. "Agriculture must respect the limits of
nature."

Officials are still trying to understand all the factors that contributed to
Iowa's flooding, and not everyone has the same suspicions as Mr. Enshayan. For
them, the cause was obvious: It rained buckets and buckets for days on end. They
say the changes in land use were lesser factors in what was really just a case
of meteorological bad luck.

Profitable but vulnerable

But some Iowans who study the environment suspect that changes in the land, both
recently and over the past century or so, have made Iowa's terrain not only
highly profitable but highly vulnerable to flooding. They know it's a hard case
to prove, but they hope to get Iowans thinking about how to reduce the chances
of a repeat calamity.

"I sense that the flooding is not the result of a 500-year event," said Jerry
DeWitt, director of the Leopold Center for Sustainable Agriculture at Iowa State
University. "We're farming closer to creeks, farming closer to rivers. Without
adequate buffer strips, the water moves rapidly from the field directly to the
surface water."

Corn alone will cover more than a third of the state's land surface this year.
The ethanol boom that began two years ago encouraged still more cultivation.

Between 2007 and 2008, farmers took 106,000 acres of Iowa land out of the
Conservation Reserve Program, which pays farmers to keep farmland uncultivated,
according to Lyle Asell, a special assistant for agriculture and environment
with the state's Department of Natural Resources. That land, if left untouched,
probably would have been covered with perennial grasses with deep roots that
help absorb water.

The basic hydrology of Iowa has been changed since the coming of the plow. By
early in the 20th century, farmers had installed drainage pipes under the
surface to lower the water table and keep water from pooling in what otherwise
could be valuable farmland. More of this drainage "tiling" has been added in
recent years. The direct effect is that water moves quickly from the farmland to
the streams and rivers.

"We've lost 90 percent of our wetlands," said Mary Skopec, who monitors water
quality for the Iowa DNR.

Crop rotation may also play a subtle role in the flooding. Farmers who may have
once grown a number of crops are now likely to stick to just corn and soybeans
-- annual plants that don't put down deep roots.

Another potential factor: sediment. "We're actually seeing rivers filling up
with sediment, so the capacity of the rivers has changed," Mr. Asell said. He
said that in the 1980s and 1990s, Iowa led the nation in flood damages year
after year.

This landscape wasn't ready for the kind of deluge that hit Iowa in May and
early June. Central and eastern portions of the state received 15 inches of
rain. That came on top of previous rains that had left the soil saturated.
Worse, the rain came at the tail end of an unusually cool spring. Farmers had
delayed planting their crops. The deluge struck a nearly naked landscape of
small plants and black dirt.

"With that volume of rain, you're going to have flooding. There's just no way
around it," said Donna Dubberke, a meteorologist with the National Weather
Service in the Quad Cities. "This is not just because someone put in a parking
lot."

The rising Mississippi River is nearing a peak, threatening towns and farmland
north of St. Louis as floodwaters continue to move down the river. So far,
flooding and severe weather have killed at least 24 people in three states and
injured 106, forced the evacuations of about 40,000 and driven corn prices to a
record high.

Two levees burst just north of Quincy, Ill., Wednesday morning, forcing the
evacuation of the small town of Meyer. Wednesday afternoon, Illinois Gov. Rod
Blagojevich visited the town after viewing the nearby Sny Island Levee, about 12
miles downstream from Quincy and, at 54 miles long, the second biggest levee on
the Mississippi.

In Iowa, the National Weather Service has reported record flooding at 12
locations on four rivers, including the Cedar, the Iowa, the Wapsipinicon and
the Mississippi. The U.S. Geological Survey has preliminary data showing
500-year floods on the Cedar, the Shell Rock, the Upper Iowa and the Nodaway.

Two 500-year floods in 15 years

The Great Flood of 2008 has, for many inhabitants of sandbagged Iowa, come
awfully soon after the Great Flood of 1993. Or, as Elwynn Taylor, a
meteorologist at Iowa State University, put it: "Why should we have two 500-year
floods within 15 years?"

Mr. Taylor attributes the flooding in recent years to cyclical climate change:
The entire Midwest, he says, has been in a wet cycle for the past 30 years.

There has also been speculation that global warming could be a factor.

"Something in the system has changed," said Pete Kollasch, a remote sensing
analyst with the Iowa DNR. "The only thing I can point my finger at is global
warming, but there's no proof of that."

Jeri Neal, a program leader for ecological systems and research at Iowa State's
Leopold Center, said all these things have a cumulative effect on the landscape:
"It doesn't have the resilience built into it that you need to withstand
disturbances in the system."

The idea of a 500-year flood can be confusing. Hydrologists use the term to
indicate a flooding event that they believe has a 0.2 percent chance -- 1 in 500
-- of happening in any given year in a specific location. A 100-year flood has a
1 in 100 chance of happening, and so on. Such estimates are based on many years
of data collection, in some cases going back a century or more.

But the database can be spotty. Robert Holmes, national flood coordinator with
the Geological Survey, said a lack of funding since 1999 has forced his agency
to discontinue hundreds of stream gauges across the country. "It's not sexy to
fund stream flow gauges," he said.

What's certain is that a lot of water had nowhere to go when the sky opened over
Iowa this spring. Some rivers did things they'd never done before. The flood
stage at Cedar Rapids, for example, is 12 feet. The previous record flood
happened in 1929, when the Cedar hit 20 feet. This year the Cedar hit 20 feet
and kept rising. Experts predicted it would crest at 22 feet, and then upped the
estimate to 24 feet. The river had other ideas. At mid-morning June 13, it
finally crested at 31.3 feet.

The entire downtown was flooded and a railroad bridge collapsed, dumping rail
cars filled with rock into the river.

"Cities routinely build in the floodplain," Mr. Enshayan said. "That's not an
act of God; that's an act of City Council."

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Joe Raedle/Getty Images: Russ Veach carries a computer that he
salvaged from his stepfather Keith Kuntz's flooded house yesterday in Oakville,
Iowa. The Mississippi and Iowa rivers, overflowed their banks, inundating the
town.
\ \ PHOTO: Olson/Getty Images: Hogs with their snouts above flood water are
trapped in a hog house Monday near Oakville, Iowa. Farmers along the Mississippi
River in Iowa have been emptying their grain bins and evacuating their livestock
as they prepare for record flooding. Oakville was forced to evacuate on short
notice after a levee holding back the Iowa River gave way. (Photo, Five Star
Edition)
\ INFORMATIONAL GRAPHIC: FEMA; The Associated Press: (Large payments on flood
loss)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              167 of 396 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                            January 21, 2008 Monday
                                 SOONER EDITION

SCHOOL PROGRESS;
CITY TEACHERS HAVE A CONTRACT WORTH RATIFYING

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. B-6

LENGTH: 358 words


It's not easy being a teacher in the Pittsburgh Public Schools.

There are the usual classroom challenges. Turning students onto learning.
Encouraging parental involvement. Saving one's energy for teaching in a job
smothered by bureaucracy.

Then there's the reform program pushed by Superintendent Mark Roosevelt and the
majority of the school board. Since his arrival 21/2 years ago, buildings have
been closed, schools have been reorganized, jobs have been cut. And more is on
the way.

Change is hard, but in a school system with falling population, shifting
demographics and a climate that can tolerate no tax increase, change is also
necessary.

Amid these stresses and pressures comes a pivotal contract negotiation, the one
concluded tentatively last Tuesday by negotiators for the teachers and the
school board. The executive board of the Pittsburgh Federation of Teachers voted
unanimously to recommend a three-year contract for ratification. On Saturday,
the teachers union members had an informational session to go over the details.

It's a good agreement. While the district is operating in a financial
straitjacket, teachers and other professionals at the top of the 10-step salary
scale would get annual raises of $2,100. The top salary for those with a
master's degree at the end of the contract would be $79,800, with more money for
longevity, special certification or extra duties. Health-care coverage would
continue at the current rate of employee contributions -- a relief in these days
of insurance cuts and higher co-pays.

Some teachers see these terms as inferior to those of a few suburban districts.
That may be, but the Pittsburgh Public Schools are facing a test unlike any they
have ever seen. It is nothing less than a test of survival.

In that landscape, this is a winning contract.

The teachers helped the district pass the test by working this school year
without an agreement. They kept learning on course by resisting a strike in
which everyone loses. Now it's up to them to maintain progress for Pittsburgh
students by voting to accept this contract.

It's not easy being a Pittsburgh teacher. Not with so many futures at stake.

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              177 of 396 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                             March 4, 2008 Tuesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

PUNY PRIMATE QUITE A FIND FOR CARNEGIE PALEONTOLOGIST

BYLINE: DAVID TEMPLETON, PITTSBURGH POST-GAZETTE

SECTION: HEALTH SCIENCE MEDICINE AND TECHNOLOGY; Pg. A-1

LENGTH: 714 words


It's smaller than a mouse, but this little character left behind the oldest
primate fossils ever discovered in North America and Europe.

Its discovery in Mississippi represents a career triumph for Chris Beard, a
paleontologist at the Carnegie Museum of Natural History in Oakland.

The arboreal "Teilhardina magnoliana" apparently was living in Mississippi in
what was then the Gulf Coast 55.8 million years ago when a major episode of
global warming was under way.

Later versions of the same primate turned up in interior North America and in
Europe, but the ones Dr. Beard rediscovered first at Yale University then
unearthed through digs in Mississippi have proven to be older.

His discoveries provide fresh insights about how the earliest primates migrated
from Asia to North America then to Europe. His study will appear today in the
Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences.

The tiny primate first migrated to North America over the Bering land bridge
that once connected Siberia with Alaska.

At one time different types of Teilhardina inhabited Asia, North America and
Europe, making it difficult to reconstruct how they dispersed globally at a time
when the climate was undergoing rapid change.

Dr. Beard said his research focused on studying erosional features created by
changing sea levels, producing the 1-inch layer of sandstone in which the
fossils were found. Comparison of the same erosional feature caused by falling
sea levels in Mississippi versus Europe shows that the tiny primates in North
America are older.

Dr. Beard said it reveals that the Teilhardina eventually crossed a narrow land
bridge from North America to Greenland then Scotland, rather than vice versa.

At that time there was no ice at the poles. Changing volumes of ocean basins
caused by continental drift caused the sea level to drop, exposing the land
bridge.

Dr. Beard's entire study began with a lucky accident.

As a doctoral student at Johns Hopkins University, Dr. Beard said he was doing
his thesis research at the Peabody Museum of Natural History at Yale University
in the late 1980s and opened a museum drawer. Inside he found fossil teeth that
immediately caught his attention.

He got permission to borrow the fossils then tracked down the amateur fossil
collector who'd unearthed them. That collector led him to a site near Meridian,
Miss., where he'd found the fossils.

Working at Carnegie Museum since 1990, Dr. Beard has made two trips a year to
Mississippi to search for fossils and do research, which involved serious
digging. That thin sandstone layer, at places, sits 8 to 10 feet underground.

"That's why it took so long to collect the fossils, study them and compare them
with fossils from other sites," Dr. Beard said. "It's been a long time coming,
but this is the culmination of almost 20 years since I first found out about the
fossils."

Teilhardinas lived in trees in subtropical forests to avoid becoming a tasty
morsel for larger mammals. The fossils, mostly teeth, are strong indicators of
the species and its diet, Dr. Beard said.

Weighing about 28 grams, or roughly an ounce, the small primate was an acrobatic
leaper and proficient climber. It probably ate insects, fruits, sap and gum.

The fieldwork involved a long-term collaboration between the Carnegie Museum and
the Mississippi Office of Geology in Jackson, Miss., with funding provided by
the National Geographic Society and the National Science Foundation.

The study stands as "the big triumph" of his career, Dr. Beard said, by
providing insights into how early primates traveled the globe. It also reveals
the complexity of ecological changes in North America, which eventually allowed
the subtropical primates to migrate from the Gulf Coast inland to Wyoming and
elsewhere as temperatures warmed.

Teilhardinas in Asia likely evolved into the gremlin-like animals nowadays known
as tarsiers.

Dr. Beard said his next goal is to study the fossils of other mammals his crew
unearthed in Mississippi to better understand the ancient ecosystem that
included the tiny primates. He said his team has discovered a second thin layer
of sandstone that might provide further evidence.

"I'm excited about it, and it makes us want to go back to Mississippi," he said.
"When we started to find answers, it only raised more questions."

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: David Templeton can be reached at dtempleton@post-gazette.com or
412-263-1578.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING: Mark A. Klinger/Carnegie Museum of Natural History

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              179 of 396 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                            March 13, 2008 Thursday
                                 SOONER EDITION

AMERICAN EAGLE MIMICS ECONOMY, GOING SLOW

BYLINE: Teresa F. Lindeman, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. E-1

LENGTH: 609 words


When the economy gets tough, American Eagle Outfitters tries to remind customers
they can find a pretty good value on quality clothes in its stores.

And not just because a lot of jeans are on markdown at the moment.

"This is one of our key differentiators," said Susan McGalla, president and
chief merchandising officer, in a conference call yesterday to discuss the South
Side retailer's difficult fourth quarter and its plans for managing through a
rough start to the new fiscal year.

American Eagle, which saw profits in the holiday quarter drop from $150.2
million a year ago to $140.5 million, reiterated projections that the first
quarter will be slower than last year. The company expects earnings in the
spring quarter of between 25 to 27 cents per share, compared with last year's 35
cents per share.

The teen retailer's own style issues are being exacerbated by a slowing economy
that has consumers spending cautiously and many retailers slowing new store
growth.

American Eagle plans to continue opening stores but the company is pulling back
in other ways. The retailer has reduced inventory levels, excluding online
business, by 5 percent from this time last year. That could drop further by the
end of the first quarter.

"Until we see a change in business trends, we will continue this approach," said
Joan Holstein Hilson, executive vice president and chief financial officer.

Meanwhile, American Eagle will focus on striking the right balance between
offering fashion basics and more trendy items, said Ms. McGalla.

"They come to us for fashion essentials and wardrobe builders," she said.

The company's women's lines have not been performing as well as the men's
lately, and there has been pressure to make fashions more compelling to keep
customers from straying. Analysts have noted stepped-up competition from rivals
such as Abercrombie & Fitch and Pacific Sunwear.

American Eagle's core denim business also is going through a major shift. Ms.
McGalla said capri pants, for one, are not as popular as they once were. The
company expects to clear out those styles by summer. In addition, fits and cuts
of jeans will be changing for back-to-school.

"We think management is taking the correct steps in addressing the company's
value proposition, increasing its key item focus and refocusing its
interpretation of current trends," said FBR Research analyst Adrienne Tennant in
a report yesterday.

"However, we think that the positive impact may take some time to be felt."

FBR has the stock rated as "market perform," meaning it is expected to perform
in line with other companies in its industry and investors should maintain their
current holdings.

Company officials said American Eagle has enough cash on hand to continue to
invest in its growing aerie line of intimates stores, the Martin + Osa project
targeting 28- to 40-year-old customers, and a new children's line scheduled to
launch online later this year.

Investors seemed to appreciate the company's approach to the tough business
climate, sending shares up 4 percent to close at $17.94.

For the fiscal year that ended Feb. 2, net income was $400 million, or $1.82 per
share, vs. $387.4 million, or $1.70, in the previous year. Total sales rose to a
record $3.055 billion vs. $2.794 billion.

For the holiday quarter alone, total sales rose to $995.4 million, compared with
$973.4 million in the same period last year.

When looking only at sales in stores that had been open at least a year, sales
dipped 2 percent in the quarter. Earnings per share were flat with last year at
66 cents.

Due to a calendar shift, both the fourth-quarter and the full-year results in
fiscal 2006 included an extra week.

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Teresa F. Lindeman can be reached at tlindeman@post-gazette.com or at
412-263-2018.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              181 of 396 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                            March 20, 2008 Thursday
                                 SOONER EDITION

OLYMPIC BOYCOTT WRONG TACTIC

BYLINE: Shelly Anderson

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. D-2

LENGTH: 753 words


It is less than five months until 8:08 p.m. on 8/8/08, the start of the opening
ceremony for the Summer Olympics in Beijing.

You don't think the Chinese are superstitious about the number eight, do you?

That lucky number is one tiny sliver in a mountain of information we could
garner about the mysterious -- or maybe that should be shrouded -- Communist
country with about a billion more people than the United States.

We know about lead paint on toys and tainted pet food, and most of us have a
vague idea about the oppressive political climate, having heard about forced
abortions and infanticide, about political prisoners and dismal human rights.

The recent uprising by those seeking independence in Tibet has sparked violent
clashes with Chinese forces, reminding us about China's steel-fisted rule.

The unrest also has brought to the surface suggestions of a boycott of the
Olympics, or at least some sort of protest.

Sorry, but the time for deciding whether China deserved to stage the Olympics
passed when Beijing was awarded the 2008 Games.

That in no way diminishes the loss of life in Tibet or condones unfit living
conditions or atrocities that occur in China.

But striking out at China by undermining the Olympics would serve no purpose
other than to punish the athletes, coaches and fans. It's highly doubtful it
would change anything internally in China and might even make things worse for
some if embarrassed leaders lash out or abandon the notion of trying to look
good for the rest of the world.

Luckily, the latest cry for a boycott seems to have quickly settled into a
whimper.

French Foreign Minister Bernard Kouchner suggested that the European Union
follow a proposal this week from Reporters Without Borders, which is calling for
boycott of the opening ceremony.

Kouchner then backed down some, saying that while skipping the opening ceremony
was a good idea, he doubted it could be pulled off.

So far, governments and various Olympic committees have been silent about or
eschewed notions of a boycott, but there likely will be more calls for action
against China in relation to the Olympics.

There will be ample opportunity, for example, during the torch relay, which will
go into Tibet and up Mount Everest in May.

Reporters Without Borders, which advocates press freedom, doesn't look to let up
in its campaign against the Olympics. That includes the sale of black T-shirts
with a logo of interlocked handcuffs instead of the brightly colored Olympic
rings.

While it's true freedom of the press is a hope, not a reality, in China, the
Olympics will see reporters from around the globe pour into Beijing to evaluate
some things for themselves while chronicling the sporting events.

They might be mere sports journalists, but they're not naive enough to think
what they'll see isn't scrubbed and sugarcoated. And then dipped in a caldron of
public relations swill.

Still, it could be a start.

The United States boycotted the Moscow Olympics in 1980 in protest over the
Soviet Union's occupation of Afghanistan, and the Soviets retaliated by keeping
their athletes away from the 1984 Los Angeles Games.

It would be difficult for anyone to say those moves made any difference in the
ending of the Cold War or the fall of the Soviet Union.

Everyone needs to act on their conscience -- director Steven Spielberg withdrew
as artistic adviser for the Games because he doesn't believe China is doing
enough to pressure Sudan to end the horrific violence in Darfur.

Yet we need to continue to hope that having the Olympics in Beijing will do a
lot more good than any boycott might.

For months there have been classes in parks teaching people things such as how
to be polite by Western standards and how to speak some basic English phrases.
The Chinese have built beautiful, ultramodern buildings and cleaned up a lot of
blight around Beijing.

Yes, we're left to wonder what became of the poor who were displaced by such a
large-scale cleanup, but maybe, just maybe, the all-out attempt by the Chinese
government to put on a good face during the Olympics will effect a change for
the better there after the Games.

China is opening its doors to the rest of us to have a look, to in some way
bridge the knowledge gap between us and about one-fifth of the world's
population.

The fact the Chinese are doing it through sports is significant.

Sports can and does stand tall against political strife. It's not so much
defiance as resistance and resilience.

If there really is an Olympic spirit, let it loose on Beijing to do its thing.

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Shelly Anderson can be reached at shanderson@post-gazette.com or
412-263-1721.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              184 of 396 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                            April 16, 2008 Wednesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

SECTION: LOCAL; CITY; Pg. B-2

LENGTH: 695 words


CITY

Council proposes change in pension board

Pittsburgh City Council unanimously approved an ordinance yesterday that would
mandate that its president and the city controller sit on the seven-member panel
that oversees the city's troubled pension fund.

"This is in direct relationship to the pledges we signed in February" in which
council and Mayor Luke Ravenstahl agreed to work together on a joint agenda that
includes fuller pension funding, said Councilman Patrick Dowd, who wrote the
legislation.

Currently, four members of the panel are appointed by the mayor, and the other
three are chosen by police, firefighters and other city employees, respectively.
The council and controller seats would replace two of the mayor's appointees.
Council President Doug Shields is already on the pension board, but Controller
Michael Lamb is not.

At year's end, the pension fund contained $386 million, or 45 percent of the
$862 million it should have to cover the anticipated payouts to retirees and
current employees. The shortfall compels the city to pay $44 million -- 10
percent of its budget -- into the fund this year, up from $38 million last year.

Ravenstahls expecting first child in fall

Mayor Luke Ravenstahl's office revealed yesterday that he and his wife, Erin,
are expecting their first child this fall.

"Erin and Luke Ravenstahl announced today that they have a proposed solution to
Pittsburgh's declining population," the mayor and his wife said in an official
release. "A joyful and grateful Erin and Luke are pleased to announce that they
are expecting."

Mrs. Ravenstahl is three months' pregnant.

Aide to Twanda Carlisle sentenced in kickback

An aide to former Pittsburgh Councilwoman Twanda Carlisle was sentenced
yesterday to two years of probation for helping Ms. Carlisle carry out a
kickback scheme.

Darlene Durham-Miller, 48, of McKeesport had pleaded guilty in October to
misdemeanor theft and conspiracy charges, admitting she funneled $19,480 to her
boss over six months.

In sentencing her yesterday, Judge John A. Zottola acknowledged Ms.
Durham-Miller's cooperation in the prosecution of Ms. Carlisle, who is now
serving a prison sentence.

Ms. Durham-Miller said, "I really apologize to the community, the city of
Pittsburgh, my family and my friends."

Gore set to speak at CMU commencement

Former Vice President Al Gore, co-winner of the 2007 Nobel Peace Prize for his
work on global warming, will speak at Carnegie Mellon University's 111th
commencement ceremony at 11 a.m. May 18, in Gesling Stadium on the university's
Oakland campus.

Carnegie Mellon President Jared L. Cohon described Mr. Gore as the nation's
leading advocate for the environment and said he is pleased the university's
graduates will have an opportunity to hear from him.

"He is an inspiring and committed leader, whose beliefs fit well with our
university, an institution committed to sustainable, green practices," Dr. Cohon
said. "His impassioned campaigns have led him to some of the world's greatest
honors. And we are greatly honored to have him at Carnegie Mellon."

In addition to sharing the Nobel with the United Nations' Intergovernmental
Panel on Climate Change, Mr. Gore is an author of the best-sellers "Earth in the
Balance" and "An Inconvenient Truth," which was the subject of an Oscar-winning
documentary.

Pitt trustee panel approves $120 million in construction

A University of Pittsburgh trustee panel on Monday approved a $64.3 million
upgrade to the building housing the Swanson School of Engineering and a new
$21.1 million academic wing for Falk Laboratory School.

Those were the largest among a dozen construction and renovation projects worth
roughly $120 million that received approval from the trustees' property and
facilities committee. The projects will bring improvements across campus from
sprinkler work inside the Cathedral of Learning to a court and seating
renovation in the Fitzgerald Field House.

The improvements in Benedum Hall, home of the engineering school, will include a
mezzanine level.

The new Falk wing will include, among other things, 14 classrooms for
kindergarten to eighth grade, and a new computer classroom, library, art room
and cafeteria.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              189 of 396 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                             June 4, 2008 Wednesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

RETHINK BUSING

BYLINE: JON OLBUM Squirrel Hill

SECTION: EDITORIAL; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR; Pg. B-4

LENGTH: 137 words


Perhaps it is time to rethink the costs and benefits of school busing. By going
back to neighborhood schools, a number of current problems would be quickly
addressed: save gas/diesel fuels; cut pollution, and thus help our "climate
change" issue; cut road repair costs and commuter waiting times; kids walking to
local schools attacks the childhood obesity problem; kids attending local
schools again will bring neighborhood pride and involvement.

The money saved by cutting busing would be plowed back into education. The
drop-out rate in the nation's 100 largest school districts is about 30 percent.
For minority students it is worse. So, how has busing helped?

This idea is too good for it not to happen. The question is how long will it
take the "suits" to admit they were wrong and change for the better. Pass the
word.

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              200 of 396 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                             August 10, 2008 Sunday
                               FIVE STAR EDITION

THE ETHANOL DELUSION;
ETHANOL IS GREAT IN BEER, BUT IT CANNOT REPLACE OIL

BYLINE: t KENNETH P. GREEN

SECTION: EDITORIAL; PHOTO ILLUSTRATION; Pg. G-1

LENGTH: 1060 words


Ethanol -- the chemical that gives your booze its kick -- has been used by
mankind for a very long time, 8,000 years or so. Even Stone Age people
recognized the value of a good tipple. Of late, ethanol has been touted as the
super-fuel that will reduce global warming, bring down gas prices, relieve our
dependence on foreign oil, starve terrorists of funding, restore the family
farm, create jobs and basically Save The Planet!

Contrary to popular belief, vastly expanding our use of ethanol fuel would do
few, if any, of these things. But it almost certainly would increase food
prices, greenhouse gas emissions and local air and water pollution while
decreasing our supply of fresh water, consuming more of our land and destroying
more of our ecosystems.

* * *

First, the lack of benefits.

While nature spent millions of years concentrating solar energy in the forms of
peat, coal, oil and natural gas, ethanol relies on the sunlight that strikes
living plants in a single growing season. Because solar energy is diffuse, the
scale of land consumption and the labor required to gather massive quantities of
vegetation quickly leads to diminishing returns. As Rockefeller University
researcher Jesse Ausubel points out, it would take 1,000 square miles of prime
Iowa farm land to produce as much electricity from biomass as from a single
nuclear power plant.

The highly touted cellulosic ethanol, made from such plants as switch grass, is
no solution, either. Professor John Deutch of the Massachusetts Institute of
Technology recently showed that we might conceivably produce enough ethanol from
cellulose to displace 1 million to 2 million barrels of oil per day in the next
couple of decades. But we currently use 20 million barrels a day and have a
growing population, so it's clear we're not going to seriously influence world
oil markets, become energy independent, impoverish oil-rich enemy regimes or
de-fund terrorists by making ethanol.

* * *

Now, let's address ethanol's many drawbacks.

* Ethanol increases greenhouse gas emissions in two ways -- by raising the
output of the most potent greenhouse gases and by requiring land-clearance,
which releases carbon dioxide into the air.

In 1997, the U.S. Government Accountability Office found that the ethanol
production process produces more nitrous oxide and other powerful greenhouse
gases than does gasoline production. A decade later, Colorado scientists Jan
Kreider and Peter Curtiss concluded that carbon dioxide emissions in the
production cycle are about 50 percent higher for ethanol than for traditional
fossil fuels.

Making ethanol from cellulosic plants such as switch grass, briefly touted by
President Bush a couple of years ago, won't help. In February, researcher
Timothy Searchinger and colleagues calculated that ethanol from switch grass, if
grown on U.S. corn lands, would increase greenhouse gas emissions by 50 percent
compared to using regular gasoline.

* Then there's local air pollution. The Environmental Protection Agency says
using more ethanol fuel would increase ozone-producing chemicals. Mark Jacobson,
a researcher at Stanford University, recently estimated that widespread
switching to a blend of 85 percent ethanol and 15 percent gasoline might
increase ozone-related mortality, hospitalization and asthma by about 9 percent
in Los Angeles and 4 percent in the United States as a whole.

* Now, let's talk about water consumption. Messrs. Kreider and Curtiss estimate
that growing and refining corn for a gallon of corn ethanol today requires about
140 gallons of water. That would mean the 5.4 million gallons of corn ethanol
used in America in 2006 required the use of 756 million gallons of fresh water.

Things do not look much better for ethanol made from cellulose crops, which
require between 146 and 149 gallons of water per gallon of ethanol fuel,
depending on the scale of production. To meet the Bush administration's target
of 35 billion gallons of renewable and alternative fuels production in the
United States by 2017 with cellulosic ethanol would require as much water as
flows in the Colorado River every year.

* There's a water pollution issue, as well. The National Academy of Sciences
points out that expanding corn-based ethanol production without new
environmental protection policies would pose a "considerable" threat to water
quality. Corn requires more fertilizers and pesticides than other food or
biofuel crops. Pesticide contamination is already highest in the corn belt, and
nitrogen fertilizer runoff from corn already produces the most serious
agricultural impact on the Mississippi River.

Fertilizer runoff does not just pollute local waters. Each summer, the nitrogen
fertilizers in the Mississippi hit the Gulf of Mexico, creating a large dead
zone -- a region of oxygen-deprived waters unable to support sea life that
extends for more than 10,000 square kilometers. The same phenomenon occurs in
Chesapeake Bay.

A recent study by researchers at the University of British Columbia shows that
if the United States were to meet its proposed ethanol production goals of 15
billion to 36 billion gallons of corn and cellulosic ethanol by 2022, nitrogen
flows to the Gulf of Mexico would increase by 10 percent to 34 percent.

* Finally, there's land consumption and food prices to consider. In a February
Science article, researchers calculated that projected corn ethanol production
in 2016 would require 43 percent of the land harvested for corn in 2004 that
otherwise was used to feed livestock. This represents an enormous change in land
use -- to either replace the grain lost to food production by vastly expanding
corn fields -- or a significant increase in food prices of the sort we've
already seen due to scarcity of grain raised for human and livestock
consumption.

* * *

There is little question that high gasoline and oil prices damage the national
economy and the personal economies of individual Americans. But putting our hope
in ethanol (whether from corn, switch grass or other cellulosic crops) is not a
rational policy response, however attractive it might be to the corn lobby.

Although it is rare for anyone to recommend that lawmakers hit the bottle, in
the case of ethanol, the balance of virtue and vice is fairly clear. America's
motto should not be "Ethanol for Energy Independence." It should be "Ethanol:
Drink It, Don't Drive It."

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Kenneth P. Green is a resident scholar at the American Enterprise
Institute who recently authored the AEI publication, "Ethanol and the
Environment" (kgreen@aei.org).

GRAPHIC: PHOTO ILLUSTRATION: Anita Dufalla/Post-Gazette:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              204 of 396 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                          September 11, 2008 Thursday
                              Correction Appended
                                 SOONER EDITION

BYLINE: Scott Mervis; Adrian McCoy; Kate McCaffrey

SECTION: ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT; THE HOT LIST; Pg. W-2

LENGTH: 1166 words


ALL WEEKEND

That's Italian

One could make a convincing argument that the Irish have the better music for an
outdoor festival. But there's little question the Italians have the better food.

Riverplex, scene of last weekend's Irish Festival, becomes the home for Festa
Italiana Friday through Sunday. It will feature live music and dance, Italian
food, a marketplace, children's activities, Bocce games, wine tastings and an
Italian Mass in the beautiful riverside setting, complete with lighted walkways,
a playground and multiple stages.

The music ranges from the doo-wop oldies of Pure Gold to the operatic vocals of
Franco "The Voice of Romance" Corso, a baritone from San Remo, Italy, now based
in Florida.

Hours are 4-11 p.m. Friday; 11 a.m.-11 p.m. Saturday; 9 a.m.-6 p.m. Sunday.
Tickets are $8; $10 at the gate; $8 seniors/students; $5 military; $3 children
3-12. Call 412-422-1113.

Here is the main stage lineup:

FRIDAY

4:30 p.m.: Rocky Chirchiglia Band

6 p.m.: Amici

7:30 p.m.: Gene Ferrari

8:30 p.m.: We Three

SATURDAY

1:30 p.m.: Cavaliers

3 p.m.: Amici

4:30 p.m.: Gene Ferrari

6 p.m.: We Three

7:30 p.m.: Pure Gold

8:30 p.m.: Franco Corso

SUNDAY

10 a.m.: Italian Mass with Bishop Anthony G. Bosco

2 p.m.: We Three

5 p.m.: Aaron Russo

FRIDAY

Sharp-dressed men postponed

Back in the '70s you needed to reserve the stadium when the little ol' band from
Texas came to town. In the '90s, it was two nights at the arena.

But it's been a while since the last hit. ZZ Top is now traveling the country
with co-headliner Brooks & Dunn and special guest Rodney Atkins, a show that was
to make a stop at the Post-Gazette Pavilion on Friday.

At press time, the show had been postponed due to illness. Those who have
purchased tickets should hang on to them and await information.

-- Scott Mervis

SATURDAY

Cartoon show

The ToonSeum, the city's museum devoted to cartoon arts, is marking the city's
250th anniversary with an event this Saturday that pits the city's former mayors
against its editorial cartoonists.

"Drawn to the Hive: Cartooning Pittsburgh's Mayors" is a retrospective exhibit
of more than 50 years of local editorial cartoons on display at ToonSeum.

On Saturday at 3 p.m., former mayors Sophie Masloff and Tom Murphy will join
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette political cartoonist Rob Rogers and former PG political
cartoonist Tim Menees for a panel discussion on political humor, Pittsburgh
style.

At 2:30 p.m., there will be a Kids' Press Conference with current Mayor Luke
Ravenstahl joining Masloff and Murphy and taking questions from children.

Other activities from 11 a.m. to 3 p.m. include drawing campaign cartoons and
posters, voting for favorite cartoon mayor, plus cartooning demonstrations and
workshops.

ToonSeum will be selling a commemorative print signed by the mayors and
cartoonists taking part in Saturday's event.

ToonSeum is in the Children's Museum of Pittsburgh, North Side. The "Drawn to
the Hive" exhibit runs through Oct. 13. Information: 412-325-1060.

-- Adrian McCoy

'Children' in need

Does the term "invisible children" ring a fuzzy bell? Let me bring you up to
snuff: North Uganda + rebel army + child soldiers + 2004 documentary =
overwhelming public response to the plight of kids forced to walk from their
village homes each night to city centers in order to keep from being kidnapped
and forced to become soldiers in the rebel Lord's Resistance Army. Check out
www.invisiblechildren.com for the full story -- it'll blow your mind and make
you count your blessings.

And while things have become considerably better for the children of North
Uganda, efforts to improve their quality of life are ongoing.

To that end, the International Children's Art Gallery is hosting a traveling
documentary presentation. The benefit includes a screening of Invisible
Children's new documentary "Go," handmade and silk-screened T-shirts, photo
gallery, live music and food. It all begins at 6 p.m. Saturday (screening at 8
p.m.) at the International Children's Art Gallery, 5020 Penn Ave., Garfield.

Cost is $5, and T-shirts are $20. All profits go to Invisible Children. For
details, visit www.theheartofpa.com.

-- Kate McCaffrey

Velvety music

You could hear strains of the Velvet Underground in the sound of The
Go-Betweens, a jangle band that came out of Australia in the late '70s.

Now, to reinforce that influence, Robert Forster of the Go-Betweens turns up at
The Andy Warhol Museum with his tribute to VU.

The performance, commissioned by the Queensland Art Gallery for the opening of
its exhibition "Andy Warhol" in December, will be performed at only two venues
in this country: The Warhol and the Wexner Center in Columbus, Ohio.

Forster disbanded the Go-Betweens in 2006 when founding partner Grant McLennan
died suddenly of a heart attack.

The show is Friday at 10 p.m., with a pre-show and post-show mod Motown dance
party featuring Justin Hopper of Viper Soul Club. Tickets are $10. Call
412-237-8300.

-- Mervis

SATURDAY-SUNDAY

Wild water

Carnegie Science Center visitors can explore and learn more about underwater
ecosystems in depth during Wild Water Weekend this Saturday and Sunday.

Programming will focus on the underwater environment and human impact on it, the
effects of global warming and ways to safely enjoy underwater activities.

The Pittsburgh Emergency Medical Services River Rescue Unit's Master SCUBA
divers will demonstrate diving, water rescue and emergency medical care.

There will be tours of the new RiverQuest vessel Explorer, a hybrid-powered boat
that will be used as a floating environmental center. Tours are 11 a.m. to 4
p.m.

In addition to learning more about local rivers, visitors can explore a coral
reef and mangrove swamp in the Science Center's SeaScape exhibit. Presenters
will be on hand to talk about how ocean environments have been damaged, and ways
to rebuild reefs.

Dr. Joylette Portlock of The Climate Project will give talks on climate change
and the effects of global warming Saturday at 1:30 and 3:30 p.m. Call
412-237-3400.

-- McCoy

NEED TO KNOW

* Rolling Stone recently said "she was Feist before there was Feist." They were
speaking of singer-songwriter Sam Phillips, who broke out in 1994 with the
Grammy-nominated "Martinis and Bikinis" and is now on the road with "Don't Do
Anything," her third record for Nonesuch. Phillips is drawing rave reviews on
the road with a trio of backing musicians (on guitar, violin, banjo, piano and
drums) playing folk-rock, chamber pop and cabaret waltzes. She plays Club Cafe
Friday at 7 p.m. Tickets are $35. Call 412-323-1919.

* Andy Frasco, a piano man inspired by Billy Joel and Van Morrison, is the
Friday and Saturday night headliner for the VH1 Save the Music Foundation
benefit at the Lighthouse in Imperial. On Sunday, it's Philly glam band Britny
Fox. In all, more than 20 bands of all varieties are booked, including Ashes to
Ashes, Burning Earth, Chip DiMonick, The Stickers and Cat Gut Tonic. Proceeds
benefit music programs for schools. A three-day pass is $13. Call 724-695-2247
or go to www.myspace.com/glamslamproductions.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: WEEKEND MAG

CORRECTION-DATE: September 12, 2008



CORRECTION:  Robert Forster will perform his tribute to the Velvet Underground
at the Andy Warhol Museum tonight. The date was incorrect in yesterday's Hot
List.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Autumn de Wilde: Sam Phillips will make a stop at Club Cafe
Friday night.
\ PHOTO: Franco Corso is part of the lineup at Festa Italiana at the Riverplex.
\ PHOTO: ZZ Top was to headline a concert Friday at the Post-Gazette Pavilion
with Brooks & Dunn, but the show has been postponed.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              205 of 396 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                           September 14, 2008 Sunday
                               FIVE STAR EDITION

LIPSTICK ON A CROCODILE;
THE ELECTION CAMPAIGN CONTINUES IN FULL FLIGHT FROM THE REAL ISSUES

BYLINE: Sally Kalson

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. G-3

LENGTH: 867 words


When the most heated back and forth of a presidential race revolves around
makeup on animals, you know we're heading into an idiotic election season. Even
Woody Allen couldn't have invented this, and he's made movies about sheep in
black stockings and garter belts.

The Republicans have a lot to answer for in this campaign. It's no wonder they'd
rather talk about which creatures should wear Revlon.

This is the party that spent the last eight years tripling the deficit, putting
us in hock to China for the next millennium, driving the dollar into the sewer,
invading Iraq without provocation, turning the United States into a torture
state in the eyes of the world, putting lobbyists in charge of policy and
corrupt cronies in charge of government agencies.

But let's not quibble over details. It's much more fun to whip up phony
controversies and see how far they'll blow.

This one begins when John McCain's largely unknown running mate introduces
herself to the American people as a pit bull in lipstick. The phrase bears a
striking resemblance to the pre-existing bromide about swine, but never mind.
The GOP now considers itself in sole possession of all future cosmetic-zoologic
references. Any mention of eye shadow on an elephant, or perfume on a skunk,
must now be read as an insult to the hottest governor from the coldest state.

Having staked out this territory, Republicans pounce on the first infringement,
unleashing the most bravura performance of crocodile tears since Anne Baxter
starred in "All About Eve."

Barack Obama, addressing the GOP's brazen effort to recast itself as the party
of change despite its eight-year death grip on Washington, says the attempt is
like putting lipstick on a pig. The sirens immediately flip into overdrive. The
Democrat called Sarah Palin a pig! How dare he!

Except that the noise machine didn't vet the phrase before going ballistic.
Turns out Mr. McCain uses "lipstick on a pig" all the time, including references
to Hillary Clinton's health-care plan. Was he calling Mrs. Clinton a pig? Of
course not! And he'd never stand for anyone else doing it, either. The senator
is more comfortable with another word. "How do we beat the bitch?" asked a woman
at 2007 primary campaign event. The crowd and Mr. McCain laughed, but then he
replied, "Excellent question" -- and they weren't talking about Sarah Palin.

The fake outrage got a real boost from South Carolina Democratic chairwoman
Carol Fowler, who said Mr. McCain's running mate's "primary qualification seems
to be that she hasn't had an abortion." Even if the Palins didn't have a son
with Down syndrome, this utterance would have been patently offensive on every
level. Ms. Fowler soon apologized, and the Obama camp disavowed the remark,
echoing Mr. McCain's insistence that state parties don't speak for him.

Still, the phrase will have a long and useful life in cyberspace, alongside
bogus claims that Ms. Palin called dinosaurs "lizards of Satan" (she didn't) and
that Mr. Obama is a Muslim (he isn't).

Both candidates began this race claiming they'd end the divisiveness that sets
us against each other. Mr. Obama likes to insist that we are one America, not
red and blue America. The map says otherwise. Republicans are skilled at
exploiting those divisions to the hilt -- and no one knows that better than Mr.
McCain, who was once Karl Rove's target. Now the "maverick" has gotten the
message -- if you can't beat 'em, join 'em. The party on view at his convention
isn't just intensifying the culture wars, it's mining new territory:

* Small towns are good, communities are bad and communities that organize to
improve conditions are a punch line.

* Sexism was a figment of whiny liberals' victimization complex, until it reared
its ugly head in their own nominee's direction. Having had a taste of the real
thing (nobody asks men if they can be fathers and politicians at the same time),
they began meeting every question about their female nominee with cries of
gender bias -- only months after they and their surrogates gleefully trashed
Mrs. Clinton's laugh, age, wrinkles and ankles.

* Pregnant, unmarried teens facing shotgun weddings symbolize family values if
the family comprises Christian conservatives. Pregnant, unmarried other teens --
and let's not even add race to the mix -- symbolize the moral decay of a
permissive society. Remember, Bill O'Reilly blamed Jamie Lynn Spears' pregnancy
on her "pinhead" parents, but in Bristol Palin's case, well, these things
happen.

The media love these food fights because covering them is quick and dirty. The
longer they keep viewers interested, the less airtime they have to fill with
boring issues.

Meanwhile, we have a tanking economy, a bankrupt mortgage industry, lost jobs
and homes, a worsening health-care crisis (Mr. McCain's solution is to tax
employers on the cost of benefits they provide workers), climate change
threatening increasing waves of Katrina-like events, and yet another government
scandal, this time at the Interior Department, featuring bribery, sex, drugs and
offshore drilling.

Tell me again why anyone wants this job? Oh, right. It's to make a difference in
people's lives. Maybe they should just pass out free lipstick.

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Sally Kalson is a columnist for the Post-Gazette
(skalson@post-gazette.com, 412-263-1610).

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              214 of 396 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                            November 9, 2008 Sunday
                               FIVE STAR EDITION

Work;
life balance suffers in downturn

BYLINE: Cindy Krischer Goodman

SECTION: BUSINESS; WORKZONE; Pg. J-1

LENGTH: 532 words


For many workers and managers, the downturn has quashed such luxuries as
vacations and two-day weekends. Flexible working arrangements, wellness
initiatives and telecommuting are becoming things of the past.

And parents are putting on the back burner the possibility of cutting back to
part-time work hours or staying home with the kids

"Holding on to your job right now is more important for many than getting more
work/life balance," said John Challenger, chief executive officer of Challenger,
Gray & Christmas, a global outplacement firm. "This is not the right time to be
negotiating those sorts of things."

During the past decade, firms embraced changes, launching new initiatives to
keep talent. Accounting firms began offering flex time to appeal to Generation X
workers. Law firms promoted partners who worked part-time schedules. And
companies adopted family-friendly policies that landed them on the list of Best
Companies for Working Mothers. The economy, of course, will determine where
things head from here.

For now, "people are working longer, harder and turning themselves into a jack
of all trades," Mr. Challenger said.

Many workers already are resigned to new work hours. In Fort Lauderdale, Fla.,
Jason Kobrin puts in 50-hour weeks "to be there for clients." Theoretically, no
one is putting pressure on him or his staff, said Mr. Kobrin, area manager for
placement firm Manpower Professional.

There's just the understanding that in the current climate, everyone needs to
outwork the competition, he says. From his vantage point, Mr. Kobrin views
longer hours and heavier workloads as inevitable as corporations combine
positions and hire one person with multiple skills to fill the job.

Small-business owners, too, are asking whether balance is a pipe dream as they
readjust to new workplace realities.

Advertising agency owner Len Dugow has always required his staff to work hard.
But now, he says, it's all about survival. "You have to run faster and be more
available to clients." For Mr. Dugow and his 19 employees at LGD Communications,
that means working more hours and responding quickly. "We're not exactly
physicians on call, but it feels that way."

Mr. Dugow is spending more time with department heads, looking at whether staff
and the work-flow system is as productive as possible, "not just staying later,
but trying to work as smart as we can."

Meanwhile, he tries to muster a personal life. "You find your downtime with
family and friends where you can." Instead of making vacation plans, he opts for
weekend getaways.

The rules have dazed workers who entered workplaces with expectations of
balance. "You can't phone it in anymore," Mr. Dugow said, adding that what we
face now is a "sobering up quickly for those who had swung too far in
accommodating the younger generation."

But Miami life coach Drazia Rubenstein worries that workplace changes are coming
at the expense of self-care.

"It's not smart to sacrifice the things that are important to your well being,"
she said.

Instead, work smarter, prioritize and limit time-consuming habits.

Time for yourself is more important in times of stress, she said. "That's the
way we reinforce ourselves so we can take on more."

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Cindy Krischer Goodman is a workplace columnist for The Miami Herald.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              230 of 396 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                            January 13, 2008 Sunday
                                 REGION EDITION

RENDELL VOWS;
TO PRESS AHEAD;
ON HEALTH CARE GOVERNOR'S NEW PLAN WOULD TAP PA. FUND;
TO HELP NEARLY 800,000 UNINSURED ADULTS

BYLINE: Joe Fahy and Tom Barnes Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. B-1

LENGTH: 1400 words


Gov. Ed Rendell is threatening to retaliate against legislators who don't
support his efforts to offer more affordable health care to the state's nearly
800,000 uninsured adults.

A year has passed since the governor introduced Cover All Pennsylvanians, his
plan for making affordable insurance available, but lawmakers showed little
interest in helping to fund it with a tax on businesses that did not offer
health insurance to workers.

Now, the Democratic governor is back with a new plan that would draw on more
than $400 million accumulated in a state fund that helps doctors pay their
malpractice insurance costs.

In an interview last week in Pittsburgh, Mr. Rendell said he was willing to
entertain other ideas from lawmakers. But he wants action.

The state's doctors could pay a price if no agreement is reached soon. The
governor has declined to approve medical malpractice subsidies, known as
abatements, through the state's MCare program until lawmakers agree to fund
Cover All Pennsylvanians. If no deal is struck by March 31, the unsubsidized
bills will come due.

The governor said he linked the abatements with Cover All Pennsylvanians to try
to gain leverage with lawmakers.

If Republican legislators still refuse to endorse extending health insurance
coverage to the uninsured, the governor pledged to campaign tirelessly against
them next fall.

"You will find me in every contested electoral district, Senate or House," he
said, adding he would be a "whirling dervish" in his campaigning. "I will hit
every district time after time after time."

"I don't like to do that," he said. "I consider many of the Republicans my
personal friends."

But if GOP lawmakers "turn their back on health care for Pennsylvanians," he
said, he would be "out there every day, doing my very best to change
Harrisburg."

"If he wants to use his political capital to try to strong-arm Republican
legislators, that's his prerogative,'' said Charlie Gerow, a Harrisburg
political strategist. But he added that many GOP senators "are from relatively
safe seats so I'm not sure how seriously political observers would take that
threat.''

G. Terry Madonna, a pollster and political analyst at Franklin & Marshall
College in Lancaster, called Mr. Rendell's remarks "a pretty tough statement."

"He is putting on a full court press and letting legislators know how huge a
priority this is for him," he said, referring to health insurance coverage.
"It's a big issue for many voters, too.''

The governor plans to discuss the need for Cover All Pennsylvanians tomorrow at
a news conference at the Philadelphia College of Osteopathic Medicine.

MCare is a state insurance program that provides doctors with catastrophic
coverage for medical malpractice. Doctors in Pennsylvania purchase $500,000
worth of insurance from a primary carrier and then another $500,000 worth of
coverage from MCare.

In 2003, state lawmakers approved the governor's proposal for a program that
helps doctors pay for their MCare coverage. The proposal, known as the abatement
program, was a response to concerns that rising malpractice insurance costs
could discourage physicians from practicing in Pennsylvania.

Though he worked to establish the abatement program and has been its champion,
Mr. Rendell said he was willing to risk its future on behalf of uninsured
Pennsylvanians.

"If I have to choose between taking care of doctors and taking care of someone
who has cancer and doesn't have health insurance, it's an easy choice," he said.

Mr. Rendell, who hopes the March 31 deadline will allow time to craft a
compromise, also has suggested that the abatements be extended for 10 years --
as long as funds are allocated for Cover All Pennsylvanians.

Sen. Don White, R-Indiana, chairman of the Senate's Banking and Insurance
Committee, said the Senate passed reauthorization bills twice to continue the
abatement program for 2008, "only to see them derailed by the governor and House
Democrats."

He charged that Mr. Rendell "is holding doctors and hospitals hostage" while he
tries to force the Legislature to approve the plan.

Mr. White said many legislators also oppose Mr. Rendell's proposal to increase
the cigarette tax by 10 cents a pack (to $1.45 a pack) and to extend the sales
tax to smokeless tobacco and cigars as other ways to pay for his health plan.

The Rendell administration estimates that the program could cost about $1
billion in its fifth year, but said much of the funds needed would come from
federal monies and redirection of funds from other programs that would be
replaced by Cover All Pennsylvanians. Officials estimate that about $78 million
would be needed that year from MCare funds and about $120 million from new
tobacco taxes.

Winning approval for Cover All Pennsylvanians could make Pennsylvania among the
few states that have managed to extend more affordable health coverage to nearly
all state residents.

It is a key part of Prescription for Pennsylvania, a sweeping health plan the
governor unveiled last January at the start of his second term. The plan aims to
cut the costs of health care, as well as improve access and quality.

Significant progress has been made in some parts of the plan, Mr. Rendell said.

Lawmakers have approved provisions that address expansion of practice
capabilities for nurse practitioners, midwives, nurse specialists, physician
assistants and dental hygienists. They also have approved new reporting
requirements concerning infections acquired in hospitals and nursing homes,
provisions that were modified from the original plan.

And through executive order, the governor has created a commission aimed at
improving care and reducing costs of treating chronic disease.

But no progress, the governor acknowledged, has been made in Cover All
Pennsylvanians and reducing the cost of health insurance.

But he believes House Democrats are prepared to act on those measures.

"I think they're ready to go," he said. "Each month they realize, more and more,
health care is a premier issue in people's minds."

He made no similar predictions for Senate action.

Doctors around the state are beginning to realize that abatements from MCare may
not be available this year, said Dr. Peter Lund, an Erie urologist and president
of the Pennsylvania Medical Society.

On its Web site, the society has posted the question, "Would you continue to
practice in Pennsylvania if you no longer received relief (abatement) from
MCare?"

Only 52 replies were listed last week, but about two-thirds of respondents said
they would not.

Dr, Lund acknowledged that linking the abatement program to Cover All
Pennsylvanians has "turned up the heat" on officials to reach an agreement and
said doctors are concerned about the need to extend coverage to the uninsured.
But he regrets that physicians have been placed at the center of the debate.

Without the MCare abatement this year, a doctor in a rural area might have to
pay about $700 more to the program, and a neurosurgeon in Philadelphia about
$37,000. But overall malpractice costs have declined and could virtually offset
the increase, even without the abatements, said Peter Adams, deputy insurance
commissioner for MCare.

"That doesn't mean there's not a problem," he said, noting that Pennsylvania
competes with other states for physicians.

While the state medical society believes the MCare abatements should be extended
in the short term, not all members are attracted to the offer of a 10-year
extension, Dr. Lund said, noting that many favor phasing out the program in
favor of coverage in the private market. Doing so would require retiring MCare's
estimated $2 billion unfunded liability, or cost of future claims.

State officials have devised a plan for reducing that obligation based on the
recommendations of a state commission, Mr. Adams said, but so far it has
attracted little interest.

The improving malpractice climate contributed to the sizable surplus in MCare
funds. While they could be used to pay down the unfunded liability, state
officials have sought to tap that money for other purposes.

Earlier this year, Senate Republicans proposed using some of the funds to help
hospitals with infection control and information technology.

But House Democrats suggested drawing on the fund to extend coverage to the
uninsured, and Mr. Rendell said he supported the idea.

"It's about the opportunity to help people who are deeply challenged," he said.
"That's exactly how I feel."

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Joe Fahy can be reached at jfahy@post-gazette.com Harrisburg Bureau Chief
Tom Barnes can be reached at tbarnes@post-gazette.com or 1-717-787-4254.

GRAPHIC: Bob Donaldson/Post-Gazette
Gov. Ed Rendell talks during an interview Thursday about his health care
proposal.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              237 of 396 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                            January 20, 2008 Sunday
                               FIVE STAR EDITION

THE CHALLENGES AHEAD;
PITTSBURGH HAS LAID A STRONG FOUNDATION FOR THE FUTURE, BUT WE MUST RESIST
STATUS-QUO THINKING

BYLINE: JAMES E. ROHR

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. G-1

LENGTH: 1103 words


This year's celebration of our region's 250th anniversary provides us with a
great opportunity to set the course for our region's future.

To understand how Pittsburgh can achieve its full potential, it is important
first to conduct an honest assessment of our current position. What strengths do
we possess? Where are we weak? And what external challenges do we face as we
move forward?

My perspective is shaped by my experiences as the head of a major corporation,
as the son of small business owners and, perhaps most important, as a father and
grandfather. I am pleased to share these thoughts, and I look forward to reading
other viewpoints as we chart our way.

A FOUNDATION OF STRENGTH

We earned the right to be named America's most livable city. For most of us, the
quality of life here would be hard to beat anywhere else in the world.

Per capita income in Pittsburgh is rising. In fact, it is rising faster than the
national average, jumping from 60th to 48th highest over the last seven years
while competitor metro areas dropped in the rankings. The average annual income
in Pittsburgh today is only about $300 behind Los Angeles, and those dollars
stretch a lot further here than they do in many places around the country.

In addition to lower housing costs and more bang for their buck, residents in
our region enjoy short commutes and unparalleled arts, sports and recreation
opportunities when compared to similar-sized regions. This is also one of the
safest places in the country in which to live and raise a family.

Our economy is diverse. That fact alone explains much of our high standard of
living. Today, there are almost 1.25 million people working in the region --
about 70,000 more than at the height of steel-industry employment. The diverse
economy we now enjoy puts us in a much better position to weather the ups and
downs of the market.

Pittsburgh is now a nearly $100 billion economy. Just five years ago, that
number was in the mid-80s. More than 100 billion-dollar-plus global corporations
call Pittsburgh home or base a major business unit here, making the region a
growing center for headquarters, business services and back-office support. All
of these facts are clear indicators that the region's economy is healthy and
growing.

REAL OPPORTUNITIES

The region's universities are producing research that can change the world,
including advanced robotics and artificial organs. We have a real chance to
seize this moment and become a global leader in new technologies.

Innovation is at work here. We're seeing growth now among companies that span
the life sciences, advanced materials and information and communication
technologies. Companies, including Westinghouse and Bayer, are expanding in the
region to take advantage of the knowledge base and pioneering spirit.

The green revolution among America's cities was born in Pittsburgh when it
cleaned up after the era of Big Steel. Known worldwide for its environmental
transformation, Pittsburgh is home to globally leading companies in energy and
the environment, and we are behind only Portland, Ore., and Seattle in number of
green buildings.

WE CAN DO BETTER

These appealing characteristics place us in a far better position to attract a
diverse array of businesses and families than many other regions we compete
against. To accelerate our growth, though, we must remove or reduce certain
roadblocks to economic development.

Business taxes are too high. Pennsylvania has the highest corporate
net-income-tax rate in the nation other than Iowa, and many employers cite this
as a reason for not investing in the commonwealth.

Government is fragmented. Government inefficiency makes it more difficult than
it ought to be to do business in the region. There are more than 2,565
municipalities in Pennsylvania -- second most in the nation -- and more than 550
in our 10-county region alone. Our region has more than 30 separate transit
authorities or service providers and 850 private and governmental bodies with
some responsibility for water and sewer management. This is on top of hundreds
of local authorities and boards that can make acquiring permits a nightmare.

Surely, there must be a better way to provide government services that meet the
needs of our residents with less redundancy, less red tape and at less cost to
taxpayers.

THE THREAT OF THE STATUS QUO

Outside forces -- economic, political and environmental -- threaten our
competitiveness. To be a leader in the flatter, more open global economy, we
must upgrade those things that make us competitive.

Mass-transportation improvements are a priority. We need a financially
sustainable Port Authority to ensure lasting public transit that gets our labor
force where it is needed. Achieving this is going to require a great deal of
community resolve in the coming months, and Dan Onorato has led that charge by
making some tough but necessary decisions. We also have to continue to improve
air service at Pittsburgh International Airport, which means supporting airlines
that are investing and growing here, as well as working to secure a direct
flight to Europe.

Workforce development is critical. And we must do a better job of aligning the
skills our children have when they enter the workforce with the skills our
region's employers will need in the future. Hundreds of employers, educators and
support organizations recently embarked upon an exciting new approach to do just
that -- the Pittsburgh Regional Compact.

We also need to attract new residents and new ideas to spur new business. We
need to find ways to get Americans and others thinking again about southwestern
Pennsylvania as a place to make a better life or to put new ideas into practice.
Jobs are important in attracting immigrants, but just as important is an
atmosphere that embraces diversity and welcomes the unfamiliar.

THE NEXT 250

Focusing on these fundamental issues that significantly affect the
competitiveness of the business climate is the key to our region's future. Do we
want to be the fastest-growing region in the country? I'd argue no. Steady,
manageable growth is better than a boom waiting for the bust. One need only look
at the plummeting housing market in Las Vegas -- the fastest growing metro
region over the past five years -- to understand that.

Instead, we should strive to achieve a level of growth that encourages
businesses to expand and families to take root. Balancing that economic progress
with a superior quality of life and other amenities that continue to distinguish
our region will help ensure that our children inherit a Pittsburgh that is ripe
with opportunities for them to prosper.

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: James E. Rohr is chairman and chief executive officer of The PNC
Financial Services Group and chairman of the Allegheny Conference on Community
Development (www.alleghenyconference.org).

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              246 of 396 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                           February 12, 2008 Tuesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

ONE ESTATE DIVIDED BY 20 EQUALS CONFUSION

BYLINE: Jan Warner and Jan Collins

SECTION: LIFESTYLE; NEXT STEPS; Pg. D-2

LENGTH: 548 words


Q: My uncle died recently and had a will that named me as his executor. He had
no children and left everything to me and 19 other nieces and nephews in equal
shares. I was surprised to learn that our 87-year-old hard-working uncle, who
kept to himself, drove an old car and rarely went anywhere, left a house, a
small farm and bank accounts worth nearly $2 million. I went to a lawyer to help
me handle the estate, and he told me that there would be no estate taxes, but
there would be inheritance taxes. I don't understand the difference.

A: It's easy to get confused when talking about the various taxes that may
affect the assets of an estate. In fact, estate, inheritance and death taxes are
often used interchangeably, although they are quite different. The estate tax is
one levied by the U.S. government on estates that exceed certain asset levels
and is paid by the personal representative of the estate. Depending on where the
deceased person lived, the state government may also levy an estate tax.

On the other hand, state inheritance taxes, if enacted, are assessed against the
beneficiaries of the estate -- that is, you and your uncle's 19 favorite nephews
and nieces.

For example, some states levy an "inheritance tax," which, in effect, is a tax
paid by a beneficiary for the benefit of getting an inheritance. In some states,
after an exemption, a beneficiary will be required to pay a percentage of what
he or she receives. State inheritance taxes may be charged even though there is
no estate tax.

On the other hand, the vast majority of estates are not affected by estate
taxes. Those that are will be paying special attention to the scheduled
estate-tax law changes. Today, an estate of more than $2 million is subject to
federal estate taxes and will be required to file a Form 706 (Estate Tax
Return).

In January, estates of more than $3.5 million will be subject to federal estate
taxation. Unless something happens between now and then, the estate tax is to be
repealed for only the year 2010, and the estates of some of those who die in
2010 will face a complicated "carryover basis" of property calculation.

While the year 2011 is scheduled to bring with it estate taxes on those who die
leaving estates that exceed $1 million, most professionals don't believe that
for a minute. In short, no one knows what the political climate and U.S.
Treasury needs will bring.

Back to you and your uncle's estate: There are a few nontaxation issues that
should be discussed.

Twenty people getting ready to each receive an undivided interest in a house and
some farmland is a potential recipe for disaster. Unlike dollars and stocks,
land sometimes can't be divided into 20 equal pieces despite the best efforts of
appraisers and surveyors. Some parcels may include more trees; others may be
partially in flood plains and not usable; still others may have more road
frontage than others. For these and many other reasons, leaving land to
beneficiaries in undivided interests may well lead to partition, a legal
proceeding by which multi-owner property is sold at judicial sale.

For these reasons, without provisions in the will about what will happen if the
beneficiaries can't agree on a division of the land, long and contentious
litigation may replace the benefits of an inheritance.

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Jan Warner is a member of the National Academy of Elder Law Attorneys and
has been practicing law for more than 30 years. Jan Collins is editor of the
Business and Economic Review published by the University of South Carolina and a
special correspondent for The Economist. You can learn more information about
elder care law and write to the authors on http://www.nextsteps.net.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              254 of 396 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                             March 6, 2008 Thursday
                                 SOONER EDITION

REPORTS OFFER EVIDENCE OF ECONOMIC SLUMP

BYLINE: JEANNINE AVERSA, THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. C-1

LENGTH: 669 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


U.S. factories saw demand for their products drop sharply, while the country's
service sector contracted, fresh evidence of an economy hobbled by housing and
credit crises.

The Commerce Department reported yesterday that new orders for manufactured
goods fell 2.5 percent in January, a deterioration from December's 2 percent
increase. It was the biggest decline in five months.

"Businesses scaled back spending in an uncertain economic environment," said Tim
Quinlan, economic analyst at Wachovia.

The weakness in manufacturing was mostly concentrated in demand for costly
"durable" goods, merchandise expected to last at least three years, the Commerce
Department report showed. Demand for "nondurables," such as food and clothing,
edged up 0.3 percent in January, an improvement from a 0.4 percent decline in
December.

Meanwhile, activity in the nation's service sector shrank in February for the
second straight month.

The Institute for Supply Management's service sector index clocked in at 49.3. A
reading below 50 indicates a contraction. In January, the index stood at 44.6.

The Federal Reserve, in a new snapshot of nationwide business conditions,
reported that the economy had weakened since the start of the year, especially
pinching retailers and manufacturers.

The economy nearly stalled in the final quarter of last year, growing at a pace
of just 0.6 percent.

Manufacturers, service providers and others are feeling the sting of the
economic slowdown. Persisting problems in the housing and credit markets are
causing people and businesses to be more cautious. Galloping energy prices also
are adding to the strains.

OPEC yesterday accused the United States of economic "mismanagement" that it
said is pushing oil prices to new record highs and rebuffed calls to boost
output, laying the blame on the Bush administration.

Oil prices surged for the first time past $104 a barrel after the OPEC
announcement and the release of a U.S. government report showing a surprise drop
in crude oil stockpiles.

The 13-nation Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries said it would
maintain current production levels because crude supplies are plentiful and
demand is expected to weaken in the second quarter.

On Wall Street, investors took the latest economic news in stride. The Dow Jones
industrials closed up 41.19 points at 12,254.99. The Standard & Poor's 500 index
added 6.95 to 1,333.70, while the Nasdaq composite rose 12.53 to 2,272.81.

Troubled bond insurer Ambac Financial Group Inc. said it would issue more than
$1 billion in common stock to help shore up its battered balance sheet.

Bond prices fell sharply after Ambac's announcement. The yield on the benchmark
10-year Treasury note, which moves opposite price, hit 3.69 percent, over 3.63
percent late Tuesday.

Advancing issues outnumbered decliners by more than 5 to 4 on the New York Stock
Exchange; consolidated volume came to 4.12 billion shares, down from 4.61
billion on Tuesday. The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies rose 2.76 to
683.74.

In yet another economic report, worker productivity slowed sharply in the final
three months of last year as the economy lost momentum.

The Labor Department reported that productivity -- the amount an employee
produces for every hour on the job -- increased at an annual rate of just 1.9
percent in the October-to-December quarter. This key measure of workplace
efficiency was down from the third quarter's brisk, 6.3 percent growth rate and
was the slowest pace since last year's first quarter.

Employers' unit labor costs rose at a 2.6 percent clip in the fourth quarter.
That compared with an annualized decline of 2.7 percent in the third quarter. It
marked the largest increase in labor costs since the first quarter of last year.
Unit labor costs is a measure of how much companies pay workers for every unit
of output they produce.

Efficiency gains are important to the economy's long-term vitality.

The gains can allow companies to pay workers more without raising prices, which
would cut into paychecks.

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              258 of 396 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                            March 20, 2008 Thursday
                                 SOONER EDITION

MARKET PULLS BACK ON INVESTOR WORRIES

BYLINE: TIM PARADIS, THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. C-3

LENGTH: 643 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


Stocks pulled back sharply yesterday, erasing most of the previous session's big
gains as investors grew concerned about the possibility that banks remain
vulnerable to further problems from soured debt.

The Dow Jones industrial average fell nearly 300 points after rising 420 on
Tuesday.

Some retrenchment was to be expected after the previous day's huge advance.

But the decline also reflects investors' continuing uneasiness about the world's
financial system and the U.S. economy.

Talk swirled about whether further write-downs are in the offing after Merrill
Lynch & Co. filed a lawsuit against a company involved in a debt transaction
with the investment bank.

Merrill claimed in the litigation that Security Capital Assuance Inc. owed it up
to $3.1 billion after backing out of financial transactions.

News that the government plans to free up billions of dollars at Fannie Mae and
Freddie Mac, a move that could help struggling homeowners, for a time helped
quell some of the market's fears.

But it couldn't stave off selling late in the session by investors who have seen
big advances evaporate many times during the course of the credit markets crisis
and decided to preserve some of their gains.

Investors sent stocks charging higher Tuesday on stronger-than-expected
investment bank results and several moves from the Federal Reserve in recent
days, including a 0.75 percentage point rate cut aimed at jump-starting the
credit markets.

The Dow had its second 400-plus point gain in six sessions.

The Dow fell 293.00 to 12,099.66.

The Standard & Poor's 500 index fell 32.32 to 1,298.42, and the Nasdaq composite
index fell 58.30 to 2,209.96.

Bond prices jumped as investors again looked for safety. The yield on the
benchmark 10-year Treasury note, which moves opposite its price, fell to 3.34
percent from 3.50 percent late Tuesday.

The dollar was mixed against other major currencies, while gold prices fell
sharply.

Light, sweet crude fell $4.94 to settle at $104.48 per barrel on the New York
Mercantile Exchange after government figures suggested the high price of oil and
gasoline are damping demand for petroleum products.

The concerns over the soundness of the financial system and the economy
overshadowed upbeat results from Morgan Stanley, whose earnings indicated that
the bank is relatively healthy like Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and Goldman
Sachs & Co.

Investors have been nervous in recent days about even big banks after JPMorgan
Chase & Co. struck a deal Sunday to acquire Bear Stearns, which was on the verge
of succumbing to credit troubles.

Morgan Stanley rose 59 cents yesterday to $43.45. Lehman fell $4.26, or 9.2
percent, to $42.23, while Goldman declined $9.10, or 5.2 percent, to $166.49.

Investors' relief over Morgan Stanley follows better than expected earnings news
from Lehman and Goldman on Tuesday that gave the Dow its biggest point gain in
more than five years.

The Dow got an extra boost after the Fed's rate cut.

Fannie jumped $2.49, or 8.8 percent, to $30.71, while Freddie rose $3.88, or 15
percent, to $29.90.

The Fed has slashed key rates by more than half since last summer, when the
mortgage crisis claimed its grip on the global credit markets.

But the housing and lending industries are still hurting.

Late Tuesday, Visa Inc. launched the largest initial public offering in U.S.
history, selling 406 million shares at $44 apiece to raise $17.9 billion.

The world's largest credit card processor is not a lender, and many investors
are betting that it will easily survive the faltering U.S. economy and credit
climate.

The stock traded up $12.50, or 28 percent, at $56.50.

Declining issues outpaced advancers by more than 2 to 1 on the New York Stock
Exchange, where consolidated volume came to 5.3 billion shares, compared with
5.38 billion shares traded Tuesday.

The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies fell 17.80 to 664.13.

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              259 of 396 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                             March 30, 2008 Sunday
                                TWO STAR EDITION

12 MURDERED IN BRAZIL

SECTION: WORLD; WORLD BRIEFS; Pg. A-3

LENGTH: 526 words


SAO PAULO, Brazil -- A 16-year-old boy has acknowledged murdering 12 people in
southern Brazil, according to a police investigator who described his chillingly
calm confession.

The teenager, whose identity was not revealed because he is a minor, allegedly
told police he killed in fits of rage or out of revenge -- or, in one case,
because the victim wanted to date his sister, police inspector Enizaldo Jose
Plentz said Friday.

Police have enough evidence to prove that the unemployed high school dropout
killed at least six people with an initial shot to the head before riddling
their bodies with bullets, Mr. Plentz said. Authorities were still working to
determine if he killed the other six.

"During interrogations, he spoke with the frightening cold-bloodedness of
someone who enjoys killing people," Mr. Plentz said.

Leader warns at Arab summit

DAMASCUS, Syria -- Libyan leader Moammar Gadhafi poured contempt on fellow Arab
leaders at a summit yesterday, and warned that they might be overthrown like
former Iraqi president Saddam Hussein.

Mr. Gadhafi's rambling, off-the-cuff speech to the opening of the Arab summit
both bewildered and brought reluctant smiles to the faces of the other leaders.

"Your turn is next," Mr. Gadhafi told the leaders, some of whom looked stunned
while others broke into laughter at his frankness. "Destruction will be yours."

Rice talks peace in Mideast

JERUSALEM -- Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice said yesterday she would push
for an easing of Israeli restrictions on Palestinians in the West Bank as she
began her latest Mideast mission aimed at reviving faltering peace talks.

Ms. Rice said she was looking for "real concrete progress" on several issues,
including improving the movement and access of people and goods from the West
Bank.

Israeli checkpoints and strict travel rules have curtailed such commerce and
largely crippled the Palestinian its economy.

World turns lights off

DUBLIN, Ireland -- From Rome's Colosseum to the Sydney Opera House, floodlit
icons of civilization went dark yesterday for Earth Hour, a worldwide campaign
to highlight the threat of climate change.

The environmental group WWF urged governments, businesses and households to turn
back to candle power for at least 60 minutes starting at 8 p.m. wherever they
were.

Earth Hour officials hoped 100 million people would turn off their nonessential
lights and electronic goods for the hour.

3 seal hunters killed

TORONTO -- A disabled fishing trawler getting a tow from a Canadian coast guard
vessel slammed into a piece of ice and capsized yesterday in the icy waters of
the Gulf of St. Lawrence, killing three seal hunters and leaving one missing.

The vessel was headed toward a large seal herd in the Cabot Strait between Nova
Scotia and Newfoundland as part of the seal hunting season that opened Friday,
the largest marine mammal hunt in the world.

The tragedy came as the seal hunting industry finds itself under pressure from
animal rights activists. Sealers and the fisheries department defend the hunt as
sustainable, humane and well-managed.

The fishing boat from Quebec, carrying a crew of six, had reported steering
problems late Friday.

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              270 of 396 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                            April 17, 2008 Thursday
                                 SOONER EDITION

LIGHTNING DISCOVERED IN VENUS' ATMOSPHERE

BYLINE: Dan Malerbo, Buhl Planetarium and Observatory

SECTION: HEALTH SCIENCE MEDICINE AND TECHNOLOGY; LET'S TALK ABOUT:; Pg. F-7

LENGTH: 316 words


Venus, the second planet from the sun, is often referred to as our sister planet
because of similarities in size, mass, density and volume. But that is where the
similarities end.

Venus is more like our evil twin sister. It's an extremely hostile world, with
high temperatures and crushing air pressure. The European Space Agency's Venus
Express mission adds something new into this hellish mix, the first confirmation
that the Venusian atmosphere generates lightning.

The discovery puts Venus in elite planetary company. Scientists currently know
of only three other planetary bodies in the universe that generate lightning --
Earth, Jupiter and Saturn. Lightning on Venus -- as well as on any other planet
-- is an important discovery because the electrical discharges drive the
chemistry of an atmosphere by breaking molecules into fragments that can then
join with other fragments in unexpected ways.

The lightning on Venus is unique from that found on Earth, Jupiter and Saturn in
that it is the only lightning known that is not associated with water clouds.
Instead, on Venus, the lightning is associated with clouds of sulfuric acid.

Venus' blanket of clouds has kept much of Venus a mystery until studies with
ground-based radar and space probes explored the planet. They have discovered
that Venus has a heavy, toxic atmosphere 100 times greater than the Earth's. Its
made up mostly of carbon dioxide with clouds of corrosive sulfuric acid and no
water.

The surface of Venus is also the hottest in the solar system at a scorching 900
degrees fahrenheit. This high temperature is caused by what scientist call the
"greenhouse effect." The planet's thick carbon dioxide atmosphere allows the
sun's heat in, but doesn't allow it to escape.

Radar images from the Magellan spacecraft revealed that Venus might have active
volcanoes, which periodically vent molten rock and gas into Venus' atmosphere.

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: MY GENERATION: For Kids, About Kids, By Kids

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              283 of 396 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                             June 4, 2008 Wednesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

U.N. WARNS OF WORLD FACING FOOD SHORTAGES

BYLINE: TRACY WILKINSON, LOS ANGELES TIMES

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. A-3

LENGTH: 653 words

DATELINE: ROME


World powers must act quickly and boldly to control soaring food prices that
threaten nearly 1 billion people with hunger and could trigger global social
unrest, the United Nations said yesterday.

At a three-day emergency food summit, U.N. officials urged nations to eliminate
trade barriers, expand research into biotechnology and boost production with an
annual investment of $20 billion to $30 billion.

"Nothing is more degrading than hunger, especially when man-made," U.N.
Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon told more than 40 world leaders gathered in the
Italian capital. Hungry people, he warned, are angry people. Hunger breeds
"social disintegration, ill health and economic decline," he said.

Mr. Ban and other senior U.N. officials painted a picture of potential political
turmoil fueled by starvation and shortages, and of rich countries that have
failed to keep promises to confront the global food crisis.

Jacques Diouf, secretary-general of the U.N.'s Food and Agriculture
Organization, scolded the world's wealthy nations for wasteful consumption and
excessive spending on weapons while ignoring hungry people.

"How can we explain to people of good sense and good faith that it was not
possible to find $30 billion a year" to feed the world's hungry, respecting "the
most fundamental of human rights: the right to food and the right to life," he
said.

Mr. Ban said food production would have to grow by 50 percent by 2030 to stave
off starvation. The global price tag could be at least $20 billion a year.
Countries such as India and China that impose export bans because they are
worried about feeding their own people only exacerbate the problem by forcing
prices higher, he said.

As additional measures to resolve the crisis, Mr. Ban and other officials
advocated continued research to improve crop yields and animal health, more
seeds and fertilizers for small-stake farmers and more immediate nutritional
food relief.

Historically high fuel costs, the growing demand for biofuels, a string of poor
harvests exacerbated by climate change, speculation, changing diets in Asia --
these factors have combined to send food prices through the roof.

The greater expense makes staples unavailable or unaffordable to hundreds of
millions of people, including an emerging category of what officials call the
"new hungry." Experts say prices on many commodities, such as rice and wheat,
have doubled in the past three years.

The summit is also highlighting serious disagreements over the causes of the
food crisis. The use of biofuels, for example -- where grains, sugar and palm
oil are diverted to produce fuel for motor vehicles -- quickly emerged as one of
the more divisive topics.

The United States is in the process of allocating about 25 percent of its corn
crops to the production of ethanol, which critics blame for part of the overall
scarcity. The European Union is also subsidizing biofuel production.

"Use crops as food for people, not fuel for engines," Egyptian President Hosni
Mubarak told the summit.

Brazilian President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva took the opposite stand. His
nation has a booming industry of ethanol production based on sugar cane, and he
argues that biofuels are a more environmentally friendly energy source.

"It offends me to see fingers pointed against clean energy from biofuels,
fingers soiled with oil and coal," he said. "Biofuels are not the villain
menacing food security in poor countries."

U.S. Agriculture Secretary Edward T. Schafer argued that shifting to biofuels
has reduced American dependency on oil, while not endangering corn supplies
because of a recent string of bumper crops. He said the shift accounts for no
more than 3 percent of the spike in food prices. U.N. agencies put the cost at
as much as 10 times that.

"We recognize that biofuels are a factor in the inflation of prices," Mr.
Schafer said in a briefing with reporters, "but the real cause is energy and
demand."

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              285 of 396 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                              June 15, 2008 Sunday
                                 REGION EDITION

BIRD KILLERS THE VANISHING PHILIPPINE EAGLE CALLS ON US TO STOP DESTROYING THE
EARTH, REPORTS THE NATIONAL AVIARY'S TODD KATZNER

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. G-1

LENGTH: 1275 words


Stacy Innerst/Post-Gazette

Flying north over Luzon on a rare clear day three years ago I was reminded of
Aldo Leopold's remarkable commentary on being a biologist. Leopold, the father
of modern wildlife management, once said that a biologist is cursed with the
ability to see a landscape not only for what it is but also for what it once
was. Luzon, the largest island in the Philippines, is a patchwork that, from
30,000 feet, tells a sad story of destruction. Urban centers reach out into rice
fields, the hand of humanity dominating the landscape. Nearly all of Luzon's
native lowland forest is gone, and with it the remarkably diverse community of
organisms it once supported.

Hundreds, perhaps thousands, of species have been lost, even before most were
formally "discovered" by scientists. The riches these species could have
provided -- for medicine, for ecosystem "services" such as cleaning the water or
air, for the simple value of their existence -- are gone and can never be
recovered.

I've returned to the Philippines several times since that first trip in 2005
and, as my experience has grown, my perspective of these remarkable islands has
been refined. I now see the Philippines as a microcosm of the larger world, a
crystal ball of sorts, that shows us one possible future for our planet.

A complex set of factors -- including colonial history, cultural patterns,
religion, Cold War politics, corruption and globalization -- have combined to
create today's Philippines, with its growing economic strength and festering
weaknesses. Among the weaknesses is the environmental path on which this nation
is traveling.

Slightly larger than Arizona, the Philippines is about the 70th largest country
in the world. But it is home to 91 million people, ranking it 12th in population
and near the top in population density. The population is growing rapidly, too,
which puts enormous pressure on other species in this global hot spot of
biodiversity.

The environmental statistics are ghastly. In addition to the nearly complete
destruction of lowland habitats, only 5 percent of the original Philippine
forest remains. The vast majority of uncatalogued Philippine species are
disappearing faster than scientists can discover them.

Every year Larry Heany of Chicago's Field Museum of Natural History and his
Filipino colleagues encounter mystifying new species of small mammals. Rafe
Brown of the University of Kansas and Arvin Diesmos of the Philippine Natural
History Museum regularly uncover amazing new amphibian species. Yet with so many
habitats gone or going, it is almost certain that countless other species are
lost before they can be found.

*

Many Americans might ask, "So what? How does it hurt me if a frog goes extinct
on a mountainside in a remote island of some far-off tropical country?"

The reality is that the extinction of any individual species poses little risk
to humanity.

Few species provide distinct and identifiable help to the human race such as the
Rosy Periwinkle -- the plant from Madagascar that is the origin of the leukemia
drug Vincristine. But some do.

The odds are tiny of discovering another Pacific Yew -- the North American plant
that gave rise to the breast cancer drug Taxol. But some will be.

Still fewer species will provide a critical gene that could protect crops from
novel diseases capable of initiating a global food crisis. Although some might.

The truth is that we could destroy much of the world's biodiversity and human
populations would, in empirical terms, suffer only minimally. Only a few
thousand or million of us would die -- a drop in the big bucket of humanity.

Even more important to many of us, few who would die would be North Americans.
The statistical and demographic odds are pretty straightforward.

But the ethics of killing off innumerable species and destroying the habitats
that sustain them are more complex and disturbing.

Whether you view the Earth as a gift from God, a mystical druidic place or
simply as ours to use regardless of its origin, there is no rational reason to
damage it to the point that we hand down a comparatively lifeless orb to our
children. And there is no rational reason to believe that alone among Earth's
creatures, we have the right to destroy all the others.

The loss of biodiversity also is directly relevant to us as a measure of habitat
destruction. On a local scale in the Philippines, and in many other places on
Earth, landslides caused by rain falling on steep, denuded hillsides wipe out
entire villages, killing thousands of people at a time. On a global scale,
habitat loss is a major cause of climate change. As forests are stripped from
the landscape, so too is the Earth's ability to absorb carbon dioxide from the
air, leaving it to drift in the atmosphere and trap heat from the Sun.

*

At the National Aviary our mission is to inspire a respect for nature through an
appreciation of birds. Crucial to this mission is an understanding of the
associations between wildlife and the natural systems that sustain them. To this
end we are building a conservation and field research department to examine and
mitigate the impact of human populations on the environment.

We work in the Philippines because it is one of the most biodiverse places in
the world and because lessons from the Philippines can help answer questions
about the future of our own nation and the rest of the planet.

One of the world's most endangered birds is the Philippine Eagle. This
magnificent animal is among the largest of eagles and historically has lived
almost exclusively in lowland Philippine forest. It faces a variety of threats
from humans, all of which are made worse because of the Philippines' incredible
population density.

This past February, and again in April, I returned to Manila and to the
Philippine island of Leyte to attend workshops aimed at developing strategies
aimed at saving the few remaining Philippine Eagles. The bird is what we in
conservation call an "umbrella" species, one whose preservation helps protect
multiple other species. It also is a "flagship" species, charismatic and
emotive, a rallying call and symbol of the need to conserve its habitat and
those of other species.

The springtime workshops generated a broad consensus about how to protect
Philippine Eagles, including the need to breed them in captivity. But such
measures are Band-aids. They might help us to preserve this remarkable bird
while doing little to stanch the hemorrhaging of species after species. Largely
undiscussed were the fundamental causes of biodiversity loss -- the number of
humans that live on the land and the way they consume its resources. Addressing
root causes is difficult anywhere, but especially in a country as poor and
overwhelmed by humanity as is the Philippines.

*

Twenty years ago U.S. environmentalists predicted a future of gloom and doom,
which most people think has not yet come to pass. But the future they described
is arriving in the Philippines.

In North America, our population density is much lower and the environmental
damage we have caused -- at least to our homeland -- is not yet so advanced. But
we are getting there.

The American writer Edward Abbey once said, "Growth for growth's sake is the
ideology of the cancer cell." His words still ring true.

So the question is, do we want a future of unmitigated growth in population and
consumption? A landscape stripped of life and color that can no longer support
us or our children?

The choice is ours, reflected at the individual level in the daily decisions we
make about the resources we consume and at the governmental level by the
wide-reaching decisions of our elected officials.

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Todd Katzner is the director of conservation and field research for the
National Aviary (todd.katzner@aviary.org).

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              288 of 396 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                             June 19, 2008 Thursday
                                 SOUTH EDITION

SECTION: METRO; ROUTE 19 BRIEFS; Pg. S-6

LENGTH: 807 words


Towns

Bethel Park

The Learning Disabilities Association of America will host two events this month
about environmental toxins and learning disabilities and behavior/attention
disorders and to provide advice on reducing children's exposures to toxic
chemicals.

Both events will take place at the Barnes & Noble bookstore at South Hills
Village.

Here's the schedule for tonight: Thursday:

* 6:30 to 8:15 p.m. -- Toys, jewelry and other items will be tested for lead by
Innov-X Systems in conjunction with the assoction;

* 6:30 to 7 p.m. -- Story time with an environmental focus.

Here's the schedule for 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. June 21:

* 11 a.m. -- Story time with an environmental focus;

* 11:30 a.m. and 1:30 p.m. -- How to help reduce pesticide exposures, improve
the local environment and economy. Pennsylvania Association for Sustainable
Agriculture and the Learning Disabilities Association of America will give
presentations on the health, economic and environmental benefits of eating local
and organic foods. Tips for shopping at local farmers markets and growing
organic produce will be given.

Those attending will learn about chemical exposures that can impair health.

Headquartered in Pittsburgh, the Learning Disabilities Association of America is
the largest nonprofit volunteer organization advocating for individuals with
learning disabilities.

For more, call 412-341-1515, press 0.

Green Tree

State Rep. Matt Smith, D-Mt. Lebanon, will present a state check for $20,000 for
the construction of a new clock tower in Green Tree at 9 a.m. on Saturday in a
ceremony at the intersection of Mansfield Avenue and Greentree Road.

Also at the ceremony will be Mayor Vince Abbato, Council President Mark
Sampogna, council members Janine Palmer, Paul Kirsch, Art Tintori, Dan Behanna,
Ed Schenck and Ron Panza and manager Dave Montz.

Peters

Council, during a meeting last week, approved a conditional use permit for
Indevco Properties to develop about 2.4 acres on McDowell Lane into a housing
development for seven town homes and nine carriage houses.

The property would be accessed through a private drive and would encroach on a
parking lot owned by the state Fish and Boat Commission, which owns nearby
Canonsburg Lake.

Although it would not be possible to expand the width of the private road due to
Fish and Boat Commission requirements, council at first asked that the road
conform to township specifications in case residents later asked the township to
take possession of the road.

Such requests are common from property owners in developments with private
drives, who underestimate the cost of maintaining a road.

Developer Marcus Diniaco said he worked out a property swap with the Commission
and said he would comply with 25 conditions set forth by council, which include
construction of a 400-foot sewage line into the development.

A requirement for sidewalks was dropped by council in favor of a walking trail
surrounding the development, where units will sell for between $350,000 and
$365,000.

Council members Frank Arcuri, James Berquist, Robert Atkison, David Ball and
Robert Lewis approved the measure, but councilwoman Monica Merrell dissented
after asking Mr. Diniaco why the number of units couldn't be reduced to
accommodate a larger road. Councilman Michael McCaig was absent.

* Council also said it would consider organizing a seminar to educate residents
about the details of natural gas exploration. Natural gas companies have
requested meetings with a number of residents to purchase drilling rights to
properties. Many property owners have said they are unfamiliar with the process
used to drill for natural gas.

* Approved a bid of $44,090 from J5 Construction to replace a storm sewer
culvert on Thompsonville Road, between Elm Grove Park and Elm Grove Drive. The
bid was about $30,000 less than others received and the amount budgeted by
council. It was so low, township Engineer Mark said he contacted company owner
Jay Subrick, who confirmed the bid. The road will be closed for 10 days this
summer for the project, and Mr. Subrick will be fined if the project doesn't
meet an Aug. 25 deadline.

* Approved a $8,975 bid from Lojek's Contracting Services for rehabilitation of
a detention pond at the Bent Timber housing development.

* Voted to accept a $45,271 bid from Traffic Control & Engineering for adding
three preemption devices to traffic signals at the intersections of Route 19 and
McMurray Road, Old Oak Road and Gallery Road. The signals would automatically
change to accommodate emergency vehicles, which are equipped with compatible
signaling devices.

* Agreed to seek proposals for the construction of a new four-bay garage and
climate-controlled storage area for recreation equipment at the township's
public works complex at Peterswood Park. Council is hoping to incorporate both
facilities into a single, two-story building.

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              291 of 396 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                              June 27, 2008 Friday
                                 SOONER EDITION

AT CMU, OBAMA TARGETS GAS, SCHOOLING;
ROUND-TABLE ADDRESSES KEYS TO PROSPERITY

BYLINE: JAMES O'TOOLE, PITTSBURGH POST-GAZETTE

SECTION: NATIONAL; THE ROAD TO THE WHITE HOUSE; Pg. A-1

LENGTH: 743 words


Sen. Barack Obama yesterday joined an A-list panel of business, labor and
education leaders at Carnegie Mellon University in a wide-ranging conversation
on the roles of energy innovation, education and infrastructure improvements as
foundations of prosperity.

"If we remain dependent on oil from dictators, we'll endanger our security,
imperil our planet, pay more at the pump, and sit on the sidelines while the
jobs of the future are created abroad," the Democratic presidential candidate
said as he opened the event before an invited audience in a CMU gymnasium.

"If we can't give every child in America the chance to get a world-class
education, we'll cripple their ability to make a living in a knowledge-based
economy and watch China and India move ahead in the race for the 21st century."

Mr. Obama was flanked on the stage by a baker's dozen of luminaries, including
G. Richard Wagoner Jr., the chairman of General Motors; a Nobel laureate, and
the president of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. The assembled talent
proved almost too much of a good thing as the need to include comments from so
many distinguished voices on an array of complex subjects worked against the
ability for any of the individuals to speak at much length or depth on any of
them.

There was clear consensus on the panel over the need for the United States to
diversify its energy supplies, invest more in basic research and improve
education.

Mr. Wagoner nodded in approval as the candidate described the universal
preoccupation with gasoline prices on the campaign trail.

"We now need to move to a phase where we diversify the sources of energy we use
in our sector and in others," Mr. Wagoner said. He noted the pace of innovation
in biofuels, hybrid technology and battery power while encouraging federal
support for basic research in all of those areas.

Mr. Obama suggested limiting greenhouse gases with a cap-and trade system in
which industries would pay for and trade rights to exceed specified emission
levels.

Panelist John P. Surma, the chairman of U.S. Steel, noted, however, that a
cap-and-trade system -- variants of which have been proposed by both Mr. Obama
and his Republican opponent, Sen. John McCain -- should be crafted carefully to
avoid increasing costs on U.S. industries in a way that creates unintended
incentives to shift employment to countries with lax environmental standards.

Vinod Khosla, a venture capitalist who was a founding executive of Sun
Microsystems, offered the most optimistic assessment of the nation's energy
future. While joining MIT President Susan Hockfield's call for increased support
for basic research, Mr. Khosla contended that innovations now within sight held
the promise of a post-petroleum world of cheaper alternative energy.

Eli Broad, a philanthropist active on education issues, was one of several
panelists calling for drastic improvements in the nation's schools. He argued
that American students' class days and years should be lengthened and
achievement standards toughened.

Other members of the panel included Lael Brainard, vice president of the
Brookings Institution; Geoffrey Canada, president and CEO of Harlem Children's
Zone; Steve Case, chairman and CEO of Revolution Health and the former chairman
and CEO of America Online; Susan Castillo, superintendent of public instruction,
Oregon Department of Education; Federico Pena, former U.S. transportation
secretary and former U.S. energy secretary; Andy Stern, president of the Service
Employees International Union; Harold Varmus, president of the Memorial
Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center who won the Nobel Prize for his research on cancer
genes; and retired Marine Gen. Jim Jones, the president and CEO of the Institute
for 21st Century Energy, an affiliate of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce.

Mr. Jones, a former Marine commandant and supreme commander of NATO, who
appeared with Mr. McCain at one of the Republican's events earlier this month,
has been mentioned in speculation potential vice-presidential choices for both
major candidates.

The panelists were united in calling for more federal support for education at
every level.

"When it comes to how we need to retool America to continue its greatness, we've
got a lot of stuff that we can agree on ... ," Mr. Obama said as the nearly
two-hour event drew to a close. "There is surprising consensus in this country
about what needs to be done -- somehow our politics prevent us from acting on
that consensus."

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Post-Gazette politics editor James O'Toole can be reached at
jotoole@post-gazette.com or 412-263-1562.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: VWH Campbell/Post-Gazette; Presumptive Democratic presidential
nominee Sen. Barack Obama, left, hosted a round-table conversation yesterday on
competitiveness and the world economy at Carnegie Mellon University. He made his
point to a panel that included G. Richard Wagoner Jr., chairman of General
Motors, center, and Vinod Khosla, a founding executive of Sun Microsystems.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              302 of 396 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                            July 23, 2008 Wednesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

OILMAN MAKES CASE FOR WIND POWER

BYLINE: CHRISTOPHER STERN, BLOOMBERG NEWS

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. A-6

LENGTH: 371 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Billionaire hedge-fund manager and oilman T. Boone Pickens yesterday told a
Senate panel that dependence on imported oil threatens national security, and he
urged Congress to pass tax breaks to support his plan to build wind farms.

Mr. Pickens is spending millions on television and radio advertisements to build
support in the American public for his "Pickens Plan." Yesterday, he brought his
proposal to the Senate Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs.

Mr. Pickens, 80, said America's role as a global superpower is threatened by its
need to spend almost $700 billion a year on foreign oil, which he said is four
times the annual cost of the Iraq war and the largest transfer of wealth in U.S.
history.

"We are paying for the war against ourselves, and we have got to stop it, some
way, somehow," Mr. Pickens said in his first appearance before Congress since he
revealed his plan.

He told the panel that he is building the largest wind farm in the world in
Sweetwater, Texas. The farm will produce 4,000 megawatts of energy, equivalent
to 2 1/2 nuclear power plants, Mr. Pickens said.

Committee Chairman Joseph Lieberman, a Connecticut independent, praised Mr.
Pickens' plan as "bold" and a "higher vision," while stopping short of
specifically endorsing it.

At the heart of Mr. Pickens' plan is using wind for electricity, which would
free natural gas that could be used for cars. He said his plan would replace 38
percent of the foreign oil that the nation now imports.

Mr. Pickens, founder and chairman of Dallas-based BP Capital LLC, is the largest
shareholder of Clean Energy Fuels, a natural-gas supplier for bus and truck
fleets.

He said other nations, such as Germany, are ahead of the United States in using
wind power for electricity.

The Energy Department said in May that wind could account for 20 percent of the
nation's power supplies by 2030, delaying new coal-fueled power plants and
lowering emissions of greenhouse gases. Wind may provide more than 1 percent of
U.S. power this year.

While Mr. Pickens' plan would address some environmental concerns, the Texas
financier said his first concern is not global warming, but instead the threat
to national security from U.S. dependence on foreign oil.

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: T. Boone Pickens

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              306 of 396 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                            July 30, 2008 Wednesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

DON'T PASS ON STRESS TO EMPLOYEES

BYLINE: Joyce M. Rosenberg

SECTION: BUSINESS; SMALL TALK; Pg. A-10

LENGTH: 772 words


Sales are down, customers are paying late and vendors are all raising their
prices.

That's a combination likely to raise stress levels for most small-business
owners -- who in turn can pass on their anxiety and create a stressful
atmosphere for employees.

Given the many problems in the economy that are affecting many small companies,
it's probably impossible to avoid feeling uneasy about business. But an owner
can take steps to be sure he or she isn't stressing out everyone else.

Some go along with being a good manager and leader, such as being sure there's
open communication between the boss and the staff.

And some of it comes down to personal stress management -- not letting the
tensions of running a business in any kind of climate make life harder for
everyone.

Being aware that you're stressed and that you could be affecting employees
negatively is perhaps the most important thing you can do.

"If we allow ourselves to live the stress that we're constantly under, it's
going to get transmitted -- it's counterproductive and it's unpleasant," said
Betsy Rich, president of Strategic Video & Blue Horse Digital, video production
companies based in Croton-on-Hudson, N.Y.

She recalled what it was like working for bosses who created stress: "My
business partner and I worked in the most God-awful place for many, many years
and swore when we left there that we would never have that kind of environment
in any place that we worked."

You don't have to be screaming for everyone to know you're anxious -- your face,
your body language or tone of voice can give you away.

The fact is, most people don't know how they're coming across to others, so
staffers may pick up on your bad mood even if you think you're hiding it.

So how do you know when you're stressing everyone out?

If you're not in touch with how you react to stress, you might want to ask
family members, friends, and yes, employees, about how you're doing. It helps if
from your first day as an employer you've had open lines of communication with
your staff.

If employees have felt they could come to you with problems and that you'd be
receptive to what they had to say, good or bad, chances are they'll be able to
approach you when your stress is becoming contagious.

You should probably consider doing things that'll reduce stress.

Take some time off if possible, get some exercise, make sure you get enough
sleep, do things that make you feel good.

And not everything is worth stressing over.

Melissa Anthony, who owns AnthonyBarnum, an Austin, Texas-based public relations
firm, noted that a certain amount of stress is a part of running a business.
"It's like household bills, but on a much bigger scale," she said, adding that
the key is "knowing when something's really on fire or you're just imagining a
situation."

Ms. Anthony believes that not passing on stress is part of being a good manager.

"The great leaders that I know, they made a choice ... they're going to address
each problem" as it occurs, she said. That way, the chance of a major crisis --
and major stress -- is lessened.

And, Ms. Rich noted, there are going to be those days that are just disasters,
start to finish.

"It's something that we live with every day, and I also have [multiple
sclerosis]; and today I'm dealing with feeling exceedingly crappy, and I dropped
my phone in the toilet the day before yesterday -- it was horrific," she said.

Some bosses believe that a stressful atmosphere will keep workers motivated.

That may indeed work for some employees, but many if not most others don't do so
well when there's high anxiety in the workplace.

Productivity can suffer, they may call in sick with stress-related illnesses or
just take mental health days to get away from the tension.

The owner's greatest fear, that the work won't get done, actually ends up
happening.

A good way to help manage everyone's stress levels is through ongoing open
communication, which should include giving staffers updates on how the company
is doing.

Relaying this information will be more than a pressure valve -- it will also
help employees understand how they might help business improve.

Ms. Rich said her company had frequent meetings that the bosses strive to keep
light, not angst-ridden, even as they deal with problems.

Deborah Osgood, founder of BUZGate.org, a small business portal, said she had
"daily check-ins" with her staff.

"I sit down with each of my reports every day and monitor the temperature," she
said.

And, on Friday afternoons, the staff reviews what went well during the week.

That way, they don't spend the weekend stewing, and they don't come back in a
bundle of nerves come Monday morning.

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Joyce M. Rosenberg writes for The Associated Press.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              307 of 396 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                             July 31, 2008 Thursday
                                 SOONER EDITION

STUCK IN THE MUD;
REPUBLICANS AND DEMOCRATSSHOULD RETHINK THEIR ROTE POSITIONS

BYLINE: Thomas L. Friedman

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. B-7

LENGTH: 819 words


Sometimes in politics, particularly in campaigns, parties get wedded to slogans
-- so wedded that no one stops to think about what they're saying, whether the
reality has changed and what the implications would be if their bumper stickers
really guided policy when they took office. Today, we have two examples of that:
"Democrats for Afghanistan" and "Republicans for offshore drilling."

Republicans have become so obsessed with the notion that we can drill our way
out of our current energy crisis that re-opening our coastal waters to offshore
drilling has become their answer for every energy question.

Anyone who looks at the growth of middle classes around the world and their
rising demands for natural resources, plus the dangers of climate change driven
by our addiction to fossil fuels, can see that clean renewable energy -- wind,
solar, nuclear and stuff we haven't yet invented -- is going to be the next
great global industry. It has to be if we are going to grow in a stable way.

Therefore, the country that most owns the clean power industry is going to most
own the next great technology breakthrough -- the ET revolution, the energy
technology revolution -- and create millions of jobs and thousands of new
businesses, just like the IT revolution did.

Republicans, by mindlessly repeating their offshore drilling mantra, focusing on
a 19th-century fuel, remind me of someone back in 1980 arguing that we should
put our money into IBM Selectric typewriters and forget about the PC. It is a
strategy for making America a second-rate power and economy.

But Democrats have their analog. For many Democrats, Afghanistan was always the
"good war," as opposed to Iraq. I think Barack Obama needs to ask himself
honestly: "Am I for sending more troops to Afghanistan because I really think we
can win there, because I really think that that will bring an end to terrorism,
or am I just doing it because to get elected in America, post-9/11, I have to be
for winning some war?"

The truth is that Iraq, Afghanistan, Saudi Arabia, Lebanon and Pakistan are just
different fronts in the same war. The core problem is that the Arab-Muslim world
in too many places has been failing at modernity, and were it not for
$120-a-barrel oil, that failure would be even more obvious. For far too long,
this region has been dominated by authoritarian politics, massive youth
unemployment, outdated education systems, a religious establishment resisting
reform and now a death cult that glorifies suicide killings, often of other
Muslims.

The humiliation that this cocktail produces is the real source of terrorism.
Saddam exploited it. Al-Qaida exploits it. Pakistan's spies exploit it.
Hezbollah exploits it. The Taliban exploit it.

The only way to address it is by changing the politics. Producing islands of
decent and consensual government in Baghdad or Kabul or Islamabad would be a
much more meaningful and lasting contribution to the war on terrorism than even
killing bin Laden in his cave. But it needs local partners. The reason the surge
helped in Iraq is because Iraqis took the lead in confronting their own
extremists -- the Shiites in their areas, the Sunnis in theirs. That is very
good news -- although it is still not clear they can come together in a single
functioning government.

The main reason we are losing in Afghanistan is not because there are too few
American soldiers, but because there are not enough Afghans ready to fight and
die for the kind of government we want.

Take 20 minutes and read the stunning article in last Sunday's New York Times
Magazine by ThomasSchweich, a former high-level Bush counternarcotics official
focused on Afghanistan, and dwell on his paragraph on the Afghan president,
Hamid Karzai:

"Karzai was playing us like a fiddle: The U.S. would spend billions of dollars
on infrastructure improvement; the U.S. and its allies would fight the Taliban;
Karzai's friends could get rich off the drug trade; he could blame the West for
his problems; and in 2009, he would be elected to a new term."

Then read the Afghan expert Rory Stewart's July 17 Time magazine cover story
from Kabul: "A troop increase is likely to inflame Afghan nationalism because
Afghans are more anti-foreign than we acknowledge, and the support for our
presence in the insurgency areas is declining. ... The more responsibility we
take in Afghanistan, the more we undermine the credibility and responsibility of
the Afghan government and encourage it to act irresponsibly. Our claims that
Afghanistan is the 'front line in the war on terror' and that 'failure is not an
option' have convinced the Afghan government that we need it more than it needs
us. The worse things become, the more assistance it seems to receive. This is
not an incentive to reform."

Before Democrats adopt "More Troops to Afghanistan" as their bumper sticker,
they need to make sure it's a strategy for winning a war -- not an election.

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Thomas L. Friedman is a syndicated columnist for The New York Times. He
will speak Sept. 16 at Heinz Hall. For information, call 412-392-4900.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              335 of 396 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                            October 12, 2008 Sunday
                               FIVE STAR EDITION

Extreme views do not define Fulton County

BYLINE: GLENN HILLER, Owner, Dott Store Warfordsburg, Fulton County \

SECTION: EDITORIAL; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR; Pg. G-2

LENGTH: 232 words


The Post-Gazette ran an article about the political climate of Fulton County
("Obama Not Much Trusted in Border County," Oct. 5). It was disappointing to
realize the reporter chose to feature the most extreme viewpoints he came
across. Racism and intolerance are sadly a part of any community in America.
However, by not including opinions from the great number of caring, open-minded
individuals in our community, he chose to let the extremes define Fulton County.

The writer chose to be sensational and foster the divisive mentality that
politicians are so eager to promote. It is a calculated tool of class warfare to
create and promote a division among people which acts as a distraction that
enables those with power and money to further their own interests while we, the
people, fight against each other.

We have much more in common with each other than we do with either of the major
party candidates. We need to focus on our similarities and find common ground
... this is what we are trying to encourage at Dott Store. Our Debate Watch
events were attended by a wonderful mix of individuals who shared an enjoyable
evening of coffee, dessert and community. We will again host a Debate Watch on
Oct. 15 open to all who would like to attend.

"Never doubt that a small group of thoughtful, committed citizens can change the
world. Indeed, it is the only thing that ever has" -- Margaret Mead.

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              350 of 396 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                           November 13, 2008 Thursday
                                 SOONER EDITION

UPMC PLANS 25 FOREIGN CANCER CENTERS

BYLINE: Steve Twedt, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. E-1

LENGTH: 438 words


The University of Pittsburgh Medical Center plans to establish 25 cancer centers
in Europe, the Middle East and Asia in the coming decade in a joint venture with
GE Healthcare.

Charles Bogosta, president of UPMC's international and commercial services
division, said the region's largest health system already is in discussions with
hospital companies in Turkey, Greece, Germany and South Korea.

UPMC currently operates two cancer centers in Ireland.

The idea, said Mr. Bogosta, is to bring a higher level of cancer treatment to
areas where patients currently have access to only basic radiation oncology or
basic surgical oncology. The planned UPMC centers might be able to offer
specialized treatments such as intensity-modulated radiation therapy, which can
target a tumor with high dosages while sparing surrounding healthy tissue.

"There are also drug treatment protocols and treatment pathways we would be
bringing."

Staffing, he said, would be a mix of local and imported workers. "We will bring
in at least one or two UPMC staff" -- primarily physicians, a chief operating
officer or a chief medical officer.

Mr. Bogosta said the collaboration was an extension of a 20-year relationship
with GE Healthcare, now based in the United Kingdom, which specializes in
medical imaging and information technologies, medical diagnostics, patient
monitoring systems and other patient care services.

No money will change hands in the collaboration with GE Healthcare, although Mr.
Bogosta said the cancer centers would purchase and use GE Healthcare equipment
whenever appropriate.

In exchange, GE Healthcare will offer its international expertise in determining
the best markets for the centers, based on the reimbursement structure of a
particular site, expected patient flow, the regulatory and political climate,
and potential cultural barriers.

"We are in 100 countries. We know the health-care market around the globe," said
Jim Torres, GE Healthcare's general manager for global funding operations. "What
we bring to the agreement is global knowledge, knowledge of health care and
state-of-the-art technical equipment."

Added Mr. Bogosta, "There's no other partnership like this in the world, that
we're aware of."

He said Egypt's health minister had contacted them about possibly developing a
cancer center there, too. "Countries are willing to pay a premium to bring in
this type of high-level care," he said.

Although there will be variations from country to country, revenue margins
overseas "are typically higher than in the U.S.," Mr. Bogosta said, particularly
given the declining outlook for Medicare and Medicaid reimbursements.

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Steve Twedt can be reached at stwedt@post-gazette.com or 412-263-1963.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              358 of 396 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                            November 30, 2008 Sunday
                               FIVE STAR EDITION

HOW TO BUILD BETTER LEADERS: AN ENGINEER'S RECIPE

BYLINE: MARCEL BERGERMAN

SECTION: EDITORIAL; THE NEXT PAGE; Pg. G-6

LENGTH: 1408 words


The world is starting to go through some of the harshest times of the past 75
years. The global economy is sinking, wars are ravaging countries and peoples,
climate change is threatening the entire planet, optimism and hope are at very
low levels. As the "leader of the free world," the United States is uniquely
positioned to drive a multinational effort to overcome all these challenges.
Will Barack Obama be capable of taking on this tough leadership role? Can we
even say he is a leader at all? For that matter, how can we tell whether any
given person is a leader?

Over the years I thought about this problem as I observed the many people I
worked with. I came to the conclusion that most so-called leaders were
undeserving of the title. I believe that true leadership is about much more than
simply having authority or influence.

Now I am not a linguist, so I have difficulty expressing what leadership is in,
as my big friend Alberto would say, 25 words or less. On the contrary -- I am a
robotics engineer, and I need some kind of tool to "measure" how much of a
leader one is.

Several years ago I engineered a "recipe" to forge a leader, consisting of five
"ingredients." In these turbulent times when people are yearning for leadership,
it may be the perfect moment to apply it to our president-elect.

*

THE FIRST AND FOREMOST ingredients is Vision. True leaders are capable of
"seeing" further into the future than their peers, and formulating this future
in a way that people can understand and "visualize." Using their Vision, leaders
define meaningful goals to be pursued. A leader's Vision is his flashlight,
allowing him to choose the road to take even though it's dark and everyone else
can barely see what's ahead.

Second in the list is Strategy. Once the leader knows her goals -- what she
wants to achieve -- she draws a plan detailing how to get there. Depending on
the goals, this plan, or strategy, can be as simple as a collection of mental
notes, as complex as a 1,000-page document, or anything in between. Two of its
most fundamental components are a resources strategy -- who and what will be
needed and when -- and a communications strategy -- to reach all stakeholders in
a meaningful way. A good plan also includes alternatives for those "just in
case" situations, when Murphy decides to interfere and things don't happen the
way the leader expected them to. Planning is probably the single most overlooked
activity in our business and personal lives. Even though most of us can clearly
define goals we want to achieve, we don't always get to them -- because we fail
to define a strategy to succeed.

Next comes Execution, or the actual work. While true leaders engage all human
and material resources available for an entrepreneurship, they will always
execute part of the plan themselves -- especially its most critical parts.
Leaders do not distribute tasks and then simply wait for others to report their
results. They get their "hands dirty," in essence leading by example. When
people see leaders working hard and taking on the same (or higher) level of
responsibility as themselves, they are much more likely to engage, no matter how
hard or seemingly impossible the task.

The fourth "ingredient" in my recipe is Evaluation. Leaders make sure they
measure progress every step of the way, to ensure that the goals are being
accomplished -- and to refine and revise the plan in case they are not. Leaders
implement Evaluation methods in essentially the same way they plan: by keeping
mental notes of what's done and what the results were, by painstakingly
recording each and every activity and its result on a computer database, or with
something in between.

Last, but definitely not least, is the "secret" ingredient: Respect, which I use
generically to include honesty, ethical behavior, integrity, and above all,
humility. Leaders are bold and visionary, aggressive and ambitious -- but their
humility prevents them from becoming megalomaniacal and greedy. Leaders
understand that power and money can corrupt even the holiest of the persons, and
avoid accumulating too much of either to prevent becoming corrupted themselves.

*

THERE YOU HAVE IT -- an engineer's tool to tell leaders from non-leaders.

You can think of this "recipe" as a building. Vision is the penthouse, lying
above the "clouds" that block most people's capability to "see" and define
meaningful goals. Strategy, Execution, and Evaluation are the base floors,
connecting the high-flying Vision to the reality of the ground where things
happen.

What about Respect? It's the building's foundation, hidden below the ground. You
can only see it indirectly. In much the same that you know a building's
foundation is solid when it withstands an earthquake, a leader's Respect is only
known from the way she acts in bad times.

*

I BELIEVE THAT there are no "natural-born leaders." With years of study,
observation and practice all of us can learn how to define worthwhile goals, how
to plan, how to execute a plan, and how to measure progress. Respect is the only
ingredient that the leader brings from home, where she was taught to be honest,
ethical, humble and not take things for granted.

My leadership recipe is "scalable" -- engineering jargon meaning that I can see
leaders coming in different "sizes." Some leaders are capable of establishing
modest goals, say for themselves, their families, or their small businesses, and
to plan and execute accordingly. Others are capable of defining national and
even multinational corporate or governmental goals, whose planning, execution,
and evaluation demand thousands of collaborators.

I imagine a "Leadership City" to resemble the island of Manhattan: thousands of
buildings, some tall and some short, indicating various levels of leadership
maturity. What they all have in common is a solid foundation. If you come back
to visit the Leadership City after 10 years, you will see that some buildings
grew taller -- these are the leaders that improved their skills and are applying
them to the common good, be it locally, regionally, nationally or globally.

Vision requires experience. Experience, it's been said, is what we rely on to
make good judgments -- but something that can only be gathered through bad
judgments. This seemingly contradictory definition is at the heart of the
different levels of leadership maturity between individuals and nations.
Families and societies that encourage safe experimentation and risk-taking
foster more and better leaders. True leaders know that they make mistakes just
like everyone else, but they learn from them instead of lamenting them.

We all can be, and in fact should be, our own leaders in our spheres of
influence. Starting at home, we should educate ourselves and our children to be
respectful to others, to be honest, to be tolerant of diversity, and to be
humble about our achievements. We should teach, study and practice planning,
execution and progress evaluation.

And we should all exercise the half-science, half-art business of defining
meaningful goals that create a better future. Some of us are content to be
family or community leaders, others prefer to work toward becoming worldwide
academic or business leaders. All are important and necessary, and they only
differ in terms of the impact they produce.

I hope the recipe I describe here will serve as a guideline that others can use
to acquire, sharpen, and exercise their leadership skills as it has served me.

*

SO BACK TO THE ORIGINAL question: Will Barack Obama be able to lead the world
and help us all navigate through the difficult times ahead?

I believe that he demonstrated all five leadership ingredients during the
presidential election race -- the capacity to establish goals, to plan and
execute, and to assess progress, while maintaining a level of decency that I
haven't witnessed in a contest like this in all my 40 years. (I know that this
last one is contentious, and I respect those who disagree with me here.) I have
no reason to believe that he would not continue to use them while exercising the
presidency, and I am very comfortable thinking of the future president as a
leader.

Leadership is not parenthood. True leaders do not solve our problems, they guide
us in solving them I am very optimistic with respect to the future of this
country and the world. I am sure Mr. Obama is as well. And optimism is the
leader's eternal core strength, which is a very good start for him and us.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: John Allison, thenextpage@post-gazette.com, 412-263-1915/ The Next Page
is different every week:/ Marcel Bergerman is a systems scientist at The
Robotics Institute of Carnegie Mellon University. He holds a Ph.D. in electrical
engineering from Carnegie Mellon (marcel@cmu.edu).

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              359 of 396 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                            November 30, 2008 Sunday
                               FIVE STAR EDITION

EVOLUTION REVOLUTION;
ANIMATRONICS REACH NEW HEIGHTS IN 'WALKING WITH DINOSAURS' ARENA SHOW

BYLINE: Adrian McCoy, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT; Pg. E-1

LENGTH: 1161 words


Mellon Arena has hosted spectacles of all kinds, from monster-truck pulls to
head-banging heavy-metal shows. But the arena has never seen the likes of its
visitors this week: a herd of roaring life-size animatronic dinosaurs.

The show "Walking With Dinosaurs -- The Live Experience" is a stage version of
the BBC Television series, and it is driven by a new breed of special effects,
one based on physics and mechanics, along with a large dash of creativity. The
dinos' two-year U.S. tour makes a stop here beginning Wednesday for a five-day
run.

The $20 million spectacle by The Creature Production Co. is designed for
large-scale venues and takes audiences through 200 million years, tracing
evolution, climate and tectonic change. The cast of 15 dinosaurs includes 10
species ranging from the Triassic through the Jurassic and Cretaceous periods.
As with any theatrical venture, it has its major stars: the biggest, the
long-necked Brachiosaurus, measuring 36 feet tall and 56 feet long; and the
baddest, Tyrannosaurus rex, which stands 23 feet tall and 42 feet long.

The large dinosaurs are mounted on hydraulic-powered bases. Their movements are
guided by a team of three -- a driver, who operates the wheeled chassis, and two
puppeteers, who use remote controls to direct the dinosaur's movements. The five
smaller dinosaurs -- which include a baby T rex, are built on a frame and worn
by the actors like a backpack. There's one human character, a paleontologist,
who serves as narrator and guide.

Audiences used to state-of-the-art movie effects should park those expectations
at the door. "Meeting those expectations is always tough," says director Scott
Faris. "With this, it was particularly tough because we were re-creating the
television documentary in a live setting. So that really sets a high standard."

But for creature designer/builder Sonny Tilders, seeing his dinosaurs in a live,
three-dimensional setting is even more fun than watching them on a screen. "When
they get translated to the flat screen, it's often a disappointment" for an
effects designer, he says. "It looked cooler back in the workshop. So it's
really nice to be able to bring that level of animatronics to a live context."

Tilders has been making critters for stage and screen for the past 18 years,
including stage productions of "The Hobbit" and "The Lion, the Witch and the
Wardrobe." His film credits include "Star Wars: Episode I -- The Phantom
Menace," "Peter Pan" and "Ghost Rider." He was lead animatronic engineer for the
Jim Henson Creature Workshop's TV series "Farscape."

It took Tilders and his crew about a year to design and build the "Walking With
Dinosaurs" cast. They're now working on a duplicate show that will tour Europe
and Asia.

Building a convincing scientifically accurate dinosaur for the stage presented a
raft of design challenges, Tilders says. "The live context presents so many
other issues that you don't have to deal with on [a movie] set."

In film, for example, designers may build only the portion of the creature that
will be seen on screen. And the stage dinos need to be much more durable. In
film, the effect needs to hold up "as long as it takes that last take to be
done. You hold it together so the head doesn't fall off, and you're done."

A stage full of ambling, roaring dinosaurs can make audiences forget the flashy
computer graphics they're used to seeing on screen -- and the experience can get
intense for young audience members. No matter how much a youngster loves the
idea of dinosaurs, seeing these larger-than-life-size creatures in the skin
(even if its latex) is a very different experience. "For what we can't do in
terms of the dynamics you can achieve by film, we certainly more than make up
for it by that very visceral sense," Tilders says.

The dinosaur's skins and the hydraulics that drive their movements are the keys
to why these dinosaurs represent an evolutionary leap in this type of animation.
"One of the key things was developing a hydraulic system that moves as fluidly
as it does," Tilders explained. "Hydraulics are generally used to drive things
that need a lot of power. It doesn't necessarily make for something that moves
softly and fluidly."

Because the larger dinosaurs are so massive, keeping their weight down was
crucial, which meant the skins had to be made out of a light material. "We threw
out all the things you would use on film sets" and opted for a modified
lycra/spandex material, combined with inflatables.

"The payoff has been that they move so beautifully. They're able to compress and
contract, where other structures don't.

"It really makes you reflect on the engineering of the actual creature," Tilders
adds. "We're doing it with all these lightweight techniques -- inflatable
bodies, no muscle mass, none of the big chunks of heavy stuff the dinosaurs had.
How did they do it? How did they hold their heads up like that?"

For as big as the players are, it's often the small details that captivate
audiences, such as the way the eyes move, blink and glint.

Like its TV predecessor, the stage version of "Walking With Dinosaurs" strives
for scientific accuracy. The models are built to scale, based on fossil records,
and their motion is carefully designed to reflect how something of that size and
weight would have moved.

"We looked at elephants and other large animals, studied their moves and spent
time refining them," Tilders says. "We were fortunate to have the BBC series go
before us. We looked at the interpretations their CG guys have done."

Faris is a stage veteran whose latest project was as director of the Las Vegas
production of Bette Midler's "The Showgirl Must Go On." Working with a cast of
dinosaurs instead of human actors is something of a departure on his resume, but
the experience wasn't all that different, he says. "We wanted the story to
follow traditional drama -- rising action, conflict and resolution, so that we
had two acts that survived on solid theatrical principles."

The drama of a mother T rex defending her baby is universal and draws audiences
in. "When it's film or theater or spectacle, if the audience doesn't care about
the characters you're presenting or the story, they tune out, no matter how many
special effects you have. So you have to get back to that theatrical principle
-- make the characters someone they care about."

One of the TV series' appeals was its epic battles to the death. While there's
fighting on stage, no dinosaurs are torn apart and eaten because, as Faris puts
it, "We have to do eight shows a week. These are million-dollar robots. We can't
tear one apart. They do attack and strike each other, but nobody really gets
devoured."

PREVIEW

'Walking With Dinosaurs -- The Live Experience'

Where: Mellon Arena

When: Wednesday through Dec. 7. Wednesday-Friday 7 p.m.; Saturday 11 a.m., 3 and
7 p.m.; Sunday 11 a.m. and 3 p.m.

Tickets: Wednesday night $20.50-$78.75; other nights $30-$78.75

Information: 412-323-1919 or www.dinosaurlive.com

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Adrian McCoy can be reached at 412-263-1865 or amccoy@post-gazette.com

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Top: An adult Brachiosaurus and his offspring share a moment in
a scene from the live-action show.
PHOTO: Above: Close-up of the eye of a Torosaurus showing the realistic detail
that goes into making the creatures.
PHOTO: Left: The armored herbivore from the Cretaceous period, the Ankylosaurus.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              366 of 396 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                            December 19, 2008 Friday
                                 SOONER EDITION

CLINTON CHARITY DISCLOSES DONOR LIST

BYLINE: Peter Baker and Charlie Savage, The New York Times

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. A-7

LENGTH: 854 words


WASHINGTON -- Former President Bill Clinton has collected tens of millions of
dollars for his foundation over the last 10 years from governments in the Middle
East; tycoons from Canada, India, Nigeria and Ukraine; and other international
figures with interests in U.S. foreign policy.

Lifting a longstanding cloak of secrecy, Mr. Clinton yesterday released a
complete list of more than 200,000 donors to his foundation as part of an
agreement to douse concerns about potential conflicts if his wife, New York Sen.
Hillary Rodham Clinton, is confirmed as secretary of state in the Obama
administration.

The donor list offers a glimpse into the high-powered, big-dollar world in which
Mr. Clinton has traveled since leaving the White House, as he jetted around the
globe making money for himself and raising vast sums for his ambitious
philanthropic programs fighting disease, poverty and climate change. Some of the
world's richest people and most famous celebrities handed over large checks to
finance his presidential library and charitable activities.

With his wife now poised to take over as America's top diplomat, Mr. Clinton's
fundraising is coming under new scrutiny for relationships that could pose
potential conflict-of-interest issues for Mrs. Clinton in her job. Some of her
husband's biggest backers have much at stake in policies that President-elect
Barack Obama's administration adopts toward their regions or business ventures.

Saudi Arabia alone gave to the foundation $10 million to $25 million, the
largest of any foreign government. Brunei, Kuwait, Norway, Oman and Qatar each
gave more than $1 million, as did the Dubai Foundation, based in the United Arab
Emirates, and the Friends of Saudi Arabia, founded by a Saudi prince.

Also among the largest donors were a Nigerian businessman who was close to the
onetime military ruler in that African country, a Ukrainian tycoon who was
son-in-law of that former Soviet republic's authoritarian president and a
Canadian mining executive who took Mr. Clinton to Kazakhstan while trying to win
lucrative uranium contracts.

In addition, the foundation accepted sizable contributions from several
prominent figures from India, like a billionaire steel magnate reported to be
the world's fourth-richest person and a politician who lobbied Mrs. Clinton this
year on behalf of a civilian nuclear cooperation agreement between India and the
United States -- a deal that has rankled Pakistan, a key foreign policy focus of
the incoming administration.

Matthew A. Levitt, a senior fellow at the Washington Institute for Near East
Policy, said donations from "countries where we have particularly sensitive
issues and relations" would invariably raise concerns about whether Mrs. Clinton
had conflicts of interest. "The real question," he said, "is to what extent you
can really separate the activities and influence of any husband and wife, and
certainly a husband and wife team that is such a powerhouse."

The Clintons did not address the issue yesterday.

Stephanie Cutter, a spokeswoman for Mr. Obama's transition office, said the
president-elect had chosen Mrs. Clinton for his Cabinet because "no one could
better represent the United States," and that the foundation's finances would
not affect that. "Past donations to the Clinton foundation," Ms. Cutter said,
"have no connection to Sen. Clinton's prospective tenure as secretary of state."

Indiana Sen. Richard G. Lugar, the top Republican on the Foreign Relations
Committee, which will consider her nomination, was in Russia yesterday and
unavailable for comment, according to his office. But in an interview Nov. 30 on
ABC's "This Week," he said Mr. Clinton's activities would raise "legitimate
questions," adding, "I don't know how, given all of our ethics standards now,
anyone quite measures up to this who has such cosmic ties."

Still, Mr. Lugar indicated that he would vote to confirm Mrs. Clinton and
praised Mr. Obama's team for doing "a good job in trying to pin down the most
important elements" in its agreement with Mr. Clinton.

To avoid potential conflicts, the Obama team, represented by its transition
co-chairwoman, Valerie Jarrett, signed a memorandum of understanding Dec. 12
with the William J. Clinton Foundation, represented by its chief executive
officer, Bruce R. Lindsey. The five-page memorandum, provided to reporters
yesterday, required Mr. Clinton to disclose his past donors by the end of the
year and any future contributors once a year.

Federal law does not require former presidents to reveal foundation donors, and
Mr. Clinton had until now declined to do so, arguing that many who gave expected
confidentiality.

Other former presidents have taken money from overseas sources, including the
elder George H.W. Bush, whose son has sat in the Oval Office for the last eight
years. The elder Mr. Bush has accepted millions of dollars from Saudi, Kuwaiti
and other foreign sources for his own library without making public a complete
donor list.

Mr. Clinton's foundation has raised $500 million since 1997, growing into a
global operation with 1,100 paid staff members and volunteers in 40 countries.

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              381 of 396 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                           September 19, 2008 Friday
                                 SOONER EDITION

GLOBAL ECONOMIC SLOWDOWN HITS FEDEX; INCOME SLIPS 22%

BYLINE: TERESA F. LINDEMAN, PITTSBURGH POST-GAZETTE

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. A-7

LENGTH: 366 words


There was a moment of silence yesterday after an analyst asked FedEx Corp.
Chairman Fred Smith if, outside of his own company, there was anything he was
optimistic about this year. After a short pause, Mr. Smith replied, "I think the
Redskins are going to do great this year."

Officials at the Memphis, Tenn., shipping giant said they are seeing the chill
that has settled into the U.S. economy spreading internationally, and it may be
awhile before things warm up again.

"We expect no improvement in the U.S. economy in the near term and we expect
continued slowdown in the global economy," said Alan Graf Jr., chief financial
officer, on a conference call to discuss the company's first-quarter results.

For its part, FedEx posted a 22 percent decline in net income of $384 million,
or $1.23 per share, for the three months ended Aug. 31. That compared with $494
million, or $1.58, in the same quarter last year.

Analysts polled by Thomson Financial Network had been looking for $1.21 per
share after the company alerted the markets last week that declining oil prices
would significantly improve its quarterly results.

FedEx also has cracked down on expenses -- freezing most hiring, cutting
investments in capital improvements, and tightly watching hours and deliveries.
The company trimmed jet fuel consumption by 5 percent in the first quarter.

Officials said they've been trying to find ways to pick up market share through
the downturn and have done so at FedEx Ground, a division in Moon. The unit saw
average daily package volume rise 4 percent in the quarter even as fuel costs
and competitive pricing cut into margins.

Revenue there rose 9 percent to $1.76 billion from last year's $1.62 billion.
Operating margins slipped to 11.1 percent from 11.7 percent last year.

Overall, FedEx is sticking with its projections that earnings for the full
fiscal year will be in the range of $4.75 to $5.25 per share. Analysts are
looking for $5.15.

The company's earnings projections are based on oil prices averaging around $95
a barrel, although officials noted that volatility in fuel costs have made that
a bit of a wild card in recent months.

FedEx shares closed the day at $91.13, up about 3.5 percent.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Teresa F. Lindeman can be reached at tlindeman@post-gazette.com or at
412-263-2018.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              384 of 396 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                           January 10, 2008 Thursday
                                 SOONER EDITION

FLOODING LEAVES 4 PEOPLE DEAD

SECTION: NATIONAL; NATIONAL BRIEFS; Pg. A-5

LENGTH: 540 words


MONTICELLO, Ind. -- Flooded rivers began withdrawing yesterday across a swath of
northern Indiana where three people were killed and hundreds of homes were
damaged as melting snow and heavy rain swelled rivers during an unusual January
warm streak.

Five deaths were blamed on flooding and tornadoes across the Midwest on Tuesday,
the second day of severe weather fueled by unseasonable temperatures. Tornadoes
also blew through several states Monday and Tuesday. Two of the victims were
young siblings.

Water had started receding along Indiana's Tippecanoe River, which had risen to
record levels along a 20-mile stretch, but numerous roads were still blocked by
water in the Monticello area, said White County emergency management director
Gordon Cochran. He had no immediate estimate for how many homes were damaged.

Noriega extradition case

MIAMI -- Former Panamanian dictator Manuel Noriega yesterday failed again to
persuade a federal judge to block France from extraditing him to face
money-laundering charges.

U.S. District Judge Paul Huck said he agreed with another judge's rulings last
year that Mr. Noriega's status as a prisoner of war was not an impediment to the
French extradition request.

The ruling clears the way for Mr. Noriega's lawyers to appeal his extradition to
the 11th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in Atlanta.

Iraq slaying trial set

CAMP PENDLETON, Calif. -- A Marine Corps squad leader will be tried next month
on voluntary manslaughter and other charges stemming from a 2005 assault that
killed 24 Iraqi men, women and children, a military judge ruled yesterday.

The judge set a Feb. 25 court-martial date for Staff Sgt. Frank Wuterich, 27, of
Meriden, Conn., during an arraignment on the charges in the killings in Haditha,
Iraq.

CIA videotapes ruling

WASHINGTON -- A federal judge refused yesterday to delve into the destruction of
CIA interrogation videos, saying there was no evidence the Bush administration
violated a court order and the Justice Department deserved time to conduct its
own investigation.

The decision by U.S. District Judge Henry H. Kennedy was a victory for the Bush
administration, which had urged the courts not to wade into an issue already
being investigated by the Justice Department, CIA and Congress.

Paperless federal budget

WASHINGTON -- The White House announced yesterday that it's going paperless when
it submits the fiscal 2009 budget Feb. 4 -- a move designed to save some trees
and the taxpayers a bit of money.

Instead of printing 3,000 copies of the budget to give out free to the media,
lawmakers, the White House and Cabinet, the White House will put the 2,200-page
tome online at www.budget.gov.

Also in the nation

Authorities in Mexico City yesterday captured the second of two inmates who made
escaped last month from a New Jersey jail. The apprehension of Otis Blunt came a
day after federal and local authorities captured his accused cohort, Jose
Espinosa, in a basement apartment a mile from the jail in Elizabeth, N.J. ...
Three conservation groups -- the Center for Biological Diversity, the Natural
Resources Defense Council and Greenpeace -- notified the federal government
yesterday they intend to sue to get polar bears listed as a threatened species
due to global warming.

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              389 of 396 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                             April 13, 2008 Sunday
                               FIVE STAR EDITION

OFF-COURSE HAZARD;
PINE-RICHLAND GRADUATE AND MARQUETTE STANDOUT DOESN'T LET NASTY FALL SLOW DOWN
HIS GAME

SECTION: SPORTS; GOLF; Pg. H-2

LENGTH: 1436 words


It would be cryptic, perhaps even insensitive, to say Mike Van Sickle had a
great fall. He did -- on the course and off.

He won two college events after returning for his junior season at Marquette
University, followed that with another victory last month -- his school-record
sixth -- and was ranked No. 1 in birdies per round and fourth in scoring average
in the NCAA.

It might seem as if Van Sickle, a Pine-Richland High School graduate, has been
able to avoid hazards. But that's just on the course.

Off the course, what began as an early morning jog turned into a nasty fall on
the sidewalk that left Van Sickle, 20, with a couple injuries.

"I messed myself up pretty good," he said.

It happened when Van Sickle was leaving his apartment and, because it was dark,
he missed one of the steps on the stoop. He fell face-first into the pavement.

The result was a couple of chipped teeth, a broken nose, cheekbone and pinky
finger, a wrenched shoulder and a bruised ego. Surprisingly, the injuries have
not affected Van Sickle's game, though he had to make some painful adjustments
to accommodate the broken finger on his right hand because he uses an
interlocking grip.

"I looked like I had been in a fight with a boxer," Van Sickle said

Van Sickle's accomplishments, though, are enough to floor anyone.

He is the first player in Marquette history to qualify for the NCAA individual
tournament, where he finished 17th out of 144 players last season. That was a
prelude to a summer in which he won the Tri-State Amateur with a course-record
60 in the final round, lost in a playoff at the West Penn Amateur, missed
qualifying for the U.S. Open by one shot and won the Pennsylvania Open when he
defeated a field of professionals with a 54-hole score of 7-under 203.

The trophy for winning the state open is displayed in the clubhouse at
Treesdale, where Van Sickle's family are members. His father, Gary, is a senior
golf writer for Sports Illustrated and an accomplished player

Because of his play, Van Sickle has received invitations to some of the top
amateur tournaments in the country this summer, including the Porter Cup, the
Northeast Amateur and the Sunnehanna Amateur in Johnstown.

"I've bounced back pretty well," Van Sickle said.

TRIVIA

Greg Norman lost playoffs in three major championships to players whose last
name contained a "Z." Name the players. Answer at end.

THE WORD IS OUT

Lars Eckberg, who purchased Deer Run Golf Club and has given the 18-hole layout
in Gibsonia a new name (Pittsburgh National Golf Club), has wasted little time
spreading the word about his new venture.

The course ran TV promotional ads last month during NBC's broadcast of the
Arnold Palmer Invitational and World Golf Championship-CA Championship at Doral.

In addition to improving the sand bunkers and greens and installing a Global
Positioning System in the carts, Eckberg's other objective will be to attract
more outings to Pittsburgh National. And he will do so by instituting another
change: Players can purchase beer and take it on the course, something that was
prohibited at Deer Run.

"The fact that we're offering groups that they can purchase beverages here and
take them on the course is a plus," Eckberg said. "But they have to purchase it
here to have it on the course. And we're going to have beverage carts on the
course, too."

Eckberg and his father-in-law, Ed Haddad, also own Copper Top at Cherokee Hills
Golf Club, an 18-hole course in Valley City, Ohio, that offers greens fees that
range from $35 weekday to $45 weekend. Haddad once owned the Links at
Stonebridge, an 18-hole development in New Orleans, but sold the facility after
Hurricane Katrina.

Eckberg said he plans little change in the greens fees at Pittsburgh National --
$42 weekday, $50 weekend, with cart -- even though the club has purchased 72 new
carts with the GPS system. He said his top priority is improving the landscaping
and the greens, fairways, tees and sand bunkers.

"I'm going to take the time to invest in the chemicals and the equipment to
bring the course up to the high-end standards and make it a gorgeous place to
play golf," Eckberg said.

FORMAT CHANGE

The Tri-State PGA Match Play Championship, usually the first of the section's
point tournaments each season, has been moved from mid-May to Sept. 2-4 to
accommodate a change in format that includes an expanded field.

The tournament used to have an 18-hole stroke-play qualifier on the first day of
the three-day event to determine the 32 players to advance to match play.
However, the field for this year's tournament at Shannopin Country Club has been
expanded to 64 players, comprised of the top 31 players on the 2007 points list,
the defending champ and 32 players from a qualifier on the first day of the 2008
Sewickley Heights Open in August.

"It expands the opportunity for players to experience the match-play format,"
said Dennis Darak, Tri-State PGA executive director. "Because we would need a
qualifier to expand the field, we couldn't have the tournament early in the
year. We didn't have enough time to have a suitable qualifier."

THE BEAR TRAP

It is home to the toughest three-hole stretch on the PGA Tour, known
affectionately as the Bear Trap. But it is also home to five courses and a
variety of golf packages geared to the player seeking a warm-weather giveaway.

"Perfect for the people in Pittsburgh," said Joel Paige, managing director of
the PGA National Resort in Palm Beach Gardens, Fla.

The resort is a self-contained buffet for golfers -- 90 holes of golf, including
the Jack Nicklaus-designed Champion course, home of the PGA Tour's Honda
Classic; and the recently re-designed Palmer course, designed by Arnold Palmer.

The Champ, as it known by the locals, features the Bear Trap, a watery,
three-hole signature (Nos. 15-17) that includes two par-3s and a dogleg par-4.
During the Honda Classic, which was won by Ernie Els, the holes played a
combined 356-over par -- nearly 100 more than the previous year.

Part of the reason: The sand bunkers at the Champ were expanded and re-shaped
after last year's tournament.

"Nobody complained they were unfair," Paige said. "They're just hard holes."

And they're accessible to the public with a variety of reduced spring and summer
packages. Go to the resort's Web site at pgaresort.com for information.

MYRTLE BEACH TIP

No golf destination on the East Coast -- or anywhere, for that matter --
receives more Pittsburgh traffic than Myrtle Beach, S.C. But here's a tip:

Don't pass up the golf just 20 minutes south in Murrell's Inlet, Pawley's island
and Litchfield.

That's the home of the Waccamaw Golf Trail, a series of 12 courses that include
some of the best in the Grand Strand -- True Blue, Caledonia, TPC of Myrtle
Beach and Pawley's Plantation.

The courses are in what is considered the "quieter" end of Myrtle Beach. The
traffic is less congested and the golf is very good.

QUOTABLE

NBC commentator Johnny Miller on Hank Haney, the swing coach for Tiger Woods,
countering Haney's claim that Woods' erratic driving is a "media creation": "If
Hank Haney doesn't recognize that, he's got the ostrich in the sand. [Woods]
doesn't just hit it right, he hits it in the right trees."

DISSA AND DATA

* Youghiogheny CC has hired Erik Lundblad of Rochester, N.Y., to be head
professional, replacing Jim McGrath, who accepted a similar position at
Greensburg CC.

* Ken Lucas, a Glassport native who lives in Murrysville, has retired after 37
years as a sales representative for Ping. Lucas, 64, was a quarterback at Pitt
from 1963-65.

* Scott Choura has been named director of golf and general manager at DuBois CC.
Choura formerly worked at Stone Ridge GC in Bowling Green, Ohio.

* The 17th annual Bob Pompeani Charity Classic to benefit Partners for Quality
Foundation is June 23 at Chartiers CC. Entry is $250 per player. Call
412-778-2579 or email to mmitchell@pfq.org

* Titleist is offering a Mother's Day and Father's Day promotion through June 30
in which the company will personalize golf-ball orders for free. Customers can
have a personalized message -- up to three lines of block text, maximum 17
characters per line -- printed on each ball. Orders must be placed through an
authorized Titleist golf ball retailer.

* The 10th annual Parkway West Rotary Classic is July 21 at Diamond Run Golf
Club. Entry is $180 and includes lunch, dinner, gift and auction. Call
724-947-1234.

TRIVIA ANSWER

Fuzzy Zoeller beat Norman in an 18-hole playoff to win the 1984 U.S. Open, Larry
Mize beat him with a chip-in on the second extra hole to win the 1987 Masters,
and Paul Azinger beat him on the second extra hole to win the 1993 PGA
Championship.

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: GOLF 2008

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Marquette University photo: Marquette golfer Mike Van Sickle, a
Pine-Richland graduate, has received invitations to some of the top amateur
tournaments in the country, including the Porter Cup and the Northeast Amateur.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 P.G. Publishing Co.
