
                              11 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                  November 11, 2000, Saturday, SOONER EDITION

NATIONS DISCUSS PROPOSALS ON KYOTO GREENHOUSE TREATY

BYLINE: H. JOSEF HEBERT, THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: NATIONAL, Pg. A-10

LENGTH: 969 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON --


Preparing for critical and probably contentious global warming talks, the
Clinton administration is warning that the world treaty on climate change it
agreed to three years ago may fall apart if the costs of reducing so-called
"greenhouse" gases are not contained.

More than 160 countries, which crafted the Kyoto climate treaty in 1997, begin
two weeks of intense discussions in the Netherlands next week on how to
implement it. The outcome could determine whether ambitious efforts to tackle
climate change will stall or become re-energized.

"If we don't have significant progress, ... we will have set back substantially
the ability of the nations of the world to meet their [Kyoto emission] targets,"
Undersecretary of State Frank Loy, who will head the U.S. delegation, said in an
interview.

The discussions take on additional urgency since the U.S. view of the climate
treaty, which Vice President Al Gore helped craft, may dramatically shift if
George W. Bush should become president. Unlike Gore, who views acceptance of the
treaty critical, Bush opposes the accord as premature and potentially too
disruptive and costly.

An implementation package that could be portrayed as "cost-effective" may defuse
some congressional opposition and make it more difficult for Bush, should he
emerge winner of this week's election, to ignore the treaty.

The Kyoto agreement negotiated in Japan is yet to be ratified by any industrial
nation. It obligates industrial countries to cut heat-trapping emissions, mainly
carbon dioxide from burning fossil fuels, to 5.5 percent below 1990 levels by
the end of this decade.

But a resurgence of economic growth has made that goal elusive. Many experts now
predict that none of the countries, except possibly Britain, will meet its Kyoto
target. The United States released 13 percent more greenhouse gases last year
than in 1990 as emissions grow at about 1 percent a year.

Critics of the Kyoto accord in Congress and in American business fear it would
require a dramatic shift from fossil fuels and produce soaring energy prices.

To accommodate that view, the administration will insist next week on measures
aimed primarily at cutting Kyoto costs.

"Achieving meaningful reductions [of greenhouse gases] is a very big assignment,
and we ought to make it as easy or as cost-effective as possible," Loy said.

He disputed criticism from many environmentalists that the U.S. proposal may
thwart real reductions in greenhouse gases.

The proposal, expected to meet strong opposition from European delegates,
includes:

*Unfettered trading of emissions credits, so that a country may avoid reductions
from its factories, power plants or motor vehicles by buying pollution permits
from a country already meeting its Kyoto target.

*Broad use of the natural capacity of forests and agricultural lands to absorb
carbon through tree planting and land management. U.S. officials estimate half
of the U.S. Kyoto target might be met this way.

*A flexible policy on the kinds of energy technology, including nuclear power,
that would qualify as credits for industrial countries if used in developing
countries to cut greenhouse emissions.

U.S. officials argue these approaches allow for the most economic reduction of
heat-trapping emissions because it does not matter overall where the emission
cuts come from on the globe.

These massive "loopholes" would make treaty compliance cheap, because as much as
85 percent of the U.S. greenhouse gas reductions could be achieved without
cutting domestic emissions.

"These loopholes would make the treaty virtually irrelevant from an
environmental standpoint," said Alden Meyer of the Union of Concerned
Scientists, a Washington-based environmental advocacy group.

Instead of U.S. industry cutting greenhouse emissions, it would be cheaper to
buy pollution credits from Russia, where annual carbon emissions already are far
below 1990 levels because of the country's economic collapse.

Likewise, U.S. negotiators acknowledge that more than half the 500 million
metric tons of carbon reductions needed to meet the Kyoto target could be
achieved if their negotiating partners were to accept the U.S. proposal on
carbon-absorbing forests and agricultural lands.

These "do-nothing tons" of carbon reductions would be achieved without requiring
additional land management or a greater reduction in carbon put into the air but
would count against the Kyoto targets, said Jennifer Morgan of the World
Wildlife Fund.

Both the extensive use of carbon sinks and unrestricted trading of pollution
credits are adamantly opposed by the Europeans.

On credits-swapping, they insist no more than half any country's
emission-reduction target can come from international trading of credits.

"We are strongly opposed to that," said Assistant Secretary of State David
Sandalow, a principal U.S. negotiator. "No deal is better than a bad deal" if
the Europeans insist on capping trading credits, he said.

While seeking to make the treaty cost-effective, "We are going over there
seeking a treaty that has environmental integrity," Sandalow said in an
interview. "We are strongly committed to taking domestic action and have already
been doing so."

"All of the countries are worried that the United States is going to get a free
ride," said Eileen Claussen, a former State Department climate treaty negotiator
and now head of the private Pew Center on Global Climate Change.

But, she said, the administration seems to believe "the only way they can sell
[the Kyoto treaty] politically is to show that it's virtually free."

On the Net: Kyoto Protocol: www.cnie.org/nle/clim-3.html

United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change: www.ipcc.ch/

Global Climate Coalition: www.globalclimate.org

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              22 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                   January 16, 2000, Sunday, TWO STAR EDITION

CHANGE IS A CONSTANT IN LAKE ERIE

BYLINE: DON HOPEY, POST-GAZETTE STAFF WRITER

SECTION: STATE, Pg. A-1

LENGTH: 2753 words


Burly, bearded John Hageman smiled from the bobbing deck of the MV Biolab as the
research vessel began pulling a 16-footwide net through the channel off
Rattlesnake Island in the western end of Lake Erie.

"OK," said Hageman, manager since 1987 of Ohio State University's F.T. Stone
Laboratory. "Now we're fishing."

In fact, what Hageman and a boatload of reporters were angling for - in addition
to the trawl net full of fish - was a glimpse of a lake in transition.

Again.

The latest changes - some good, some bad, some as yet undetermined - are the
result of many factors: invasions of nonnative fish and mollusks; urban sprawl
that decimates wetlands while increasing lawn chemical runoff; agricultural
pesticide runoff; the rain of toxic emissions from power plants and industry;
lake sediment still contaminated from long-ago industrial pollution; rising
water temperatures and falling lake levels.

Such flux affects a large and diverse group of lake users, and has refocused
interest and concern on Lake Erie and the other four 12,000- to 15,000-year-old
glacial divots that mark the United States' northeast border with Canada.

Fishermen are catching fewer walleye, but maybe more smallmouth bass. Pleasure
boaters must worry about cracking hulls on rocks because of lower water, but
swimmers have wider beaches, erosion is reduced and wetlands benefit. Municipal
water companies must worry about zebra mussels clogging intake lines, but those
same bivalves are responsible in large part for clearing the lake's water.

"Erie is a wonderful lake with tremendous resources that's going through another
period of change," Hageman said. "And there's a lot of concern about those
changes."

When the trawl net is pulled in, a number of dripping, flipping examples are
dumped on the deck at his feet. The catch includes 11 species, including several
young walleye - the sport fisherman's Holy Grail - and its equally edible
cousin, the yellow perch. There are also gizzard shad, the
once-endangered-now-recovered silver chub and non-native white perch. The round
goby - a recent, unwelcome Caspian Sea expatriate - is tossed by Hageman within
easy reach of swooping "avian predators," noisy gulls following the boat.

The species information netted that day was added to the database at Stone Lab,
the nation's oldest freshwater biological field station. Situated on Gibraltar
Island, five miles north of Toledo, the lab is part of the Ohio Sea Grant
Program. Among its more than two dozen research projects is a study of how many
zebra mussels a round goby will eat, and one detailing changing land use
patterns in lake watersheds.

"A lot of people are looking for sameness," Hageman said, "but the lake's
ecosystem evolves all the time, affected by everything from zebra mussels to the
weather."

Noticeably low lake

The two most visible, recent and widespread changes to Lake Erie are water level
and water clarity. And weather and zebra mussels have a lot to do with both.

Lake levels are down as much as 4 feet from high readings recorded in the
mid-1990s. Earlier this month, the Army Corps of Engineers recorded Lake Erie's
level at 570.3 feet above sea level, the lowest in 33 years. But that's just 4
inches below the 81-year average.

"Water levels now are not low, they are average," said Scudder Mackey, a
geologist with the Lake Erie Geology Group and the Ohio Department of Natural
Resources.

"We've had three decades of higher-than-average levels and the public has gotten
used to it, particularly the boating communities. Propeller repair shops are
already doing a good business, and most marina owners will have to do some
dredging to stay in business."

The water fluctuations are cyclical, and, if the lake's history over the last
150 years is any indication, lake levels are probably headed lower, Mackey said.

The reason is drier weather in the Lake Superior and Lake Huron watersheds,
which supply most of Lake Erie's water. Rainfall has been below average in the
entire basin for 30 months, the Corps of Engineers recently reported.

At the same time, warmer autumns and winters, possibly the result of climate
change, have resulted in a reduced ice cover on the lakes and increased
evaporation. The Corps report said Lake Michigan lost about an inch of water a
week to evaporation in October.

The lower lake level is very noticeable along Pennsylvania's 43-mile coastline.
In the crook of Presque Isle State Park's arm, water has receded 20 to 30 feet
in Duck Pond, a shallow marsh along the park road. Nearby, in Sara Cove, tugboat
wrecks that have long been underwater are now visible.

Several boat launches near the city of Erie are closed and others are worried
about how they'll accommodate boat slip customers this summer. Commercial
shipping lines are carrying reduced cargoes so the freighters will ride higher
in the water.

In the shallower western end of the lake, where the average depth is 24 feet,
marina docks are mired in mud.

Mackey said there had been more dredging permits requested along the lake's
western shore, and a lot of questions about where to put the chemically
contaminated mud. Boating industry observers say it will cost many millions of
dollars over the next few years to keep clear the recreational channels along
the 262-mile-long Ohio coast.

"We need to be careful," Mackey said. "Some of that material is getting hauled
out and dumped in deep water, and that's a concern."

The sediment contains a variety of toxic chemicals deposited in the lake over
the past century. Dumping it in deep water would stir much of it into the water
column and back into the food chain, possibly damaging or contaminating lake
fisheries.

But there's an upside to low water.

The fisheries and wildlife in and around the Great Lakes depend on fluctuating
water levels to maintain balance and diversity. Coastal wetlands, which have
been drowned by years of higher water, should see a resurgence, Mackey said. And
shoreline erosion, a big problem along the highly developed Erie shoreline,
should diminish significantly.

Still, the falling water levels have raised concerns about just how low the
lakes can go.

"The big issue this year has been water diversion," said Eric Obert, coastal
environmental specialist and associate director of Sea Grant Pennsylvania. "One
company wanted to bottle water and send it to China. A couple of other
industries want to use lake water and discharge it into another watershed."

Those requests were denied. No one wants to set a precedent of allowing lake
water to be taken out of the watershed, Obert said.

"A lot of people, including some Western states, are looking at this vast
resource and drooling over it."

Foreign invaders

There may be less water than most people can remember in "La Mer Douce," or the
"Sweet Sea," as Samuel de Champlain named the Great Lakes in 1615, but what's
there is noticeably clearer.

One reason is the Canadian and American restrictions on the discharge of
nutrients in municipal sewage, detergents and chemicals that feed the lake's
algae and once turned the water as opaque as green paint.

Another reason for the clarification is the zebra mussel, a less than
2-inch-long bivalve native to the Black, Azov and Caspian seas in southern
Russia. The species has filtered out much of the algae growth and plankton from
the lake's water. It has so flourished in the absence of natural enemies,
however, that mussels clog a number of municipal water intake pipes.

"The first couple of years I was here, there were no zebra mussels," said
Hageman, who has managed the Stone Lab since 1987. "After they came,
everything's different."

Zebra mussels were inadvertently released into the Great Lakes in the midto late
1980s by a ship discharging ballast water taken on in Eastern Europe. They
reproduce rapidly and have carpeted the rocky bottom of many sections of the
Great Lakes, and have colonized much of the "soft" bottom area. As a result,
many of the native clams and mussels have been eliminated.

"I estimate that 40 percent of the soft lake bottom is now covered with zebra
mussels," said Fred Snyder, Ohio Sea Grant Extension agent. "People who like
clearer water like it, but it's changed ecosystems, changed which species are
more or less abundant."

An Eastern European cousin of the zebra mussel, the quagga mussel, was
inadvertently introduced into Lake Erie in 1993, again courtesy of ship ballast
releases. The quagga, similar in size and striping to the zebra mussel but with
a bottom shell that's beveled rather than flat, can live at lower depths and is
more durable and prolific. Its effect on lake ecosystems is so far unknown, but
is expected to be substantial.

Another ballast traveler from Eastern Europe is the round goby, a perch-sized
fish that started showing up in eastern Lake Erie two years ago.

The good news is that it eats zebra and quagga mussels; the bad news is that it
raids smallmouth bass nests and is an aggressive predator and competitor with
other native fish species.

"It's already impacted a lot of perch fishermen. If they're fishing on the
bottom, all they're catching is gobies," Obert said.

A bigger worry is the potential for gobies to transfer toxic chemicals,
including PCBs, through the food chain, from zebra and quagga mussels, which are
filter feeders, to fish.

"The gobies eat the mussels, then are eaten by smallmouth bass and walleye,"
Obert said. "There have already been some consumption advisories, and it's
possible game fish will be affected. That will have an economic impact on the
sport fishery."

 Pollution then rebound

It is not the first time that the lakes, which hold one-fifth of the world's
fresh surface water, have been stirred by man's hand.

Since the 17th century, human actions - intentional and unintentional have
caused a series of ecological waves. Many of them have been more destructive
than the infamous 15-foot storm swells that roiled Lake Superior in 1975 and
sank the iron ore freighter Edmund Fitzgerald and her 29-man crew.

French fur traders came first, in the 1650s, stripping the Great Lakes
watersheds of pelts for 150 years until most fur-bearing animals were gone.

Beginning in the early 1800s, timber companies took 100 years to cut the once
lush hardwood and pine forests to stumps, causing massive erosion that clogged
and warmed streams and silted lake beds. With spawning grounds devastated, fish
species suffered tremendous declines. Some, such as the Atlantic salmon native
to Lake Ontario, vanished.

Mining began digging in around the lakes by the mid-17th century, too. The
massive iron and copper industries that developed in the Lake Superior watershed
discharged more than 400 million tons of waste into the lake by 1970.

By the middle of the 20th century, all of the lakes were suffering from the
effects of population and industrial growth in cities along their shores, plus
increased runoff from agricultural pesticides.

Lake Erie was all but toe-tagged at the end of the 1960s because of a nearly
lethal level of industrial pollutants, municipal sewage, oil, garbage and
agricultural nutrients.

When the Cuyahoga River, which flows into the lake at Cleveland, caught fire in
the summer of 1969, it caused local embarrassment and public outrage. The event
also triggered a series of corrective actions.

The United States and Canada passed laws to limit pollutants flowing into the
lake and signed the International Great Lakes Water Quality Agreement. The
treaty defined cleanup and conservation goals, laid groundwork for cooperative
research and pumped up the International Joint Commission to implement new
initiatives. Additional lake improvements were pushed by various federal,
regional and state agencies.

By the 1970s the lakes began to rebound.

Water quality improved. Swimming prohibitions due to municipal sewage pollution
were reduced. Deformed cormorants, visible manifestations of the toxic
pollutants that once fouled the lakes, all but disappeared.

Mayflies - indicators of good water quality - started hatching in Lake Erie and
now descend on lakeshore towns in numbers not seen since the 1950s. Sport
fisheries are hooked into thriving walleye, lake trout and steelhead
populations, and some fish consumption restrictions have been lifted.

 Rough times

But there remain more than enough problems to go around.

The International Joint Commission recently identified 42 "areas of concern"
around the Great Lakes, including Presque Isle in Pennsylvania and the Cuyahoga,
Black, Maumee and Ashtabula rivers, all in Ohio.

Acknowledging those concerns, the Clinton administration announced last week
that it would propose a $ 50 million grant program, administered by the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency, to help lakefront communities clean up
contaminated sediments, control stormwater runoff, restore wetlands, acquire
greenways and reduce polluted runoff. State and local governments would be
required to provide a least 40 percent in matching grants, resulting in a total
investment of more than $ 80 million.

Another area of continuing concern is the unintentional introduction of aquatic
nuisance species. More than 140 nonindigenous species have entered the Great
Lakes, with two-thirds coming since the St. Lawrence Seaway opened the lakes to
seagoing ships in 1959.

Sea lampreys made the first big splash, then zebra mussels, quaggas and gobies.
The ruffe, another European immigrant and member of the perch family, has been
caught throughout Lake Superior and could soon begin competing for food with
native species in Lake Erie.

"Zebra mussels and sea lampreys cost us millions of dollars each year and have
caused huge changes in the ecosystem of Lake Erie," said Jeffrey Reutter, Ohio
Sea Grant Program director. "And the system is far from stable.

"Mercury rising

Less visible than the lamprey, zebra or its quagga cousin - and in many ways
even tougher to get a net around - are problems that arise beyond the lake's
shorelines.

Urban sprawl, airborne toxic chemicals, pesticide runoff and rising water
temperatures caused by climate change are having major effects.

The sprawl problem is especially acute around Lake Erie. While the other Great
Lakes watersheds are still dominated by forest ecosystems, Erie's is primarily
agricultural and urban.

"When you talk lake problems today, you're talking about sedimentation,
nutrients and contaminants resulting from sprawl, farming and industry," Reutter
said. "When you're talking about managing Lake Erie ecosystems, you're talking
about managing people's activities, and we're just not doing a good job of
that."

Sprawl causes loss of wildlife habitat and wetlands and adds lawn chemicals to
storm runoff reaching the lakes. It has surpassed industrial pollution as the
biggest threat to the lakes, according to Michael J. Donahue, executive director
of the Great Lakes Commission.

"Unless sprawl is brought under control," Donahue said, "the tremendous
successes we've seen over the last 30 years may be in jeopardy."

Adding spice to the nutrients, pesticides and pollution washed into the lakes
are toxic chemicals sprinkled on the lakes from the air. Industrial sources as
far away as Mexico and Russia, and coal-burning utilities as close as Ohio, are
the culprits.

According to a report by the National Wildlife Federation, utility emissions
contain high amounts of mercury, an extremely potent toxin especially harmful to
pregnant women and children. Those emissions are falling with rain on the lake.
The EPA's human health standard for mercury in lakes and rivers is 1.8 parts per
billion, but monitors in Detroit registered 65 times that amount.

Prevailing winds carry polychlorinated biphenyls, or PCBs, and the pesticide DDT
- both banned in the United States and Canada - from foreign countries into the
Great Lakes.

Reutter said reduction of PCB contamination - from as high as 5 parts per
million in walleye in 1972, to 0.2 parts per million now - is one of the lake's
biggest success stories, but that there was more work to be done.

"I can't be more pleased with the efforts of this generation, if you look at
where we were with the Cuyahoga River burning in 1969," he said. "We've come a
long way but it's not good enough.

"We deserve a pat on the back. But we also need a kick in the butt to keep us
going."

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: INFORMATIONAL GRAPHIC, INFORMATIONAL GRAPHIC: James
Hilston/Post-Gazette; Great Lakes; Commission, US Army Corps of Engineers: (Lake
Erie: Then and now)

                       Copyright 2000 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              24 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                  October 25, 2000, Wednesday, SOONER EDITION

STONES IN FISH EARS OFFER CLUES TO EXTINCTIONS TIED TO CLIMATE

BYLINE: BRYN NELSON, NEWSDAY

SECTION: SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY AND MEDICINE, Pg. A-3

LENGTH: 595 words


Tiny stones deposited within the ears of prehistoric fish are offering new
pearls of wisdom about a massive global extinction of marine creatures that some
scientists say was triggered by an abrupt climate change 34 million years ago.

According to a new study published last week in the journal Nature, layered ear
stones called otoliths can reveal high-resolution weather conditions during the
lifetime of a fish, in the same way tree rings reveal weather variations in the
life of a tree. By sampling the successive layers of each stone, Syracuse
University researcher Linda Ivany and her collaborators were able to estimate
ocean temperatures at two-week intervals over a period of up to three years.

"I think the interesting thing about this is it's the first time anyone has been
able to look at seasonal variation through a piece of Earth's history and
especially across an extinction boundary," Ivany said of her team's work.

The accumulated data from otoliths of different time periods support the idea
that cooler winters may have assisted in wiping out extensive marine life,
including 90 percent of the clams and snails along what is now the Gulf Coast of
the United States.

Harry Elderfield, a professor in the department of earth sciences at the
University of Cambridge in England, wrote in an accompanying editorial that the
extinction boundary marked a dramatic move from a "greenhouse world" to an
"icehouse world."

The relatively abrupt transition between the warmer Eocene epoch and the colder
Oligocene epoch about 33.7 million years ago has been linked to mass worldwide
extinctions, though the idea that temperature changes led to the die-off is
still controversial. Nevertheless, Elderfield and other scientists agreed that
Ivany's team has provided an unprecedented view of prehistoric seasonal
fluctuations.

"It's like a weather report from 35 million years ago," said Thor Hansen, a
professor of geology at Western Washington University in Bellingham, Wash. "It's
better than the weather predictions we get up here in Bellingham. This brings
out a whole new layer of information that we didn't have before."

Hansen said the two-week snapshots of water temperature throughout the life of
each fish offer important climatic information because they reveal seasonal
fluctuations that wouldn't show up in the average annual temperature.

In fact, most previous studies measuring average annual ocean temperatures
demonstrated no significant change across the boundary between the Eocene and
Oligocene epochs. Many of these efforts examined the calcium carbonate shells of
single-celled organisms called foraminifera to get a single estimate of the
average annual temperature during the creature's life. But such information can
be misleading, scientists say, akin to the faulty assumption that because the
average annual temperatures for Seattle and Springfield, Ill., are similar,
their climates must also be similar.

Otoliths, which Ivany describes as looking like "Quaker oat flakes or small
grains of rice," are made from a mineral called calcium carbonate that gradually
builds up in layers within the inner ear of a fish. The stones act as sensory
organs to assist fish in hearing and balance, and are often all that remain of
prehistoric creatures such as the conger eels and cusk eels used in this study.

Ivany used a window screen to sift through a "layer cake" of sediment in the
Gulf Coast to collect the otoliths from various depths, corresponding to
different dates within the Eocene and Oligocene epochs.

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              31 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                  November 19, 2000, Sunday, TWO STAR EDITION

TREES CAN COOL THINGS DOWN

BYLINE: HENRY D. GERHOLD

SECTION: EDITORIAL, Pg. E-1

LENGTH: 861 words


On the face of it, the environment is a polarizing issue. During the
(pre-election) presidential campaign, Al Gore said that action is needed to
reduce the burning of fossil fuels to counter the buildup of greenhouse gases.
George W. Bush opposed such action because of its ominous implications. But
efforts to comply with the global warming treaty don't have to lead to partisan
deadlock.

Maintaining the health of forests and planting trees on millions of acres of
marginal farmland would reduce or even eliminate the need for drastic reductions
in fossil fuel use. It would buy time for countries to shift toward noncarbon
energy sources. Instead of being discounted, forests must be the fulcrum by
which the world community moves ahead in combating global climate change.

When new stands of trees are planted, they soak up carbon dioxide from the air.
This little fact can drive environmental groups to distraction. It implies that
any sensible program of greenhouse-emissions control should strongly encourage
tree planting and support the substitution of many fossil-derived materials with
products based on wood.

At negotiations on the global warming treaty in The Hague, which continue
through Friday, the United States is making the carbon-storing capabilities of
forests and farmland a priority. U.S. negotiators are expected to take the
position that countries should be given full credit for the ability of forests
and farmland to soak up significant amounts of carbon dioxide. It's too bad that
many environmental groups are too wrapped up in anti-logging sentiment to
realize this.

The State Department has estimated that the so-called sink effect of America's
forests and farmland could cut by as much as half the carbon dioxide reductions
that the United States agreed to in the Kyoto Protocol on climate change in
1997.

Here are the numbers: Today U.S. emissions of carbon dioxide are about 1.6
billion tons a year, but will probably exceed 2.1 billion tons by 2008. The
Kyoto Protocol requires the United States to reduce that to 1.5 billion tons. If
the United States receives full credit for the carbon-storing capabilities of
its forests and farmland the way they are currently managed, they are worth
roughly 300 million tons -- or half the amount needed to meet that target.

Credit for carbon storage could be increased significantly if the United States
adopts a diverse package of forest-related programs. Paramount among them is
using sustainable forestry practices to improve the health of forests, thereby
reducing the number and size of wildfires. Other programs include planting
millions of trees on marginal land, growing more fast-growing trees to replace
slower-growing trees and increasing the use of renewable wood fuel. Also,
planting trees in cities and near houses, where they can reduce energy needs for
air conditioning, holds great promise. Together these efforts could eventually
achieve carbon savings of 700 million tons per year.

To that end, there must be an all-out effort to convert marginal crop and
pastureland to forests. Under the Federal Conservation Reserve Program an
estimated 4 to 5 million acres of marginal land once used for farming has been
converted to timberland. But with incentive to landowners, more than 100 million
acres of marginal land considered biologically suitable of trees (an area the
size of California) could be reforested.

By showing leadership now, America will be in better position to persuade
developing countries to protect their own forests. This is no small matter.
Scientists estimate that one-quarter to one-third of man-made greenhouse gases
result from deforestation. When forests are cleared and burned, as is currently
happening in the tropics and even here in the United States as a result of
land-use changes, the carbon they contain, along with some in the underlying
soil, is oxidized and released to the atmosphere.

From a global warming standpoint, tropical forests are the worst kind to lose.
They can absorb five to 10 times more carbon as temperate forests, owing to a
higher rate of photosynthesis.

Changing some timber harvesting methods should be a top priority. Today, the
great majority of forest-product companies in the United States practice
sustainable forestry. But the practice needs to be broadened both in this
country and abroad. We must continue to reduce the size of clear cuts and leave
some trees standing so they can provide canopy cover to shade soil and prevent
erosion. In that regard, commercial logging followed by prompt reforestation
actually increases carbon retention, since trees remove carbon dioxide most
effectively when they are young and faster growing.

In short, before we agree to sharp cutbacks in fossil fuel use that could have
severe economic consequences, we should pursue all possible alternatives that
might achieve the same result at considerable less cost.

The goal is to reduce atmospheric levels of carbon dioxide. It's attainable, if
we embark on a course of wise, sustainable action to make better use of trees.

Henry D. Gerhold is a professor of forest genetics at Penn State.

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              36 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                   August 2, 2000, Wednesday, SOONER EDITION

U.S. PUSHING NEW STRATEGY TO 'WARMING'

BYLINE: ANDREW C. REVKIN, THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: NATIONAL, Pg. A-7

LENGTH: 394 words


Preparing for renewed international negotiations on cutting levels of
heat-trapping gases that may be warming the climate, the United States is
proposing that countries get just as much credit for using forests and farmer's
fields to sop up carbon dioxide, the chief warming gas, as they would for
cutting emissions from smoke stacks and tail pipes.

Scientists have known for decades that trees and other plants absorb carbon
dioxide as they grow and that some soils do as well. In theory, pulling carbon
dioxide out of the atmosphere would allow countries to emit some heat-trapping,
or greenhouse, gases without adding to the overall problem.

Clinton administration officials and some scientists said last night that
incentives to plant trees and to farm in ways that lock away carbon were an
essential part of any strategy to stabilize the climate. In addition, they said,
bringing farmers and foresters into the battle is likely to be essential if the
Senate, which has so far firmly opposed ratifying any international climate
treaty, is to change its view.

But the position is being criticized by some private environmental groups that
have focused on cutting the burning of coal and oil, which caused most of the
buildup of carbon dioxide. They point to uncertainties about how long plants and
soils could continue to absorb carbon and contend that reducing emissions is by
far the safer course.

And the proposal is at odds with the stance of the European Union which, given
its relative lack of open land for tree-planting, would be at a disadvantage
should the approach be endorsed.

The State Department laid out the United States' approach in documents filed
last night with a U.N. office that is overseeing talks aimed at carrying out the
1997 Kyoto Protocol, an international agreement aimed at averting any dangerous
climate warming. Thirty-eight other industrialized countries were scheduled to
file their proposals last night as well.

The Kyoto agreement has been signed by the United States and more than 100 other
countries but has not yet been ratified. Many details remain to be ironed out,
with two rounds of negotiations coming in September and again in November.

If the agreement is ratified, the United States will commit to cutting its
emissions of carbon dioxide by 2010 to 7 percent below where they were in 1990.

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              40 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                     July 6, 2000, Thursday, SOONER EDITION

THE BURDEN OF KYOTO

BYLINE: ROBERT C. JUNK JR.; PRESIDENT; PENNSYLVANIA FARMERS UNION; UNIONTOWN

SECTION: EDITORIAL, Pg. A-16, LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 308 words


I disagree with the statements made on global-warming actions taken by the U.S.
House of Representatives in the June 13 editorial reprinted from the Los Angeles
Times ("The House's Hot Heads," As Others See It). The country needs to respond
to climate changes; however, the appropriate response is not the Kyoto protocol.

The Senate agrees, as illustrated by the overwhelming support (95 in favor, zero
against) of the Byrd-Hagel Resolution, which states that the Senate would not
ratify any treaty that would put the United States at an economic disadvantage.
The Kyoto protocol does that.

Reps. Jo Ann Emerson, R-Mo., and Joe Knollenberg, R-Mich., are diligently
working in the House to ensure that Congress does not allow the Kyoto protocol
to be implemented by backdoor mechanisms. They send these cautionary signals
because the treaty is fundamentally flawed.

The Kyoto protocol calls for the United States and 35 other developed countries
to drastically reduce their emissions while over 130 developing nations are
exempt from these same limitations. Greenhouse gas reductions by the developed
nations will surely be offset by the emissions of the exempt nations.

Additionally, the United States will lose its economic edge. The cost of
business will significantly increase because of newly imposed regulations. In
the agriculture industry, this treaty will place undue economic burden on family
farmers not only in Pennsylvania but across the country -- and all due to
questionable science. Further study is needed to answer the scientific questions
of why climate change is happening. Only when scientific consensus is achieved
can a thoughtful defense against global warming be assembled. I applaud the
Senate and the House for acknowledging that.

ROBERT C. JUNK JR.

President

Pennsylvania Farmers Union

Uniontown

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              50 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                   August 6, 2000, Sunday, WASHINGTON EDITION

COSTA RICAN TRIP GIVES TEACHERS UNIQUE OPPORTUNITY

BYLINE: DAVE ZUCHOWSKI

SECTION: METRO, Pg. W-4

LENGTH: 561 words


When Nancy Vankirk of Scenery Hill received an application in the mail with a
note that read, "thought you might be interested in this," little did she know
the few sheets of paper would turn out to be the start of a fantastic journey.

The packet sent to her by Washington and Jefferson College professor Alice Grier
Lee, a colleague she had met at an educational parley, was an application for a
special working travel program offered to secondary school teachers by the
Woodrow Wilson National Fellowship Foundation.

The Washington High School teacher of life, Earth, physical and environmental
science spent three weeks in Costa Rica researching the impact of global climate
changes and the influence of man on terrestrial and aquatic ecosystems.

Vankirk e-mailed Ken Harasty, a friend and teacher of Earth and space science at
Brownsville Area School District, and asked if he'd like to go to Costa Rica.

"Sure," he replied. "When do I go?"

As fate and the proper credentials would have it, Vankirk and Harasty were
chosen to participate in the program with 54 other teachers from across the
country. On July 10, they flew to San Jose, Costa Rica's capital city, where
they were given an orientation that prepared them for their research in the
lowland forest, dry tropical forest and mid-elevation rain forest of the West
Virginia-size country in Central America.

The daily agenda was rigorous. Breakfast was served at 6 each morning; the day
ended at 8:30 each evening with a talk or group discussion. At night, the
research teams slept in cabins or dormitory-style buildings armed with plenty of
mosquito repellent.

Vankirk and Harasty first were sent to La Selva, the Caribbean lowlands in the
northern part of the country, then to Palo Verde on the Pacific side of the
country's northwestern section.

One major focus of their "Human Impacts on Environmental Systems" study was the
rain forest ecosystem. Like other countries, Costa Rica's rain forests are
shrinking.

When the environment changes, some animal species can no longer migrate from
place to place and are forced to either adapt or die out.

"Amphibians are especially sensitive to environmental changes, so we'll be out
there counting frogs and toads quite a bit of the time," Vankirk said.

The program will have practical applications in the classroom. Harasty often
takes his students outdoors, where he has them conduct research on the
biodiversity of southwestern Pennsylvania.

"If you're a math or English teacher and learn your subject, you're set for
life," he said. "In science, however, you have to continually update your
knowledge."

Harasty took plenty of slides along the course of his journey.

"Between us, we'll be able to document the trip with a multimedia coverage,"
Vankirk said.

To help them get by in the Spanish-speaking nation, the teachers used an
electronic translator.

Before their return home last Sunday, the teachers designed Web pages to
document their experiences. They also were expected to determine how their
students could engage in similar research projects at home.

"Costa Rica and southwestern Pennsylvania may be worlds apart, but the same
principles of environmental pressures on the local flora and fauna apply,"
Harasty said.

COMMUNITY NEWS: Washington & Outlying Areas

Dave Zuchowski is a free-lance writer.

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (2), PHOTO: LEARNING EXPERIENCE/Teachers Ken Harasty of
Brownsville and; Nancy Vankirk of Washington return from Costa Rica. (Photo,
Page W-1); PHOTO: Robert J. Pavuchak: Teacher Ken Harasty shows the styrofoam
coffee cup; that was with him down 200 meters in the "Alvin," the mini-submarine
used to; make the Titanic movie.

                       Copyright 2000 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              52 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                   October 29, 2000, Sunday, TWO STAR EDITION

THOUGHTS OF ICE BALLS AND ICE CAPS ONE SUNNY FALL DAY

BYLINE: BRIAN O'NEILL

SECTION: LIFESTYLE, Pg. B-1

LENGTH: 608 words


We had another beautiful morning the other day, so I left the house without a
coat and got ready to walk to work but then thought, nah, I'll take the bus and
read my way in.

On the front page that morning was the headline "Global warming warning worst
yet." It's getting harder and harder to pretend that the heating of this planet
is just a theory.

On the other hand, it's also hard to argue against October afternoons like the
ones we had last week. Solar ice caps melting? We'll just be closer to the
beach, right?

Sure, we could be screwing things up big time, but any columnist who isn't
flippant about this issue runs the risk of being called a tree-hugging alarmist.

So let's make it warmer and spend the budget surplus while we're at it. Even if
there's a good chance we're lousing the place up, odds are we'll be dead before
we have to worry about it.

Feeling better once I came to this conclusion, I burned some gasoline to get to
a man whose livelihood will be directly affected if enough drives like mine
alter the atmosphere.

I am speaking, of course, of Gus Kalaris, the Ice Ball Man.

Kalaris' stand by the West Park tennis courts on the North Side has been in that
neighborhood, as his orange cart famously proclaims, "since your dad was a lad."
On this late October afternoon, business was brisk.

Kalaris was selling cups of shaved ice and fruit flavoring -- known as "snow
cones" in less enlightened parts of the world -- every couple of minutes or so.
The popcorn and peanuts weren't selling nearly as well.

Kalaris took over the business when his dad, George, died in 1951, and I
remembered him complaining this summer that the temperature never had risen
above 90. His business was off 30 percent. But since Labor Day, he has missed
only about three days. It's so nice out.

"I think it is getting a little bit warmer," he said when I asked whether he was
a believer in what this international panel of climate scientists had concluded.

Kalaris, who is generous with everything but the deepest secrets of his trade
(forget about asking what's in the fruit syrups), said that while warm fall days
were not unusual in the 1950s either, they seem to be stretching deeper into the
calendar. A deer hunter, too, he has noticed that it hasn't been as cold in
recent seasons, which always begin the Monday after Thanksgiving. He went
hunting in a T-shirt eight or 10 years ago, and there have been flies on the
deer in December.

Historically, this weekend has been the cutoff date for his ice ball trade. When
Halloween comes and Daylight Savings Time ends, the days get cold and dark and
nobody's looking for an ice ball. In the 1950s, he would come out for the
Veterans Day Parade Nov. 11, which in those days began Downtown, came over the
Sixth Street Bridge and finished on Ridge Avenue not far from his usual spot.
But he'd sell only popcorn and peanuts.

If Kalaris is still selling ice balls Nov. 11 this year, he'll be thinking the
climate has indeed shifted. He says his record last date is Nov. 22, which also
was within the past 10 years.

At about this point in our conversation, a woman and her daughter walked up. Mom
got a cherry ball and daughter got root beer-and-banana, and Mom said, "I didn't
think you'd still be here."

This kind of anecdotal evidence doesn't mean much, of course. The human memory
is notoriously selective. We shouldn't toss away our wool caps just yet.

Just the same, if you're looking for sound investment strategies, you could make
worse bets than ice-ball syrup and blaze-orange T-shirts.

Brian O'Neill's e-mail address is boneill@post-gazette.com.

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              55 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                   October 22, 2000, Sunday, ONE STAR EDITION

A PUNK AMONG SOLONS NO MORE, SANTORUM NOW AT HOME IN SENATE

BYLINE: JAMES O'TOOLE, POLITICS EDITOR, POST-GAZETTE

SECTION: NATIONAL, Pg. A-10

LENGTH: 2223 words


Wearing the black Harley-Davidson shirt he's just accepted, Rick Santorum chats
amiably with a smiling, tattooed woman in black leather.

He moves to the center of a knot of motorcyclists -- one's wearing a patch that
reads, "I Love My Country; I Fear My Government" -- and denounces mandatory
helmet laws as an example of overreaching by the federal government. The bikers'
applause echoes through the Station Square plaza and drifts with the mist over
the Monongahela.

Someone in search of a metaphor about Pennsylvania's U.S. Senate race might be
tempted to find in this scene confirmation of the image projected by Santorum's
Democratic critics -- that of a right-wing ideologue.

But another moment offers a more helpful insight into why Santorum, in a state
with a significant Democratic registration edge, is favored to hold a seat that
once seemed among the nation's most vulnerable for the GOP. A member of the
anti-helmet group ABATE leans across one of the big Harleys to give Santorum a
pin; it denotes 10-year membership in the group's Butler County chapter.

The gift attests to the fact that Santorum, 42, has talked to ABATE many times
before. He knows their issue. They know him.

A few weeks earlier, a scene more evocative of Norman Rockwell than Hunter
Thompson held the same lesson.

Once again, Santorum doffed his suit coat and professed to be delighted by yet
another gift of a T-shirt. Under sunshine filtered through tall trees, he
addressed the crowd milling around the picnic groves at the Mifflin County
Community Day where the surrounding games and food stands were raising money for
the Lewistown Community Hospital.

Santorum knows the drill. He's been here before. Following a group of
cheerleaders to the stage, he speaks about community days past; he talks easily
about the intricacies of the funding issues facing rural hospitals.

Santorum won this seat in an upset -- the third major upset of his career --
over Sen. Harris Wofford in 1994 in the same election that brought Republican
control to Congress for the first time in 40 years. The political tides favored
Republicans then. They brought the House gavel to Newt Gingrich, the
conservative firebrand whose instructional audiotapes had tutored Santorum as a
younger House candidate.

But over the six years of Santorum's freshman term, the economy and the
political climate changed significantly. Santorum hasn't rested on his ideology
or the fund-raising ability that comes with incumbency as assurances of
re-election.

He's worked the state.

He boasts that he visits every one of its 67 counties every year. Now, as ever,
Santorum hustles.

It hasn't brought him universal popularity. While he has enthusiastic admirers
in both parties, many Democratic officials, along with many members of the
state's union hierarchy, loathe him.

His political profile is at odds with the archetype of the Pennsylvania
Republican. On social issues, in particular, he is to the right of Republicans
in the line of former Sens. Hugh Scott and John Heinz, and his colleague Sen.
Arlen Specter. But despite, and, in some cases because of, his conservative
stands, Santorum again is anticipating the votes of many Democrats along with
Republicans as building blocks for re-election.

Santorum, the son of two Veterans Administration employees, was born in Virginia
and spent most of his youth in Butler County. After attending Penn State, he
earned his law degree at Dickinson Law School while working as an aide to a
Republican state senator in Harrisburg. In 1990, he was an associate with the
Downtown Pittsburgh firm of Kirkpatrick Lockhart when he decided to take on Doug
Walgren, a bright but fairly colorless Democratic veteran. It seemed a daunting
task.

Santorum and a corps of volunteers knocked on countless doors. At a time when
the wounds from the contraction of the steel industry were still raw, the
upstart's advertising flayed Walgren for having voted for congressional pay
raises. They faulted Walgren for not having a residence in the 18th District.

Democrats are now quick to point to the fact that Santorum, his wife, Karen, and
their five childen live in Virginia. He counters that his family does have a
home in the state, in Penn Hills, though they spend most of the year in
Virginia.

Another hallmark of the 1990 campaign was Santorum's ability to tap into the
committed soldiers of the right-to-life movement.

Opposition to abortion has been a constant in Santorum's career. He is a leader
in the Senate of the campaign against partial-birth abortion. That stand has, to
some extent, cut into his support among pro-choice voters in his own party, but
it has enhanced his crossover appeal to conservative Democrats.

Despite being overspent by nearly three-to-one, Santorum edged ahead of Walgren,
winning with 51 percent of the vote.

It was a remarkable victory, but in many ways, his second House race, in 1992,
produced an even more startling win. Although the 18th District had a Democratic
registration majority, it was dominated by Pittsburgh suburban voters who have
earned a reputation as swing voters over the years.

But the redistricting that followed the 1990 Census pushed large parts of the
18th District into the working class, economically ravaged Monongahela Valley,
significantly increasing the seat's Democratic majority.

"OK, they gave us Democrats, but they gave us angry Democrats," Santorum's
longtime media adviser, John Brabender, would recall of the campaign's reaction
to the new political map.

Santorum's criticisms of the Washington status quo, with the slogan, "Join the
Fight," resonated in the district. Santorum won in a landslide over former state
Sen. Frank Pecora, helped by the same voters who overwhelmingly supported Bill
Clinton over former President George Bush.

"Join the Fight," was more than a slogan. From the time he entered Congress,
Santorum burnished his reputation as one of the "Gang of Seven" who campaigned
against the internal rules and mores of a chamber controlled by Democrats for
four decades. They encouraged investigations of the slipshod workings of the
House bank and post office.

Santorum's voting record in the House was unmistakably conservative, but he was
not a pure ideologue. On trade, he was attentive to the interests of the hobbled
steel industry. He was less sympathetic to the legislative agenda of labor, but
did make common cause with labor leaders in opposing the North American Free
Trade Agreement.

Santorum set his sights on the 1994 U.S. Senate race, another contest where his
chances were widely discounted. Harris Wofford had established a reputation as a
political giant killer with his victory over former Gov. Dick Thornburgh in the
1991 special election after Heinz was killed in a plane crash.

Santorum found another establishment to rail against as he tied Wofford, who had
run on promises of health care reform, to the politically disastrous health
initiative of the Clinton administration.

Santorum squeaked by with 49 percent of the vote to Wofford's 47 percent. His
path to victory, however, came close to being derailed by a videotape likely to
keep resurfacing as long as Santorum keeps running for office. It shows the
Republican in a speech at LaSalle University, enthusiastically suggesting that
one cure to the demographic problems of Social Security was to raise the
retirement age for full benefits to 70. Santorum's rising poll numbers were
immediately blunted when the Wofford campaign began airing excepts from the
tape.

Santorum has said over and over that he no longer holds that position and that
other changes in the system that he advocates mean that such a step is not
needed. But that change in position didn't erase the tape. In recent weeks, for
example, labor union officials have been circulating it to their members, hoping
to dent Santorum's apparently wide lead over U.S. Rep. Ron Klink, D-Murrysville,
in this race.

But the political perils of the Social Security issue haven't caused Santorum to
shy away from it. On the contrary, he has embraced the issue, becoming one of
the Senate's leading advocates for changes in the system that would allow
younger workers to channel part of their contributions into private investments.

His plan parallels the Social Security proposal made by the candidate at the top
of his ticket, Texas Gov. George W. Bush. Bush is personally closer to Gov. Tom
Ridge than to Santorum, but on issues, several of his proposals, such as medical
savings accounts, overlap those that Santorum has championed in the Senate.

The confrontational tactics that had served Santorum as a member of the minority
in the House proved more controversial in the Senate majority. He was famously
upbraided for lack of decorum by the courtly West Virginia Democrat, Robert
Byrd. He paraded to the floor repeatedly with a sign that read "Where's Bill,"
taunting the president for failing to submit a balanced budget.

He urged his Republican colleagues to strip the late Sen. Mark Hatfield of his
committee chairmanship after the Oregon Republican cast a decisive vote against
a proposal for a balanced budget amendment.

In Santorum's view, he was standing against the political establishment, valuing
what he saw as his constituents' interests over the traditions of the Senate.
But to his critics, he was a punk among solons.

Today, critics, and even neutral observers have described the emergence of more
moderate Santorum as his re-election battle approached. Santorum resists that
characterization. He defends the tactics that won him a sharp-edged reputation,
while saying that if they have changed, it is because times have changed.

"In 1995, we had a big job in front of us," Santorum said as central
Pennsylvania scrolled past the windows of the van taking him from one campaign
appearance to another. "We had to reform Congress, try to hold the line of
spending, try to balance the budget -- because that's what we told the American
people we were going to do.

"Now, we've accomplished that. And it was painful and in many cases it wasn't
pretty, but you can't argue with the results. You can say, 'Would I use that
tactic now on the president?' No; it's a different time ... is it a different
Rick Santorum? It's a different situation."

Looking back, would he have led the assault on the respected Hatfield?

"In a heartbeat," Santorum said, "given the fundamental nature of that issue and
given the work he was doing.'

Santorum didn't avoid controversy, but did more to enhance his reputation as a
substantive legislator with his central role in the enactment of the reform of
the nation's welfare system.

"I will say it over and over again," he said of the legislation. "If there's any
piece of legislation that I'm going to stake my claim to, there's more of me in
[that legislation] than any other member of the Senate or House, and I believe
it's been the most successful piece of legislation passed not just in that last
six years but in the last 30 years."

It's legislation, of course, that's been embraced by politicians of both
parties, notably including Clinton and Vice President Al Gore, members of a
ticket that ran in 1992 on the promise to "end welfare as we know it."

"President Clinton was never for any of the reforms; he signed them because he
had to," Santorum said.

Santorum also rejected commentary that his voting record has tacked back toward
the center in deference to the coming election. He points out that as a member
of the House, he voted for funding for the National Endowment for the Arts and
for increases in the minimum wage, as he has in the past year.

In recent months, Santorum cast a decisive vote against a patients' bill of
rights measure that had been approved in the House. He contended it could have
allowed employees to sue employers who provided health care, both encouraging
lawsuits and discouraging some firms from providing health care.

But in another campaign stop recently, Santorum seemed to dispel any suggestions
that he had strayed from his conservative roots. He was in rural Perry County,
where Democrats are nearly as scarce as stop lights and parking meters. At a
reception for the Perry County Republican Party, the senator was solemnly
introduced by a local Republican, who coupled his praise for the incumbent with
warnings about a variety of threats to Second Amendment rights.

He resists the characterization that he would use abortion as a litmus test in
confirming future justices but says he would look for conservative views on a
range of issues. What he doesn't want on the court he says, are justices who
believe that the Constitution is -- and here he breaks into a mocking,
Valley-girl sing-song voice -- "a living, breathing document that can change as
society changes."

If Santorum is elected, he will be, in only his second term, in line for the No.
3 position in the Republican caucus. There is also speculation that he might
consider a run for governor when Ridge's term runs out in 2002 -speculation that
he seems to discourage but doesn't entirely rule out.

"In politics, you never say never," he tells a reporter with a smile. "But do I
think about it? Only because people like you ask about it every day."

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              56 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                   October 12, 2000, Thursday, SOONER EDITION

POLITICAL REFORM NOT ON AGENDA;
CHINESE RULERS MEET BEHIND PUBLIC VIEW

BYLINE: CHARLES HUTZLER, THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: WORLD, Pg. A-4

LENGTH: 597 words

DATELINE: BEIJING --


At China's biggest Communist Party meeting of the year, what wasn't discussed
speaks volumes about the troubles besetting the Chinese leadership.

While popular anger over corruption, brewing unrest in the countryside and
global trade's impact on already high unemployment loom, the elite Central
Committee mulled over a five-year economic plan and personnel changes. Members
made scant mention of reforming the lumbering, often unresponsive government.

"It wasn't even on the agenda," said Li Fan, a former researcher for a Cabinet
agency who has championed direct elections for local governments. "They're not
even thinking about it."

The stasis comes as demands grow for meaningful political reform. Liberal and
conservative scholars, who rarely agree, both predict a crisis if the party
delays making itself and the government more law-abiding and open to public
participation.

The trouble is that party members and their families benefit most from the
organization's current unrestrained power.

"The political system needs to be reformed, but the changes ought to serve the
nation and the people, not other interested parties," said Han Deqiang, an
economics professor. The politically conservative author of the
anti-globalization book "Clash" sees China's impending entry to the World Trade
Organization accelerating wrenching social change that Beijing is ill-prepared
to handle.

If Chinese leaders needed another reason to delay, they got one with last week's
sudden downfall of Yugoslav President Slobodan Milosevic, whose defiance of the
West they had strongly supported.

"Milosevic was so confident about the presidential elections, but then had to
step down. Of course, they don't dare" tinker with the system, said Li.

The Central Committee -- 183 party insiders, provincial politicians and
influential generals -- ended a three-day, closed-door annual policy gathering
yesterday, passing a five-year economic plan partly aimed at helping China
better withstand the competition WTO entry will bring.

Its communique, carried by state media, provided few specifics but called for
more of the same reforms the government has had trouble carrying out in recent
years: an improved social welfare system and better management in often
lethargic state firms.

There was a brief, cryptic and vague call for "expanding the people's
participation in political affairs in an orderly way." But the communique was
silent on how that might be done. Behind public view, the party elite opened
divisive, back-room bargaining over leadership changes to be made in two years,
party officials said. In that climate, they said, few leaders are willing to
take bold policy initiatives for fear of jeopardizing their positions.

Meanwhile, evidence abounds of the party's and its government's eroding
authority. In the latest bout of unrest in the countryside, farmers in southern
Jiangxi province rioted in August over excessive taxation -- despite a
long-standing policy for local authorities to cap taxes at 5 percent of income.

The party even has trouble suppressing dissent. Members of the Falun Gong
spiritual movement are pulling off large-scale protests in Beijing's Tiananmen
Square nearly 15 months after Chinese leaders ordered the sect quashed.

Pro-reform intellectuals blacklisted by Chinese leaders this year still appear
in media that were told to shun them. One of the most outspoken, Li Shenzhi,
former deputy head of a government research academy, recently argued that China
needs to end a legacy of autocratic rule if it wants to thrive.

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              58 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                     June 12, 2000, Monday, SOONER EDITION

HIGH AND LOW SOLAR-ENERGY PHASES AFFECTED WORLD CLIMATE, HISTORY

BYLINE: JOHN G. RADZILOWICZ, DIRECTOR, HENRY BUHL, JR. PLANETARIUM; &
OBSERVATORY

SECTION: LIFESTYLE, Pg. D-8, LET'S TALK ABOUT:

LENGTH: 260 words


Sunspots correspond to raging storms on the sun's surface. These storms peak in
activity about every 11 years, and such an increase in solar energy can have
major consequences on Earth.

But just how big can these consequences be? Well, there is evidence that
sunspots have changed the course of history. One of the best examples can be
seen in the story of the "Greenland Colony."

The first settlers came to Greenland from Iceland in 985. Greeted by unusually
warm weather and lush land, the colony was a great success. By 1300, more than
3,000 people called Greenland home.

Then, around 1325, the weather began to turn cold rapidly. Harvests began to
fail and the northern glaciers began to move south. Ice in the sea began to make
travel impossible, and by 1400, the thriving settlement was destroyed. What
happened?

The dramatic weather change that destroyed the Greenland Colony was part of what
has become known as the Little Ice Age. This span of nearly 400 years of cold
weather corresponds to a period of extremely low solar activity. The impact of
the temperature drop was felt around the world.

This sunspot low, and the related drop in Earth's temperature, came right on the
heels of an extended time of great solar activity. That period was known as the
Medieval Maximum and matched very closely with the years in which Greenland had
experienced such wonderful weather.

It seems that the changing sunspot cycles of the sun were largely responsible
for the success and the ultimate failure of the Greenland Colony.

SUNSPOTS

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              63 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                      July 3, 2000, Monday, SOONER EDITION

NO HEADLINE

BYLINE: FROM LOCAL AND WIRE REPORTS

SECTION: SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY AND MEDICINE, Pg. A-8, SCIENCE NOTEBOOK

LENGTH: 591 words


BACTERIUM DESTROYS POLLUTANT

Scientists have identified a bacterium that can destroy an industrial pollutant.
They say the microbe might be useful at some waste sites.

The pollutant is tetrachloroethylene, also called perchloroethylene. It is
widely used for dry cleaning and removing grease from metal.

The researchers found the bacterium, Pseudomonas stutzeri OX1, in sludge from a
wastwater treatment plant. The finding is reported in the July issue of the
journal Nature Biotechnology by scientists from the University of Connecticut in
Storrs.

Besides showing that the bacterium can destroy the chemical, the scientists
identified the enzyme it uses to do the job.

From liquid rock, layers

For years, geologists have examined the elegant undulations of rock layers on
exposed hillsides to piece together stories of how mountain ranges were formed.
But the timing and strength of the forces involved have remained a mystery.

Last week, three European researchers described a new approach to this age-old
challenge that may take geologists from the mountains to the microscope.

By placing individual grains of rock from the Pyrenees mountains under a
magnifying lens, Wolfgang Mueller of the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology
in Zurich discovered microscopic patterns of stress and strain that were
remarkably similar to the patterns he had seen full size in the mountains
themselves.

Mueller and fellow Swiss and Spanish researchers developed a way to use
radioactive properties of the rock elements to date the earth-shifting events
that shaped the spaghetti-like "strain fringes" in the rock.

The fringes formed when continental plates collide, squeezing the rock and
causing the crystals in the rock to flow like liquid, the researchers wrote in
the latest issue of the journal Science.

Sinking Mediterranean

Venice may be sinking, but don't blame the Mediterranean Sea. Despite rising
waters around the world, coastal sites throughout the Mediterranean measured
sea-level decreases of up to 2 inches over the past 40 years.

Worldwide sea levels have risen about 3 inches over the same period.

British researchers Michael Tsimplis and Trevor Baker analyzed data dating to
the late 1800s from seven tidal measuring stations along the north coast of the
Mediterranean. All of the stations recorded rising sea levels until 1960. Then,
sea levels began to drop, the scientists report in the current issue of
Geophysical Research Letters.

Tsimplis, of the University of Southampton, and Baker, of the Bidston
Observatory, suspect the drop may be the result of damming major rivers entering
the Mediterranean. The drop may also be related to a change in the atmospheric
pressure over the Atlantic Ocean.

The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change predicts that global sea levels
will rise an additional 18 inches over the next century as global temperatures
continue to increase.

A CMU asteroid

Truman Kohman, an emeritus chemistry professor at Carnegie Mellon University,
now has a place among the stars.

The International Astronomical Union has named an asteroid, discovered by
astronomer Edward Bowell in 1987, after Kohman.

Kohman, an enthusiastic amateur astronomer, taught chemistry and an introductory
astronomy course at Carnegie Mellon. He continued teaching astronomy for nine
years after he formally retired in 1981.

The asteroid, 4177 Kohman, is an estimated 9 miles to 19 miles in diameter. It
orbits the sun between Mars and Jupiter approximately once every six years.

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              65 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                  September 9, 2000, Saturday, SOONER EDITION

HOLE IN THE OZONE LAYER BIGGER AND EARLIER THIS YEAR

BYLINE: GEIR MOULSON, THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: SCIENCE, MEDICINE, TECHNOLOGY, Pg. A-2

LENGTH: 441 words

DATELINE: GENEVA --


The hole in the ozone layer is now three times larger than the United States --
its biggest size ever, scientists at NASA said yesterday. U.N. weather experts
said the hole over the Antarctic is growing earlier in the year than usual.

Measurements of ozone depletion vary from year-to-year, making it difficult for
scientists to determine the long-term environmental impact of changes in the
ozone layer. Still, this year's hole -- large and early -- caught atmospheric
experts off-guard.

"The fact that it's real big right now is kind of a surprise," said Dr. Paul A.
Newman of NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center in Greenbelt, Md.

The center detected an ozone hole of about 11 million square miles on Sept. 3.
That was the biggest ever, beating the previous record of 10.5 million square
miles on Sept. 19, 1998, it said.

In Geneva, the U.N. World Meteorological Observation said stations in the
Antarctic reported decreases in ozone of between 10 percent and 50 percent
compared with the period between 1964 and 1976, before the ozone hole was
observed. Though ozone levels decrease each year starting in July, such a large
drop was "unprecedented" this early in the season, the WMO said yesterday.

"It is remarkable to find these low values so early in September, perhaps one or
two weeks earlier than in any previous year," the agency said.

Experts stressed that atmospheric variations from year to year combine with
man-made gases to determine the hole's size. They said they can't be certain
what the measurements mean for the rest of this year and beyond.

Depletion of the ozone layer over Antarctica and the Arctic is being monitored
because ozone protects Earth from harmful ultraviolet radiation. Too much UV
radiation can cause skin cancer and destroy tiny plants at the bottom of the
food chain.

Antarctic ozone depletion starts in July, when sunlight triggers chemical
reactions in cold air trapped over the South Pole during the Antarctic winter.
It intensifies during before tailing off in October as temperatures rise.

Circular winds, known as a vortex, trap air, giving chemicals the chance to
react with the ozone.

"The polar vortex is bigger this year -- bigger than 1998," Newman said. "The
containment vessel is larger and so the size is larger."

Its size raises concerns that "we're perhaps beginning to see some evidence of
climate change in the stratosphere," although no firm evidence is available, he
said.

Human-made chlorine compounds used in refrigerants, aerosol sprays, solvents,
foam-blowing agents and bromine compounds used in firefighting halogens cause
most ozone depletion.

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              76 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                   August 27, 2000, Sunday, TWO STAR EDITION

CHIP OFF THE OLD BLOCK;
PURCHASING CHIEF AT TURNER BUILDS DIVERSE WORK FORCE IN CONSTRUCTION

BYLINE: JIM MCKAY, POST-GAZETTE STAFF WRITER

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg. C-5, EXECUTIVE IN THE SPOTLIGHT

LENGTH: 975 words


Anne B. Pernell, new purchasing manager for Turner Construction in Pittsburgh,
decided to make a career out of the building industry when women in the field
were about as scarce as hen's teeth.

It didn't phase her much that the industry was overwhelmingly male when she
started because she had grown up in a construction family with lots of boys
-five in a family of eight children.

Her father, Bill Beatty, a construction superintendent, would let her and her
siblings tag along to job sites and walk newly erected steel beams, although not
too high in the air.

When it came time to pick a career, she decided to study architectural
engineering at Penn State. One of only a half-dozen women in a starting class of
90 students, she went through the program on an ROTC scholarship and joined the
Army after graduation in 1980.

"So, I've done a lot of mostly men things," she said.

Females were something of an oddity in 1986 when Pernell started with Turner, a
big construction firm that has been building in Pittsburgh since 1912. She had
to prove herself to subcontractors and construction crews while working her way
up from project engineer to superintendent on various jobs.

"They would quiz me. You could see there was very little confidence in me as a
superintendent," she said. "I had to demonstrate my knowledge, my competency."

She learned to laugh at herself when she fell in a big pit of mud on a
construction site before onlooking ironworkers and to admit that she didn't know
everything. She would both answer and ask lots of questions.

"The contractors just want to keep moving with no slowdowns so they can be
productive. They don't want to spend time looking for an answer. So I feel I'm
out there not only to lead these guys but to serve them," she said. "If a guy is
up on a ladder and he needs his hammer, I'll get him the hammer -whatever, to
keep it going."

The climate is changing. New hires today at Turner are a more diverse group, and
Pernell and other women of her class are moving up. One of her college
roommates, Karen Sweeney, runs Turner's Cleveland office as a vice president and
general manager.

The changes were evident at a recent conference for new Turner recruits from
across the country. Pernell was the only female in the all-white cadre of senior
managers while white males were the minority among new employees.

"As they introduced themselves and we introduced ourselves, we could definitely
see that Turner has made significant strides," Pernell recalled. "It was
encouraging."

Although the union trades are slowly opening their ranks to women, Pernell said
construction management may present the best opportunities for women and
minorities. Scholarships, she said, are plentiful.

Women in trades, she said, have to prove themselves against the men on every job
while the management ranks stay fairly stable as you move from building project
to building project.

She joined Turner in Pittsburgh in 1986 after her tour of duty with the Army in
Europe, where she was a construction operations manager for military
installations. Her first assignment was as project engineer on a hospital in
Greenville, Mercer County.

Pernell barely had her feet wet when Turner transferred her to New Jersey so she
could follow her husband, Rudy Pernell, to a job in Philadelphia. She found
plenty of opportunities to get her hands dirty in the field.

She was assistant superintendent on a ceramics lab at Rutgers University, where
she managed the masonry work and the lobby construction. Next came a hotel, an
office complex and her first chance to be a superintendent, on a $ 13 million
general mail facility.

Pernell returned to Pittsburgh in 1992 and became project manager on an $ 82
million addition to Magee-Womens Hospital, her first big job working with women
executives acting as building owners. She was a little apprehensive, worried
that women might be difficult to work for, but found those fears had no merit.

"I came to find women are actually more realistic, more reasonable to work for,
as much as I hate to stereotype," she said. "It's partly their expectations and
very low egos. They know things can go wrong, that I can't pour concrete because
it's raining."

From 1996 to 1998, she was manager of Turner's special projects division in
Pittsburgh and worked on a dozen projects ranging from the Homewood YWCA, to
Carnegie Mellon University, The City Club, All Saints Episcopal Church and UPMC.

She was senior projects manager for Magee-Womens in Oakland, Kirkpatrick &
Lockhart's law offices, the New Pennley Place Residential Community in East
Liberty, the Downtown YWCA, Phipps Conservatory and Botanical Garden, Botany
Hall and AT&T, Station Square.

Pernell was recently promoted to purchasing director for Turner in Pittsburgh,
which makes her responsible for taking and negotiating bids from subcontractors.

Her biggest task, she said, is attracting more contractors to bid with Turner.
She expects to reach out to minority and women business owners, something she
was able to do on a small scale in individual projects.

"I'm excited because I have more influence as to getting subcontractors to bid
with us and give them an opportunity," she said. "That's a little bit near and
dear to my heart. I'm looking forward to it." Anne B. Pernell

Age: 43

Title:Purchasing manager, Turner Construction

Education:Bachelor's degree, architectural engineering, Penn State University,
1980.

Career Path: Joined the Army after graduation from Penn State and worked on
military construction projects in Europe as an operations officer; joined Turner
in 1986, worked out of the Pittsburgh and New Jersey offices; named manager of
the special projects division here in 1996; senior project manager from 1998 to
2000; newly named purchasing manager.

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Photo: Gabor Degre/Post-Gazette: Anne Pernell, purchasing
manager; for Turner Construction, stands on French Street, near the David L.
Lawrence; Convention Center construction site.

                       Copyright 2000 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              89 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                     April 4, 2000, Tuesday, SOONER EDITION

NOT IN BUSINESS OF POLICING TV, CBS EXEC SAYS

BYLINE: ROB OWEN, POST-GAZETTE TV EDITOR

SECTION: ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT, Pg. F-1

LENGTH: 1277 words

DATELINE: PASADENA, Calif.


Contrary to various studies and popular sentiment, television networks do have
standards. They still have standards and practices departments, too.

Just don't suggest they're the TV cops.

"I really don't like to use the word 'policing,' " said Carol Altieri, vice
president of CBS Program Practices Hollywood. "That's not what we're here to do.
We're not here to protect the American public. We're here for a business
reason."

And that is to work with TV show producers when it comes to language, sexuality
and balance on controversial issues.

"If there's something in a script we think will offend a significant portion of
our audience, which is obviously what we do not want to do, we'll negotiate a
change with the producers," Altieri said last summer at a CBS party.

Sometimes those negotiations are easy.

At a July press conference, "Falcone" (9 tonight, see review Page F-4) executive
producer Mark Johnson said he was prepared to tone down scenes in the pilot
episode of the drama.

At the time, CBS had just given the series a green light for midseason after not
picking it up for the fall because of the pall cast by the Columbine shootings.
The "Falcone" pilot features scenes of one mobster murdering another with an ice
pick. In another scene a mobster guns down a rival.

"The pilot that you've all seen is much more violent than it needs to be and
certainly more violent than will ever be aired," Johnson told TV critics. "Those
scenes are not about the violence and not about the actual act. When [actor]
James Russo is given the ice pick and starts to stab, I don't even think we have
to see any stabbings. We know what he's doing and we can certainly cut to the
other characters watching this guy -- sort of like a maniac -- killing one of
his friends. Then you see the body fall to the ground. And I don't think we lose
anything by not actually seeing the ice pick stabs."

Altieri said it's not unusual for a pilot to be re-edited before it airs. She
said CBS lets producers pretty much do what they want with the pilot, which is
in many respects a selling tool, and then discuss changes after the fact.

In a phone interview yesterday, Altieri said trims to the "Falcone" pilot were
subtle.

"My feeling was the violence in the pilot was almost a tool to show people what
kind of show it is," she said. "But it was done kind of craftily. The violence
was implied rather than shown quite graphically. That particular scene was over
the top and the production was quite cooperative in trimming it."

Johnson said there's not that much violence in each episode of the series.
Instead, the threat of violence hangs over every hour of "Falcone."

At a January CBS press conference, Johnson and Bob Singer, another executive
producer who joined the series after the pilot was filmed, said their
interaction with CBS Program Practices was not fraught with contention.

"Just the usual. Mostly their caution notes," Singer said. "If someone is going
to be shot in an alley, they'll say, 'Please make sure it's not too graphic' or
'Limit the number of gunshots that would be necessary.' We haven't found them to
be obtrusive. We all kind of feel like we're working together."

Yesterday Altieri said the process of making "Falcone" has been more
collaborative than most.

"Both entities are aiming for the same goal, which is a riveting, compelling,
incredibly exciting drama that deals with a bunch of people about whom this
country continues to be fascinated," she said. "But in a way that the drama is
the focus, not the violence, which is endemic to such an enterprise; not the
language, which is fairly far removed from that which is in 'The Sopranos,'
which I think is fairly gratuitous a lot of the time."

Altieri said the country's social climate may in part be responsible for the
closeness with which her department and the "Falcone" producers have worked. It
hasn't been "us" vs. "them," she said.

"Obviously with the violence, everybody's sensitivities have been heightened
over what's going on in the country in the past year," she said. "They've used
their craft in way that leaves no mistake of the horror that's involved in term
of the violence these people perpetrate. And by the same token, a lot is left to
the viewers' imagination, which is more powerful than anything you can ever
show."

Altieri compared the role of her department to an editor in the publishing
world.

"We go through a script and [check to see] if certain material seems to us to be
gratuitous -- how many times do you have to shoot the guy?" she said. "The
audience will come to expect a certain level of whatever it may be. With
'Chicago Hope' it's the whimsicalness or the freakiness, and people are
accustomed to that. On the other hand, if you do an on-camera rape in 'Touched
By an Angel,' you're going to alienate the entire audience. Who wants to do
that?"

But there are exceptions.

"I resoundingly reject the notion that I am going to not take a risk because I
don't want to offend somebody," she said. As an example, she pointed to the
opening scene of "Brooklyn South," Stephen Bochco's 1997 cop drama, which
depicted a police officer being shot in the head.

"This particular violence is important for people to see that it hurts, that
it's not pretty," Altieri said. "This guy's head was blown off by a
semi-automatic weapon. This is what is required to engage the public in
discourse about this kind of issue. We're not saying there should be blood and
guts all over the place, but you have to be real. That's a battle I will fight
any day with anybody."

After reviewing the script, Altieri's department then looks at the rough cut of
every program to see if any other changes are required. In the script stage,
producers will often add things they never intend to get on the air so they have
bargaining chips to keep the few bits they deem most important.

"It's a game we've been playing for decades," Altieri said. "They put in
[expletives deleted] knowing we're going to ask for it out. They think they get
to keep six of the 'son of a bitches' and 14 'bastards,' which they don't.
They'll keep a couple."

Altieri, who has been in CBS's program practices department for 25 years, said
what the public considers acceptable language has changed the most in that time.
Her department has had to adapt.

"There is no excuse for sticking your heels in the sand and saying, 'We've never
done this before, so we're not going to do it.' That may be a good idea on
occasion, but there's a difference between taking a calculated risk and being
foolhardy."

Altieri points to the 1990 CBS sitcom "Uncle Buck," which included the phrase
"You suck" coming from the mouth of a child in the pilot episode. Altieri didn't
want it to air, but she was overruled.

"There was tremendous pressure to scrap the CBS identity, which is pretty much
that of the most conservative network in the public's mind," she said. "And
that's one of the big reasons so many people fled. They felt betrayed by being
ambushed by material that was so alien to the CBS persona."

Altieri said that attitude changed for the better when Les Moonves joined the
network in 1995 and set about recapturing CBS's core audience.

Language is still an issue, but one that can be defined in different ways.

"There's a difference in our minds between profanity and coarse language,"
Altieri said. "Profanity is things like, 'Oh, my God' or 'God almighty,' which
we permit on significant occasions. A word like 'goddammit' just is not part of
our vocabulary. It will not fly. It's extremely offensive to a lot of people."

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              105 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                  January 30, 2000, Sunday, FIVE STAR EDITION

SMALL KITCHEN, BIG IDEAS ... WHAT TO DO?

BYLINE: SUZANNE MARTINSON, FOOD EDITOR, POST-GAZETTE

SECTION: FOOD, Pg. G-13

LENGTH: 2490 words


Sometimes it costs a little to save a lot of time.Kitchen appliances are one way
to save time, but often it's little things that mean the most.

Today, Super Bowl Sunday - unless of course you're the happy host - might be a
good day to consider the kitchen. What could you do to make it more efficient
without hiring a chief cook and bottle washer?

No so-called experts trying to sell us something were consulted for this story.
That's not to say we can't learn something about kitchen efficiency from
everyone we meet. But these tips are based on experience: the shell shock of
inhabiting eight houses and seven apartments in six states. (At the height of
the housing bust, my husband, Ace, and I once owned - or, should I say, held
mortgages on - houses in three states, but that's another story.)

The first rule of kitchens is to make the best of what you've got, especially if
you can't afford a makeover. Do I have a favorite kitchen? Truth is, every
kitchen, no matter how small or inconvenient, had something wonderful about it
(even if it's only a roommate who keeps it supplied with chocolate and pecans).

And no kitchen is perfect, unless you have the privilege of working with an
architect to design your ideal kitchen. Even then, once you've made your first
meal, there are probably changes you'd like to make.

There's a scene in that wonderful movie, "Sleepless in Seattle," where the
client asks the architect to change the whole kitchen because she just
remembered that her big hors d'oeuvre trays won't fit into the refrigerator
space allotted. Designer Tom Hanks seemed incredulous, but I understand
perfectly. Screenwriter Nora Ephron had hit a chord with me. Ephron also wrote
"Crazy Salad," a book that brought tears to my eyes - just by having a character
share her vinaigrette recipe.

Cooking on the homestead

Unlike we itinerant journalists, my farm family, grandmother Allie, mother Ann,
and sister Roxann, went from their parents' home to their own without a lot of
moving around. (Mom had lived with her in-laws for a time, and in a transitional
period, Roxann and her husband lived in Gram and Gramp's farmhouse, too.)

Today, Roxann has her dream house, Mom's kitchen has been redone, and I have a
bad case of "appliance garage envy." These so-called garages hide the multitude
of electrical gear we now believe is necessary for cooking a meal or planning a
party, while remaining readily accessible by just lifting the garage-like door
on the kitchen counter.

On the other hand, I have to let all my appliances sit out, cluttering the
counter. But that's my No. 1 rule of kitchendom: If it isn't handy, you won't
use it.

Or at least it will be difficult. The most cumbersome kitchen we ever had was a
' 30s log house in Oregon, where Ace and I began our marriage and extended our
family, with daughter Jessica. Homemakers didn't have many appliances in the
Depression, and the cabin's lack of electrical outlets reflected that.

Ours was a minimalist lifestyle - the view from the kitchen window was a field
of daffodils, our two horses and the neighbors' cows - but we made room for some
conveniences. The microwave sat atop the refrigerator, and our toploading
dishwasher had a place of honor in the middle of the kitchen. The dishwasher top
was a busy spot, because that's where I put my heavy-duty mixer. To put the
dirty baking dishes in the dishwasher, I had to set the heavy mixer on the floor
- an efficiency expert's nightmare.

There was neither counter nor cupboard space, and this log house taught me the
value of Lazy Susans to help me get to things both in the back of the cupboards
and in the small refrigerator. Yes, you lose the space in the corners, but it
saves a lot of hunting time.

As obsessive as it sounds, storing spices in alphabetical order on a
double-decker Lazy Susan saves time, too. I still have that double-decker and
other turntables for baking ingredients such as soda, vinegar and vanilla.

What goes where

The rule is simple: Store at point of first use.

Its corollary: If space is limited and you haven't used something in six months,
take it out of the high-priced real estate of your kitchen and store it
somewhere, anywhere. Maybe your mother-in-law can put it in her basement or
maybe it belongs in the church rummage sale. (Not that I've ever given anything
away that I didn't require the very next week. Still, we've saved a lot of stuff
for our daughter's first apartment, only to realize that she doesn't want frying
pans that stick and linen napkins that require ironing.)

Take, for example, the turkey roasting pan. Take it far. You may only use it
once a year, so store it out of the way, but in a place you'll be able to find
it when the pressure's on. Remember, the prime plots in your kitchen are for the
paring knife, the nonstick skillet, the medium saucepan. (Or, in our house, the
cookie sheets.)

My present kitchen - it's filled with wonderful light - lacks the elbow room of
my former spaces in Florida or Tennessee. Unlike Florida, it doesn't have an
island or a counter, where family and guests can pull up a stool and talk to me
or eat a quick lunch. I love islands, and in my next house ...

Nor does it have wonderful corner cupboards with the circular shelves that
revolve to bring the back to the front. It does not have, as my Oregon friends'
house did, a pull-out drawer with slanted shelves for spices. Did you ever
notice how many more spices we need than our mothers had? We have our Mexican
spices, our Indian spices, our Chinese spices, and I even must find room for
Southern flours -

White Lily, of course.

My present compact kitchen - it has a beautiful view of our back yard, where
deer gather to graze - does have a "pantry" of sorts. Pantries are wonderful.
The former owner added shelves to the foyer coat closet closest to the kitchen,
and I added Lazy Susans to help me locate the many salsas, canned beans and
tomatoes, the general flotsam of exotic ingredients of the adventuresome cook.

Stocking shelves, drawers

Another rule evolves from the pantry: Put the things you use most often at eye
level. (Ace, who is tall, has his cereal on the top shelf.) This axiom is
complicated somewhat by my two sets of ingredients - one mine, the other for PG
recipe tests. So there are many duplicate staples: cocoa, flour, sugars,
chocolate, nuts. (We share spices.) The newspaper's stuff goes into its own big
plastic box in the bottom of the pantry.

In one case, surviving in The South gave me a bonus idea for convenience. In a
climate where it's seldom cold enough to kill off the bugs, we learned the hard
way that pest-magnets such as flour had to be stored in the freezer. Items
stored in the pantry were removed from their paper packages and placed in
airtight plastic containers.

Even rice and noodles were not immune from the ravages of hungry insects for
long. (Many of these bugs were already in the bags in the form of eggs, which
then hatch, giving you a pest problem that may not be particularly dangerous but
surely unsavory.)

To this day, we still store things in plastic. Why? Because it's so much easier
to cook. Dipping a measuring cup into a bag of sugar or spooning flour from a
bag of flour can be messy. Messes take time. It's so much easier to move staples
from a big plastic canister. They must be well-labeled, though, or bread flour
gets mistaken for cake, and texture suffers.

Measuring help

Another good purchase in the name of efficiency is a set of glass custard cups,
perfect containers in which to place separated eggs or measure spices, salt and
pepper and leavening agents. We use two or three cups every time we bake.

A memory tip: Pull out all the necessary seasonings when you read the recipe,
then return them to the cupboard as soon as you've measured them into the
custard cup. That way, you won't have to wonder, "Did I measure the cinnamon, or
is that cloves?" Baking powder looks an awful lot like cream of tartar, too.

Waxed paper is another time-saver. It's a place to lay dirty scrapers and
spoons. A dishwasher-safe spoonrest sits atop our range, which is a big enough
job to clean in the best of circumstances.

Counter or cupboard?

Think of your kitchen as work areas: mixing, washing and chopping produce,
baking, microwaving.

Preference rules here, but I like to have my KitchenAid mixer on the counter and
ready. Following the rule of first use, it's right under the spice cupboard -
the measuring cups and bowls are there, too - and next to the pantry.

Another expenditure (and this one isn't so cheap) is a second mixing bowl for
your large mixer. Not having to stop and wash the only bowl when it's time to
beat egg whites speeds prep time immensely.

All those graduated mixing bowls look cute, one inside the other, but it's
better to group bowls according to size, a stack of large, medium and small.
Then one reach does it, and you're not constantly restacking.

Leaning against the counter is my marble board, though the new Tupperware
plastic for rolling dough is in a drawer under the counter in what I like to
think of as my "baking center," a joke for such a small kitchen. (But it seems
gigantic for anybody who has ever cooked in an "efficiency apartment," that
oxymoron of big-city life. When we temporarily lived in Allegheny Center, we ate
dinner off the coffee table.

My kingdom for a double sink

The worst thing about our kitchen, the shortcoming that raises my ire when I'm
testing one recipe after another, is that it only has a single sink, which
quickly fills with vegetable peels, fruit cores and dirty dishes.

The "produce area"is next to the sink because of the water required for cleaning
and peeling. Counter space for chopping is limited, though I twice thought we
had that problem solved with an apparatus that fit over the sink. This was a
place to chop vegetables then easily drop the debris into the sink's garbage
disposal. But the cheap one I bought in a catalog quickly broke, and the second
one, from WilliamsSonoma, didn't fit.

Speaking of chopping, my premium chopper, an aging Cuisinart, is also near the
sink - usually its point of first use - as are my cutting boards, which come in
three sizes. A small plastic one is perfect for, say, crushing garlic, and the
large plastic one, which is guttered around the edges, is good for carving meat
or doing a big job with vegetables. The medium one is an all-purpose wood board.
All go into the dishwasher.

More than one cutting board is a good investment, if only to squash our
inclination to use the same board for animal and vegetable products before
sanitizing properly - without a sharp eye for food safety, cross-contamination
can make us sick.

One handy thing I miss from my former kitchens is the magnetized knife holder
secured on the wall. Because our present kitchen has tile back splashes, there
was no place to secure it, so we've gone to a wooden knife block. This also sits
in the sink area.

No spot is forever

Getting used to the 15 kitchens always felt like camping out at first. Trouble
is, once things are unpacked and shelved, there's a huge impetus against
changing things, even if you see a better way. Wouldn't our array of coffee mugs
be better in the cupboard over the coffee maker? No, the glasses are there, next
to the sink and closest to the kitchen table and refrigerator.

Does every single nonmetal dish have to be stored above the microwave? Maybe the
life supply of paper plates could give way to the apple-peeler-corer-slicer.

Shouldn't the waffle iron get preference for space over the graduated set of
cheesecake pans we've never used?

Do we really need three rolling pins in that prime real estate drawer? And how
many times should I open the same drawer, only to discover each time that the
plastic wrap is in a lower drawer?

Still, the baking pans are easy to get at because the muffin pans, cookie sheets
and tart pans are sitting vertically in a holder designed for plate storage. The
saucepans and soup pots are handy on either side of the range, but I yearn for a
place to hang my growing collection of All-Clad, some of which now rests on top
of the refrigerator, in flagrant defiance of the point-offirst-use rule.

But the seldom-used harvest gold blender has been relegated to the dish cupboard
in the dining room, the turkey roaster to the chest in the foyer. The Crock-Pot
and deep fryer are also in the lower abysses in the dish cupboard.

Room for more?

Sure, I'd like, among other things, a rice cooker and maybe even a bread
machine, but my own rule is no more appliances, because the counters and
cupboards are full.

Fifteen kitchens. Not one of them perfect, but each one has taught us something.
Perhaps your kitchen is whispering some organizational tips to you right now.

Like, "Does the modern kitchen really need a junk drawer?"

"Well, dear kitchen, some things are sacred." GYPSY STEW If you threw away your
Crock-Pot to make room, you may be sorry you did. This is a delicious way to
cook dried beans in the Crock-Pot. Choose chicken or pork, or go meatless. The
sweet potatoes and Spanish flavors are terrific together.

1 1/ 2 cups dried garbanzo or navy beans

1 box (10-ounce) frozen chopped spinach

1/ 4 pound pork tenderloin or skinless, boneless chicken breast, optional

2 cans chicken broth (14 1/ 2 ounce), 1/ 3 less sodium

1 cup water

1 can (14 1/ 2 ounces) stewed tomatoes

1 large sweet potato, peeled and cubed

1 onion

1 red or yellow bell pepper (we used yellow)

2 teaspoons paprika

2 teaspoons cumin

1/ 4 teaspoon cinnamon

1 teaspoon dried basil

1/ 2 teaspoon salt

8 grinds fresh ground pepper

8 dashes cayenne, optional (we used 6 dashes)

 Five to 11 hours before serving: Sort and rinse beans, and place in a 3 1

2-quart slow-cooker.

Place spinach in a microwave-safe dish and defrost in microwave, 3 minutes.

Cut meat into 1/ 2-inch cubes. Cut vegetables into wedges. Add all ingredients
to slow-cooker. (We used breast, thigh and leg meat from a whole chicken that we
had used to make stock for another recipe.)

Cover and cook on low for 10 to 11 hours or on high for 5 to 6 hours until beans
are tender. Serves 8.

"Lickety-Split Meals" by Zonya Foco

Brown Sugar Cookies

1 cup butter or margarine, softened

1 cup packed brown sugar

1 egg

1 teaspoon vanilla

2 cups flour

1 teaspoon baking soda

1/ 8 teaspoon salt

Nuts to taste

Cream butter and brown sugar. Add egg and vanilla and beat well. Mix together
dry ingredients and add, combining well. Add nuts. (We used 1 cup chopped
walnuts.) Drop by teaspoonfuls onto greased cookie sheet. Bake in 350-degree
oven for 6 to 8 minutes. (We baked for 10 minutes on insulated cookie sheets.
The cookies will puff up, then flatten.) Makes 4 dozen. (We used a small cookie
scoop.)

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING, DRAWING: DANIEL MARSULA/POST-GAZETTE:

                       Copyright 2000 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              109 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                    April 13, 2000, Thursday, SOONER EDITION

THE RIGHTS OF BILL;
BREAKING UP THE MICROSOFT MONOPOLY MAY DO MORE HARM THAN GOOD

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN

SECTION: EDITORIAL, Pg. A-23

LENGTH: 747 words


I don't know anyone outside Seattle who is really pro-Microsoft. But a lot of us
are, at least mildly, anti-anti-Microsoft. That is, we worry that the crusade
against Bill Gates sets a bad, even dangerous precedent.

Let's admit the obvious: Microsoft has what amounts to a monopoly position in
the operating system market. You can argue that potential competitors have
always limited Microsoft's pricing power, and anyway, as we move from the wired
to the wireless age, that monopoly is a rapidly wasting asset. But the dominance
of Microsoft's position is hard to dispute (and the company's efforts to claim
otherwise, by their very implausibility, did a lot of damage to its case).

Monopoly per se, however, is no sin in the tech sector. On the contrary, the
prospect or at least the hope of future market dominance is what drives the
whole enterprise. Consider Amazon.com: It has been able to build a business only
because people believe that it will eventually have at least some monopoly
power. If the invisible hand works too well, and competition from other Internet
booksellers keeps Amazon's margins near zero forever, the stockholders who have
financed its growth will be sorely disappointed.

The point is that we're not in Kansas anymore -- that is, technology markets
cannot function like the market for wheat, in which many competing suppliers
drive prices down to the cost of producing one more bushel. High-tech
competition naturally and necessarily looks like a series of winner-take-all
tournaments, in which "all" means a temporary monopoly that lasts until
something dramatically better comes along.

True, Microsoft was not content with winning one tournament; it clearly used its
operating-system dominance to get a head start in other competitions. Microsoft
didn't sabotage competing software -- I happen to be a Netscape surfer and a
WordPerfect writer, and they work just fine in Windows -- but it did make sure
that the easiest choice for consumers was to use the stuff bundled with Windows,
and most people did just that.

But there is no evidence that any of this has inflicted any harm on consumers so
far. Microsoft does not charge high prices or sell poor-quality products, and
for most people the standardization of icons, commands and so on has probably
been a plus. This means that the real dispute about Microsoft's role is about
the putative impact of its strategy on the future -- on innovation, on the range
and prices of products that will be available in years to come.

The anti-Microsoft case goes like this: Bill Gates and his henchmen have created
an environment in which innovators know that they will not receive their just
reward. Invent a better digital mousetrap, and you know that either you sell out
to Microsoft -- which puts a ceiling on your potential return -or you will soon
find yourself facing competition from a free Microsoft mousetrap bundled with
Windows. So shackling or breaking up Microsoft -- and making it clear that the
same will happen to any company that tries the same kind of power play -- will
accelerate progress by ending the climate of fear.

The anti-anti-Microsoft case does not deny that there is some truth to that
story, but asserts that taking punitive action will be the worse of two evils
because it will create a different, and worse, climate of fear -- fear that
success itself will be punished. Today Microsoft, tomorrow Intel and eventually
(as soon as somebody figures out what it does) Cisco. And, oh yes, if Amazon
ever does start to justify investor expectations, the Justice Department will
step in to make sure that it doesn't. So slamming Microsoft will actually place
a chill on future progress.

Both of these positions can be, and have been, defended by reasonable people. I
don't know of any objective, quantitative way to decide which position is right;
it's a matter of educated guesswork.

But when I see the extent to which judgment -- even, if I may say so, Judge
Thomas Penfield Jackson's judgment -- has been influenced not by analysis but by
Bill Gates' image problem; when I hear that a coalition of states is demanding
damages from Microsoft, as if Windows caused lung cancer; well, my blood runs
cold. I know that there is an intellectually respectable case against Microsoft,
but I've got a bad feeling about where we are going.

Paul Krugman, the Ford International Professor of Economics at MIT, is a
syndicated columnist for The New York Times.

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              118 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                     June 20, 2000, Tuesday, SOONER EDITION

SUNNING?;
(DON'T FORGET THE RAY BAN)

BYLINE: JENNIFER RIGNANI

SECTION: HEALTH, Pg. D-1

LENGTH: 1502 words


You wouldn't exactly call Pittsburgh a sun worshipper's mecca. But when the sun
does shine, sunbathers spring up like mushrooms after a rainfall.

"We tan to look good," said Tracy Casella, a 21-year-old senior at University of
Pittsburgh who was out with friends on Flagstaff Hill in Schenley Park on a
recent sunny day. She was coated with tanning oil, but no sunscreen.

"Of course everyone looks better with a tan," added one of her friends as he
slathered on baby oil. "It hides the flab."

Are they aware of the damage the sun can cause?

"I know all about skin cancer," acknowledged Casella, a nutrition major who said
she's learned about the dangers in her courses.

Most students interviewed said they were not so worried about sun damage because
they only sunbathe during the summer and under Pittsburgh sun -- not Florida's.

Dr. Stephanie Cotell, a dermatologist at Allegheny General Hospital, said she
isn't surprised at the attitudes of the college students. "It's obvious we need
to appeal more to young people who think nothing can ever happen to them. Daily
use of sun block can prevent new skin cancers from developing."

And she said sunning in Pittsburgh is no safer than in the South. "Risk for skin
cancer is not based on where you live or the climate," Cotell said. "One of the
most significant risk factors is a history of blistering sunburns earlier in
life. So, any acute, intermittent sunburn and day-to-day exposure is very
significant."

A recent survey by the American Academy of Dermatology showed that 58 percent of
young adults under age 25 reported "working on a tan" as part of their outdoor
activities. And despite all the publicity about the dangers of sun exposure, a
study published in the May issue of the academy's journal found that many people
still aren't effectively protecting their children -or themselves -- from the
harmful rays. * * *

Skin cancer afflicts about 1.3 million Americans annually and often is curable
if detected early.

There are three types of skin cancer.

Basal cell carcinoma usually appears as a small, fleshy bump or nodule. About 75
percent of all skin cancers are this type and they usually develop on
sun-exposed areas, especially the head and neck. While basal cell carcinoma was
once found almost exclusively in middle-aged or older people, doctors said it is
being seen in younger people, probably because they are spending more time in
the sun unprotected.

Squamous cell carcinoma accounts for about 20 percent of skin cancers and may
appear as a bump or as a red, scaly patch. Like basal cell, it usually appears
on sun-exposed areas, but can also develop within scars or skin ulcers. Less
often, it forms in the genital area.

Melanoma is the deadliest form of skin cancer. It is expected to be diagnosed in
47,700 Americans this year, according to the American Cancer Society. Warning
signs of melanoma include changes in the surface of a mole; oozing, bleeding or
the appearance of a new bump; spread of pigment from a mole's border into
surrounding skin; tenderness or pain around a mole.

Certain factors can raise your risk of sun damage:

* Excessive exposure to ultraviolet radiation;

* Having a fair complexion or freckles, red or blond hair or blue eyes;

* Family history;

* Having lots of moles, irregular moles or atypically shaped moles anywhere on
the body. Vacationing at high altitudes also raises the risks because
ultraviolet radiation increases 4 percent to 5 percent for every 1,000 feet
above sea level.

Moreover, certain medications, including some antibiotics and nonsteroidal
anti-inflammatory drugs, can make skin more sensitive to the sun. * * *

Cotell, the Allegheny General dermatologist, said she doesn't tell people to
avoid the sun, "just take protective measures. And don't seek a tan."

For young people getting periodic, mild exposure, Cotell suggests wearing a
sunscreen with a minimum solar protection factor, or SPF, of 15. "That is a
broad-spectrum cover," she said, blocking ultraviolet A rays, which cause aging,
and ultraviolet B rays, which cause the burn. "We now know that you need to
block UVA and UVB."

UVB rays are the most damaging.

The SPF reflects screening only for UVB rays; there is no official rating system
for UVA protection. Sunscreens containing Parsol 1789, also known as avobenzone,
are effective against UVA rays, as are those with micronized zinc oxide or
titanium dioxide.

Though the fair-skinned are at the highest risk, everyon is susceptible to sun
damage. African Americans, for example, can develop sun-related cancers such as
Kaposi's sarcoma and cutaneous T-cell lymphoma.

If you must have a tan, get it from a bottle.

"A self-tanner is great for my patients who want a tan, but they do have to
apply a sunscreen over it, as these do not provide sun protection. "

Many young people have gotten the message about the importance of sun protection
-- but only after someone they know has developed skin cancer.

Adrianne Arnold, 23, a recent Clarion University graduate experienced first-hand
the dangers of the sun. Her father, Thomas, a plant manager at Schneider's
Dairy, used to drive two hours round-trip from Leechburg to the plant in the
Pittsburgh area.

"He never sunbathed and was always cautious," Arnold said. "Yet, three years
ago, he discovered a growth on his bicep and was diagnosed with melanoma.

"They removed it, and told him that his arm hanging out the window everyday on
his commute may have caused the cancer. That terrified me."

Arnold says that she was a lifelong sun worshipper.

"Not anymore. My dad's experience changed my life entirely." Saving the skin
you're in

* Have a doctor check any unusual blemish, mole, or other marking on the skin,
especially one that is new or one that changes in size, color or shape.

* Don't go to the tanning salon.

* Wear long sleeved clothing of a tightly woven fabric, a broad-brimmed hat.

*Always avoid midday sun when rays are strongest (10 a.m. to 4 p.m.) and stay in
the shade when near reflective surfaces such as snow, water and sand.

* About an ounce of sunscreen, enough to fill a shot glass, is needed to cover
all exposed areas of the body. Reapply sunscreen of at least SPF 15 every two
hours and always after swimming or sports.

* Make sunscreen a year-round habit. Much of a lifetime of sun exposure comes
from "incidental sun" -- sun you get from such everyday activities as walking to
your car or driving.

Source: The American Cancer Society Web and the American Academy of Dermatology.
TEST YOUR SUN SMARTS

T F 1. I can stay in the sun for as long as I want if I am wearing sunscreen.

T F 2. Since I don't sunbathe, there's no way I can get skin cancer.

T F 3. Waterproof sunscreen guarantees protection even after swimming or
sweating.

T F 4. I should put sunscreen on my newborn baby so that he/she will be safe in
the sun.

T F 5. I do not need to protect myself on cool or cloudy days.

T F 6. The only way for me to protect myself from skin cancer is to stay inside.

1. False: Sunscreens are useful in reducing the risk of skin cancer, but they do
not provide total protection from ultraviolet rays. The best way to protect
yourself is to seek shade and limit time in the sun during midday hours when the
sun is the strongest. Cover up with a shirt and hat, use a sunscreen with an SPF
of 15 or higher, and remember sunglasses for eye protection.

2. False: Sun exposure can increase your risk for skin cancer, but it's not the
only cause. People who spend a lot of time in the sun are at the highest risk
for the most common types of skin cancers (non-melanoma cancers). Occasional
exposure (such as on weekends) to strong sunlight seems to increase the risk for
melanoma, a less common, but potentially fatal skin cancer. If you have a family
history of melanoma, you may be genetically predisposed and should take extra
precautions.

3. False: "Waterproof" sunscreens may only last for an hour and 20 minutes after
swimming and/or sweating. If indicated on the label, some sunscreens may protect
you longe. Reapply as necessary.

4. False: Sunscreen is not recommended for children younger than six months old.
Keep infants in the shade and covered with comfortable clothing.

5. False: The temperature does not matter -- the ultraviolet rays do.
Ultraviolet rays are the most intense when the sun is high in the sky. Take the
shadow test -- if your shadow is shorter than you, the sun's rays are the
strongest. Ultraviolet rays can penetrate clouds, so it is important to take
precautions even on hazy days.

6. False: Outdoor activity helps maintain your physical and emotional
well-being. Vitamin D, which helps the body absorb calcium, also is synthesized
through sunlight exposure.

Source: The American Cancer Society Web site at www.cancer.org

SUMMER HEALTH

Jennifer Rignani is a free-lance writer who lives on the South Side.

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, PHOTO: John Beale/Post-Gazette: Kristan Bertovich and Harry;
Marchewka, both students at Pitt, soak up the sun on Flagstaff Hill in Oakland;
last week. The sunglasses are a good idea, and so is sunscreen.

                       Copyright 2000 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              127 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                    October 13, 2000, Friday, SOONER EDITION

THINK GLOBALLY, SUFFERING LOCALLY;
U.S. STEEL TARGETS WORLDWIDE GROWTH

BYLINE: LEN BOSELOVIC, POST-GAZETTE STAFF WRITER

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg. D-1

LENGTH: 1059 words


Unlike domestic competitors who are too poor and preoccupied with problems on
the homefront, U.S. Steel can do more than talk about being a global player.

Its pending acquisition of Slovak steelmaker VSZ marks a turning point in the
history of the nation's largest steel producer. For relatively little cash, U.S.
Steel is boosting its production capacity by 30 percent and gaining a major
foothold in Central Europe.

Yesterday, VSZ's shareholders approved the offer, which requires U.S. Steel to
pay $ 60 million in cash upfront, reimburse VSZ $ 15 million for taxes and
assume $ 325 million in debt. U.S. Steel will pay an additional $ 25 million to
$ 75 million by 2003, depending on how well its acquisition performs. It expects
to complete the purchase this month.

The Slovak company will be named U.S. Steel Kosice, after the eastern Slovak
town where the mill is located. Depending on business conditions and how much
cash the mill generates, U.S. Steel says it could invest more than $ 700 million
over the next 10 years. The investment would enable the mill to produce high-end
steels for auto makers, appliance manufacturers and other demanding customers.

"On paper, it looks like a tremendous acquisition. If they work it right ... it
was a steal," says Kenneth Hoffman, who manages the Orbitex Energy & Basic
Materials mutual fund.

U.S. Steel's Slovakian foray is not without risk. Cultural clashes seem
inevitable. VSZ made a rough transition from Communist ownership to a market
economy, suffering through a Soviet-style bout of crony capitalism and several
management changes.

At least one thing won't change fast under new ownership. U.S. Steel has
promised not to fire the mill's 16,000 workers, who are paid significantly less
than U.S. Steel's 19,000 workers. It will rely on retirement and attrition to
reduce the work force to what it terms competitive levels. It's worth noting
that U.S. Steel's 19,000 U.S. employees produce 12 million tons a year, while
Kosice's 16,000 workers produce roughly 3 million tons annually. Kosice workers
will be overseen by a cadre of 20 or so U.S. Steel employees who will be
stationed there full-time.

There are also potential rewards. U.S. Steel President Paul J. Wilhelm expects
steel consumption in Eastern Europe will grow 14 percent annually through 2003.
He also expects the region to benefit as more steel-consuming manufacturers move
operations there to take advantage of low-cost, skilled labor.

Yet even as it prepares to digest the Kosice mill, analysts say U.S. Steel needs
to do more to become a truly global steelmaker. They cite Ispat International, a
London steelmaker which made a last-minute run at VSZ's mill. Ispat has steel
operations in the United States, Mexico, Canada, Germany, Ireland, France and
Trinidad, and its affiliated companies have operations in Indonesia and
Kazakhstan.

By contrast, all U.S. Steel has are its domestic mills, Kosice and a modest
joint venture in Mexico that processes and warehouses steel.

One possible move for U.S. Steel would be investing in other Central European
steel companies to broaden Kosice's product line or boost its market clout. VSZ
"is an interesting platform to take advantage of other opportunities there,"
says Richard McLaughlin, practice director in the Pittsburgh office of industry
consultant Hatch Beddows.

Wilhelm says U.S. Steel's global strategy will involve international and
domestic acquisitions as well as joint ventures and strategic alliances. One
tool the steelmaker uses to analyze opportunities is its consulting arm, USX
Engineers & Consultants, which provides management and operations know-how to
steelmakers around the world. The unit played a big role in the Slovak deal and
its president, John Goodish, will run U.S. Steel Kosice.

"If they could find similar deals in Latin America or Asia, they might be
interested," says Morgan Stanley Dean Witter analyst Waldo T. Best.

There was a time when analysts expected a well-heeled producer such as U.S.
Steel to bulk up by pouncing on a domestic rival whose stock was in the tank.
There seldom has been a better time to pounce. At current stock prices, U.S.
Steel could take the $ 700 million it plans to invest in its Slovak mill and buy
all of the stock of Bethlehem Steel, LTV, National Steel, Weirton Steel and
Wheeling-Pittsburgh Steel. The five companies produced 28 million tons last
year, 26 percent of U.S. production.

Now analysts say any wholesale purchase of a U.S. steelmaker will probably
involve a foreign buyer seeking a foothold in the giant U.S. market -- though
such a move won't be easy. A foreign shopper would likely confront significant
obstacles to crossing America's borders. For one, an outside buyer would have to
assume millions of dollars in employee and environmental obligations. They also
would need concessions from the United Steelworkers union to realize the
efficiencies they'd need to make the takeover financially feasible. Such
givebacks could prove difficult.

"When you talk to Wilhelm, he'll tell you point blank that the biggest obstacles
[to buying a U.S. steelmaker] are off-balance sheet liabilities and the USW,"
Best says.

What's more likely, Best says, are deals such as the one U.S. Steel and LTV
announced last week. The Cleveland steelmaker won't get any cash for turning
over plants in Aliquippa and Indiana to U.S. Steel. But it will avoid spending
the $ 30 million in cash the plants consumed each year, as well as $ 70 million
in pension, benefit and other liabilities. U.S. Steel will assume about $ 95
million in employee-related liabilities, half of which will be covered by its
overfunded pension fund.

There's also an environmental twist to U.S. Steel's global strategy. Under a
1997 treaty on global warming, U.S. steelmakers would have to reduce emissions
from their U.S. plants. Wilhelm says the cost of meeting the pollution control
mandates, which won't apply to many foreign steelmakers, would put U.S.
producers at a disadvantage.

"The effect of the government's response ... would force the hot end of
steelmaking out of the United States into Third World countries that have no
limits on emissions. For domestic steelmakers without a global strategy, this
would be disastrous," Wilhelm said in a speech to an industry group this month.

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              137 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                    March 14, 2000, Tuesday, REGION EDITION

REPORTS CRITICIZE NASA STRATEGY< SPACE AGENCY URGED TO ' SLOW DOWN,' PLAN

BYLINE: MATTHEW FORDAHL, THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: NATIONAL, Pg. A-6

LENGTH: 449 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES -


In the wake of two botched missions to Mars, reports on NASA's "faster, better,
cheaper" approach to space exploration suggest that the agency is trying to do
too much with too little money and not enough oversight.

The reviews published yesterday do not recommend a return to the large,
expensive space missions of the 1970s and 1980s. Instead, management must be
held accountable, goals clearly set and, if the money isn't available, programs
downsized.

"We need to slow down some, not rush too quickly into important programs and
projects, plan and implement them more carefully, and move away from fixations
on cost and near-term gain," said Tony Spear, who led one of the reviews and is
a former manager at NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory.

Last year was especially difficult for NASA: In addition to losing two Mars
probes, space shuttle flights were delayed, the Hubble Space Telescope
temporarily shut down and other missions either missed their targets or failed
at launch.

"We regard the loss of those two missions as a wake-up call in respect to how we
manage and implement flight projects," said Larry Dumas, deputy director of the
Jet Propulsion Laboratory.

NASA Administrator Daniel Goldin ordered reviews, including the two released
yesterday: Spear's analysis of "faster, better, cheaper" and a report on
management by the Mars Climate Orbiter failure board. Last week, another board
made 81 recommendations on shuttle management, safety and technical issues.

"We knew this change would not be easy," Goldin said in a statement. "We knew we
would have problems. We pushed, we monitored and we initiated these reviews to
find the areas which need correction."

A common theme runs through both reports: "Faster, better, cheaper" missions
place too much emphasis on cost and schedule reduction and too little on
management, oversight, leadership and evaluating risk.

The Climate Orbiter, for instance, was lost when a contractor failed to convert
measurements into metric units. The $ 125 million probe flew too close to Mars
on Sept. 23 and is believed have burned up in the atmosphere.

The mistake itself was not as serious as the failure to catch it, the review
board said. Its first report, issued in November, attempted to remedy the
failures before Mars Polar Lander arrived.

But the $ 165 million spacecraft was last heard from Dec. 3, just as it was
beginning its descent to the surface.

"It's Management 101. They're basically saying there are four things you have to
balance: cost, schedule, content and risk," said John Pike, an analyst for the
Federation of American Scientists. "But they don't say very much about how to
balance those."

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              141 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                      July 21, 2000 Friday SOONER EDITION

POLITICIANS MEET THE MOB;
 'WEST WING' AND 'SOPRANOS' LEAD EMMY NOMINATIONS WITH 18 EACH

BYLINE: LYNN ELBER, THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT, Pg.42 ON THE TUBE

LENGTH: 2914 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


Call it the mob vs. the White House: "The Sopranos" and "The West Wing" each
received a leading 18 Emmy nominations yesterday.

HBO's drama about a mobster battling the feds, his family and a nervous
breakdown and NBC's tale of a fictional president and his staff will compete for
best dramatic series honors and in major acting categories at September's
Primetime Emmy Awards.

"The West Wing," although only in its first year, may have an edge: Emmy judges
have been unwilling to give a top series honor to a cable show and last year
picked ABC's legal drama "The Practice" over "The Sopranos."

The gritty mob drama also has enough violence and sex to make some judges
uncomfortable and last year managed only four awards out of a leading 16
nominations. "The West Wing" is the kind of traditional broadcast drama the
Emmys tend to smile upon.

A change in the voting process that aims to bring in a new generation of judges,
however, might boost the HBO series' chances.

The awards are to be presented Sept. 10 in ceremonies broadcast by ABC-TV.

In a bittersweet note, Nancy Marchand, who died in June, received a best
supporting actress nomination for her role as mob mom Livia Soprano in "The
Sopranos."

Other top contenders are the TV movies "RKO 281," about Orson Welles' making of
"Citizen Kane," which received 13 bids, and "Annie," which got 12.

The TV movie "Introducing Dorothy Dandridge" and the sitcom "Will & Grace" also
were among top contenders with 11 nominations apiece.

NBC, with 97 nominations, was the leading network, followed by HBO with 86, ABC
with 64, CBS with 41 and Fox with 26.

Pittsburgh native Rob Marshall received two nominations for directing and
choreographing ABC's "Annie."

Nominees will face a revised judging system. In a bid to energize the awards,
the academy is dispensing with blue-ribbon voting panels that required a weekend
spent viewing tapes at a hotel and tended to draw older academy members.

Instead, judges will be allowed to watch the nominated shows on their own.

The academy is experimenting with the approach in the top categories that are
part of the Emmy broadcast. Last year, the show drew its lowest ratings since
1990.

"You may see programs win that traditionally have been seen as too avant garde
or too edgy for the academy," said academy President James B. Chabin. "What
we're trying to do is throw the doors open and bring in a new generation."

Nominees in select categories for the 52nd annual Primetime Emmy awards,
announced yesterday by the Academy of Television Arts & Sciences:


PROGRAMS

Comedy Series: "Everybody Loves Raymond," CBS; "Frasier," NBC; "Friends," NBC;
"Sex and the City," HBO; "Will & Grace," NBC.

Drama Series: "ER," NBC; "Law & Order," NBC; "The Practice," ABC; "The
Sopranos," HBO; "The West Wing," NBC.

Miniseries: "Arabian Nights," ABC; "The Beach Boys: An American Family," ABC;
"The Corner," HBO; "Jesus," CBS; "P.T. Barnum," A&E.

Television Movie: "Annie," ABC; "If These Walls Could Talk II," HBO;
"Introducing Dorothy Dandridge," HBO; "Oprah Winfrey Presents: Tuesdays with
Morrie," ABC; "RKO 281," HBO.

Variety, Music or Comedy Series: "The Chris Rock Show," HBO; "Dennis Miller
Live," HBO; "Late Show With David Letterman," CBS; "Politically Incorrect with
Bill Maher," ABC; "The Tonight Show With Jay Leno," NBC.

Variety, Music or Comedy Special: "72nd Annual Academy Awards," ABC; "Chris
Rock: Bigger and Blacker," HBO; "Cirque du Soleil--Quidam," Bravo; "Eddie
Izzard: Dress to Kill," HBO; "Saturday Night Live: The 25th Anniversary
Special," NBC.

Classical Music-Dance Program: "Andrea Bocelli: Sacred Arias (Great
Performances)," PBS; "Central Park (Great Performances)," PBS; "Dance in
America: American Ballet Theatre in Le Corsaire," PBS; "Mostly Mozart Festival
Opening Concert (Live From Lincoln Center)," PBS; "Perlman at the Penthouse
(Live from Lincoln Center)," PBS.

Children's Program: "The Color of Friendship," Disney; "Disney's Young Musicians
Symphony Orchestra in Concert," Disney; "Goodnight Moon and Other Sleepytime
Tales," HBO; "Here's to You, Charlie Brown: 50 Great Years!," CBS; "Rugrats,"
Nickelodeon.

Nonfiction Special: "American Hollow," HBO; "Cancer: Evolution to Revolution,"
HBO; "Children in War," HBO; "Paradise Lost 2: Revelations," HBO; "Raising the
Mammoth," Discovery.

Nonfiction Series: "American Masters: Hitchcock, Selznick and the End of
Hollywood," PBS; "Behind the Music: Tina Turner," VH1; "Biography: Oprah
Winfrey: Heart of the Matter," A[E] "Inside the Actors Studio: Kevin Spacey,"
Bravo; "New York (The American Experience)," PBS.

Animated Program (one hour or less): "Family Guy: Road to Rhode Island," Fox;
"MTV Downtown: Show 11," MTV; "The Powerpuff Girls: Beat Your Greens/Down on
Dirty," Cartoon; "The Simpsons: Behind the Laughter," Fox; "South Park: Chinpoko
Mon," Comedy Central.

Animated Program (more than one hour): "Olive: The Other Reindeer," Fox;
"Walking With Dinosaurs," Discovery.


ACTORS

Actor, Comedy Series: Michael J. Fox, "Spin City," ABC; Kelsey Grammer,
"Frasier," NBC; John Lithgow, "3rd Rock from the Sun," NBC; Eric McCormack,
"Will & Grace," NBC; Ray Romano, "Everybody Loves Raymond," CBS.

Actor, Drama Series: Dennis Franz, "NYPD Blue," ABC; James Gandolfini, "The
Sopranos," HBO; Jerry Orbach, "Law & Order," NBC; Martin Sheen, "The West Wing,"
NBC; Sam Waterston, "Law & Order," NBC.

Actor, Miniseries or Movie: Beau Bridges, "P.T. Barnum," A[E] Brian Dennehy,
"Arthur Miller's Death of a Salesman," Showtime; Jack Lemmon, "Oprah Winfrey
Presents: Tuesdays with Morrie," ABC; William H. Macy, "A Slight Case of
Murder," TNT; Liev Schreiber, "RKO 281," HBO.

Actress, Comedy Series: Jenna Elfman, "Dharma & Greg," ABC; Patricia Heaton,
"Everybody Loves Raymond," CBS; Jane Kaczmarek, "Malcolm in the Middle," Fox;
Debra Messing, "Will & Grace," NBC; Sarah Jessica Parker, "Sex and the City,"
HBO.

Actress, Drama Series: Lorraine Bracco, "The Sopranos," HBO; Amy Brenneman,
"Judging Amy," CBS; Edie Falco, "The Sopranos," HBO; Julianna Margulies, "ER,"
NBC; Sela Ward, "Once and Again," ABC.

Actress, Miniseries or Movie: Halle Berry, "Introducing Dorothy Dandridge," HBO;
Judy Davis, "A Cooler Climate," Showtime; Sally Field, "A Cooler Climate,"
Showtime; Holly Hunter, "Harlan County War," Showtime; Gena Rowlands, "The Color
of Love: Jacey's Story," CBS.

Supporting Actor in a Comedy Series: Peter Boyle, "Everybody Loves Raymond,"
CBS; Brad Garrett, "Everybody Loves Raymond," CBS; Sean Hayes, "Will & Grace,"
NBC; Peter MacNicol, "Ally McBeal," Fox; David Hyde Pierce, "Frasier," NBC.

Supporting Actor in a Drama Series: Michael Badalucco, "The Practice," ABC;
Dominic Chianese, "The Sopranos," HBO; Steve Harris, "The Practice," ABC;
Richard Schiff, "The West Wing," NBC; John Spencer, "The West Wing," NBC.

Supporting Actor in a Miniseries or Movie: Hank Azaria,"Oprah Winfrey Presents:
Tuesdays with Morrie," ABC; Klaus Maria Brandauer, "Introducing Dorothy
Dandridge," HBO; James Cromwell, "RKO 281," HBO; Danny Glover, "Freedom Song,"
TNT; John Malkovich, "RKO 281," HBO.

Supporting Actress in a Comedy Series: Jennifer Aniston, "Friends," NBC; Kim
Cattrall, "Sex and the City," HBO; Lisa Kudrow, "Friends," NBC; Megan Mullally,
"Will & Grace," NBC; Doris Roberts, "Everybody Loves Raymond," CBS.

Supporting Actress in a Drama Series: Stockard Channing, "The West Wing," NBC;
Tyne Daly, "Judging Amy," CBS; Allison Janney, "The West Wing," NBC; Nancy
Marchand, "The Sopranos," HBO; Holland Taylor, "The Practice," ABC.

Supporting Actress in a Miniseries or Movie: Kathy Bates, "Annie," ABC;
Elizabeth Franz, "Arthur Miller's Death of a Salesman," Showtime; Melanie
Griffith, "RKO 281," HBO; Vanessa Redgrave, "If These Walls Could Talk 2," HBO;
Maggie Smith, "David Copperfield," PBS.

Guest Actor in a Comedy Series: Anthony LaPaglia, "Frasier," NBC; Carl Reiner,
"Beggars and Choosers," Showtime; Tom Selleck, "Friends," NBC; Bruce Willis,
"Friends," NBC; Henry Winkler, "Battery Park," NBC.

Guest Actor in a Drama Series: Alan Alda, "ER," NBC; Paul Dooley, "The
Practice," ABC; Kirk Douglas, "Touched by an Angel," CBS; James Whitmore, "The
Practice," ABC; Henry Winkler, "The Practice," ABC.

Guest Actress in a Comedy Series: Bea Arthur, "Malcolm in the Middle," Fox;
Cheri Oteri, "Just Shoot Me," NBC; Debbie Reynolds, "Will & Grace," NBC; Jean
Smart, "Frasier," NBC; Holland Taylor, "The Lot," AMC.

Guest Actress in a Drama Series: Jane Alexander, "Law & Order/Law & Order:
Special Victims Unit," NBC; Kathy Baker, "Touched by an Angel," CBS; Marlee
Matlin, "The Practice," ABC; Tracy Pollan, "Law & Order: Special Victims Unit,"
NBC; Beah Richards, "The Practice," ABC.

Individual Performance in a Variety or Music Program: Billy Crystal, "72nd
Annual Academy Awards," ABC; Cher, "Cher: Live in Concert-- From the MGM Grand
in Las Vegas," HBO; Eddie Izzard, "Eddie Izzard: Dress to Kill," HBO; Chris
Rock, "Chris Rock: Bigger and Blacker," HBO; Molly Shannon, "Saturday Night
Live," NBC.


WRITING AND DIRECTING

Writing for a Comedy Series: "Everybody Loves Raymond: Bad Moon Rising," CBS;
"Frasier: Something Borrowed, Someone Blue," NBC; "Freaks and Geeks: Pilot,"
NBC; "Malcolm in the Middle: Pilot," Fox; "Sex and the City: Evolution," HBO;
"Sex and the City: Ex in the City," HBO.

Writing for a Drama Series: "Buffy the Vampire Slayer: Hush," WB; "The Sopranos:
Funhouse," HBO; "The Sopranos: The Knight in White Satin Armor," HBO; "The West
Wing: In Excelsis Deo," NBC; "The West Wing: Pilot," NBC.

Writing for a Variety, Music or Comedy Program: "Chris Rock: Bigger and
Blacker," HBO; "The Chris Rock Show," HBO; "Eddie Izzard: Dress to Kill," HBO;
"Late Night With Conan O'Brien," NBC; "Late Show With David Letterman," CBS.

Writing for a Miniseries or Movie: "Cheaters," HBO; "The Corner," HBO;
"Homicide: The Movie," NBC; "If These Walls Could Talk 2: 1961," HBO; "RKO 281,"
HBO.

Directing for a Comedy Series: "Ally McBeal: Ally McBeal: the Musical," Fox;
"Everybody Loves Raymond: The Christmas Picture," CBS; "Friends: The One That
Could Have Been, Parts 1 & 2," NBC; "Malcolm in the Middle: Pilot," Fox; "Sports
Night: Quo Vadimus," ABC; "Will & Grace: Homo for the Holidays," NBC.

Directing for a Drama Series: "ER: All in the Family," NBC; "ER: Such Sweet
Sorrow," NBC; "The Sopranos: Funhouse," HBO; "The Sopranos: The Knight in White
Satin Armor," HBO; "The West Wing: Pilot," NBC.

Directing for a Variety or Music Program: "72nd Annual Academy Awards," ABC;
"Chris Rock: Bigger and Blacker," HBO; "The Gershwins' Crazy for You (Great
Performances)," PBS; "Late Show with David Letterman," CBS; "Saturday Night
Live: The 25th Anniversary Special," NBC; "The Tonight Show with Jay Leno," NBC.

Directing for a Miniseries, Movie or Special: "Annie," ABC; "The Corner," HBO;
"Fail Safe," CBS; "Introducing Dorothy Dandridge," HBO; "RKO 281," HBO.

Art Direction for a Multicamera Series: "Dharma & Greg: Hell to the Chief," ABC;
"Love & Money: Pilot," CBS; "3rd Rock from the Sun: Dial M for Dick," NBC; "Will
& Grace: Ben? Her?," NBC.

Art Direction for a Single-Camera Series: "Judging Amy: Spoil the Child," CBS;
"Sex and the City: They Shoot People, Don't They?," HBO; "The Sopranos: House
Arrest," HBO; "The West Wing: Pilot," NBC.

Art Direction for a Miniseries, Movie or a Special: "Annie," ABC; "Arabian
Nights, Part 2," ABC; "Geppetto," ABC; "Introducing Dorothy Dandridge," HBO;
"RKO 281," HBO.

Art Direction for a Variety or Music Program: "72nd Annual Academy Awards," ABC;
"Cher: Live in Concert -- From the MGM Grand in Las Vegas," HBO; "The 42nd
Annual Grammy Awards," CBS; "MADtv: Show 511," Fox; "Saturday Night Live: The
25th Anniversary Special," NBC.

Lighting Direction (electronic): "72nd Annual Academy Awards," ABC; "Arista
Records 25th Anniversary Celebration," NBC; "Cher: Live in Concert -- From the
MGM Grand in Las Vegas," HBO; "Fail Safe," CBS; "The Tonight Show With Jay Leno:
1738," NBC.

Music Direction: "Annie," ABC; "ETrade Super Bowl XXXIV Halftime Show," ABC;
"Heroes for the Planet, Featuring Special Guest Charlotte Church," A[E] "The
Kennedy Center Honors," CBS; "The Little Richard Story," NBC.


TECHNICAL AND OTHER

Casting for a Comedy Series: "Freaks and Geeks," NBC; "Malcolm in the Middle,"
Fox; "Sex and the City," HBO; "Sports Night," ABC; "Will & Grace," NBC.

Casting for a Drama Series: "ER," NBC; "Law & Order," NBC; "The Practice," ABC;
"The Sopranos," HBO; "The West Wing," NBC.

Casting for a Miniseries, Movie or a Special: "Annie," ABC; "The Corner," HBO;
"Fail Safe," CBS: "If These Walls Could Talk 2," HBO.

Choreography: "Annie," ABC; "Cher: Live in Concert -- From the MGM Grand in Las
Vegas," HBO; "The Drew Carey Show," ABC; "Ice Wars," CBS; "Introducing Dorothy
Dandridge," HBO.

Cinematography for a Multicamera Series: "Everybody Loves Raymond: Roberts
Rodeo," CBS; "Spin City: Goodbye," ABC; "Sports Night: Cut Man," ABC; "3rd Rock
from the Sun: Dick and Harry Fall in a Hole," NBC; "Will & Grace: Acting Out,"
NBC.

Cinematography for a Single-Camera Series: "Buffy the Vampire Slayer: Hush," WB;
"JAG: Boomerang (Part 2)," CBS; "Law & Order: Entitled (Part 2)," NBC; "The
Sopranos: D-Girl," HBO; "The West Wing: Pilot," NBC.

Cinematography for a Miniseries, Movie or Special: "Annie," ABC; "A Christmas
Carol," TNT; "Dirty Pictures," Showtime; "Introducing Dorothy Dandridge," HBO;
"Witness Protection," HBO.

Commercial: FedEx/Shipping Services, "Action Figures"; Electronic Data Systems
(EDS), "Cat Herders"; Nike, "The Morning After"; Budweiser, "Whassup True";
Monster.com, "When I Grow Up."

Costumes for a Series: "Any Day Now: It's Not About the Butter (Part 1 and Part
2)," Lifetime; "Providence: Syd in Wonderland," NBC; "Sex and the City: La
Douleur Exquise!" HBO; "The Sopranos: Commendatori," HBO; "Star Trek: Voyager:
Muse," UPN; "The West Wing: The State Dinner," NBC.

Costumes for a Miniseries, Movie or Special: "Annie," ABC; "Arabian Nights, Part
2," ABC; "Don Quixote," TNT; "Introducing Dorothy Dandridge," HBO.

Costumes for a Variety or Music Program: "Cher: Live In Concert -- from the MGM
Grand In Las Vegas," HBO; "Elizabeth Taylor: A Fashion Biography," AMC; "MADtv:
Movie Show," Fox; "Saturday Night Live -- Host: Christopher Walken," NBC;
"Target Stars On Ice," CBS.

Hairstyling for a Series: "Buffy the Vampire Slayer: Beer Bad," WB; "MADtv:
Movie Show," Fox; "Saturday Night Live -- Host: Alan Cumming," NBC; "The
Sopranos: Full Leather Jacket," HBO; "Star Trek: Voyager: Dragons Teeth," UPN;
"That ' 70s Show: Vanstock," Fox.

Hairstyling for a Miniseries, Movie or Special: "Annie," ABC; "Arabian Nights,
Part 2," ABC; "Geppetto," ABC; "Introducing Dorothy Dandridge," HBO; "RKO 281,"
HBO.

Main Title Design: "Nature," PBS; "Now and Again," CBS; "The 10th Kingdom," NBC;
"The West Wing," NBC.

Makeup for a Series: "Angel: The Ring," WB; "MADtv: Movie Show," Fox; "Star
Trek: Voyager: Ashes to Ashes," UPN; "That ' 70s Show: Vanstock," Fox; "The
X-Files: Thief," Fox.

Makeup for a Miniseries, Movie or Special: "Arabian Nights, Part 2," ABC; "Don
Quixote," TNT; "Geppetto," ABC; "Jason and the Argonauts: Part 1," NBC; "Jesus:
Part 2," CBS.

Music Composition for a Series (Dramatic Underscore): "Falcone: Lealta," CBS;
"Felicity: Help for the Lovelorn," WB; "Star Trek: Voyager: Spirit Folk," UPN;
"The X-Files: Thief," Fox; "Xena: Warrior Princess: Fallen Angel," syndicated.

Music Composition for a Miniseries, Movie or Special: "Beyond the Prairie: The
True Story of Laura Ingalls Wilder," CBS; "Don Quixote," TNT; "Enslavement: The
True Story of Fanny Kemble," Showtime; "RKO 281," HBO; "Walking With Dinosaurs,"
Discovery.

Music and Lyrics: "AFIs 100 Years...100 Stars," CBS, song title: "Without You";
"The 14th Annual American Comedy Awards," Fox, song title: "My Bill Gates";
"Family Guy," Fox, song title: "We Only Live to Kiss Your A --"; "Freedom Song,"
TNT, song title: "Song of Freedom"; "Nickellennium," Nickelodeon, song title:
"Up to You."

Main Title Theme Music: "Falcone," CBS; "Jack London's Call of the Wild," Animal
Planet; "Jack of All Trades," syndicated; "The Pretender," NBC; "The West Wing,"
NBC.

Special Visual Effects for a Series: "Star Trek: Voyager: Life Line," UPN; "Star
Trek: Voyager: The Haunting of Deck 12," UPN; "Stargate SG-1: Nemesis,"
Showtime; "The X-Files: First Person Shooter," Fox; "The X-Files: Rush," Fox.

Special Visual Effects for a Miniseries, Movie or Special: "72nd Annual Academy
Awards: Billy's Film," ABC; "Aftershock: Earthquake in New York -- Part 1," NBC;
"Jason and the Argonauts -- Part 2," NBC; "The Magical Legend of the Leprechauns
-- Part 1," NBC; "Walking With Dinosaurs," Discovery.

Achievement in Nonfiction Programming--Cinematography: "Children in War," HBO;
"New York (The American Experience)," PBS; "Raising the Mammoth," Discovery.

Achievement in Nonfiction Programming--Picture Editing: "New York (The American
Experience): Cosmopolis 1919-1931," PBS; "Raising the Mammoth," Discovery; "The
Real World: Hawaii: No. 812," MTV; "Walking With Dinosaurs," Discovery.

Achievement in Nonfiction Programming--Sound Editing: "Raising the Mammoth,"
Discovery; "Walking With Dinosaurs," Discovery.

Achievement in Nonfiction Programming--Sound Mixing: "Raising the Mammoth,"
Discovery; "Walking With Dinosaurs," Discovery.


LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
WEEKEND MAG

GRAPHIC: Photo: The late Nancy Marchand and James Gandolfini are both nominated
for "The Sopranos"
 Photo: Martin Sheen is one of five cast members nominated for "The West Wing."

                       Copyright 2000 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              151 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                   December 26, 2000, Tuesday, SOONER EDITION

WEARY WORLD STRUGGLES TO REJOICE;
ISRAELI-ARAB VIOLENCE CASTS PALL OVER BETHLEHEM; INDONESIA MOURNS CHURCH;
BOMBING VICTIMS.

BYLINE: AUDREY WOODS, THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: WORLD, Pg. A-4

LENGTH: 753 words

DATELINE: LONDON


NATO troops at Mass in Bosnia and Orthodox Christians in the candlelit splendor
of Istanbul's cathedral kept the flames of hope and peace burning on Christmas
Day, while in the birthplace of Jesus much of the season's joy was lost in the
sorrow of Israeli-Palestinian violence.

In Indonesia, after a spate of fatal church bombings on Christmas Eve, many
Christians stayed away from services yesterday for fear of renewed attacks.
Although no one in the mostly Muslim nation claimed responsibility, President
Abdurrahman Wahid blamed forces he said were intent on destabilizing the
country.

The Catholic Church tried to ease the volatile situation after 15 were killed
and nearly 100 people were injured. "Even if we know who is behind the bombings,
I urge all Christians to forgive," Indonesian Cardinal Julius Darmaatmadja said
yesterday.

A weary Pope John Paul II was dismayed by the attacks in Indonesia, where, he
said, "Our brothers and sisters in faith, even on this Christmas Day, are
undergoing a tragic time of trial and suffering."

In his traditional Christmas Day message "Urbi et Orbi" (Latin for "to the city
and to the world"), the 80-year-old pontiff lamented the "endless streams" of
refugees from conflicts around the world and spoke particularly of the Middle
East, where "violence continues to stain with blood the difficult path to
peace."

In the West Bank town of Bethlehem, revered by Christians as the birthplace of
Jesus, the Christmas sprit of the past -- and the tourism of the present -were
subdued by the lingering animosity of three months of Palestinian-Israeli
violence. At least 345 people have been killed, most of them Palestinians.

The oppressive atmosphere was not lightened by Iraqi leader Saddam Hussein, who
called on Christians and Muslims around the world to wage holy war against
Israel.

His message appeared on the front page of every newspaper in Baghdad.

About 1,000 miles away, in Istanbul, a more joyous celebration took place. The
leaders of 13 Orthodox Christian churches gathered at the city's Byzantine
cathedral to observe Christmas together for the first time in their history, as
a culmination of festivities marking the 2,000th anniversary of Christ's birth.

Ecumenical Patriarch Bartholomew I, in vestments of brocade and gold, led the
two-hour service in ornate surroundings as throngs of the faithful crowded the
aisles to film with video cameras.

Bartholomew said his church has shown its "concern for the natural environment
as well as for peaceful resolution among peoples, nations and various churches."

Secular leaders, too, expressed their concerns and appealed to the best in their
citizens.

Sweden's King Carl XVI Gustaf said he was disappointed by the failure of the
world climate talks last month in the Netherlands.

"This is worrying, especially considering that many scientists, already today,
see more and more consequences of man's irresponsible behavior with, for
example, a poisoned environment, climate changes and degenerative illnesses as a
result," he said.

Queen Elizabeth II told a vast audience on television, radio and the Internet
that the teachings of Jesus were part of the framework of her own life, and said
many others had been inspired by Jesus' simple but powerful teaching to "treat
others as you would like them to treat you."

In a traditional Christmas Eve message, Belgium's King Albert II warned his
country against racism and xenophobia, issues that have gained attention since
the electoral success three months ago of a Flemish nationalist party opposed to
immigration.

The king also spoke of his recent visit to Belgian peacekeeping troops in the
Balkans, saying he was "horrified by the ravages caused in our times and on our
continent by extreme nationalism and xenophobia." King Albert also used his
speech to pay homage to Belgian peacekeepers in the Balkans.

For thousands of NATO troops in Bosnia, Christmas this year meant being far from
their families.

Christmas trees and colored lights decorated the U.S. barracks Eagle base in
northern Bosnia. Near Mostar, southern Bosnia, soldiers from France, Spain,
Italy and Portugal held a dinner, attended Mass and sang songs from all their
nations.

At Camp Bondsteel in the Yugoslav province of Kosovo, members of the
4,500-strong U.S. contingent were missing their loved ones.

"I wish I was home for the holidays, but what can you do?" said 28-year-old
Capt. Brook Maynelt of Illinois. "There's a job to be done."

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              158 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                  January 23, 2000, Sunday, FIVE STAR EDITION

FERRARI 330 GT ABOUT BEST OF THE BUNCH BUT BE READY TO WORK ON IT

BYLINE: TOM & RAY MAGLIOZZI

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg. H-51, CLICK & CLACK

LENGTH: 893 words


Dear Tom and Ray: Am I nuts? I want to buy a Ferrari. No, not one of the new
gazillion dollar Testarossas or whatever; the car I want is a 330 GT 2+2 from
around 1965. Now, this car would be used for trips to the beach and other local
trips, but would probably not be my daily ride. My question is, can the average
guy maintain one of these, or do I need to hire Luigi from Modena to do my oil
changes? I hear all kinds of horror stories about how expensive Ferraris are to
maintain, but if I don't race the thing, how expensive can normal upkeep be? Or
are they just lousy cars? I've lusted after this model ever since they could be
had on the used market for about $ 17,000 or so. Now that prices have come back
to earth from the big, speculative run of a few years ago, I'm really itching
again to get one. Should I, or am I nuts?

-

Glen

RAY: We know a lot about nuts, but we don't know much about Ferraris, Glenn. So
we called Eugene Czachor of Northeast Exotics in Kittery Point, Maine. Not only
does Eugene buy and rebuild cars like these, but he's also Tom's brotherin-law,
so we already had his phone number handy. I mention that in the interest of full
disclosure.

TOM: Eugene says the 330 GT is actually one of the more reliable Ferraris (How's
that for damning with faint praise!). Actually, it's a fairly heavy car, so it's
not "delicate" like some of the other highend Ferraris.

RAY: Eugene says it's got a great motor, a sturdy suspension system, simple
electronics (points), and a pretty good electrical system (Columnist's Note: For
an Italian car). It's made up of old technology, so if you're a good backyard
mechanic, you should be able to work on this car. In fact, he says if he were
going to buy a Ferrari to drive every day, it would either be a 330 GT or a 365
GT.

TOM: Getting parts won't be easy. There are a few sources around, but you'd
probably be welladvised to join a Ferrari club so you have people to ask. And
some of the parts are rebuildable, if you're capable of that.

RAY: The things to watch out for, that are difficult to fix, are rust and
excessive oil burning. Don't let a little oil burning scare you away, says
Eugene. (Columnist's Note: After all, it's an Italian car!). But a Ferrari that
burns oil excessively is one to watch out for.

TOM: So as far as Ferraris go, the 330 GT is a good choice. And as long as you
don't care if you get 12 miles per gallon (which you will), don't care if you'll
pay an astronomical sum for insurance (which you will), don't care if you have
to get your parts mail-order (which you will) and you have time for a new
"hobby" (which this will be), this could be just the car for you.

RAY: So if it's any consolation, Glenn, at least Tom's brother-in-law Eugene
doesn't think you're nuts.

TOM: Of course, in the interests of full disclosure, we should mention that
Eugene is nuts. Good luck, Glenn.

*

Dear Tom and Ray:

We spend five months each winter in a warmer climate and store our other car in
the garage. When we return, the battery has always run down. There's no short,
so it must just be running down from disuse. I have a small trickle charger that
I sometimes use to boost my lawn mower battery. What if I hooked it to my car
battery, and a timer unit turned it on for 20 minutes or so each day? To help
save you time, I'm providing you with three possible answers: A) This has to be
among the two to three dumbest ideas we have ever heard. You'll burn up your car
and enlarge the ozone hole in the Earth's atmosphere; B) This is a stroke of
genius. Wish we had thought of it. Get a patent on it and become a millionaire!
Or C) Disconnect your battery and reset the clock and radio settings when you
get back.

-

Roy

RAY: Well, first of all, Roy, we want to thank you for your thoughtful and
considerate approach. If more of our readers gave us questions in the form of
multiple choice, we'd get a lot more of them right.

TOM: Not necessarily. But in this case, our answers are A and C.

RAY: Someone already has a patent on something like this, but we don't recommend
it. It's just too risky to play around with that kind of electricity when you're
not around to monitor it. It'll probably work, but what if something goes wrong?

TOM: Right. Which would you rather do when you get home after the winter, Roy?
Charge up the battery overnight and reset your radio buttons, or sift through
the charred remains of your furniture and personal belongings looking for your
fire-insurance policy?

RAY: Here's what I'd do. I'd either disconnect the battery, or just join a road
club, such as AAA. For 40 bucks a year or so, they'll come and jump-start your
car whenever you need them to. So when you get home from Florida or Arizona or
wherever, you call them up, they come out and start the car, and then you drive
around and let the battery charge itself back up.

TOM: The only problem is that sometimes you have to wait a long time for the
road service to show up, and that's inconvenient. Wait! I've got it!! Put in
your call for road service before you head south for the winter!

"Car Talk with Click & Clack" airs at 10 a.m. Saturdays on WDUQ-FM, 90.5. You
can write to Click & Clack in care of King Features, 235 E. 45th St., New York,
N.Y. 10017, or contact them on the Web through the Car Talk section of cars.com.

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              160 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                   January 29, 2000, Saturday, SOONER EDITION

FCC RECANTS ON RELIGIOUS PROGRAMMING

BYLINE: TIM MENEES; ROB OWEN, POST-GAZETTE TV EDITOR

SECTION: ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT, Pg. B-14, TV NEWS

LENGTH: 1766 words


Yesterday the Federal Communications Commission struck down its guidelines for
religious broadcasters with noncommercial educational licenses.

Those guidelines were included in last month's ruling that approved WQED
Pittsburgh's sale of WQEX, the transfer of Cornerstone TeleVision's WPCB from
Channel 40 (a commercial license) to Channel 16 (a noncommercial educational
license) and the entrance of Pax TV into the market on Channel 40.

The three-way deal was intended to be a way for WQED to pull itself out of debt,
with WQED and WPCB splitting the $ 35 million family friendly Pax TV intended to
pay to purchase WPCB's spot on the dial.

Cornerstone pulled out of the deal last week because it deemed the FCC's
"additional guidance" damaging to its religious mission. The FCC guidance stated
at least 50 percent of programming on a noncommercial educational station must
be "generally educational" in nature. Programs devoted to "religious
exhortation, proselytizing or statements of personally held beliefs" would not
qualify, nor would most church services.

B.J. Leber, WQED executive director of communications and outreach, said she was
heartened by the FCC decision.

"It sounds like great news," she said. "We look forward to meeting with the
other parties to see where it goes from here."

It may go nowhere.

Cornerstone vice president of administration and finance Mark Dreistadt said the
company had no plans to re-enter the deal.

"We believe the FCC, in issuing these additional guidelines, revealed an
inherent bias as it affects religious broadcasters with respect to noncommercial
educational television channels," Dreistadt said. "The fact that they would
simply remove the additional guidance language does not change the inherent
bias; it just removes the language."

Dreistadt said WPCB remains concerned about what rules the FCC might create in
the future.

"We feel at this point the risk is too significant," Dreistadt said. "Unless and
until we have a strong assurance from the FCC that religious programmers would
not be subject to scrutiny or our license would not be subject to any level of
peril, we're not entertaining even conversations toward entering into the
agreement."

Last week, Cornerstone president Oleen Eagle also said removing the additional
guidelines would not be enough to get Cornerstone back on board.

"We just feel the climate at the FCC right now is hostile to our needs," Eagle
said. "We can't take the risk of losing our license later because of something
they don't approve of."

Dreistadt said the station must raise funds by next week to pay for more than $
1 million worth of Paxson equipment - transmitter, antenna, transmission line -
that WPCB installed and is using.

"If we are not able to resolve outstanding equipment issues by Feb. 4, we will
be subject to breach of contract, and we do not want that to happen," Dreistadt
said. "There has been no legal action filed so far, but there are reasons to
believe Paxson Communications may be entertaining thoughts of filing against
Cornerstone TeleVision."

Jerry Starr, co-chair of Save Pittsburgh Public Television and executive
director of the newly formed Citizens for Independent Public Broadcasting in
Washington, D.C., said he and other opponents of the deal will remain vigilant.

"It would be a serious mistake for Cornerstone to assume that this adjustment in
language, done out of concern for other stations, suddenly makes their
[original] application acceptable," Starr said. "Their programming is still
expected to be educational, it's still expected to serve the broader community,
and if necessary we're still prepared to monitor them and report."

The FCC reconsidered and vacated the guidelines because "it has become clear
that our actions have created less certainty rather than more, contrary to our
intent."In hindsight, we see the difficulty of minting clear definitional
parameters for ' educational, instructional or cultural' programming,
particularly without the benefit of broad comment," the FCC statement said. "We
will defer to the editorial judgment of the licensee unless such judgment is
arbitrary or unreasonable."

Lowell "Bud" Paxson, chairman of Pax TV parent company Paxson Communications,
issued a statement saying "the FCC did the right thing."I personally commend
each of the commissioners that voted on changing the language," Paxson said.
"This is a great day in America for the First Amendment and free speech."

U.S. Rep. Mike Oxley, R-Ohio, introduced the Religious Broadcasting Freedom Act
in Congress this week in an effort to repeal the FCC's additional guidance. A
press release from his office said 77 members of the House co-sponsored the
Oxley bill.

In a statement, Oxley claimed "complete and total victory for free religious
expression."Religious broadcasters and their listeners were a target for an FCC
that sought to limit their freedom to express religious faith," Oxley said. "It
was wrong, and I'm thrilled that the FCC has seen the error of its ways."

FCC commissioner Gloria Tristani dissented from the order, calling it "a sad and
shameful day for the FCC."In vacating last month's ' additional guidance' on its
own motion, without even waiting for reconsideration petitions to be filed, this
supposedly independent agency has capitulated to an organized campaign of
distortion and demagoguery," Tristani wrote. "At bottom, the additional guidance
provided in last month's decision stood for one simple proposition: Not all
religious-oriented programming will count toward the requirement that reserved
television channels be devoted primarily to ' educational' use."

Tristani said the order takes the FCC to where it stood before the case began:
"Programming on the reserved channels still must be primarily educational.
Programming about religion may still qualify as educational, but not all
religious programming will qualify. The only difference now is that neither
licensees nor the public will have the benefit of specific guidance."

In a statement concurring with the FCC order, commissioner Harold W.
Furchtgott-Roth agreed with the repeal, saying the FCC's Mass Media Bureau
should not engage in program content review or programming quantification.

"The many and grave problems occasioned by direct review of religious
programming for educational purpose were plainly perceptible when the Commission
first set forth its ' additional guidance,' "wrote Furchtgott-Roth. "That is why
I voted against it then, and why I vote to remove it from our books now."

pg00 0163 000131 R S 0001310094 00004233 IT R

A winter storm that glazed much of the Southeast in a thick coat of ice moved up
the coast yesterday, leaving warmer temperatures and drier roads for thousands
of football fans who trekked to Georgia Dome to watch the Super Bowl.

The storm brought snow, sleet and rain from the Carolinas to southeastern New
York, knocking out power to tens of thousands of customers.

The same storm had dumped more than a foot of snow in parts of the southern
Plains and the South just days earlier. It was expected to reach western Maine
today.

"There are a lot of cars out there tonight, slipping and sliding all over the
place," said Richard Parese Sr., whose towing company in Sinking Springs, Berks
County, Pa., had 30 calls from stranded motorists in less than three hours last
evening.

"I thought most people would have stayed home tonight to watch the Super Bowl,"
Parese said.

By last evening, six inches of snow had fallen in western Maryland and dozens of
flights were canceled at Baltimore-Washington International Airport. In
Virginia, more than 175,000 electricity customers lost power as conditions
worsened through the day.

In eastern Pennsylvania, where drivers were still sliding on side streets slick
with ice from a storm earlier in the week, up to 12 inches of snow were expected
overnight. The Pennsylvania Legislature canceled its sessions today.

A mix of snow, freezing rain and sleet was expected across Connecticut,
Massachusetts and Rhode Island through last night, with accumulations of as much
as eight inches of snow.

Although the icy conditions made driving hazardous, North Carolina authorities
said there were few accidents and most motorists appeared to be staying home
yesterday, especially with some stores closed and church services canceled.

"I think people are realizing that they shouldn't be on the roads if they don't
know how to drive in it," said Penny Roark, a dispatcher in Watauga County, N.C.

North Carolina's two major utilities reported more than 11,000 customers without
electricity yesterday afternoon.

In Georgia early yesterday, trees were "popping like popcorn" and power lines
shorted out under the weight of the ice.

Temperatures rose above freezing for the first time in two days, clearing off
roads that had been so icy Saturday even walking had been treacherous.

Both the Tennessee Titans and the St. Louis Rams had canceled plans to practice
in the Georgia Dome on Saturday after hundreds of accidents were reported,
including a 47-car pileup.

South Carolina Gov. Jim Hodges requested $ 9.2 million in federal disaster aid
to help his state dig out. Power was knocked out to about 20,000 customers as
the freezing drizzle encrusted lines, cars and roads.

"Snow and ice have pelted South Carolina for a week now," Hodges said in his
request to President Clinton. "It's clear this unusual run of winter storms is
causing unexpected problems."

Icy pavement and heavy fog in West Virginia contributed to a multiple-vehicle
crash that killed three people yesterday morning west of Charleston, state
police reported. Two weather-related traffic deaths were reported in Georgia.

Georgia utilities reported as many as 50,000 customers lost power across the
central part of the state - far fewer than the 500,000 customers who faced
blackouts after a storm that stunned North Carolina with nearly 2 feet of snow
rolled through a week ago.

"Georgia just doesn't get two ice storms in a week," said Phyllis Turner,
spokeswoman for the Georgia Transmission Corp. She said power line repairs were
slowed because "we'll get one up and then have to go back when a tree brings it
down again."The trees have been popping like popcorn down here," Mike Doster
said yesterday from his home in Griffin, about 35 miles south of Atlanta. "Had I
not moved my station wagon yesterday, it would have been flattened."

Post-Gazette staff writer Caroline Abels contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              181 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                     May 15, 2000, Monday, ONE STAR EDITION

OF BEES, BEETLES, SEX AND SURVIVAL

BYLINE: FROM LOCAL AND WIRE REPORTS

SECTION: SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY AND MEDICINE, Pg. A-10

LENGTH: 599 words


One-night stands can be bad news not just for humans, but for other species,
too. Bees that are too eager to have sex sometimes try to mate with a clump of
beetle larvae, scientists have found.

In the Mojave desert, blister beetles, or Meloe franciscanus, have evolved to
take advantage of the unsuspecting bee Habropoda pallida by stealing pollen
stores in the bees' nests.

Scientists have found the larvae arrange themselves into clusters that resemble
female bees. When an oversexed male bee lands on them, the larvae crawl onto his
stomach and hang on. Then, when the bee gets truly lucky and finds a real female
to mate with, the larvae grab onto her and are carried back to the nest.

John Hafernik and Leslie Saul-Gershenz of San Francisco State University played
voyeur to these desert matings so conservationists could better understand how
species interact.

"We believe that the mimicry practised by M. franciscanus larvae, together with
their subsequent venereal transmission, enhances their chance of finding a bee's
nest," the scientists wrote earlier this month in Nature.

Stroke recovery at home

Stroke survivors may recuperate better if they leave the hospital as soon as
they're stable and receive therapy at home, a new study suggests.

Using a health measurement scale, researchers from McGill University in Toronto
followed 58 patients who received four weeks of care at home, and compared them
with 56 stroke survivors who underwent four weeks of rehab at a hospital or
community health center. The stroke survivors had been randomly assigned to
receive either the hospital or home care.

Three months later, the scientists found that patients who received home
rehabilitation scored 5 points higher on the health scale, a "clinically
meaningful" benefit, the researchers said. The difference occurred even though
the patients in the home care group actually ended up with fewer visits from
therapists.

The results suggest it may be easier to focus therapy on the immediate health
concerns and need of the patients and the family," the researchers wrote in the
journal Stroke: Journal of the American Heart Association.

Pointing Hubble

If you could point NASA's Hubble Space Telescope at any object in the sky, which
one would you choose? The Hubble Heritage Project, a team of astronomers working
with the space-based telescope, is asking you to answer this question.

The team is soliciting votes for objects to observe with Hubble. Votes will be
accepted through June 6, 2000 at the Hubble Heritage Project's Internet site,

http://heritage.stsci.edu.

The target must be an object not previously observed with Hubble.

Coral bleaching in Belize

The dominant coral species in the central lagoon of Belize was almost completely
destroyed during the El Nino winter of 1997-98, as water temperatures reached 90
degrees, the highest sea surface temperature ever recorded.

When corals are stressed by high temperatures or other environmental conditions,
they expel the symbiotic algae that are the source of most of their food. If the
algae do not return, the corals can die. The phenomenon is known as coral
bleaching because the loss of the photosynthesizing algae makes the corals
appear white.

Scientists at the Dauphin Island Sea Lab in Alabama studied the destruction,
which has been attributed both to El Nino and global warming. Until now, the
researchers wrote in Nature, coral reefs in the Caribbean that had been bleached
eventually recovered. The Belize case, they say, is the first in which coral
mortality was permanent.

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              192 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                    July 9, 2000, Sunday, FIVE STAR EDITION

UPSCALE ORLANDO;
EMERIL LAGASSE IS AMONG THE CHEFS HEATING UP FLORIDA'S CULINARY CLIMATE

BYLINE: WOODENE MERRIMAN, POST-GAZETTE DINING CRITIC

SECTION: FOOD, Pg. G-13

LENGTH: 2135 words

DATELINE: ORLANDO, Fla.


Kick it up a notch! The hot new restaurant in the Walt Disney World/Universal
Studios area of Florida is Emeril's.

In fact, it's best to call nine or 10 weeks in advance if you want to have
dinner at Emeril's on the Universal Studios CityWalk. Otherwise, you're probably
going to be disappointed.

Silly us. We called two weeks ahead. The polite receptionist didn't laugh, but
we didn't get a dinner reservation, either. Instead, she signed us up for lunch.

Lunch reservations at Emeril's are flexible, we were told. That means you might
be able to show up at lunch time and walk right in without a reservation. Then
again, you might not.

Whenever you go, Emeril Lagasse probably won't be there. He's busy with all
those TV shows, his cookbooks and his restaurants, from New Orleans to Las
Vegas.

Emeril's Restaurant

No doubt about it, it's Emeril Lagasse's restaurant even if you don't hear a
"Bam!" the entire time you're there. A bigger-than-life portrait of Emeril is on
one wall. The dishes are made from his recipes.

"They're all in one of his cookbooks, someplace," said our server, Maria
Johnson.

And over on one side of the entry you can buy Emeril's cookbooks, Emeril's golf
shirts, Emeril's T-shirts, Emeril's chef's coat (adult and child sizes),
Emeril's baseball caps, Emeril's base plates, Emeril's spices, and Emeril's
Cajun Cooking Musical Meals CD.

It's all done very tastefully, actually. The dining room has walls of glass
looking out onto the CityWalk. Inside, up on the balcony is a wine cellar of
more than 12,000 bottles. You can easily go up and look at the selections.

The owner of Zind Humbrecht winery in Alsace was having lunch with friends at
Emeril's the day we were there. He went upstairs and had a look around the
wines, so of course we did, too.

A bit of background for the Emeril-impaired:

Emeril Lagasse is one of the culinary phenomena of the 1990s. He opened his
first Emeril's in New Orleans in 1990. Now he also has NOLA (an acronym for New
Orleans, La.) and Delmonico's. In 1995 he opened Emeril's New Orleans Fish House
at the MGM Grand Hotel in Las Vegas. And last year he opened Emeril's at Orlando
and a steak house in Las Vegas.

Meanwhile, he has become a TV personality. His cooking shows are the most
popular on the Food Network (Japan's "Iron Chef" is second). He makes regular
appearances on "Good Morning America" on ABC and guest appearances on many other
shows. In between, he keeps churning out recipe books and winning awards.

So he isn't seen often at Emeril's, Orlando. No matter. The Piri Piri Shrimp is
a spectacular appetizer, served with a jicama citrus relish, grilled tomatoes,
poblano pepper sour cream and crispy plantains piled on top. Piri piri is a
fiery Portuguese sauce that Lagasse often uses, and it tastes just right on
shrimp.

Entrees range from a Garlic-Crusted Confit Portobello Mushroom on a cedar plank
($ 21) to Roasted American Rack of Lamb ($ 34), but they mostly have Lagasse's
Creole-Acadian touch.

Citrus-Glazed half duck comes with Foie Gras Dirty Rice. Farm-Raised Quail is
stuffed with a Louisiana Oyster Dressing, and served with cornmeal-crusted
oysters. Andouille-Crusted Texas Redfish (a little too well done for our taste)
has a roasted-pecan-vegetable relish, Creole meuniere sauce and a pile of
shoestring potatoes.

Servers are excellent. (They use a team system, and we had three of them, plus a
trainee who couldn't stop filling our water glasses.) The restaurant's baked
goods, cheese, ice cream -- even Worcestershire sauce -- are made from scratch.

But the highlight of the meal is Emeril's signature Banana Cream Pie,with Banana
Crust and Caramel Drizzles, undoubtedly the best (read that richest) banana
cream pie we've ever tasted. Did I say tasted? We ate the whole thing.

6000 Universal Blvd. at Universal Studios CityWalk

Orlando, FL 32819

Reservations: 407-224-2424

California Grill

A few miles away at Walt Disney World, the California Grill atop the
Contemporary Resort is still attracting people who want to relax at the end of a
day of thrills with a drink or a glass of wine in the lounge, then move into the
dining room with an onstage kitchen for a leisurely dinner.

The window-lined restaurant is on the 15th floor of the Contemporary, with a
view of Seven Seas Lagoon and the Magic Kingdom park. If you eat late enough,
you can watch the fireworks over the Magic Kingdom, too.

California Grill has a few things in common with Emeril's: a big wine list,
excellent service and fish that is overcooked.

The menu, though, is as contemporary as the hotel. Sushi and sashimi from the
long, curved sushi bar, and a variety of flatbreads are popular appetizers. The
flatbreads have a variety of toppings, from alderwood smoked salmon with chive
sour cream to duck sausage with charcoal-roasted red peppers and provolone.

After a first course of spring field greens with Wisconsin blue cheese and
cabernet vinaigrette, we moved on to our waiter's recommendation: pan-roasted
red snapper with green pea risotto and asparagus sauce. We had asked that the
fish not be well done, but either the chef didn't get the message or he didn't
believe us. It was very well done. That was our only complaint of the dinner.

The menu changes daily. On this night, we might also have ordered spit-roasted
chicken with spinach and couscous salad with lemon mustard jus, grilled pork
tenderloin with polenta and balsamic smothered cremini mushrooms, and other main
courses.

Incidentally, the California Grill offers vegetarian selections in the
flatbread, first courses and main courses. Flatbreads are all in the $ 9 range,
first courses from $ 6.75 to $ 10.25, and main courses from $ 18.75 to $ 28.50.
Desserts are $ 6.50 (including the butterscotch creme brulee and almond biscotti
we ordered) to $ 12.50. For the top price, you get Black Bottom Triple Chocolate
Souffle with Praline Ice Cream and Grand Marnier Sauce.

Contemporary Resort

Walt Disney World

Reservations: 407-824-1576

Wolfgang Puck Cafe

Wolfgang Puck's place at Disney is so big and so busy that we didn't expect the
food to be anything special. We were wrong.

The line was out the door when we arrived -- and that was just to pick up a
beeper so we could get a table, 45 minutes later. In all, the cafe -including
the big, circular sushi and raw bar and the express cafe with a separate
entrance -- seats about 500 people. We sat at an outdoor table, watching
Downtown Disney strollers, while we ate.

The eclectic menu has many of dishes that Puck serves at his other restaurants
across the United States, such as Chinois chicken salad (No. 1 best seller made
famous at his California restaurants). Pastas, Asian and Thai dishes, seafood --
they're all on the menu. And most everything is in the $ 10 to $ 27 range.

But when I think of Wolfgang Puck, I think of pizza. After all, didn't he make
so-called gourmet pizzas famous? So I ordered Wolfgang's Favorite Pizza, with
smoked salmon, dill cream and chives ($ 14.95). The crust was crisp but tender
and had good flavor. The topping seemed a little familiar. No wonder. Just the
night before we had the alderwood smoked salmon with chive sour cream at the
California Grill. Who did it first? I don't know. But Wolfgang does it better.

The lines at Wolfgang Puck's Cafe never seem to let up, although they were
getting a little shorter when we left about 9:30 p.m.

Like the California Grill and Emeril's, Wolfgang Puck's has an extensive and
good wine list. We counted 31 wines by the bottle or glass, plus a long reserve
list.

Children are welcome at all three restaurants, although they do not particularly
cater to youngsters. Maybe you can promise them breakfast with Chef Mickey the
next morning in the Contemporary Resort, complete with Mickey-shaped pancakes
and Disney characters to greet you.

That might persuade them to sit still for dinner with grown-ups. Then again, it
might not.

The cafe does not take reservations. On the second floor of the cafe is The
Dining Room, with a separate menu and upscale prices. Reservations can be made
at this number. A call about two months ahead is advised.

Downtown Disney

1482 East Buena Vista Drive

Lake Buena Vista, FL 32830

407-938-9653 Banana Cream Pie with Banana Crust and Caramel Drizzles

Emeril Lagasse says there are three secrets to this pie -- the bananas in the
crust, the old-fashioned pastry cream, and the whole vanilla bean. Lagasse
suggests a 9-inch pie pan, but I made it in a 10-inch pie pan. It's not only a
big pie; it's also very rich, and it could easily serve 10 people.

1 Banana Pie Crust (recipe follows)

3 cups heavy cream, in all

1 small vanilla bean, split and scraped

1 tablespoon unsalted butter

3/4 cup cornstarch

2 1/2 cups sugar

1/2 teaspoon salt

5 large egg yolks

4 ripe bananas

3/4 cup Caramel Drizzle Sauce (recipe follows)

2 cups heavy cream, whipped with 1/2 teaspoon vanilla and 2 teaspoons sugar

Shaved chocolate

Prepare the Banana Pie Crust, and allow it to cool completely.

Heat 2 cups of the cream in a large saucepan over high heat. Stir in the paste
scraped from inside the vanilla bean, and the butter, and bring to a simmer.

Meanwhile, in a small bowl, combine the remaining 1 cup cream with the
cornstarch and stir until thoroughly blended and smooth. When the mixture in the
saucepan begins to boil, stream in the cream/cornstarch mixture, whisking
constantly until all is thoroughly incorporated. Remove from heat.

In a bowl, combine the sugar and salt, and whisk this dry mixture vigorously
into the saucepan until the cream is thick and the dry ingredients are
thoroughly incorporated. Over low heat, whisk in the egg yolks one at a time.
Remove from the heat and whisk the pastry cream until smooth and creamy.

Peel the bananas and cut them crosswise into 1/4-inch slices. Spread about 1/3
of the pastry cream in the pie crust, and arrange 1/2 of the banana slices over
the cream. Spread on another 1/3 of the pastry cream, and arrange the remaining
banana slices over that. Cover with the remaining pastry cream, and smooth out
the top. Refrigerate for at least 2 hours or until firm.

About 20 minutes before serving, prepare the Caramel Drizzle Sauce.

To serve, cut the pie into wedges and drizzle on the warm Caramel Drizzle Sauce.
Top with whipped cream and shaved chocolate. Serves about 10.

Banana Pie Crust

2 cups graham cracker crumbs

1/4 cup light brown sugar

8 tablespoons (1 stick) unsalted butter, at room temperature

1 very ripe banana, mashed

Preheat the oven to 375 degrees.

In a bowl, cream the ingredients together with your hands. Press the mixture
into a 10-inch pie pan, and bake until brown, for about 15 minutes. Remove from
the oven, and allow to cool completely before filling. Makes one 10-inch pie
crust.

Caramel Drizzle Sauce

1 cup sugar

1/4 cup water

1 cup heavy cream

In a saucepan, combine the sugar and water, and bring it to a boil, stirring
often. Cook, stirring occasionally, until the mixture is a deep nutty-brown
color and the consistency of thin syrup, for about 10 to 15 minutes. Turn off
the heat.

Stir in the cream, turn the heat back on to high, and boil the sauce for about 2
minutes. Remove from the heat. Use immediately. Makes about 3/4 cup.

Banana Loaf

This recipe is not nearly as rich as Emeril's Banana Cream Pie, but it can be
served for breakfast, brunch or -- with ice cream -- as a dessert.

12 tablespoons (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, melted ( 3/4 cup) in all

2 cups plus 1 tablespoon all-purpose flour, in all

2 ripe bananas, mashed

1 cup sugar

2 large eggs

2 teaspoons baking soda

3 tablespoons buttermilk

1 cup roasted pecan pieces

Preheat the oven to 350 degrees. Grease a standard loaf pan (8 by 4 by 3 inches
deep) with 1 tablespoon of the butter. Dust the pan with 1 tablespoon of the
flour and tap out the excess.

In a bowl, combine the bananas with the sugar and eggs until well blended. Stir
in the remaining 2 cups flour, baking soda, buttermilk and the remaining 11
tablespoons butter.

Fold in the pecans and mix well.

Pour the batter into the loaf pan and bake for about 55 minutes. Remove from the
oven and allow to cool for 2 hours.

To serve, slice and serve plain or with ice cream. Makes 1 loaf.

Note: If you don't usually use buttermilk, combine 3 tablespoons whole milk with
1/2 teaspoon vinegar and leave the mixture at room temperature for 1 hour. Use
instead of buttermilk.

To roast pecans: Place nuts on baking sheet and roast in 375-degree oven until
they are golden and fragrant, about 5 to 6 minutes.

Both recipes from "Emeril's New New Orleans Cooking" by Emeril Lagasse and
Jessie Tirsch

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 2, Photo: Emeril's: The dining room of Emeril's Restaurant in
Orlando; has walls of glass looking out onto the Universal Studios CityWalk.;
Photo: Now that Emeril Lagasse, left, has become a TV personality, he isn't;
seen often in his six restaurants. His Banana Cream Pie with Banana Crust and;
Caramel Drizzles, above, is one of the richest desserts imaginable.

                       Copyright 2000 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              196 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                     August 7, 2000, Monday, SOONER EDITION

TINY WOOLLY ADELGIDS THREATEN STATE'S MIGHTY HEMLOCKS

BYLINE: DON HOPEY, POST-GAZETTE STAFF WRITER

SECTION: SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY AND MEDICINE, Pg. A-8

LENGTH: 1283 words


It announces its presence quietly by producing what look like tiny wisps of
cotton candy in the short green needles of eastern hemlocks but there's nothing
soft or sweet about what the woolly adelgid is doing to Pennsylvania's state
tree.

Throughout the Appalachian Mountains from Connecticut to North Carolina, and
including the eastern third of Pennsylvania, the tiny, aphid-like bug has been
sucking the life from hemlocks in wood lots, forests and residential areas at a
rate that threatens the long-term survival of one of the region's most
ecologically important trees.

"It's a real possibility that we could eventually lose them all," said Richard
Evans, an ecologist at the Delaware Water Gap National Recreation Area, on the
eastern border of Pennsylvania. He has been studying the effects of the woolly
adelgid on hemlocks there for eight years.

"The adelgid has already killed thousands of trees, maybe 15 percent of the
hemlocks in the recreation area, and it's expanded into every stand over the
last five years.

If the infestation stopped now, it wouldn't be a major concern, but it's clear
to me that this is just the beginning."

Evans said if trends continue, all the major hemlock stands in the 70,000-acre
federal recreation area could be lost in 10 to 15 years.

"Hemlocks are not the state tree for nothing. Pennsylvania used to have the
world's largest leather tanning industry because of the hemlock trees," Evans
said. "I think this is a very major ecological change that's occurring."

Hemlocks are also stressed by other bugs -- mites and loopers -- and by drought.
But the tiny adelgid, which feeds on the sap in young hemlock branches causing
premature needle drop and branch dieback, can be the fatal blow.

"The adelgid is the number one enemy of forest health in the East right now,"
said Brad Onken, an entomologist in the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Forest
Health Protection Division in Morgantown, W.Va. "It has the potential to be
worse than Dutch elm disease, but maybe not as bad as the chestnut blight."

Single-sex populations

The soft-bodied insects, only 1 millimeter long, overwinter in the trees as
wingless adult females, which lay eggs in April. Newly hatched nymphs, or
"crawlers," migrate to the young branches and settle at the base of the needles
to feed. In June, new adult females secrete the white, waxy covering that looks
like tiny tufts of cotton or wool in which they lay more eggs, and for which the
insect was named.

A winged form of the insect develops from the first generation, and migrates to
other hemlock or even spruce. That, along with wind and birds, plus the
biological quirk that all adelgids are female and therefore egg-layers, accounts
for the insect's rapid spread.

In Virginia, hundreds of thousands of hemlocks are dying along the ridges and in
the eastern foothills of the Appalachian Mountains. All of the hemlock stands in
Shenandoah National Park are infested, and 90 percent of the trees dead or
dying. New Jersey has lost half of the 26,000 acres of scattered hemlocks in its
forests.

The bug came to the United States as an uninvited Japanese import in the 1920s
and was first reported in southeastern Pennsylvania in 1969. It is now found in
32 counties, where it is affecting hemlock stands in state forests, gamelands,
parks and even residential areas. In southern Bedford County, woolly adelgids
are quickly killing off old growth hemlock in the state's Sweet Root Natural
Area.

The first known adelgid-infected hemlock in Allegheny County was reported
earlier this year, the result of a residential planting imported from a
Philadelphia-area nursery.

That tree's sap-sucking forest pest has since been destroyed, but the concern of
state forestry officials has not.

Kevin Carlin, a state Bureau of Forestry entomologist, said he doesn't think the
adelgid will wipe out all hemlock in the state, but it could affect its
distribution, especially where the tree has extended westward out of its natural
range and is more susceptible.

"It's really been a bad problem on the state gamelands, where hemlock is one of
the major wildlife cover trees," Carlin said. "It is having a major impact that
can't be denied."

State Game Commission lands in the southeastern end of the state have been
particularly hard hit. Don Little, the commission's regional forester for
193,000 acres of gamelands in 10 southwestern Pennsylvania counties, said game
officers are on the lookout.

"We haven't seen them yet out here," Little said, "but we have been put on
alert."

Risks to commerce

In addition to the hemlock's value for wildlife -- it provides winter thermal
cover and nesting spots for songbirds, food for a number of animals and cover
for deer -- it is an important commercial timber tree in New York and New
England, where more than 1 billion board feet are cut annually. That could be
lost if stands are decimat ed.

And tree nurseries in North Carolina are sitting on $ 34 million worth of
ornamental hemlocks -- the most utilized tree in urban landscaping --that they
can't get rid of because of possible infestation.

But most important, hemlocks are a unique ecological component of the eastern
hardwood forest, where they make up five to 10 percent of the trees.

"Hemlocks are disproportionately important to the ecology of the area. That's
one of the main reasons we need to pay attention to this," Evans said. "If you
spend any time outdoors you realize that hemlock forests have distinct micro-
climates that provide habitats for all kinds of wildlife."

In winter, deer will seek out hemlock stands where the thick branches of the
trees allow the animals to avoid deep snow and browse for food. The stands also
act like a quilt to trap radiating heat from the ground, giving deer a place to
sleep.

In summer, Evans' research has shown that streams running through hemlock groves
are three times as likely to have native brook trout as streams flowing through
other hardwood forests.

"Hemlock forests tend to be less disturbed and that is habitat trout like," he
said. "People like them too because they are cool and shady and tend to grow
along streams with waterfalls. Most state parks include large hemlock stands and
those have great appeal."

Attempts to control the adelgid have had limited success. Silvaculture control
methods, such as timbering some trees to reduce the density of hemlock stands,
don't work.

And although pesticides, horticultural soap and oil applications can be
effective on ornamental plantings in residential settings, they are too
expensive and ecologically damaging to other plant and animal species for use in
a widespread forest spraying program.

This problem is particularly tough for forest pest managers because unlike other
pests, adelgid populations don't seem to build and then crash on a natural
cycle. Even if they succumb to extremely cold winter temperatures, the
population rebuilds rapidly because they are all females.

Adelgids have few natural enemies in the United States, but several species of
beetles in Asia feed on them and have been imported and released with some
success at test sites in the Delaware Water Gap recreation area and state
forests in Franklin, Adams and Cumberland counties.

"The beetles have been effective in the lab and on individual trees, but we
don't know yet how well they'll do in a forest-wide setting," Onken said. "We
may have to employ more than one predator insect and there are others to test.
That's the best hope for the forest.

"We have to come up with some kind of biologic controls that work, or we're
looking at losing the hemlock resource."

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: INFORMATIONAL GRAPHIC, INFORMATIONAL GRAPHIC: James
Hilston/Post-Gazette; Pennsylvania Dept.; of Convervation and Natural Resources,
U.S. Dept of Agriculture: (Tree pest in; Pennsylvania)

                       Copyright 2000 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              203 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                   September 22, 2000, Friday, SOONER EDITION

OVER SADDAM'S BARREL?;
NERVOUS NELLIE DEBATES ROSIE SCENARIO ON OIL AND IRAQ

SECTION: EDITORIAL, Pg. A-19, WILLIAM SAFIRE

LENGTH: 666 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Nervous Nellie is worried about the strike by gas-gouged truckers in France and
the panic buying of petrol by drivers in Britain. Nellie's fears are compounded
by the rising price of gasoline in the United States.

Be calm, replies Rosie Scenario. The tripling of the price of oil to $ 35 a
barrel will soon be rolled back by increased production from our sensible
friends in OPEC.

Nervous Nellie presses: What if Saddam Hussein crosses everybody up and reduces
his sale of almost 3 million barrels a day, thereby punishing the West by
pushing prices even higher?

That would be foolish of him, Rosie replies. Turning off the spigot would
further impoverish the Iraqi people.

But that never bothered him before, counters Nellie. And by keeping oil prices
up, he would greatly please the Russians, whose economy is being saved only by
the high price of their main export. Russian technology and scientists in Iraq
already help make it possible for inspection-free Saddam to build weapons of
mass destruction and buy missiles to deliver them.

Relax, says Rosie, a little testily. Even if the price of oil stays sky-high,
that does not mean it would cause inflation, triggering higher interest rates,
then a stock market drop followed by recession.

Nellie: But isn't that what happened last time?

Rosie: That was then, when we were all hung up on the business cycle. Rest
assured that the New Economy can withstand oil shocks, bursting bubbles and all
the ills that flesh is heir to.

Nellie: But there has to be something the president can do. What if October gets
cold in Connecticut and the price of heating oil is out of sight?

Rosie: No problem -- we dump our strategic oil reserve on the market and call it
the Lieberman solution. Good quick fix that gets us past the election.

Nellie: But what about a war shock on top of an oil price shock? Saddam is
saying that OPEC should defy superpowers, and claims that Kuwait is stealing his
oil by drilling slantwise. Isn't that what he said last time, just before he
started the Gulf War?

Rosie: It's a bluff. Here is a statement from Gen. Paul Mikolashek of the U.S.
Central Command, an unbeatable force stretched from Pakistan to Egypt. "I see a
lot of rhetoric ... [Saddam's] armed forces have been degraded." Not to worry.
"Degraded" is Pentagonese for "hurt."

Nellie: Like how many troops do we have there? It took over half a million to
stop Saddam last time.

Rosie: We have 4,500 troops in Kuwait, a couple of Patriot batteries, an Apache
helicopter unit, plus an air base to patrol the no-fly zone. Maybe 15,000 more
troops floating around nearby.

Nellie: That's going to stop the whole Iraqi army? Apaches that couldn't take
off in Kosovo?

Rosie: Look, if Saddam miscalculated again, we'd reassemble the Grand Coalition,
call up our reserves, and send in CNN's Bernard Shaw to narrate the bombing of
Baghdad -- the whole nine-yard megillah.

Nellie: Bill Clinton would do that?

Rosie: All from upward of 50,000 feet, with not one U.S. casualty.

Nellie: But what if Saddam says he has the Bomb? And says he's willing to commit
suicide but would take Tel Aviv or New York along with him? It may be a bluff,
but he's had years to build a nuclear or biological bomb in secret, and I'd hate
to be the president to take the chance. We have no defense against a single
missile, you know.

Rosie: Get over your nightmares. After we call his military bluff, we'll get
next week's G-7 meeting to demand the oil cartel cut prices to $ 20 a barrel.
Then it's world prosperity as far as the ear can hear.

Who's right, Rosie Scenario or Nervous Nellie? I say we should hope for the best
and prepare for the worst. That means asking this president and the candidates
to take his place: What if? Are we ready?

Let each cool-headed debater say during those 90 unforgiving minutes how he
would deal with Saddam's economic and military threats.

William Safire is a syndicated columnist for The New York Times.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              205 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                  September 24, 2000, Sunday, TWO STAR EDITION

BUCHANAN, NADER OPPOSITES ON ENVIRONMENT

BYLINE: ANN MCFEATTERS, POST-GAZETTE NATIONAL BUREAU

SECTION: NATIONAL, Pg. A-12

LENGTH: 249 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON --


Green Party presidential candidate Ralph Nader has made environmental protection
a major focus of his campaign, giving Al Gore headaches as the two have battled
for endorsements and support from environmentalists.

Pat Buchanan of the Reform Party represents almost the antithesis of what he
calls "the modern environmental movement," which he contends has been "co-opted
by globalists who use international treaties to regulate our industries, shut
down our production centers and violate property rights by converting private
holdings into public 'habitats.' "

Buchanan says there is a "biblically based obligation to be good stewards of the
land" and concedes that "everyone has an interest in preventing pollution and
preserving the natural beauty" of America. But he would abolish the U.S.
Interior Department's Bureau of Land Management and give the 500 million acres
of land it oversees back to the states. He vigorously opposes international
environmental treaties, such as the Kyoto Protocol on Global Warming, which
calls for limits on emissions of industrial pollutants.

Nader's environmental to-do list is long and complicated. He advocates ending
commercial logging in national forests, spending $ 9 billion more on national
parks, ending U.S. reliance on fossil fuels and nuclear power plants in favor of
solar and wind power, putting new curbs on all motor vehicles, spending more on
public transportation, and slowing scientific research on genetic manipulation.

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              207 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                  September 30, 2000, Saturday, SOONER EDITION

ON THIS DATE

BYLINE: COMPILED BY EMILY L. BELL

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg. A-2, ALMANAC

LENGTH: 360 words


One year ago (Thursday, Sept. 30, 1999)

* Embarrassed NASA scientists admitted that the Mars Climate Orbiter, a $ 125
million spacecraft lost the previous week as it approached the Red Planet, was
doomed from the start of its construction because they'd mistakenly thought its
specifications were in meters and kilograms instead of English feet and pounds.

Five years ago (Saturday, Sept. 30, 1995)

* Many Britons were grumbling because this was the final day they could legally
measure distances with English feet and inches, liquids with gallons, and
weights with pounds and ounces before the metric system went into effect.

Ten years ago (Sunday, Sept. 30, 1990)

* The Pirates clinched their first National League East championship since 1979
by beating the Cardinals, 2-0, in St. Louis. Right-hander Doug Drabek pitched a
three-hitter.

Twenty-five years ago (Tuesday, Sept. 30, 1975)

* Former state Sen. Frank Mazzei, 62, a once-powerful South Side Democrat, was
found guilty of perjury by a federal jury; they found Mazzei had lied during his
federal trial in late 1974, when he'd been convicted of extortion and sentenced
to a five-year prison sentence.

Fifty years ago (Saturday, Sept. 30, 1950)

* After the state Supreme Court refused to review a state Superior Court ruling
on a law which stated that a motorist accused of a traffic violation must be
tried in a magistrate's court nearest the scene of the offense, Pittsburgh law
director Anne X. Alpern said the city would change its policy of having accused
motorists tried only before Magistrate John Donohue in the centralized Traffic
Court held in East Liberty.

One hundred years ago (Sunday, Sept. 30, 1900)

* Chicago police records showed that 186 women there had used broom handles to
assault their husbands in 1899; 102 women had used table knives "of all kinds."
Other household items wielded as weapons -- listed "in order of utility" -- by
angry wives included stove-lid lifters, rolling pins, dishes, hatpins, hair
brushes, mops, flatirons, curling irons, umbrellas, shoes, scissors, forks,
books and potato mashers.

Today is Saturday, Sept. 30, 2000

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, PHOTO: 1991 photo; Doug Drabek

                       Copyright 2000 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              212 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                    October 23, 2000, Monday, SOONER EDITION

NO HEADLINE

BYLINE: MARYLYNN URICCHIO

SECTION: LIFESTYLE, Pg. B-4, SCRIBBLES

LENGTH: 505 words


Harvest of Hope

Hungering to bring positive change to public policy, the 12th Annual Harvest
Celebration Dinner drew 330 supporters to the Sheraton Station Square Monday
night. The benefit for Just Harvest, a center for action against hunger,
featured speaker Doug O'Brien, director of public policy and research for
America's Second Harvest, the national network of food banks. Urban League
president Esther Bush joined Just Harvest co-directors Joni Rabinowitz (with
John Haer) and Ken Regal (with Judy Ruszkowski) as they socialized with WPTT
radio's Lynn Cullen and Joyce Rothermel, director of the Greater Pittsburgh
Community Food Bank. -- P.S.

Pittsburgh Foundation

The Pittsburgh Foundation 2000 Annual Meeting on Tuesday attracted a who's who
of the nonprofit, civic and foundation community to hear a lecture by David
Pearce Snyder, lifestyles editor of The Futurist magazine. More than 400 guests
also listened as Pittsburgh Foundation president and CEO Alfred Wishart
discussed the local philanthropic climate. Milt Washington received the 2000
Isabel P. Kennedy Award before the cocktail reception at the Marriott City
Center that was attended by County Executive Jim Roddey, Judge Cynthia Baldwin,
Marc Cherna, Tim Stevens, Bob Feikema, Karen Farmer White, Jean Burdick and Amy
Hart.

Good Government Award

The League of Women Voters of Greater Pittsburgh saluted its 2000 Good
Government Award recipients Thursday during a dinner at the Pittsburgh Hilton.
This year's honorees were K. Leroy Irvis, Helen Faison, the Local Government
Academy and Bill Block Sr. of the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette. Watching from the
wings were Mayor Tom Murphy, Maxine Block, Moe Coleman, Nate Smith, Clarke
Thomas, Dan Booker and Georgeann Forrester handing out an award named for her
late husband, Tom.

Power of Work

Goodwill Industries of Pittsburgh honored GreenMarketplace.com, Highmark Blue
Cross Blue Shield, Manpower Inc. and Pittsburgh Mercy Health System at the Power
of Work awards presentation and reception Friday in Carnegie Music Hall. Charles
Singleton of Mellon Bank spoke on behalf of 2000 chairman Marty McGuinn, and
Goodwill president Robert Foltz and board chair Jim Droney welcomed the crowd.
Among the more than 400 in attendance were emcee Bill Flanagan of KDKA, David
Reese, Walter Day, Ella Holsinger, Elliott and Lois Finkle and Jane Haney.

St. Anthony Award

Duquesne University president John Murray and Mercy Hospital of Pittsburgh were
honored with St. Anthony School Opportunity Awards Friday evening at the
Doubletree Hotel. For more than 45 years, St. Anthony's has provided care for
children with mental retardation and autism. Francis and Marianne Kramer, Ray
and Sandra Burgo and Dave and Pat Maida served as honorary chairs, Gregg Zoller
accepted on behalf of the hospital and the program included remarks by Bishop
Donald Wuerl, board president Matt Schneider, the Rev. Kris Stubna, emcee Larry
Richert and St. Anthony student Megan Michaels.

MARYLYNN URICCHIO'S SEEN

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              217 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                  November 16, 2000, Thursday, REGION EDITION

ELECTION OUTCOME A-OK WITH BUSINESSES

BYLINE: FRANK REEVES, POST-GAZETTE STAFF WRITER

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg. F-1

LENGTH: 958 words


In their drive to regain control of the Legislature, Pennsylvania Democrats
campaigned on some hot-button issues they thought would carry them to victory,
including public anxiety over the high cost of prescription drugs and voter
disgust with managed care.

But when the Nov. 7 election results were in, Democrats failed to regain control
of the Legislature despite a massive Democratic voter turnout in Philadelphia
that propelled Vice President Al Gore to a decisive statewide victory over Texas
Gov. George W. Bush in the presidential race.

Many in the Pennsylvania business community couldn't have been happier with the
results. The Pennsylvania Chamber of Business and Industry, the Pennsylvania
Manufacturers Association and the National Federation of Independent
Businesses/Pennsylvania had endorsed a near-solid slate of Republican
legislative candidates --and nearly all of them won.

Few thought that the Democrats would break the GOP lock on the state Senate, but
many had expected the Democrats to pick up a few seats, and possibly regain
control, of the state House.

Business leaders had feared that if the Democrats wrested control of the state
House of Representatives, it might have endangered the pro-business policies the
Ridge administration and the GOP-controlled Legislature have pursued since 1995.

Since Ridge took office, business has benefited from about $ 4.8 billion in tax
cuts. These include a series of reductions in the state's comparatively high
corporate net income tax rate and a lowering of the capital stock and franchise
tax, which will be phased out by 2009. The administration's "business-friendly"
attitude also has been reflected in the enforcement of the state's environmental
protection laws and workers' compensation changes that were opposed by organized
labor.

"We wanted to continue the momentum. We think the best way to improve the job
climate is to [lower] taxes, business mandates and environmental regulations,"
said Fred Sembach, the Pennsylvania chamber's vice president for government
affairs.

In the state House, Republicans increased their majority by one seat, giving
them a 104-99 edge when the new legislative session begins in January.

The GOP held onto its lopsided majority in the state Senate. The new Senate will
include 29 Republicans, 20 Democrats and an independent who is expected to side
most often with the Republicans. Currently, the GOP enjoys a 31-19 over the
Democrats.

Scott Melville, president of the Pennsylvania Biotechnology Association, said
his members were less concerned with state races than the struggle for U.S.
Congress and the presidency.

Many biotech firms and the pharmaceutical industry feared that if the Democrats
regained control of the White House and U.S. House of Representatives, chances
were good for passage of a Medicare drug prescription benefit plan that would
include government control of drug prices.

By some estimates, pharmaceutical companies spent about $ 80 million during the
campaign to keep the Democrats from regaining control of Congress.

"Price controls would have been the death knell to our ability to raise money
for biotechnology companies," said Melville, who is also senior
director/government affairs for Cephalon Inc., a biopharmaceutical company in
West Chester, Pa.

The biotech industry is constantly warning about a shortage of capital. The long
time it takes to develop new products and win Federal Drug Administration
approval to sell them makes many biotech firms unattractive to investors,
particularly with the rise of Internet stocks, where the financial rewards have
come far more quickly.

That is why the state's biotech industry has been actively supporting a proposal
by Pennsylvania Gov. Tom Ridge to allocate a small portion of the state's $ 11
billion tobacco settlement to create a public-private capital fund for fledgling
biotech companies.

Biotech firms had hoped lawmakers would have approved creation of the $ 60
million fund by now. But consideration of the tobacco settlement legislation
became bogged down in pre-election politics, with Democrats backing proposals to
use a significant portion of the settlement money for a prescription drug
benefit for senior citizens. It's an idea the Ridge administration has opposed.

Until recently, many high-tech and biotech executives have been loath to get
involved in lobbying. Some shared a widespread disdain for politics and
politicians. Others thought politics was irrelevant to their success. Still
others, especially those involved with start-ups, were more concerned with
cultivating investors than legislators.

But the U.S. Justice Department's antitrust case against giant Microsoft was a
wake-up to many in the New Economy.

And on the state level, the struggle over the tobacco settlement money has been
rude awakening for many biotech executives.

"We certainly remind them about the Microsoft -- that they can't ignore the
government," Melville said. "We try to get them to participate in our grass
roots efforts" to influence legislators.

Steven G. Zylstra, president and chief executive officer of the Pittsburgh
Technology Council, has had to contend with similar apolitical attitudes.

"Tech companies are often populated by scientists and engineers who find
politics an unsavory realm. At times, they were arrogant and said politics isn't
important."

But, gradually, New Economy firms are learning lessons Old Economy companies
have known for years -- money brings access and influence.

Zylstra said his organization is planning to set up a political action committee
in order to enhance the lobbying muscle of the emerging technology companies in
state and national politics.

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              218 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                 November 18, 2000, Saturday, ONE STAR EDITION

NO HEADLINE

BYLINE: SCOTT GIBSON, TODAY'S HOMEOWNER MAGAZINE

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg. H-1

LENGTH: 944 words


Buying a house is just the beginning. Before long, you'll be repairing it, too.
Fortunately, many building components -- foundation, framing, plumbing and
wiring -- should last 50 years or more. But mechanical systems, appliances and
surfaces exposed to the weather will not last nearly that long, even under the
best of circumstances.

"The reality of it is that stuff happens," says John Ghent, president-elect of
the American Society of Home Inspectors and co-owner of a Trumbull, Conn., home
inspection company. The older the house, the more maintenance it usually needs.

"Experience shows that the average house may need a 50 percent replacement over
a period of 30 years," says a handbook Ghent gives to home buyers.

In each of the first 10 years after construction, a $ 100,000 house will require
$ 750, or 0.75 percent of its value, in maintenance, according to Ghent. That
rises to 1.5 percent per year for the next 10 years and reaches 3 percent per
year in the third 10-year period.

Predicted life spans are published for everything from microwaves to garage-door
openers. Although these estimates are helpful, they are not intended to be
exact, and your own experience will likely reflect that.

Ghent, for example, recently inspected a house built in 1926 that still had its
original boiler. Designed for coal, the boiler had been converted once to burn
oil and a second time so it could run on gas. It's still in great shape even
though it has more than doubled industry estimates for longevity.

Maintenance history is one important variable, but so is chance. "Some things
don't break," says Ghent, "and some things do." Budgeting for repairs involves
location as well as luck. The same roofing job might cost 40 percent more in New
England than in the rural South, for example, because of prevailing labor rates
and other local factors. Bottom line: Take national repair estimates as averages
that you probably will have to adjust for your area.

Building structure

Calculating the life expectancy of a roof, siding, exterior paint, flashing and
the like is far from an exact science. Geography plays an important role. For
example, a wood-shingle roof that wears like iron in a moderate climate might
succumb much more quickly when exposed to constant dampness, harsh sunlight or
other environmental extremes.

Another key factor is the quality of the material. Vertical-grain wood siding
cut from the heartwood of trees naturally resistant to decay, such as western
red cedar, will last far longer than plain-sawn lumber of lesser quality. The
trade-off is a higher initial cost, a factor if you don't plan on being in the
house that long.

Finally, there is the question of workmanship. Even the most expensive paint in
the world won't last long when applied to an improperly prepped wall.

Roofing replacement costs are especially complicated to predict. Not only are
there many grades of roofing material, but the job might also call for
demolition, flashing, gutters and sheathing. Complicated roof shapes drive costs
up, too. For a more detailed estimate, try the roofing-cost estimator at
www.improvenet.com. It calculates the cost based on your location and the
specific details of your house.

Major mechanical systems

Routine maintenance -- such as cleaning furnace or air-conditioner filters and
scheduling periodic service -- might be the only practical way a homeowner can
extend the life of major mechanical systems.

"Those things go a long way toward making these units last longer," says Gary
Kemp, a sales representative at Bell Brothers Heating and Air Conditioning in
Des Moines, Iowa.

Water quality plays a role in the longevity of boilers, water heaters and water
pumps. Water that is highly acidic or full of minerals is tougher on equipment
than treated water, and life spans should be lowered accordingly. This is the
case in many rural parts of the country, where houses often have their own
wells. For heating systems, boilers last longer than hot-air systems because the
water helps to moderate heat extremes, making hot and cold cycles less stressful
on the equipment.

Appliances

Most of us have run across an ancient refrigerator or range in someone's kitchen
that's still working flawlessly long after it should have been hauled to the
dump. With an estimated 600 million appliances at work in American households,
there will be plenty of such exceptions.

In fact, the Association of Home Appliances Manufacturers says most appliances
are not junked at all. A majority are sold, traded in, left behind in a move or
given away, and they faithfully serve second or even third owners. As a result,
according to the trade group, how long these household workhorses actually last
is impossible to say.

Americans spend more than $ 15 billion a year on new appliances. Very expensive,
restaurant-quality appliances are increasingly popular.

GE's Terry Dunn says any appliance that uses water will benefit from a water
softener and water-filtration system.

"Fewer chemicals and minerals will prolong the life and improve the
performance," he explains. His tips for prolonging life for other appliances:

* Clean the condenser coils on refrigerators annually.

* Change air-conditioner filters monthly during the operating season.

* Replace washer fill hoses every five years; turn off the water supply when
away for an extended period. Drain hoses if below-freezing temperatures are
expected.

* Inspect and clean the exhaust duct on the clothes dryer at least once a year,
and clean the lint filter before each use.

* Don't allow heavy grease buildup in the oven interior.

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              223 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                  November 29, 2000, Wednesday, SOONER EDITION

GOOD NEWS FOR THE CITY . . .;
STANDARD & POOR'S GIVES A SEAL OF APPROVAL

SECTION: EDITORIAL, Pg. A-30

LENGTH: 431 words


The city of Pittsburgh's years-long struggle to put its financial house in order
is finally beginning to pay off.

Standard & Poor's, the New York municipal finance agency, has dramatically
raised the city's bond rating from BBB to A minus, a two-notch upgrade that will
make it cheaper for the city to borrow money.

It is clear that the disciplined, steady approach taken by the Murphy
administration and City Council is largely responsible for this good fortune.

Though we disagreed with some of that approach -- for instance, the use of
one-time fees and reductions in special fund accounts to balance city budgets --
there was much that was done in past years that has helped stabilize a sinking
fiscal ship.

These steps included reducing the number of city employees to 3,891, a 21
percent drop since 1990, refinancing the city's pension obligations to avoid
budget-busting increases in future years and, more recently, increasing reliable
sources of revenue such as the Regional Asset District sales tax and amusement,
parking, business privilege and other taxes.

It has also been helpful that the Murphy administration has been consistent in
its policy approach. It has stuck to its guns over the years and not raised
property or wage taxes, and there is now a policy that requires the city not to
take on new debt unless an equal amount has been retired.

These changes do not mean that smooth sailing is guaranteed in the future. The
city will have to keep a close eye on its operating expenses, particularly
payroll, and it will be dependent upon the county to keep its assessments
current so that it does not fall behind again in the amount of real estate tax
revenue collected.

The city also needs to continue its efforts to keep its pension obligations in
check. Other potential bugaboos are unexpected high costs in connection with
arbitration settlements for firefighters and the still persistent need to reduce
the number of fire stations to bring the city into line with current demands.

But, clearly, as a result of the better bond rating, the city should be able to
meet any need for emergency borrowing at a reasonable cost, and there also could
be a positive impact on development costs for future projects and programs in
which there is a city role or public money involved.

It is a big plus for the region's business climate that Pittsburgh, southwestern
Pennsylvania's principal city, is seen by the nation's financiers as a city in
which the government has its house in order and is able to meet its service and
fiscal obligations.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              230 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                   December 30, 2000 Saturday SOONER EDITION

RIGHT PLACE HELPS PLANTS GROW, THRIVE

BYLINE: LYNN OCONE, TODAY'S HOMEOWNER MAGAZINE

SECTION: LIFESTYLE, Pg.B-1

LENGTH: 1148 words


Here's some good news for those of you who have trouble growing house plants:
The problem could lie in where you put the plants rather than in your being
short a couple of gardening genes.

Light, temperature and humidity have a lot to do with whether a plant thrives or
dies. Here's how to match plants to the conditions in your home.


Light

"Light is clearly the most limiting factor to growing plants indoors," says
Deborah Brown, University of Minnesota extension horticulturist. "All plants
need light to manufacture food, but the amount needed varies from one plant to
another."

Most house plants thrive in moderate to bright, indirect light. Flowering plants
and those with colored leaves usually need higher light levels than plants with
green leaves. And a select group of plants, including the popular Chinese
evergreen and cast-iron plant, will tolerate very low light levels.

Plants show signs of stress when light levels are too low or too high. Weak,
spindly growth indicates insufficient light. Variegated foliage will lose all or
part of its markings. Signs of too much light are bleached or wilting leaves on
plants like scheffleras, philodendrons, ferns and peperomias. Quick foliage
drop, most dramatic on figs (Ficus species), can result from a sudden move from
bright light to low.

Even when you find what seems to be the ideal spot for your plants, it might be
necessary to move the plant as the seasons -- and light levels -- change. Plants
that thrive in the direct sun of a south- or west-facing window in winter might
sunburn if left in the same spot in late spring or summer. In this case, move
plants farther from the glass or filter light with a sheer curtain.


Humidity

Most house plants originate in tropical or semitropical regions, where the air
is moist. Many of these plants can adapt to the drier air in our homes, but they
do better when humidity is increased -- especially during winter when most homes
are heated. With insufficient humidity, leaves turn dull and papery. Brown leaf
tips are another common symptom.

"One solution is to locate plants that need more humid air, such as ferns, in
the kitchen or bathroom, where humidity tends to be highest," says Matthew
Gardner, owner of The Wright Gardner, a San Francisco-based interior-plantscape
company.

Another option is to place a humidifier in the room where most of your plants
are. There are several other ways to raise the humidity around plants. Grouping
plants keeps the moisture level higher than if air freely circulates around each
plant. Another way is to place plants on a shallow waterproof tray of pebbles
partially covered with water. The pebbles provide lots of extra surface area for
evaporation. (But don't let the plants sit in the water, or roots could rot.)
Many people mist plants to raise the humidity level, but it's not effective. The
water evaporates too fast to benefit plants.


Temperature

House plants are "house plants" because they need the same conditions we do to
survive. Most like daytime temperatures ranging from the upper 60s to the
mid-70s, and nights that are about 10 degrees cooler. But be aware of cold or
hot spots. For example, on extremely cold winter nights, temperatures on a
windowsill could be considerably lower than elsewhere in the room. Tender plants
can freeze unless you protect them.

Keep foliage from touching windows and provide protection with a heavy curtain,
or place a piece of cardboard between the glass and the plants. Few plants
tolerate cold drafts or hot air blowing on them. Don't place plants next to an
exterior door or heating duct.

Once plants have settled into your home, attention to watering and a few other
routine jobs keep them in good shape.


Watering

The one word to describe how to water is thoroughly. Use tepid water and supply
enough so excess flows through the soil and out from the drainage hole in the
bottom of the pot. But don't let the plant stand in water collected in the drip
saucer for more than a few minutes. Instead, dump the water from the saucer, or
if the saucer is large and awkward to maneuver, use a turkey baster to suck up
water from the saucer.

How frequently you water depends on the plant and conditions in your home,
including temperature and humidity. Some plants, notably ferns, do best when the
soil is kept evenly moist. For other plants, such as cacti and succulents, the
soil should dry thoroughly between waterings. But most house plants fall in a
third category: They do best when the soil dries slightly between waterings.
With these plants, allow the soil to dry 1/2 inch to 2 inches below the surface
before watering again. Precision is impossible here; the specific plant and the
size of the container have a significant bearing on timing. Often you can tell
when a plant is thirsty -- the leaves lose their sheen just before they wilt.


Fertilizing

"Fertilizing falls into the less-is-more category," says Gardner.

He says people have a tendency to overfertilize plants. But too much fertilizer
does more harm than good. After all, plants make their own "food," with the help
of the sun.

Fertilizer primarily promotes growth. Use a fertilizer labeled for house plants,
and apply it at half strength, suggests Gardner. As a guideline, fertilize
regularly in spring and summer, when plants are actively growing and can make
most use of the added nutrients. Cut back in fall, when growth slows, and stop
fertilizing once daylight-saving time ends. And, to prevent root burn, make sure
to always moisten the soil before adding fertilizer.


Grooming

Dusting leaves does more than show off plants.

"Dust buildup encourages insects, and it also filters the light that reaches
leaves," says Brown.

Especially in winter in northern climates, plants need all the light they can
get to manufacture food.

"Wash leaves individually with a soft cloth moistened with tepid water," Gardner
advises.

Clean plants with feltlike leaves, such as African violets, by dusting them with
a small, soft artist's paintbrush.

Do not use commercial leaf-shine products because they create a sticky surface
that collects more dust and dirt.

While you're grooming, check for insects. Mealybugs that appear as white cottony
spots are apt to be your worst problem. Use insecticidal soap or, if that's not
handy, daub each bug with a cotton swab dipped in rubbing alcohol. Rinse with
tepid water. This same technique also works on other immobile plant pests, such
as scale insects.

Spider mites, another common house plant pest, spin fine webs on the underside
of leaves. Spray them with insecticidal soap. It might take repeated
applications to eliminate them.

Remember, start with plants that fit with the conditions in your home, and then
provide common-sense care. Don't push your plants to grow, just enjoy them.

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ferns make ideal houseplants, but you must take into account
light, temperature and humidity when deciding where to grow them.

                       Copyright 2000 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              236 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                     April 4, 2000, Tuesday, SOONER EDITION

HOUSE OKS STUDY OF UNDERSEA METHANE;
HUGE BUT DANGEROUS SUPPLY RESEMBLES ICE

BYLINE: JIM ABRAMS, THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: NATIONAL, Pg. A-7

LENGTH: 639 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON --


Deep under the ocean floor and the Arctic permafrost are ice-like deposits of
frozen methane with energy potential equal to more than twice that of all other
fossil fuels combined. Congress is now ready to put up nearly $ 50 million to
find out if this energy source can be developed without setting off a
cataclysmic warming of the globe.

The House approved by voice vote yesterday a measure directing the Energy
secretary, working with the secretaries of Interior, Defense and Commerce, to
study both methane hydrates as an energy source and the technologies needed for
safe, efficient development.

The stakes are high in an age when gas prices are soaring and the nation is
overly dependent on foreign oil, said the bill's chief sponsor, Rep. Mike Doyle,
D-Pa.

"If only 1 percent of the methane hydrate resource could be made recoverable,
the United States could more than double its domestic natural gas resource
base," Doyle said in a statement yesterday.

Methane hydrates are ice-like substances found in deep ocean sediments and
Arctic permafrost that contain methane in a highly concentrated form.

The U.S. Geological Survey has estimated the value of gas hydrates in the United
States at 320,000 trillion cubic feet of gas, some 200 times conventional
natural gas resources and reserves in the country.

Worldwide, the Energy Department's Robert Kripowicz told the House Science
Committee's energy and environment panel last May, the natural gas potential of
hydrates approach 400 million trillion cubic feet, 80,000 times the world's
current known natural gas reserves.

French scientists studied hydrates as early as 1890, but it wasn't until 1981
that the underwaterdrilling vessel Glomar Challenger was able to retrieve a
three-foot-long hydrate core off the coast of Guatemala.

Kripowicz said the potential for extracting commercially viable quantities of
methane hydrate was "speculative at best," but stressed that the Clinton
administration supported the legislation as a means to better understand that
potential.

Besides the technological difficulties, there are major concerns about what
could happen to the environment as the ice-like crystals were brought to the sea
or land surface, depressurized and decomposed into gas and water.

Doyle said the material could accelerate greenhouse gas accumulations if it
escaped into the air, and that the removal of hydrates could destabilize the sea
floor, posing a serious risk to offshore drilling rigs.

Scientists writing in the journal Science last November said they had evidence
to support the theory that the release of frozen methane from the ocean 55
million years ago was responsible for an abrupt warming of the Earth that had a
devastating effect on deep-sea life.

The scientists concluded that the escape of methane hydrates caused ocean
temperatures to soar by 7 to 14 degrees Fahrenheit over a 1,000-year period, a
factor contributing to the rapid evolution of more advanced species on land but
causing the die-off of 55 percent of some deep-sea species.

But Gerald Holder, the University of Pittsburgh's dean of engineering and a
longtime researcher into gas hydrates, said at the hearing last May that methane
from hydrates produced less carbon dioxide than other forms of fossil fuels and
that wide production could reduce carbon dioxide emissions by as much as 20
percent worldwide

The House bill would approve spending of $ 47.5 million over five years to
further research and development studies. The Energy secretary would have the
authority to award grants and enter into cooperative agreements with
universities and business as part of the effort.

The secretary would be required to report to Congress within two years on the
impact of global climate change from methane hydrate extraction and consumption.

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              249 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                   September 17, 2000, Sunday, REGION EDITION

GEORGE CHRISTOPHER SAN FRANCISCO MAYOR WHO LURED GIANTS

BYLINE: LOUIS SAHAGUN, LOS ANGELES TIMES

SECTION: OBITUARY, Pg. E-6

LENGTH: 563 words


George Christopher, the Greek-born former mayor of San Francisco who won
national recognition for persuading the New York Giants baseball team to move
west, died Friday of a stroke. He was 92.

The roughhewn son of a vendor who grew up in the tough South of Market area, Mr.
Christopher served as San Francisco's mayor from 1956 to 1964.

With characteristic bluntness, San Francisco's last Republican mayor said
goodbye to a life of politics in 1966 after Ronald Reagan defeated him for the
GOP gubernatorial nomination.

In a prepared statement, Mayor Willie Brown said San Francisco "has suffered a
monumental loss ... George was a dear friend, and he will be deeply missed."

Brown ordered flags to fly at half staff throughout the city.

Mr. Christopher was elected mayor on Nov. 8, 1955, by a 2-1 margin that included
both Democrats and Republicans and with the support of four leading Bay Area
newspapers.

He expanded the city's international airport and revitalized its financial
district.

He also was the political force behind construction of Candlestick Park near the
chilly, wind-swept shores of San Francisco Bay.

In an interview in 1957, Mr. Christopher said he convinced Giants President
Horace Stoneham that "San Francisco's climate and love of competition would
nourish major league baseball; that we would build a $ 10 million stadium with
the $ 5 million we had from a bond issue; and that the potential was greater in
San Francisco than in Minneapolis, where the Giants already owned a
24,000-capacity stadium."

About the same time, the Giants' legendary rivals, the Brooklyn Dodgers, were
being courted by Los Angeles.

During his two mayoral terms, Fortune Magazine called San Francisco "one of the
best administered cities in the United States."

The big man with dark, piercing eyes and a dazzling smile had been active in San
Francisco politics since 1945, when he was elected to the board of supervisors.

After his term as mayor, he served in a variety of national and international
positions including delegate to the United Nations.

In 1971, Mr. Christopher, who had developed a friendship with former Premier
Nikita Khrushchev, expressed deep regrets for not attending the Soviet leader's
funeral.

He first met Khrushchev in 1959 when the Communist leader emerged from a train
during his first tour of the United States.

Khrushchev was gruff and irritable after having been rebuffed in an earlier
attempt to visit Disneyland.

Mr. Christopher said he joshed the Communist leader out of his black mood by
insisting he wanted to meet the real "boss" of the Soviet Union: Khrushchev's
wife, Nina. While men rule the world, Mr. Christopher explained, women rule men.

Mr. Christopher was born in Arcadia, Greece, on Dec. 8, 1907. Three years later,
his parents, James and Mary, emigrated to the United States.

He received a bachelor's degree from Golden Gate College after eight years of
night classes, and later opened an accounting office specializing in analyzing
the weaknesses in small businesses.

An $ 8,000 personal investment in a client's dairy in 1935 evolved into the
profitable Christopher Dairy Farms, of which he remained president when he
became mayor.

Ron Vinson, a spokesman for Brown, said Christopher's body will lie in state in
the capital during a commemoration of his life on Monday.

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              252 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                   November 4, 2000, Saturday, REGION EDITION

U.S. JURY CLEARS GENERALS IN EL SALVADOR KILLINGS

BYLINE: DAVID GONZALEZ, THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: WORLD, Pg. A-3

LENGTH: 935 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH, Fla. --


A federal jury yesterday cleared two retired Salvadoran generals of
responsibility in the abduction, rape and murder of four American churchwomen by
members of that country's National Guard in 1980.

The court said the two men could not have done anything more to prevent the
crime.

The verdict shocked friends and relatives of the women who had sat through the
trial and relived their anguish while listening to gruesome accounts of the
violence and chaos that swept through El Salvador in its 12-year civil war that
claimed 75,000 lives before ending in 1992.

After what jurors described as emotional deliberations in an almost "churchlike"
atmosphere, they found that the generals had done what they could to curb
abuses, given the tumult of the era and a lack of resources to conduct effective
investigations or to discipline their troops.

"A general can issue orders," one juror, Robert Morrow, said after the verdict.
"Say you have 400,000 refugees and you issue an order to feed them. You go to
the supply, and there is no food. Are you responsible for them starving because
of this? I don't think they could have done anything that could have saved their
lives. If they could have done something, either of them, they would have."

In 1984, five enlisted members of the guard were convicted in El Salvador and
sentenced to 30 years in jail for the murders. Later, four of the men said they
had acted on superiors' orders.

Neither retired general -- Jose Guillermo Garcia, 67, who was defense minister,
and Carlos Eugenio Vides Casanova, 62, who was director of the National Guard --
were in the courtroom. Both retired to Florida and are permanent residents.

The verdict, rendered after little more than a full day of deliberation, hinged
on the legal doctrine of command responsibility and whether the generals knew or
should have known that troops under their command had been involved in previous
abuses and failed to take any steps to rein them in.

"The instructions we received were explicit in that we had to determine if these
two defendants had effective control over their troops," the foreman of the
10-member jury, Bruce Schnirel, said. "We're talking about control, enough to
control what they did as it was presented to us as a chaotic time and conflict.
There was no way we could determine these two guys could control all events
happening with their troops."

The women, two Maryknoll sisters, Maura Clarke and Ita C. Ford; an Ursuline
sister, Dorothy Kazel, and a lay missionary, Jean Donovan, were abducted shortly
after they had left El Salvador International Airport in Comalapa for San
Salvador on Dec. 2, 1980. Their relatives filed a $ 100 million suit under the
Torture Victim Protection Act of 1992. That law lets victims or their survivors
seek punitive and compensatory damages from people who committed human rights
abuses against them.

"It's a great law," the generals' lawyer, Kurt Klaus Jr., said. "I hope it
achieves what it is designed to do, which is to keep these political acts of
extrajudicial killings from happening. It's meant to hold people responsible for
those acts, not those who were not responsible."

But Ken Hurwitz, a consultant to the Lawyers Committee for Human Rights, which
has represented the women's families, said the generals did have control over
their troops. He noted that when Vice President George Bush went to El Salvador
in 1983 to urge the military to take steps against the death squads that were
operating under cover in the war, some changes were made.

"It stopped," Hurwitz said of the killings. "They had control. There is nothing
to say they could not have done so."

A lawyer for the relatives of the victims, Robert Kerrigan, said he intended to
file a motion for a new trial on the grounds that the jury had been misled by
the defense lawyer's insistence that the generals could not have predicted the
slayings. Kerrigan said the doctrine of command responsibility required only
proving that a pattern of abuse existed that created a climate that led to the
murders.

The victims' relatives said they were disappointed. But, they said the case had
been a victory of sorts, because they were not only able to have the generals
appear in court, but also they had evidence introduced that cast light on
American foreign policy. "Ita's not going to come back," said her brother, Bill
Ford. "But this case has been valuable in pointing out what happened in El
Salvador, in pointing out the moral mistakes of U.S. policy during the 1980s
when we gave aid to a murder machine because it was anti-Communist."

Throughout the trial, layers for the victims' relatives introduced voluminous
reports, declassified State Department memoranda and U.S. Embassy cables that
indicated that the generals had been told on several occasions by American
officials that members of the National Guard were involved in human rights
abuses, but that the generals showed no interest in following up on the
complaints.

An American Embassy cable noted that the National Guard had been implicated in
the murders of six opposition politicians days before the churchwomen were
killed, and said that the murders heralded an era of "extremism" on the part of
the military.

One report by the U.N.-led Truth Commission, which investigated the war, said
that the generals had obstructed investigations into the women's murders.

The report said that a military investigator Garcia appointed to look into the
case transferred the implicated National Guardsmen to another unit and had them
switch rifles with other soldiers.

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              254 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                  November 16, 2000, Thursday, REGION EDITION

CREDIBILITY GAP: WHERE'S GAP'S FASHION LEADERSHIP?

BYLINE: ANNE D'INNOCENZIO, THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg. E-8

LENGTH: 823 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK --


Gap's Fifth Avenue flagship may be touting hot pink chunky sweaters and purple
fleece vests, but those fashions didn't seem to interest Kathy Nicaj and Amy
Freas. They walked out of the store empty-handed.

"It's just not the same as it used to be," said Nicaj, 34, who turns more now to
Limited's Express and the Swedish chain Hennes & Mauritz for her fashion fix.
"The Gap had been known for having its own style, but now it's like everybody
else."

For Freas, 25, Gap is no longer a source for trendy items. "Now, I just buy
jeans," she said.

Such indifference is a serious problem for the San Francisco-based chain, whose
already strong reputation was boosted by its khaki and cargo pants styles in the
late 1990s. This year, it has fallen out of favor with many shoppers, largely
because its three divisions -- Gap, Banana Republic and Old Navy -- have lost
their fashion leadership.

The company has been struggling with sluggish sales at the three units over the
past 12 months. It says it's taking steps to improve results -- shoring up
management; returning to TV advertising for its Old Navy and Gap brands after an
absence this fall; scaling back its expansion plans for next year; and retooling
its merchandise -- but some Wall Street analysts believe that the moves aren't
being executed fast enough.

Many predict that Gap, which had $ 11.6 billion in sales in its last fiscal year
and operates more than 3,500 stores worldwide, might not see a turnaround until
at least the middle of next year.

"It just doesn't fill me with a sense of confidence in the near future," said
John Morris, an analyst at Gerard, Klauer Mattison & Co., who predicts a 16
percent earnings decline this year.

The latest disappointment was Gap's 41 percent drop in third-quarter profits,
announced last Thursday. It also had an 8 percent decline in sales at stores
open at least a year, called same-store sales.

"Third quarter was very challenging," said Millard Drexler, president and chief
executive officer, in a statement. "We're moving quickly to fix our problems and
make sure we execute more consistently."

Gap has had hard times before, suffering a big earnings slump in 1992, but
analysts believe that it's confronting its biggest challenge yet due to external
and internal factors ranging from a harsh retail climate to a management brain
drain.

In the past, Gap has been known for a certain look. But this year, it's
struggling through an identity crisis, and analysts say it is offering too many
varied looks, none of which are really grabbing shoppers.

And Gap's strength in casual wear is at odds with fashion's current flashy mood
-- big hair, tight leather pants, faux fur, spike heels and lots of shiny purple
and black. The look, popularized by the film "Charlie's Angels," is being
pursued by such hot competitors as Express and Hennes & Mauritz.

The company concedes that it made a mistake by resurrecting leather this fall --
a look that everyone else already had. Banana Republic's purple palette was a
bomb, too. Some critics believe that there are too many dark tones in the store.

"We are definitely in a flashier period, and it's not going to go away any time
soon," said Irma Zandl, a New York trend consultant. "The Gap needs to figure
out how to embrace it."

Michael Wood, vice president of Teenage Research Unlimited, a consulting firm in
Northbrook, Ill., said: "In the past, young people had turned to Gap for fashion
direction. This fall, they saw nothing new."

Alan Marks, a Gap spokesman, said the company was optimistic about the upcoming
season.

"We feel very good about our holiday merchandise," Marks said, noting that the
fashions, which include satin pants and sparkly tops, got a good reception at a
recent fashion show for analysts.

Gap also has been hobbled by a slew of executive defections, according to
analysts. Earlier this month, Lisa Schultz, design director for the Gap brand,
left abruptly, replaced by Jerome M. Jessup, who had headed the Banana Republic
chain. Those changes follow the resignations in recent weeks of key marketing
and finance officials at the Gap and Old Navy brands. The company said it was
looking to the outside to fill some of these slots.

Analysts believe that the retailer needs to quickly clarify its confusing
fashion messages.

"They've lost their fashion compass at all three divisions," said Todd Slater,
an analyst at Lazard Freres & Co.

Old Navy, while expected to account for 37 percent of the company's overall
sales this year, is a major drag on Gap's earnings. The division, which had been
turning in consistent double-digit same-store sales gains, reported sales
declines in eight of the 10 months so far this year.

Now, Gap officials, who don't want Old Navy to depend on business from fickle
teens, are overhauling the division as a family store, offering more classic
basics. They're also cutting prices.

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              257 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                   December 18, 2000, Monday, SOONER EDITION

ONE OF BUSH'S BEST AND BRIGHTEST

BYLINE: NORMAN KEMPSTER, LOS ANGELES TIMES

SECTION: NATIONAL, Pg. A-10

LENGTH: 874 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Condoleezza Rice has spent her whole life -- 46 years so far -- as the youngest
and smartest person in almost any room.

Now, as President-elect George W. Bush's choice for White House national
security adviser, Rice faces what may be the toughest challenge of her career:
managing the foreign-policy agenda of the world's only remaining superpower at a
time of rapid global change.

"I think she will do a great job," said Brent Scowcroft, national security
adviser in the administration of Bush's father. "She has the personality for it.
She has the background for it. She starts off with a very powerful set of
credentials."

Rice was senior director for Soviet and Eastern European Affairs on Scowcroft's
National Security Council staff from 1989 to 1991, working closely with
then-Defense Secretary Dick Cheney, now vice president-elect, and former Gen.
Colin L. Powell, then chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and now Bush's
choice for secretary of State.

The trio of Cheney, Powell and Rice gives the incoming administration a
substantial core of foreign-policy expertise.

Rice was a piano prodigy at 3, a college graduate at 19, a college professor at
26, a senior White House adviser at 34 and provost -- a combination of chief
operating officer and chief financial officer -- of Stanford University at 36.

"She has a nice combination of three kinds of experience: scholarly intellectual
knowledge, real experience working in government and responsibility for
administering a large institution," said Philip Zelikow, director of the Miller
Center at the University of Virginia. He worked with Rice at the White House and
co-authored with her a book on the unification of Germany. Zelikow dismissed
suggestions that Rice may suffer from intellectual arrogance that has brought
down generations of "best and brightest" government officials. "She is pretty
level-headed," he said.

Rice prides herself on a hard-headed, pragmatic approach to foreign issues. She
told interviewers earlier this year that she considered herself a Democrat until
1979, when President Carter confessed that he was shocked and saddened by the
Soviet invasion of Afghanistan. For Rice, a young professor specializing in the
Soviet Union, it was a damaging admission of ill-informed sentimentality in
foreign affairs.

Rice has made it clear that she expects the U.S. government to put its own
national interests first in setting any plan of action. For instance, as Bush's
chief campaign adviser on foreign policy, Rice said that the United States
should not be deterred by overseas criticism from developing an anti-missile
system. She said she hopes that Russia will agree to modify the Anti-Ballistic
Missile treaty, signed in 1972 by the United States and the Soviet Union, to
allow the missile-defense program to proceed. But if Moscow balks, she said,
Washington should be ready to repudiate the pact unilaterally.

To be sure, promoting an anti-missile program was popular campaign rhetoric. It
is now up to Bush and his advisers to determine if the system is technologically
feasible and worth the high cost, both in budgetary dollars and in diplomatic
friction.

Rice was born Nov. 14, 1954, in Birmingham, Ala. Her father was a college
administrator, and her mother was a music teacher. The family was a fixture of
the rigidly segregated city's black middle class. Rice was 9 years old when a
bomb exploded at a Baptist church a few miles from Westminster Presbyterian
Church, where her family attended. Four black girls were killed, one of them a
kindergarten classmate of Rice's.

Since the election, Rice has declined interview requests. But last summer, in
advance of her high-profile speech to the Republican National Convention, she
told interviewers that her father became a Republican in 1952 in reaction to the
racial policies of the Democrats in the one-party South of that era. For Condi,
as she was called, surviving the racial climate of the time only strengthened
her determination to excel in a world that was not defined by race.

The Rice family moved to Denver in 1967. Two years later, at age 15, Rice
enrolled at the University of Denver as a music major, intending to prepare for
a career as a concert pianist. But music, which had dominated her life from
birth, when her mother named her for a musical term meaning to play with
sweetness, was pushed aside by a new love: international politics.

Rice's new career was shaped by her professor of international relations, Josef
Korbel, a former Czech diplomat, refugee from communism and the father of
Secretary of State Madeleine Albright. And, like the outgoing secretary of
State, Rice's area of specialization has long been eastern and central Europe --
the Soviet bloc of the Cold War.

After receiving a doctorate from the University of Denver in 1981, Rice joined
the faculty at Stanford, where her class became one of the most popular on
campus among undergraduate students. In 1986, she was a Council on Foreign
Relations fellow at the Pentagon and, from 1989 to 1991, she was the top Soviet
expert in the White House. From 1991 through 1999, Rice was provost of Stanford,
ranking just below the university president on the operational chart.

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              262 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                    April 18, 2000, Tuesday, SOONER EDITION

WORLD TRADE PROTESTERS COME UP SHORT, SOAKED THIS TIME

BYLINE: ANN MCFEATTERS, POST-GAZETTE NATIONAL BUREAU

SECTION: NATIONAL, Pg. A-3

LENGTH: 1034 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON --


The battle in Seattle turned into the spring storm in Washington, as chilled,
drenched protesters eager to raise consciousness over what they say are the
pitfalls of global finance failed to find a foothold to express their outrage.

Roving bands of demonstrators did not achieve their stated goal of shutting down
the spring financial meetings of the International Monetary Fund and the World
Bank. They kept some Washingtonians away from downtown offices, gave tourists
something to ogle and did drive home their contempt for two somewhat mysterious
organizations with which many Americans are unfamiliar.

The main message of the mostly young protesters was that IMF policies and World
Bank loans frequently hurt the poor and damage the environment. But the
protesters represented many groups, from AIDS workers to environmentalists to
peace activists.

They also showed that many of the 10,000 protesters got their information about
the protest and its logistics from the Internet, again proving that the Web has
become a powerful organizing tool. Other lessons from the protest were that
police who are prepared and don't overreact are crucial to a peaceful outcome,
which was not the case at the Seattle protest in December against the World
Trade Organization, and that the weather remains a huge factor in determining
demonstrators' turnout.

Njoki Njehu of Kenya, one of the organizers of the Mobilization for Global
Justice, the umbrella group for the protest, told reporters in a telephone
interview that she was "amazed and inspired about the talents that have come
into this from all walks of life. Young, old and seasoned activists and those
with regular day jobs. There has been a great mix of people, bringing commitment
and creativity. We did succeed. People woke up all over the world, and now they
know about the World Bank."

The protesters in Washington included at least two busloads and various carloads
of individuals from Pittsburgh, including those associated with the Thomas
Merton Center, United Electrical Radio and Machine Workers of America,
University of Pittsburgh student groups and other organizations.

More than 100 Western Pennsylvanians evidently attended, none of whom was known
to have been arrested. Many were present only on Sunday, taking part in a
peaceful rally and demonstration a day after most arrests occurred.

Molly Rush, staff organizer for the Thomas Merton Center and a veteran of many
Washington protest marches, said the weekend's events were notable for the
diversity of the protesters by age, race and nationality, and the willingness of
so many students to get involved in issues that had little direct impact on
their lives.

"They're not resisting a draft that would send them to war, they're not
suffering themselves, and yet they were there by the thousands or tens of
thousands," Rush said.

But the demonstrators failed to convince World Bank President James Wolfensohn
that wide-scale debt forgiveness for poor countries is or should be a goal for
his bank. The money loaned to poor countries, he said, must be repaid because it
is borrowed from people in the market. Also, he said, nine of the countries that
are asking for full debt forgiveness are either at war or have no government,
"and there's nobody [in power in those countries] to talk to." The governments
of other debtor nations are corrupt, he said, indicating that forgiving those
debts would largely benefit unscrupulous politicians.

But he said the World Bank meeting resulted in an "unlimited" amount of money to
be spent on the growing problem of AIDS in Africa. And he said the debts of some
nations are being forgiven. "The only thing we are asking for them is they
should have a program for social reform and a sensible and noncorrupt
environment."

Pockets of protesters marched from block to block in downtown Washington on
Sunday and yesterday, occasionally clashing with police in riot helmets, who
wielded pepper spray and tear gas. But despite 637 arrests for unlawful assembly
and crossing police lines Saturday, just 20 arrests Sunday and another 600 some
yesterday -- or a total of almost 1,300 arrests over the three days --
demonstrators failed to take top billing in the news yesterday over a rise in
the stock market after its plunge of last week.

After a glorious, warm, sunny day Sunday -- which seemed to be a holiday for
many protesters, some of them loaded with camera equipment and clearly having
fun -- yesterday turned into a day when message gave way to soggy mischief and
disarray. Small bands of fiercely determined protesters tried in vain to whip up
crowd enthusiasm for mass arrests.

But the would-be leaders were outmaneuvered by their own "medics," who warned
protesters about the dangers of hypothermia. Many protesters who had been
outside all day in a rainfall that totaled 2 inches by later afternoon turned to
the subway stops, which swallowed them up and left blocked-off streets barren.

Even a rally headlined by actress Susan Sarandon, who pronounced the protest a
victory for democracy, and her partner, actor-producer Tim Robbins, drew scant
thousands, not the predicted enormous crowd. As the heart of downtown was
blocked off by metal barricades and police in riot gear, protesters seemed not
to know where to go or what to do next.

Dressed in motley rain gear, many danced and pranced to keep warm. Some tried to
engage in serious conversations with amused or exasperated Washington workers.

"Do you know what our message is?" bellowed a sodden young college student
shivering in shorts as he stood on a street corner. "Do you know how many people
starve every day in the world?"

The traffic light changed, and his audience dispersed.

"Goodbye," he said in disgust, his message still undelivered. But when asked for
his name and college, he balked. "Not important. We're all here together," he
said, walking off.

"They're just youngsters. That's important to remember. They didn't want to get
in trouble," said Washington Police Chief Charles Ramsey. "Most of the
protesters in this whole thing were peaceful."

Post-Gazette Staff Writer Gary Rotstein contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              266 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                   October 23, 2000, Monday, TWO STAR EDITION

NEWSMAKER/ALBERT FONDY PFT HEAD MORE THAN 'UNION TO THE CORE'

BYLINE: CARMEN J. LEE, POST-GAZETTE EDUCATION WRITER

SECTION: METRO, Pg. A-12

LENGTH: 1180 words


Albert Fondy is "union to the core."

That's how city school district labor attorney Bruce Campbell described the
long-time president of the Pittsburgh Federation of Teachers.

He should know. Campbell has sat across the bargaining table from Fondy for many
long days and nights over the past two decades.

Even those who've known the union president for shorter periods agree that in
many ways, Fondy, 64, fits the classic mold of a labor leader -- blunt, bulldog
tenacious and loyal to his members.

"He is a very strong advocate for his people," said Randall Taylor, a city
school board member since 1997.

"He's been extremely good for his union, maybe too good from the district's
perspective."

Still, beneath an exterior that would appear tough and stubborn is a man who has
worked with school officials on education issues and compromised when the
district needed help.

The most recent example was Fondy's willingness as head of the union's
negotiating team to consider an alternative bid for PFT members' health care
coverage.

While the union and district negotiators eventually decided to stick with
Highmark Blue Cross/Blue Shield, the competitive bidding process led Highmark to
reduce its initial proposal by $ 15 million.

With the city schools facing a projected $ 40 million deficit next year, the $
15 million savings enabled union members to receive pay raises without adding to
the district's financial burden.

"I knew the health coverage was the key to a settlement," Fondy said. "To
support a health-care plan that made the deficit worse would have been stupid."

Campbell acknowledged the union president's pragmatism.

"He is a non-doctrinaire problem solver who is willing to do the right thing in
order to resolve disputes and reach agreement," Campbell said.

That may be due to the personal and professional history Fondy brings to the
bargaining table.

A Pittsburgh native, the union leader attended Catholic schools through college
and attributes his work ethic to his mother, Bertha, who owned blouse and doll
factories.

Fondy of Banksville said his childhood home always had a Democratic foundation,
and his mother was a socially conscious businesswoman. In fact, it was Fondy's
mother who urged him to take his first full-time teaching job.

He had been working at the former Mesta Machine Co. in West Homestead to earn
money for college at Duquesne University.

After receiving a bachelor's degree in math from Duquesne in 1958 and a teaching
certificate from the school a year later, Fondy was laid off from Mesta while
waiting to enter graduate school.

An offer to teach in Trafford soon followed, and his mother's advice was clear.

"She said, 'You're taking that job to teach,' " Fondy recalled.

After only a year in Trafford, Fondy moved in 1960 to Carrick High School, where
he taught math for eight years.

A couple of incidents at the school, including one in which a principal failed
to support him in a student discipline case, helped prompt Fondy to join the
Pittsburgh Federation of Teachers, then a fledgling union of only about 250
members.

Fondy threw himself into the group, quickly organizing the teachers in his
building and becoming vice president.

After losing a bid for president in 1965, he became PFT president in 1967, a
post he has held ever since.

Under Fondy's leadership, the federation launched a campaign to represent all
city district teachers in 1967 and 1968 and conducted an 11-day strike to press
its cause.

Not only did the union win the right to represent the teachers, but the
Pittsburgh strike also led state officials to form a commission that eventually
recommended passage of Act 195, which in 1970 gave Pennsylvania teachers the
right to strike.

District teachers would go on strike again in 1971 and for 56 days between
December 1975 and January 1976. Fondy would later be able to boast that the city
district teachers haven't walked off the job since the 1975-76 work stoppage.

During the ensuing years, Fondy moved up the union ladder becoming vice
president of the Pennsylvania AFL-CIO in 1976, president of the Pennsylvania
Federation of Teachers in 1980 and vice president of the American Federation of
Teachers that same year.

It is that background of family, work and labor organizing that has molded Fondy
into the union leader that he is today.

"Because of the long strike in 1975-76, I never believe in castigating the other
side," he said. "If you have an honest disagreement, you just have to make your
case and when it's over, it's over."

Of course, Fondy is known for being fairly vociferous in making his case.

"He lets you know by the redness of his face and the vein bulging in his
forehead that he's not happy with a proposal you've made," said Richard Fellers,
executive director of business affairs for Pittsburgh Public Schools.

"He can be very confrontational and volatile, and his eruptions are loud and
earthy," agreed Campbell. "He is not afraid to take risks, including the risk of
a work stoppage, even in the teeth of adverse public opinion or court
sanctions."

Fondy also has such a care and knowledge of detail that he always carries a
bottle of liquid paper with him to correct mistakes, a habit that has become a
running joke among those who know him.

"I don't know what's in the PFT budget for white out, but it has to be a lot,"
Richard Sternberg, president of the Pittsburgh Administrators Association, said
with a laugh.

"Fondy has an energetic work ethic which is characterized by voluminous notes
and writing and careful attention to detail," Campbell said.

Fellers added that Fondy's attention to detail also is demonstrated by his
"encyclopedic knowledge" of the union contract and the issues surrounding each
section.

But regardless of whether they are friends or critics, many people agree that
Fondy also cares about quality education and the future of the city district.

"His interests go beyond union matters," said John Tarka, executive director of
the Pennsylvania Federation of Teachers. "He sincerely wants to improve public
schools in Pittsburgh and Pennsylvania."

School officials have cited as an example the Professionalism and Education
Partnership union and school officials formed in the 1980s which allows both
sides to discuss education issues every year, even when there are not contract
talks.

"He's always been an ally with management away from the table, even before it
was fashionable," Fellers said.

Taylor said while he gives Fondy credit for being being sensitive to the
district's financial problems, he wonders whether Fondy will be flexible in
allowing school officials to try things such as longer school days and years to
improve education.

Fondy's philosophy that "school systems function better if management and
teacher can work together" should help.

"Al really tries to look at the global picture and what it takes to make the
district world-class," Sternberg said. "He tries to represent the teachers and
still work within that framework."

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              273 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                      May 9, 2000, Tuesday, SOONER EDITION

DEAR GOV. BUSH: GEN. POWELL'S YOUR MAN;
BE NICE TO MCCAIN, BUT PICK A WINNER FOR VP

BYLINE: PAUL KENGOR

SECTION: EDITORIAL, Pg. A-21

LENGTH: 943 words


We've now had a couple weeks of speculation about today's meeting in Pittsburgh
between George W. Bush and John McCain, and the subsequent possibility of a
Bush-McCain ticket. Despite the speculation, the most recent poll shows that
both the general public and Republican party favor a Bush-Powell ticket over a
Bush-McCain ticket by 2 to 1.

The Republican dream ticket for 2000 remains Bush-Powell. Sure, conservatives
have certain qualms, stemming from Powell's stance on social issues. But they
believe that a Bush-Powell team would once again bring them the White House.
They see a Bush presidency as vastly superior to a Gore presidency. Pat
Robertson, Ralph Reed and Jerry Falwell have all underscored the fact that the
next president will determine the direction of the Supreme Court, among other
items. They want a Republican president making those picks, not a Democrat. To
conservatives, a GOP White House in 2001 is what matters most.

The rub, of course, is how to get it. Or, better yet, how to get Powell. The
hook is foreign policy.

A President George W. Bush could offer a Vice President Powell a chance to do
foreign policy in a way not done by any vice president in history.
Institutionally and historically, the vice presidency now allows for such a
possibility.

Contrary to McCain's comments earlier in the year, the vice president need not
merely lay wreaths at the funerals of foreign dignitaries he has never met. A
look at the foreign-policy roles and activities of the last four vice presidents
shows that the president's understudy can play a significant role in
international affairs. All four have been remarkably active in foreign policy,
far more so than their predecessors. For better or worse, Al Gore has truly been
history's most active vice president in foreign policy.

FDR's first vice president, John Nance Garner, spoke too soon when he said the
vice presidency wasn't worth a pitcher of warm spit.

Why is the veep suddenly a policy player rather than a wreath layer?

There are two factors at work, and both could combine to make the next vice
president history's most active to date in the global realm, especially if the
next vice president possessed Colin Powell's foreign-policy resume and passion.

The first factor is institutional, deriving from changes ushered in by Harry S
Truman. Incredibly, as vice president, Truman had seen the president only eight
times in a year and a half, unquestionably one of FDR's most short-sighted and
irresponsible actions. More incredible, Truman was sworn in with no knowledge
whatsoever of the Manhattan Project, Yalta and a host of other vital matters.
Potsdam was only weeks away.

When he became president, Truman took steps both statutory and informal to
ensure the vice president would never again be disengaged from foreign affairs.
These included, among others, making him a sitting member of the National
Security Council.

Because of Truman's changes, most post-World War II vice presidents
(particularly starting with Nixon) have been active in foreign policy, and at
least informed. Other changes by presidents Eisenhower, Carter and Reagan
further enhanced this activity.

The second factor is vital. A Vice President Powell would bring to the executive
branch greater foreign-policy experience than the president he serves. This was
true of Vice President Gore, and remains a primary reason that Clinton leaned so
heavily on Gore for advice on international issues, and why Gore became the most
active vice president in foreign policy. This was not true of Vice President Dan
Quayle, who, despite having at least as much foreign-policy experience entering
the vice presidency as Gore, served under a president with among the deepest
foreign-policy portfolios of any president.

As Quayle himself stated, Bush was "so steeped" in foreign policy that he simply
didn't need to consult his vice president. As one Quayle staff member told me,
Bush could have had George Marshall or Henry Kissinger as his vice president and
still never needed to consult him on global issues. Clinton, an Arkansas
governor, was the opposite.

Both of these factors would converge mightily in Powell's favor.

Yet, one sticky issue remains: Powell has reportedly said no to the vice
presidency, but has left open the idea of taking the secretary of state job.

President George Bush once correctly stated that while many have ridiculed the
office of the vice president, few have turned it down. Would the same be true of
Powell?

Powell may not have much choice or say in the matter.

The reality is that Bush needs Powell as veep far more than he needs him as
secretary of state. He has a number of attractive options for secretary of
state, none of which hold the presidency in the balance. On the contrary, he has
seen the polls on what Powell could mean to winning the White House.

Herein lies the foreign-policy hook: Bush may be able to appeal to Powell by
offering him a vice presidency stacked with a heavy foreign-policy emphasis. No,
he wouldn't be as active in foreign affairs as the secretary of state, but he
could still be assigned plenty of significant duties. Better yet, Powell may be
able to selectively choose among foreign-policy areas he prefers -- a luxury not
open to the secretary of state. And from Bush's perspective, Powell could begin
the assignment with the most significant duty of all: help him win in November.

Paul Kengor is an assistant professor of political science at Grove City
College. His book "Wreath Layer or Policy Player: The Vice President's Role in
Foreign Policy" is forthcoming from Lexington Books.

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING, DRAWING: Powell could be a power veep

                       Copyright 2000 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              280 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                    March 30, 2000, Thursday, SOONER EDITION

GLOBAL PANACHE;
THE HUMBLE PANCAKE MAKES ITSELF AT HOME AROUND THE WORLD

BYLINE: KRISTIN EDDY, CHICAGO TRIBUNE

SECTION: FOOD, Pg. E-8

LENGTH: 1377 words


The typical American conception of pancakes is a little flat. Our Sunday stacks
of tender griddlecakes are well known and much loved, but they don't begin to
reflect the global scope of pancakes.

The worldwide pancake roll call includes:

* Russian blinis smeared with butter or sour cream and topped with caviar

* Sour, fermented Ethiopian injera

* Buckwheat crepes sweetened with glazed apples in Brittany

* Crisp dosas of India, fashioned out of legumes or rice flour batter

* Lacy, turmeric-tinted crepes of Vietnam, typically partnered with a filling of
vegetables, meat or fish

* Savory Japanese pancakes, sprinkled with green seaweed powder and dried bonito
shavings

* Thin Chinese pancakes for make-it-yourself moo shu pork

* An airy puffed pancake dusted with sugar and a squeeze of lemon that is a
breakfast specialty of Germany and the Scandinavian countries.

Even when pancakes are on the sweet side, as they tend to be in most of Europe,
the preparations take on national identities.

"There are very interesting pancake traditions in places people don't always
think of -- Hungary, Moldavia and Latvia" says Naomi Duguid, co-author of the
cookbook "Flatbreads and Flavors" and a soon-to-be published book on pancakes
and other breads.

The widespread heritage of pancakes makes perfect sense if one considers the
earliest cooking methods, Duguid says.

"Think about the first people growing grain," she says. "They must have mashed
or boiled it a bit and made a mush, then spread it out on hot rocks. We think of
breads as staples, but before people had ovens, pancakes could also be the staff
of life."

It's a fine line that separates pancakes from other hot breads, although Duguid
says pancakes are typically made from a thin batter and cooked on a lightly
oiled griddle, not a "shaped, firmed dough like oven-baked breads."

Cooks naturally adapt pancakes to regional tastes, reflecting the available
ingredients and cooking styles. Author Yamuna Devi discusses the dosa in her
book "The Art of Indian Vegetarian Cooking." The textures range from crisp to
velvety; the batters vary from those made with pureed dried beans to those of
wheat, chickpea or rice flour laced with spices and shredded vegetables. Dosas
are eaten plain or topped with chutney or curried vegetables.

"In South India, dosas are eaten as much as pasta is in Italy," she writes.

Vietnamese cooks also tinkered with pancakes, which originated in the central
part of the country around Hue, according to Kim Nguyen, owner of Chicago's
Pasteur Cafe.

"In Hue, they put eggs in the batter. Then -- you know how it is -- other
regions decided they liked it but adapted it to their taste," she says. "It
eventually became famous in Saigon, where they use coconut milk instead. They
basically lightened the crepe, because in Saigon there is much more intense
heat." The golden Vietnamese pancake is wrapped around fillings of shrimp, pork
and vegetables, with crunchy bean sprouts and cool herbs for contrast.

Even in this country, pancakes have a regional flair. They're made with white or
wheat flour, buckwheat or cornmeal and depending on who's at the griddle -- they
might be known as pancakes, hot cakes, griddlecakes, silver dollars, flapjacks,
johnnycakes or hoe cakes.

There's no need to claim a favorite; pancakes have universal appeal. Now it's
time to do some exploring of your own. Grandma Sonia's Cheese Blintzes

This recipe is from Sonia Ullman of Ottumwa, Iowa, who is the grandmother of
Chicago Tribune Test Kitchen Director Raeanne Sarazen. Ullman, originally from
Pinsk, Poland, has cooked for her family as well as professionally for more than
80 years.

Blintz batter:

6 eggs

2 cups water

1 1/2 cups flour

1 teaspoon salt

Filling:

2 pounds farmers' cheese, see note

3 eggs

1 1/2 cups sugar

1/2 teaspoon salt

3 tablespoons unsalted butter

1 cup sour cream

For batter, beat eggs in medium bowl; mix in water, flour and salt. Batter
should be very thin.

For filling, mix cheese and eggs in medium bowl. Mix in sugar and salt.

Coat 8-inch skillet with non-stick spray; place over medium-high heat. Pour 1/4
cup batter into pan; tilt pan to swirl batter so it covers bottom of pan. Cook
one side only, removing from skillet when edges begin to curl, 20-30 seconds.

Place on sheet of wax paper; repeat with remaining batter.

Place 2-3 tablespoons filling along one edge of crepe. Fold edge over filling,
fold in sides and continue to roll into a package. Repeat with remaining crepes.

Melt 1 tablespoon of the butter in large skillet over medium heat. Cook
blintzes, about 8 at a time, until golden brown, 1-2 minutes per side. Repeat
with remaining butter and blintzes. Serve with sour cream.

Note: If farmers' cheese is in a block, crumble it and use the 3 whole eggs. If
it is in a container, drain the cheese first and use only egg yolks, so mixture
is not too wet. Two pounds of cottage cheese, drained, can be substituted for
farmers' cheese.

Yield: 24 blintzes

Nutrition information per serving: Calories, 270; carbohydrates, 20 grams; fat,
16 grams; cholesterol, 120 mg; protein, 12 grams; sodium, 430 mg; fiber, 0.2
gram. Bahn Xeo (Vietnamese Stuffed Rice Pancake)

Crepe batter:

3/4 cup dried yellow mung beans

2 cups coconut milk

1 cup plus 2 tablespoons rice flour

1/2 teaspoon sugar

1/2 teaspoon salt

1/4 teaspoon turmeric

Filling:

1/4 pound pork tenderloin, cut into 1/4-inch slices

1/2 pound medium shrimp, shelled, deveined, halved lengthwise

1 1/2 tablespoons fish sauce (nuoc nam or nam pla)

4 cloves garlic, minced

1/4 teaspoon sugar

Freshly ground pepper

5 tablespoons vegetable oil

1 large yellow onion, thinly sliced

1/4 pound mushrooms, thinly sliced

2 cups bean sprouts

For crepes, cover beans with water; soak 30 minutes. Drain; reserve 1 cup of the
beans. Blend remaining beans with coconut milk in blender or food processor to
fine puree. Add rice flour, sugar, salt and turmeric; blend. Pour batter into
bowl; refrigerate.

Boil reserved mung beans until tender, 10 minutes. Drain; set aside to cool.
Combine pork, shrimp, fish sauce, garlic, sugar and pepper to taste in medium
bowl. Cover; refrigerate 30 minutes.

Heat 2 tablespoons of the oil in wok or large skillet over medium-high heat.
Stir-fry pork and shrimp 1 minute; remove from pan. Add 1 tablespoon of the oil,
onions and mushrooms; stir-fry 4 minutes. Add bean sprouts, cooked mung beans,
pork and shrimp; stir-fry 2 minutes. Remove to platter; cover with foil to keep
warm.

Heat 1 teaspoon of the oil in 8-inch non-stick skillet over medium-high heat.
Stir crepe batter; pour 1/3 cup batter into pan. Tilt pan to spread mixture into
thin circle. Spoon pork-shrimp mixture onto half of crepe. Cover pan; cook until
crepe is crispy on bottom and cooked through, 2 minutes. Fold crepe over
filling; slide pancake onto serving platter. Repeat with remaining oil, batter
and filling. Yield: 6 servings

Note: Ingredients may be found at Asian or Thai food markets.

Nutrition information per serving: Calories, 525; carbohydrates, 46 grams; fat,
30 grams; cholesterol, 70 mg; protein, 23 grams; sodium, 620 mg; fiber, 8 grams.

Adapted from "The Foods of Vietnam" by Nicole Routhier Puffy Oven Pancake

4 eggs

1 cup milk

1 cup flour

1 teaspoon sugar

3/4 teaspoon salt

1/2 stick ( 1/4 cup) unsalted butter

Lemon wedges, confectioners' sugar, fresh berries

Whisk eggs, milk, flour, sugar and salt in large bowl until well blended. Let
stand at room temperature 30 minutes.

Heat oven to 475 degrees. Divide butter between two 9- or 10-inch pie pans;
place in oven until butter melts. Remove pans, swirl butter to coat sides.
Divide batter between pans.

Bake on lowest rack of oven until pancakes are golden, set in center and rise
high above sides of pan, 12 to 15 minutes. Cut into wedges; place on plates.
Squeeze lemon juice over top of each; sprinkle with sugar and berries. Yield: 4
servings.

Nutrition information per serving: Calories, 325; carbohydrates, 28 grams; fat,
18 grams; cholesterol, 250 mg; protein, 12 grams; sodium, 530 mg; fiber, 0.8
gram.

Adapted from "Scandinavian Feasts" by Beatrice Ojakangas

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (2), PHOTO: Bob Fila/Chicago Tribune: Puffy Oven Pancake bakes
up; beautifully, creating a natural bowl for the season's best fruits -- and a;
sprinkling of powdered sugar.; PHOTO Bob Fila/Chicago Tribune: (No caption)

                       Copyright 2000 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              284 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                  February 19, 2000, Saturday, SOONER EDITION

PSO, GUITARIST MAKE UP FOR CONDUCTOR'S DEFICIENCIES

BYLINE: ANDREW DRUCKENBROD, POST-GAZETTE CLASSICAL MUSIC WRITER

SECTION: ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT, Pg. C-6, CONCERT REVIEW

LENGTH: 392 words


There are many ways to test the level of an orchestra. Usually, it's what
heights it reaches. Occasionally, as in the case of the Pittsburgh Symphony
Orchestra last night, the criteria are what depths it avoids.

With the exception of guitarist Christopher Parkening's fiery rendition of
Joaquin Rodrigo's "Concierto de Aranjuez," the concert at Heinz Hall wasn't up
to the usual PSO standard. But it could've been worse. The orchestra rallied
despite the general lack of direction from the evening's guest conductor, Norio
Ohga.

Ohga does know how to direct, but more in the realm of business. He is chairman
of Sony Corp. - yes, the $ 56 billion global electronics and entertainment
juggernaut. That he is a brilliant man and a skilled business leader is without
question. But that sort of life precludes the years of training you need to
conduct well, even if you have musical talent, as Ohga does. He was a
professional singer in his youth.

Ohga clearly knew the evening's repertory - including Beethoven's "Eroica"
Symphony No. 3 and Yasushi Akutagawa's "Musica per Orchestra Sinfonica"
backwards and forwards. But he had difficulty relaying it to the group in the
form of gestures indicating entrances, dynamics, expressiveness.

Most orchestras would have floundered under the circumstances, but the PSO
showed its mettle. Darting eyes flashed in the sections as members looked to
each other to stay together and play reasonably well. The only thing they
couldn't judge for themselves - balance - did cause problems.

Parkening's performance of Rodrigo's celebrated guitar concerto was the
highlight of the night. He played with a decided edge, fiercely attacking the
phrases and pushing the issue. The harsh edge of his tone propelled the work,
more than once giving the illusion that he was rhapsodizing straight from his
head. The famous second movement English horn solo by Harold Smoliar was
gloriously earthy, with a deep resonance.

Written in 1950, Akutagawa's "Musica" is a fascinating work, with a
carnivalesque feel. Ohga didn't do much with the piece, though it is good that
he is promoting the works of a neglected countryman abroad. Only during the
"Eroica" did Ohga warm up to the podium. Conducting from memory, he was far more
expressive. Whether the PSO followed him at that late point is another question.

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              286 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                    March 28, 2000, Tuesday, SOONER EDITION

CAJUN PEACEMAKIN';
INSIDE THE MIND OF JAMES CARVILLE, THE ULTIMATE FRIEND OF BILL AND HILL

BYLINE: WILLIAM SAFIRE

SECTION: EDITORIAL, Pg. A-21

LENGTH: 704 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


To the president from James Carville, your greatest loyalist, Ragin' -Cajun
author of "Stickin' ":

Who'd a thunk we could top the pope's tour of Israel and the Russian election
with your summit in Geneva with Syria's Hafez Assad? He didn't budge, but
everyone knows he's a tough nut to crack, and this way you get credit for any
future deal.

Now here's my three-phase plan to elect Hillary and Al, and get you a legacy
with legs. As one who helped elect both you and Ehud Barak, I speak from global
experience.

Phase I: Late this spring we close the deal with Syria. That means getting
Israel off every blinkin' inch of them Golan hills. In return, Syria hosts an
armored brigade of our boys plus the Frenchies on the front lines forever.
Israel gets real-time access to our spy satellites and a real-warm handshake
from ol' Hafez.

I already told Ehud how to sell this to the Israelis in a referendum in the
summer. It's gonna be a financial bonanza: a couple of billion bucks from this
year's U.S. budget supplemental for starters, and that's double the dough we
paid them to go along with Arafat at Wye. His campaign clincher is your promise
of $ 15 billion more from Al after he's elected.

What's the $ 17 billion for? Deep defense against the Syrians we say are not
threatening Israel from up on the Golan, of course. Republican isolationists
will say that's a big bundle for moving one division of troops downtown, but we
can denounce those skinflints for being pro-Mideast-war.

You may have a problem shaking the first $ 2 billion out of Congress this
summer, because Ehud won't scrap his deal to sell China Israel's new AWACs,
which are better than ours. Brother Jiang is offering $ 1 billion for four of
those babies, but it kinda rubs Americans the wrong way for Israel to sell China
the means to knock out the U.S. Navy in the Taiwan Strait. Tell our defense
contractors that Israel will spend a lot of the $ 17 billion peace payoff on
U.S. equipment; the K Street lobbyists will know what arms to twist in Congress.

Phase II starts a couple of weeks after Labor Day. With the U.S. campaign
heating up, we bring off the Palestinian deal on the White House lawn. Last
year, Ehud set the deadline for final settlement smack in our election time,
which was all my idea.

Photo is Arafat and you and Hillary and Ehud; we'll set it up so the media can't
crop Hillary out. Al stands a step behind Ehud, nowhere near Yasser Arafat. Then
all off to New York for a ticker-tape peace parade, or whatever they use for
confetti these days.

Phase III comes in October, surprise-time. First event: your sudden trip to
Jerusalem carrying a golden shovel to turn the earth for the construction of the
U.S. embassy there. You've had the authority from Congress to move our embassy
from Tel Aviv to Israel's capital for years, but you didn't want to upset
Yasser.

Now here's an event with the timing totally in your control. Fill Air Force One
with every American Jewish leader, with their names inscribed on the shovel that
will be hung in our ambassador's office.

Arafat will want you to do the same in Abu Dis, the Jerusalem suburb he wants to
be his new capital, but that can wait until the election's over.

The second event will take some help from Sandy and Madeleine, but it's doable.
October is the time that the Nobel Peace Prize for 2000 is announced. If we've
bought off the Golan settlers enough to win the referendum, and then sweetened
the Palestinian pot enough for one of those comprehensive whoopdedos, how can
those libs in Norway deny their prize to you?

Not only could you use the million bucks to pay those legal bills, but the
prestige would also back off Starr's replacement, Robert Ray. You suppose he'd
dare to indict the man on his way to pick up the prize for being the world's
peacemaker? I'd personally make his name mud.

That's my plan. Can't miss electing Hillary and Al, insuring your legacy and
saving you from the clink. By the way -- Assad's son, Bashar, wants to be the
next dictator.

If you need a sweetener to get Syria aboard, you can promise ol' Hafez I'll
handle his son's campaign.

William Safire is a syndicated columnist for The New York Times.

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              288 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                    June 21, 2000, Wednesday, SOONER EDITION

'MUSIC AND PASSION' 'N' 'AT

BYLINE: CHRISTOPHER RAWSON

SECTION: ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT, Pg. E-2, ON STAGE

LENGTH: 692 words


OK, it ain't Shakespeare," said Ginny Kopas in her enthusiastic e-mail review of
the first preview of "Barry Manilow's Copacabana"; "But then, he never sold a
T-shirt either." Tweet! Foul! Wrong! Shakespeare sells lots of T-shirts. On the
other hand, Kenneth Branagh to the contrary, he never wrote a musical comedy, so
Barry is one up in that department.

I started Monday's review of "Copacabana" with an account of a friend poking me
in the chest and demanding, "Give us a good review." And of course, I did -- my
reviews are usually good, I hope, by which I mean as descriptive, intelligent
and as fair as I can manage.

But she didn't mean that -- she meant a rave, which I couldn't provide. I should
have said, "Whatever I write, I can't make the show any better (or worse) than
it is." Still, this is one occasion when a mixed review might prove useful. I'm
not silly enough to think producers respect reviews as anything more than
marketing devices, but Manilow says they will continue to tweak the show as it
heads out of Pittsburgh, so let's hope they do.

So far, I've detected just three native Pittsburghers connected with the tour,
beside the CLO production staff led by Van Kaplan -- drummer Aaron Russell,
Barbara's son; Aland Henderson of Bethel Park, who programs the very effective
moving lights (Veri-lites, they're called); and Joan Marcus, today's leading
Broadway photographer, who's taking the production shots. Any more?

*

THE ARCHIVES: Out of curiosity, I went back to find what I wrote about
"Copacabana" after seeing it in London with a Post-Gazette tour in 1994. It was
just a squib:

"Having started as a simple gloss on Barry Manilow's hit, 'Copacabana' at least
has the wit to delay the song itself until its finale. Even so, this is never
more than a generic 1940s supper club musical, complete with innocent-turns-star
and excursion to Havana. In spite of bushels of sequins and glitter, all that
lifts it above the imitative is the deft performance of Gary Wilmot, a star by
any reckoning."

The new show certainly improves on that! By the way, Dormont's Stephen Flaherty
and partner, lyricist Lynn Ahrens, won the Olivier Award that year for best
musical for "Once on This Island"; "Copacabana" was the chief competition.

*

SITE SPECIFIC: As Quantum Theatre tonight opens its latest hit-and-run
production, in which it colonizes an unlikely space, performs one show and then
moves on -- this one is "Anna Karenina" on the unfinished ninth floor of the
Bitz Building on Ninth Street -- I've been thinking how other theaters could
accomplish the same magic.

To warm up, there's Quantum's next, "Midsummer Night's Dream," for which they
haven't yet announced the lucky forest. How about Frick Conservatory? Or the
Pittsburgh Garden Center -- indoors to start and end, but out into Mellon Park
for the forest? Or the Turner Dairy Farm amid the peace and quiet of cud-chewing
cows, Oberon with bull's horns and Titania as a milkmaid goddess?

When Unseam'd Shakespeare does "The Blue Room" (David Hare's take on "La
Ronde"), they could set up shop right next door to the Bitz Building in the
Edison Hotel, letting the audience follow the action from room to room. (There
are rooms in the Edison, aren't there?) Center Stage's "Frankie and Johnny in
the Clair de Lune" should be set in a diner, the CLO's "Anything Goes" on one of
the Gateway Clipper boats and Little Lake's "Rise and Fall of Little Voice" at
the tackiest Italian restaurant they can find.

More seriously: "Anna Karenina" is opening in time to give us a Russian
double-header, running through July 2, the same closing date as the Public's
"The Cherry Orchard." Tolstoy and Chekhov; Anna and Ranyevskaya; the 1860s and
1904; dislocation tragic and comic. Chekhov was a great dramatist; we'll see
what kind of a play they've carved out of Tolstoy's great novel.

*

BOTTOM LINE: Paid admissions at city's professional theaters for week ending
June 18:

Copacabana/CLO (61%) ........ 10,235

Orchard/Public (72%) ............... 3,456

Inishmaan/PICT (60%) ................  783

Island/Global, Hamburg (28%) .... 159

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              290 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                  September 28, 2000, Thursday, SOONER EDITION

HOW ABOUT IT? OLYMPICS 2020 IN PITTSBURGH?

BYLINE: CHUCK FINDER, POST-GAZETTE SPORTS WRITER

SECTION: SPORTS, Pg. A-1

LENGTH: 1269 words


Dr. Freddie Fu took the podium at the dedication of the UPMC Sports Medicine
Center on the South Side and made a sporting pronouncement:

Pittsburgh should bid for an Olympic Games.

It wasn't the giddiness of Monday's moment -- the opening of the
state-of-the-art center built in conjunction with new Steelers and University of
Pittsburgh football headquarters and practice fields.

It wasn't the champagne or the crowd.

Fu was serious.

"The Olympics. I was thinking if Atlanta can do it, I don't see why Pittsburgh
can't give it a try," said the renowned orthopedic surgeon, who heads Pitt's
sports-medicine program and the City of Pittsburgh Marathon. "If we can do this
sports complex in a short time, why not [a Summer Games]?"

By the time he left the podium, Fu had won over Mayor Tom Murphy and County
Chief Executive Jim Roddey. The two agreed to sit down soon for a discussion
about the idea.

"The mayor is personally excited about this," spokesman Doug Root said. "He
thinks it's possible."

Fu mentioned that Pittsburgh should bid for the 2012 Summer Games --a year he
pulled out of the air. Unfortunately, the United States Olympic Committee has
closed the bidding for 2012, receiving $ 100,000 bid fees and applications from
eight prospective cities. The eight have a Dec. 15 deadline to submit their
700-page final proposals.

The USOC plans to select one of them -- Baltimore/Washington, D.C.; Cincinnati;
Dallas; Houston; Los Angeles; New York; San Francisco and Tampa -in the fall of
2002 and forward that nominee to the International Olympic Committee. The IOC is
scheduled to select a 2012 host in fall 2005.

"Maybe 2020 is more realistic," Roddey said. "Actually, I've heard that before
-- why not bid for an Olympics? Some of the things that have to be in place are:
the stadiums, hotels. ... But we'd have a big way to go. Everybody needs
something to start from. We ought to sit down and think about it."

Fu was enthusiastic about the possiblities.

"Lake Erie isn't too far away for boating. Seven Springs is good for mountain
biking. Whitewater for kayaking is not far away. Rowing we could have on the
rivers.

"I watched the Olympic events every day on TV, and I thought, 'We could do it.'
"

At the Sports and Exposition Authority, spokesman Greg Yesko advised caution.
After all, the Pittsburgh area has no velodrome for cycling, no Olympic-class
track stadium, no single Olympic-class soccer facility for an event that
required six such venues in the Sydney Olympics.

Also needed would be a tennis stadium, archery and rifle areas, an indoor home
for basketball, gymnastics, handball and table tennis -- Fu wondered about
Mellon Arena or a new arena -- not to mention a warm-up track and an
Olympic-sized pool with 10,000-plus seats. (Pitt's Trees Hall holds only a few
hundred people.)

In little more than a decade, Pittsburgh has been host to two U.S. Olympic
marathon trials and one men's basketball regional for the National Collegiate
Athletic Association tournament.

"But when you look at the Olympics, you expand the requirements tremendously,"
Yesko said.

Cities and countries who vie for the Olympics see it in chamber-of-commerce
terms: a chance to revitalize an area, place it on global display and reap the
economic benefits thereafter. The costs are huge.

Sydney got about $ 3 billion in funding from the New South Wales state
government to transform a wasteland known as Homebush Bay into a sparkling
Olympic Park. Australian officials constructed a 110,000-seat track and soccer
stadium for $ 423 million, a 15,000-seat baseball stadium for $ 238 million
(about the price tag for 36,000-seat PNC Park, by the way), an 18,000-seat
Superdome for $ 118 million, a 15,000-seat field hockey center for $ 10 million,
a 15,000-bed Olympic Village, and much, much more.

By contrast, Seoul, South Korea, in 1988 needed to construct just 13 of its 112
Olympic sites.

Athens, in securing its 2008 host rights, pledged that its biggest building
projects weren't athletic venues -- its committee claimed that 29 of 39 sites
already existed.

However, Athens organizers planned to use $ 6 billion in European Community
money to upgrade its technological infrastructure, $ 1.5 billion in Greek
government allocations for airport and transportation improvements, plus another
$ 200 million in government funds to improve 6,000-plus hotel rooms set aside
for Olympic media, representatives and visitors (with another 2,000 rooms being
used in anchored cruise ships).

Officials there also expected to use lottery proceeds for Olympics projects.

Closer to home, Atlanta in 1996 required $ 1 billion to ready its city but left
behind $ 400 million in permanent facilities for government and educational
entities, such as Georgia Tech University. It used massive doses of sponsorship
funds and corporate donations, plus a modicum of Georgia state aid, to undertake
the hosting chore that ultimately generated 80,000 jobs, $ 5.1 billion for the
local economy and $ 165 million in tax revenues.

"Our community has made a lot of progress already," Roddey said. "If you might
have asked 15 years ago and said, 'Well, this will be the new stadium, this will
be the new convention center, this will be the new ballpark. ...' people would
think you were crazy.

"What we really need to do is gather information. We need to know how many hotel
rooms we're talking about, how many resources. ... Then we can have some
rational thought about what could be possible for us to do."

Roddey added that the state government would need to get financially involved if
Pittsburgh to build the required venues to stage an Olympics.

The IOC awarded the 2002 Winter Games to Salt Lake City, a North American city,
just a half-dozen years after the Atlanta Summer Games, so it is expected to
award the 2008 Summer Games to Beijing, China.

Toronto is the lone North America bidder for those Olympics, and could well
position itself for the 2012 bid likely to go to either a U.S., Canadian or
South American city.

That could open 2016 or 2020 for another Western Hemisphere host.

If Pittsburgh decides to get serious, it would need to start with a non-profit
Olympic organizing committee, a mostly unpaid staff anywhere from a dozen to 75
workers and a sizeable bank account. Organizers in Baltimore/Washington estimate
they will spend $ 7 million to $ 9 million in their USOC bid process.

San Francisco's bid committee has a Web site that solicits donors: $ 25 to join
the Pin Club, $ 1,000 for the Ambassadors 2012 Club, and three levels of the
Founders 2012 Circle -- $ 25,000 Bronze, $ 50,000 Silver, $ 100,000 Gold.

Then comes the 700-page proposal to the USOC, broken into 19 "themes" that
include marketing, finances, accommodations, and transportation.

The Dallas committee contracted that to sponsors, with J.C. Penney handling its
marketing and Bank of America the financial end.

After that, a host city is well-served if it proves capable of hosting
world-class events.

Baltimore/Washington, which includes 41 major stadiums and arenas in its
metropolitan area, has lined up a track meet in January, a wrestling tournament
in February, a world-championship swimming meet this fall and a table tennis
tournament over Thanksgiving weekend.

First things first.

In preparing for its 2012 bid, Cincinnati conducted a feasibility study between
1996 and 1998, finishing some 14 years before the event, two years before even
submitting a bid to USOC.

"I don't see why it would hurt to do a feasibility study," Fu said of
Pittsburgh.

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              292 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                  November 12, 2000, Sunday, ONE STAR EDITION

NO HEADLINE

SECTION: ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT, Pg. G-12

LENGTH: 677 words


The annual Pittsburgh Steelers Fashion Show & Dinner to benefit the Burger King
Cancer Caring Center is Nov. 30 at the Pittsburgh Hilton and Towers, Downtown.
Cocktails are at 6 p.m., dinner is at 7 and the show is at 8. Tickets are $ 75,
with tables of 10 available for $ 750 and runway-side tables for $ 1,500. For
information, call 412-622-1212.

*

A holiday entertaining and shopping benefit for nonprofit organizations and
families in need is 6 p.m. Wednesday at Kaufmann's, Downtown. On the bottom nine
floors, there will be entertainment and refreshments and fashion, beauty and
home demonstrations. Door prizes include a $ 1,000 shopping spree and a trip to
St. Thomas, Virgin Islands. Tickets are $ 10. For information, call
412-232-2313.

*

TRUNK SHOWS: Ecco men's, women's and children's shoes and Gore-tex boots will be
featured Friday and Saturday at Littles, 5850 Forbes Ave., Squirrel Hill. A show
of Hana K's raincoats, shearling, fur-lined after-skiwear and other outerwear is
Thursday and Friday at Carl W. Herrmann Furs, 634 Smithfield St., Downtown.

*

Kiehl's, a company that has made bath and body products for 149 years, now
offers hand-poured, scented candles. They burn 60 hours and come in essential
oil essences such as cucumber, grapefruit, lavender, musk and coriander. They're
$ 37.50 each at Saks Fifth Avenue Downtown.

There's also a new talc-free, soft silk powder in fragrances such as heather,
lavender, tea rose, sandalwood, Moroccan jasmine, grapefruit, cucumber and
unscented. They're $ 14 for 1.3 ounces.

Also at Saks: A "Give Thanks to Beauty" special event is 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.
Saturday at the Trish McEvoy cosmetics counter. Three national makeup artists
from New York will be present. Call 412-297-5349 for an appointment.

*

Clarins is doing the unusual: launching a body product in the fall when spring
is typically the time that women look for such products. But the global beauty
giant is confident that its Renew-Plus Body Serum will be a huge hit among women
who understand that skin has special needs in cold weather.

The serum -- a body version of Clarins' Renew-Plus Night Lotion for the face --
was formulated to moisturize and to retexturize skin by enhancing the cellular
renewal process. It contains vitamin C, water lily to moisturize, wintergreen to
dissolve dead skin cells and vitamin K-rich cashew nut to stimulate circulation.
It can be used morning and evening and has a pleasing natural fragrance. It's $
47.50 at Saks Fifth Avenue, Lazarus, Kaufmann's and Lord & Taylor.

Also launched recently by Clarins are three products that contain extracts from
dark algae, pine trees and cacti to fight skin dehydration: Moisture Quenching
Hydra-Balance lightweight lotion and rich cream ($ 48.50 each) and soothing mask
($ 30).

*

As people break out the warm coats and put away summer's cooler styles, a
concern is whether moth larvae will ruin your favorite attire with holes.

For people who can't stand the odor of moth balls, there's a more pleasing
alternative: natural cedar.

"Cedar is safe, cedar is natural and most people think it smells better than
chemical mothballs," said Jay Butera of Philadelphia, president of Cedar Fresh
Home Products, which makes cedar shoe trees, clothes hangers, drawer liners,
sachets and other cedar storage items.

Butera, former chairman of the Aromatic Cedar Council, an industry trade
organization, was the first person to register natural cedarwood as a
moth-prevention substance with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. He
later helped persuade the agency to deregulate natural cedarwood from pesticide
regulation as part of a movement toward natural products as alternatives to
chemical pesticides.

Cedar Fresh products, which cost $ 3 to $ 5, are available at Ace Hardware,
WalMart and Target and at www.cedarfresh.com.

-- Compiled by LaMont Jones

Send Stylebook items to PG Fashion Editor LaMont Jones at the Pittsburgh
Post-Gazette, 34 Blvd. of the Allies, Pittsburgh, PA 15217 or
ljones@post-gazette.com.

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              293 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                   December 5, 2000, Tuesday, SOONER EDITION

PHOTOS OF MARS FUEL THEORY OF WATERY PLANET

BYLINE: ROBERT COOKE, NEWSDAY

SECTION: SCIENCE, MEDICINE, TECHNOLOGY, Pg. A-16

LENGTH: 494 words


The strongest signs yet that Mars was once awash in water were announced by
space scientists yesterday, upping the odds that life may once have arisen on
the distant red planet.

In a report to be published Friday in the journal Science, researchers who
scanned detailed photos of the planet's surface said it's their most significant
discovery yet. What they see are signs of sedimentary deposits, suggesting that
water was once at work shaping the planet's stark features.

An alternative scenario would have winds and meteor impacts creating layered
geological features billions of years ago, but that possibility is considered
more exotic, and less likely, than the "wet Mars" idea. Another possibility, the
scientists said, could have been a combination of two or more "planet-shaping"
phenomena.

The new evidence about Mars and its history is seen in detailed photos sent back
to Earth by the Mars Global Surveyor spacecraft, which has been in orbit around
Mars since September 1997.

The highly successful space mission has so far returned tens of thousands of
images of the planet's cold, barren surface. It also has been using an altimeter
to measure the heights of Martian features.

The new report was prepared by wind-erosion specialist Michael Malin and his
colleague, Kenneth Edgett, both out of a private research company, Malin Space
Science Systems, in San Diego.

Malin, speaking during a news conference yesterday at the Jet Propulsion
Laboratory in Pasadena, Calif., said that "Mars isn't the way we thought it was,
and it hasn't been the way we thought it was for a very long time."

Jim Garvin, Mars exploration scientist at the National Aeronautics and Space
Administration, added that "we're uncovering a new Mars." Garvin said the idea
that Mars is a dead planet should be abandoned because some of the multiple rock
layers on the planet may include fossils of some kind.

Malin and Edgett explained that they see signs of old, buried craters protruding
from canyon walls, and evidence that older terrains were weathered away, and
then re-covered with subsequent layers.

In all, they said, the best guess is that the surface materials were moved
around extensively, and were put in place long ago by water. And the water seems
to have been in the form of lakes or shallow seas, rather than planet-wide
oceans.

The evidence for water pooling on Mars' surface is extraordinarily important
because without water there is virtually no chance that life ever got started
there. Finding signs that there was once, even briefly, a wet, warm climate on
Mars gives a boost to chances that life once could have begun there.

"Standing water would be tremendously significant, if it was not just like flash
flood episodes," said Louis Friedman, executive director of the Planetary
Society, in Pasadena. The discovery announced yesterday "whets our appetite for
the idea of life perhaps having taken hold and evolving on Mars."

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, PHOTO: Reuters: Photos such as this one lead scientists to
believe; that the planet Mars may have been a land of lakes in its earliest
period,; with Earthlike layers of sedimentary rock that could contain fossils
of; possible Martian life.

                       Copyright 2000 P.G. Publishing Co.
