
                               8 of 291 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                     June 5, 2002 Wednesday SOONER EDITION

BUSH SPURNS REPORT ON CLIMATE CHANGE;
 SAYS HE REMAINS OPPOSED TO KYOTO TREATY

BYLINE: KATHARINE Q. SEELYE, THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: SCIENCE, MEDICINE, TECHNOLOGY, Pg.A-2

LENGTH: 637 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Under intense criticism from conservatives, President Bush yesterday distanced
himself from a report by his administration concluding that humans were to blame
for far-reaching effects of global warming on the environment.

The report, drafted by the Environmental Protection Agency and reviewed by
several other agencies, was sent to the United Nations on Friday. The report
said the United States would be substantially changed in the next few decades by
global warming, although it called for no rapid response. Reporters asked Bush
about the report yesterday.

"I read the report put out by the bureaucracy," he said. He said he still
opposed the Kyoto treaty, which Japan ratified yesterday, which calls for the
mandatory reduction of greenhouse gases by industrial nations.

Critics across the political spectrum said that Bush was trying to appear more
moderate to environmentalists while signaling to conservatives and industry that
he would not promote the views contained in the report.

Bush's spokesman emphasized that the report carried numerous caveats about the
uncertainty that still exists about the science of climate change.

Ari Fleischer, the spokesman, obviously anticipating a question about the report
at the daily White House briefing, said: "There is 'considerable uncertainty' --
that's in this recent report -- relating to the science of climate change. This
report submitted to the United Nations also recognizes that any 'definitive
prediction of potential outcomes is not yet feasible' and that 'one of the
weakest links in our knowledge is the connection between global and regional
predictions of climate change.' "

Instead of the Kyoto treaty, Bush has called for voluntary measures that would
allow gas emissions to continue to rise, with the goal of slowing the rate of
growth.

But in this report, the administration said for the first time that the United
States would be significantly affected by global warming in the next few
decades. The report alarmed conservatives and representatives of various
industries, especially utilities that rely on old technologies, and they accused
Bush of flip-flopping.

Christopher C. Horner, a lawyer in Washington and senior fellow at the
Competitive Enterprise Institute, a conservative research group, said yesterday
that Bush distanced himself from the report "because of concern from the right
that he was going to accept the European environmental world view, that he had
changed his mind as the report indicated he had."

Horner said that Bush could not possibly accept the premise of the report
without also saying that the United States would do something about it.

"It was obvious to him that it's not tenable to say yes, we're aggressively
killing the planet and then not do something aggressive about it," he said. "Our
fear was that he would have to take severe action," after years of promising
that he would not.

He said Bush was now in more of a bind because he could not dismiss the report
as the product of bureaucrats without responding to it.

The implication in Bush's dismissal, he said, was, "There goes Gov. Whitman
again," a reference to Christie Whitman, administrator of the EPA, who has
sometimes been at odds with Bush over approaches to environmental problems.

Joe Martyak, a spokesman for Whitman, said that this was an incorrect
interpretation. The report said nothing new, Martyak said, and Whitman "agrees
with the president that his plan is the best approach to dealing with greenhouse
gasses."

Phil Clapp, president of the National Environmental Trust, said that Bush's
response yesterday reflected the difficult political position the report put him
in. "This is the same naked politics that this administration has exhibited on
every major environmental issue," Clapp said.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2002 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              24 of 291 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                      July 19, 2002 Friday SOONER EDITION

FAST-MELTING ALASKAN GLACIERS RESHAPING STATE, RAISING SEA LEVELS

BYLINE: ERIC PIANIN, THE WASHINGTON POST

SECTION: SCIENCE, MEDICINE, TECHNOLOGY, Pg.A-3

LENGTH: 483 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Alaska's glaciers are melting at more than twice the rate previously assumed
because of warming temperatures, a disturbing phenomenon that is dramatically
altering the majestic contours of the state and driving up sea levels, according
to a new study.

Scientists using highly precise airborne laser measurements of 67 Alaskan
glaciers from the mid-1950s to the mid-1990s discovered that the glaciers are
melting an average of six feet a year -- and in some cases a couple of hundred
feet -- and that the rate has accelerated in the past seven or eight years.

As one measure of the severity of the problem, the researchers calculated that
the glaciers are generating nearly twice the annual meltage of the Greenland Ice
Sheet, which is the largest ice mass in the Northern Hemisphere and second only
to the Antarctic.

That would mean the Alaskan melt is adding about two-tenths of a millimeter a
year to the sea levels -- an unprecedented development that could have long-term
implications for flooding on Pacific islands and along coastal areas, the
researchers concluded.

The study by a team of researchers from the University of Alaska in Fairbanks,
published in today's issue of the journal Science, offers a vivid and troubling
picture of the potential adverse impact of climate change on the United States
and the rest of the world.

"The change we are seeing is more rapid than any climate change that has
happened in the last 10 to 20 centuries," said Keith Echelmeyer, one of the five
researchers who prepared the study.

Scientists can't say whether the extraordinary melting is the result of
man-induced global warming, the slow natural advance and rapid retreat of the
glaciers, or dramatic but natural variations in weather patterns.

But the effects are illustrative of what some scientists and environmentalists
predict will happen at home and abroad unless the United States and the rest of
the world undertake a more aggressive effort to reduce carbon dioxide and other
heat-trapping gases.

The study has provided fresh evidence for Alaskan officials, researchers and
environmentalists who say their state has become the poster child for the ills
of global warming.

Over the past 30 years alone, the annual mean temperature in Alaska has risen
5.4 degrees Fahrenheit -- four times the average global increase, according to
the University of Alaska's Center for Global Change and Arctic System Research.

Early this year, an Antarctic ice shelf the size of Rhode Island shattered and
collapsed into the sea after an unusual warming period, stunning some scientists
who said they had never seen such a large loss of ice mass in the remote
Antarctic Peninsula.

The 1,260-square mile ice shelf is believed to have existed for as long as
12,000 years before regional temperatures began to rise, yet it disintegrated
over a 35-day period that began Jan. 31.

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Alaska Division of Tourism: The Mendenhall Glacier, part of the
Juneau Icefield in Alaska, where scientists say that glaciers are melting at a
more rapid rate than previously thought.

                       Copyright 2002 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              31 of 291 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                       June 3, 2002 Monday SOONER EDITION

INSIDE A WORLD OF ICE DEEP UNDER A GLACIER, SCIENTISTS STRIVE TO FIND OUT WHAT
MAKES THEM GO

BYLINE: DONALD G. MCNEIL JR., THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY AND MEDICINE, Pg.A-6

LENGTH: 1066 words

DATELINE: BENEATH THE SVARTISEN GLACIER, Norway


To find the Aladdin's Cave of modern glaciology, follow these simple directions:

Fly to Bodo, in the Arctic Circle. Drive three hours south to an empty jetty and
wait for the boatman. Cross the fjord, walk a mile on a gravel road toward the
glacier, which looks like a huge cracked dragon's tongue of cornflower-blue ice.

Make a brutal climb 1,800 feet up the mountain, sometimes sinking up to your
waist in wet snow, sometimes climbing hand over hand on ropes stretched down
slopes polished slick by the glacier. (You can use a helicopter in good weather,
but that is expensive.)

Enter a hole in the mountain resembling a sewer pipe. Don a hard hat, miner's
light and rubber boots, and walk a mile as the tunnel slowly widens until it is
big enough for a truck and is lighted by dim electric bulbs. Pass through a vast
concrete wall that in summer holds back a subterranean torrent. Find and climb
the 79 wooden steps that lead up through the tunnel roof.

You are now at the bottom of the glacier. There are 700 feet of ice above you,
and it all seems to be dripping down your neck.

Fumble your way up 15 feet of slippery rock, gripping the ice walls for balance.
At the top is a flat spot inside a shimmering wonderland. Long blades of ice --
some glowing white in the work lamp, some filthy with gray glacial sediment --
are coming at you from every direction.

They are literally coming at you. This cave, just big enough for 10 people to
stand in, did not exist two days before, and it will not exist in two more. It
was carved out with a warm-water jet, and the ice, flowing like toothpaste at
these depths, began pressing back in as soon as it was shut off.

There is nothing quite like this back in Iowa, where Neal R. Iverson usually
studies glaciology. There it is mostly theoretical, though he has a model made
of two rotating aluminum plates with glacial sediments between them, which he
describes as "rotating a bagel and seeing the cream cheese shear." Here he has
the real thing -- ice meeting rock under millions of tons of pressure.

Like a vast snail, a glacier rides on a slurry of sediment and water, and
Iverson's team is studying why it can race past at 150 feet a day or slow down
to nearly zero.

One preliminary discovery the team made this year is that the friction between
the sediment and the rock face is more than 20 times as great as mathematical
models had predicted.

No one has ever been sure why a glacier does not race down a mountain valley
like an ice cube on a sheet of glass. Recent thinking has been that bumps in the
bedrock hold it back. But the team's data suggest that simple friction may apply
the brakes, as if the ice cube has a sandpaper bottom.

"This is the only lab in the world like this," said Erik Roland, manager of the
glaciers and snow section for the Norwegian Water Resources and Energy
Directorate. The directorate, Norway's state power company, built and maintains
it for scientists, with underground bedrooms for eight, telephones, a kitchen, a
laboratory with a big freezer, drilling equipment and a huge hot-water spray
machine.

Traveling to glaciers is relatively easy. Tunneling beneath them is difficult.
Scientists in Greenland take ice cores down to 10,000 feet, but cannot follow
their drill bits down. In Antarctica, tunnels have been cut with 6-foot chain
saws, but that is mere nibbling at the glacial edge.

In past decades, there have been smaller temporary laboratories in natural
pockets under the Argentiere Glacier in France and in a power tunnel under the
Bondhusbrea Glacier in Norway. But they are closed. A short tunnel lies under a
glacier in Tianshan, China, but it is a "cold glacier" -- frozen to its bed. So
motion studies like those by Iverson's team are impossible.

The Svartisen is a "temperate glacier," meaning that its ice is right at the
melting point, 0 degrees Celsius.

One thing the experts have not yet worked out is why, even near the bottom, it
is full of water pockets, like champagne bubbles, except that when these pop,
surprised scientists receive ice water showers.

On sunny days, millions of gallons of snowmelt filter down through the glacier,
raising the water pressure where it meets the rock.

That melt is the reason the power company built 60 miles of tunnels under the
edge of the Svartisen. The tunnels carry the melt to hydroelectric turbines. The
hotter the weather, the more water flows -- the reverse of the normal situation
for most hydroelectric plants, which cut back in hot summers for fear of
drought.

Nearly alone among the world's glaciers, Norway's are increasing in size. For
unknown reasons, shifting global weather patterns have brought more
precipitation to the fjord-dented coastline.

Glaciers like Svartisen can receive 20 or more feet of new snow a season,
thousands of tons bearing down on the center.

"That's good for us," said Denis Cohen, a Yale glaciologist who collaborates
with Iverson's team. "Gets the glacier moving."

The moving glacier lets the team record sliding speeds, friction, viscosity
under various water pressures, sediment porosity and such.

And what's good for the glaciologists is good for their field. In the past few
years, fear of global warming has made this area of research much hotter.

"Before, if you studied ice mechanics, it was regarded as pretty useless," said
Miriam Jackson, a glaciologist for the Norwegian power company who works with
Iverson's team "Now, if you can relate it to climate change, people regard it as
relevant and you get the funding."

Iverson is a romantic about glaciers, perhaps not surprising because his studies
in Iowa work with all that is left -- their scuffed footprints. He sees them not
as passive snowmen whose smiles droop wanly as global warming beats down on
them, but as major actors on the world weather stage, scenery chewers full of
pent-up energy. As an example, he cites the Laurentide Ice Sheet, a fast mover
that once barnstormed the American Midwest and then retreated.

"About 14,000 years ago, it changed the drainage of the center of America," he
said. "Instead of draining to the North Atlantic, it started flowing to the Gulf
of Mexico. I'm sure that had a huge effect on global heat in the atmosphere.

"So glaciers don't just respond to climate change, they trigger it. That idea
wouldn't have been accepted 20 years ago."

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Photo courtesy of Neal R. Iverson: Neal Iverson, in front of the
door at the end of the research tunnel that leads directly into the bottom of
the Svartisen Glacier in Norway.
 INFORMATIONAL GRAPHIC: Bill Marsh/The New York Times; Neal R. Iverson, Iowa
State University: (Tunneling for icy secrets)

                       Copyright 2002 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              33 of 291 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                     August 27, 2002 Tuesday SOONER EDITION

CORAL REEFS ARE LATEST ECOLOGICAL WARNING;
 SURVEY OF 1,100 FOUND ONLY ONE FREE OF DAMAGE

BYLINE: JERRY HIRSCH, LOS ANGELES TIMES

SECTION: NATIONAL, Pg.A-10

LENGTH: 816 words


Following the grim path of the rain forests and the Arctic, coral reefs are
becoming the latest victim of the modern human plagues of pollution,
over-harvesting and climate change, according to a massive survey of these
sensitive ocean gardens.

Key species of fish, shrimp and lobster are missing from the majority of the
reefs that were studied as fisherman pour cyanide and blast dynamite within the
antler-like branches of many coral heads to collect seafood.

At the same time, polluted runoff from coastal communities is providing a
continual stream of fertilizer onto many reefs, feeding species of large and
fleshy algae that choke off growth of the type of hard, stony corals that make
up the foundation of the reefs, according to the study by Reef Check, a
monitoring program based at UCLA's Institute of the Environment.

The study, involving more than 5,000 scientists and divers who over the course
of five years tracked the transformation of coral reefs in 55 countries, found
only one reef out of more than 1,100 that was judged to be in near-pristine
condition.

"Coral reefs have suffered more damage over the last 20 years than they have in
the last 1,000," said Gregor Hodgson, a visiting UCLA professor who heads Reef
Check and is the author of the report. "It is the rate of decline and the global
extent of the damage that is so alarming, with species reasonably abundant 30
years ago now on the verge of extinction."

The growing destruction of these fragile yet bony ecosystems, often called the
rain forests of the oceans, has alarmed scientists because coral reefs account
for 25 percent of all marine fish species and provide food for 350 million
people, mostly in developing nations, Hodgson said.

Although reefs make up just one-tenth of 1 percent of the world's ocean area,
authors of the study called them a key indicator of the health of the world's
oceans.

Moreover, the stony, physical structure of reefs provides crucial protection for
many coastal regions from the severity of storms, and their continual growth and
erosion replenish the white-sand beaches so prized in the multibillion-dollar
tourist industry, often the major source of income in poor tropical nations.

Coral reefs are fertile breeding grounds for marine life. If it were not for
insects in rain forests, reefs would have the highest species diversity of any
habitat in the world.

Coral reefs are more than 100 million years old and are among the largest living
structures on Earth. The Great Barrier Reef off Australia is more than 1,200
miles long and is visible from outer space.

One of the biggest threats to the reefs are ocean temperature spikes that many
marine biologists attribute to global warming and short-term climate phenomena
such as El Nino. Corals are unusual animals because they thrive close to the
upper range of their temperature tolerance. Upward changes of just a few degrees
over a sustained period cause the symbiotic microorganisms living within the
coral tissue, which provide energy for the colony, to either leave or be
expelled by the coral.

Known as coral bleaching, this phenomenon has killed massive stands of coral in
recent years in the tropical Pacific Ocean, including giant colonies that
scientists believe were as much as 1,000 years old. It has made the surviving
coral susceptible to a variety of diseases. One large episode in 1997 and 1998
reduced the world's live coral growth by 10 percent, according to the study.

Overfishing is threatening to put four species of fish in danger of extinction
and is depleting many other reef fish and shellfish at alarming rates, Hodgson
said.

Predators such as the Nassau grouper, Barramundi cod and hump-head wrasse were
missing from at least eight of every 10 reefs surveyed.

These big fish are prized in Hong Kong and other East Asian markets where
restaurants allow customers to select a live fish from an aquarium and have it
cooked for them. This live-fish trade, where fishermen in Indonesia and the
Philippines often squirt cyanide into the reefs to stun the fish, also can kill
nearby animals and the coral.

Other destructive fishing techniques include throwing explosives into the reefs
to stun or kill the fish to make them easier to harvest.

Not all of Reef Check's findings were grim.

"Modern coral reefs have been around for 100 million years, and they can be
surprisingly resilient," Hodgson said.

"Ecologists have been surprised at how quickly reef fish populations have
rebounded at successful marine parks," he added. "Two years is enough to
replenish many species. Some types of corals also grow very quickly -- like corn
-- but others take decades to reach a large size."

Reef Check scientists said the establishment of more marine parks and restricted
fishing zones internationally will help over-fished species rebound by creating
breeding refuges.

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: MacGillvray Freeman Films: This image from the upcoming IMAX
Theater film "Coral Reef Adventure" shows a healthy reef in the South Pacific
last year. Scientists say such reefs are in serious decline.

                       Copyright 2002 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              36 of 291 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                   February 24, 2002 Sunday TWO STAR EDITION

A WINTER IN NAME ONLY NOT THAT UNUSUAL HERE

BYLINE: MICHAEL A. FUOCO, POST-GAZETTE STAFF WRITER

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg.A-1

LENGTH: 1163 words


It's been a daily crap shoot this winter on whether El Sol warmed or Jack Frost
nipped our noses.

Heck, in February alone, temperatures in the region have ranged from highs in
the mid-60s to a low of 11 degrees.

But mostly it's been warm -- very warm.

So warm, in fact, that if the last four days of February are simply normal --
highs near 40 degrees and lows in the mid-20s -- the average temperature this
winter, considered by the National Weather Service to be the months of December,
January and February, will be about 36.1 degrees.

That would make it the 11th warmest winter since record-keeping began in 1871.

December's average of 37.5 degrees was the 18th warmest mark ever for that
month, and January's 35.5-degree average was the 17th highest on record.

And all of that happened even though the temperature didn't rise above freezing
Dec. 24 through Jan. 5.

As for individual days, the 73 degrees recorded Dec. 5 was a tie for the
second-warmest temperature in any December. And when the mercury rose to 72 on
Jan. 31, it was a tie for the third-warmest temperature ever recorded in
January.

What's going on? Is it the Apocalypse? Are the polar ice caps going to melt,
spelling our doom?

Don't worry, advises weather service meteorologist Chris Strager. It's typical
for this region to have such variances.

"It's not the end of the world as we know it," Strager said. "If people are
worried that this is a very dangerous thing that it's so warm, that things are
running amok, it's certainly not that. It's not off the chart, it is not several
deviations off the mean.

"It's just a mild winter."

Strager, 41, grew up in these parts. He remembers snowfalls from his childhood
and how people reacted then.

"People were worried about another ice age when we had big snows. Now we've had
a string of mild winters and people are worried about the greenhouse effect and
ozone depletion," Strager said.

"The fact we've had a few warm winters doesn't imply we're beyond repair. It's
just the law of averages going into effect."

In fact, Strager said, it's as possible as any other possibility that we could
have the coldest winter on record next year. Everything evens out in the end,
making what's normal somewhat abnormal.

For example, December was 6 degrees above the normal mean of 31.5 degrees,
January was 7.9 degrees above the mean of 26.1, and February is about 6.1
degrees above the mean of 28.7.

But what, really, is normal?

As determined by the weather service, it is the average of 131 years, meaning
there is a wide divergence on either side of the normal temperatures for any day
or month.

"Everyone talks about departures from normal, but the big thing for everyone to
keep in mind is that normals are all made up of extremes," Strager said.

Such are the vagaries of weather at 40 degrees north latitude/80 degrees west
longitude, which is another way of saying that if you don't like the weather in
the Pittsburgh region, just wait for a while because it's going to change.

"We have warm intrusions [of air] from the south and cold from the north, and
we're right in the thick of things," Strager said. "There's a lot more variance
in the middle latitudes."

Strager, who was a meteorologist in the Air Force in Panama for three years,
doesn't have to think long to decide which climate he favors.

"It was very boring in the tropics," he said. "I missed the winters here, the
change of seasons.

"And as a meteorologist, [the weather here] is more interesting. All
meteorologists [enjoy such variations]. While we respect what it does to
people's lives and what bad weather can do, we want to see some extremes. It's
an occupational hazard, I suppose."

And, he added with a laugh, the fact that weather changes so much around here
provides meteorologists with another perk.

"It's called job security."

But it's not just temperatures that vary here day to day, month to month, year
to year. Snowfall also has wide variances in these parts.

Between November 2000 and April, we had 35.6 inches of snow, 8.2 inches below
the 30-year mean of 43.8 inches.

This snow season, we've recorded 19.1 inches.

"We still have a ways to go this [snow season], but unless there's a huge storm,
we'll probably be just below average," Strager said.

Compare that with what happened between 1992 and 1996. In three of those winters
-- 1992-93, 1993-94 and 1995-96 -- the recorded snowfall was 72.1 inches, 76.8
inches and 74.5 inches, respectively. But in the winter of 1994-95, 23.4 inches
fell.

"The variability is funny. Now for the last six years in a row, we've been well
below for snowfall. But next year the story could be that we had 70 inches of
snow and it is very cold. There's absolutely no real way to tell.

"It's one of the great mysteries of weather. It's tough to explain why this
happens. Everything just goes in cycles."

But while our weather primarily causes us the problem of switching from winter
to spring wear and back again, other portions of the state are facing a
weather-related crisis.

Groundwater levels are so low in the south-central and eastern regions of the
state that on Feb. 12, Gov. Mark Schweiker declared a drought emergency in 24
counties. He asked for voluntary conservation of water but said that if
conditions continued to deteriorate, the state could face its worst drought in
history.

In addition to the 24 counties in drought-emergency status, seven counties
remain in a drought warning, and 31 are under a drought watch.

That leaves only Allegheny, Beaver, Washington, Westmoreland and Lawrence
counties with no drought problems.

Schweiker said low rainfall last summer and fall and little snow this winter
caused record-low stream and groundwater levels. Wells are running dry and,
before the latest drought-emergency declaration, 71 public water systems across
the state were operating under voluntary or mandatory water restrictions.

In a drought emergency, mandatory water-use restrictions include not serving
water in eating places unless requested by the customer; closing indoor and
outdoor ornamental fountains, waterfalls and pools unless they are needed to
sustain aquatic life; and imposing strict limitations on the watering of lawns,
athletic fields and golf courses, and the washing of automobiles.

A drought warning, the second stage of drought, calls for a 10 percent voluntary
reduction in consumption.

A drought watch, the first and least severe stage, calls for a voluntary 5
percent reduction of nonessential water use.

Back here, the forecast is teasing us like an elusive high school crush.

Today should be beautiful and sunny, with a high of 52, and tomorrow the mercury
could top off near 60 degrees, with some clouds. Tuesday it's back to winter --
snow showers and a high of 36, and by Wednesday, highs will be down to 20 with a
chance of snow.

But don't fret. Better weather will come. It always does.

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
UNSEASONABLE MATTERS

GRAPHIC: INFORMATIONAL GRAPHIC: James Hilston, Steve Thomas/Post-Gazette;
National Weather Service; Jeff Verszyla; KDKA: (Pittsburgh weather: The ups and
downs)

                       Copyright 2002 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              40 of 291 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                   December 22, 2002 Sunday FIVE STAR EDITION

BUSH HARMING ENVIRONMENT, CRITICS SAY

BYLINE: JOAN LOWY, SCRIPPS HOWARD NEWS SERVICE

SECTION: NATIONAL, Pg.A-13

LENGTH: 717 words


Halfway through his term, President Bush has done more to change the way federal
environmental laws are defined and implemented than any other president in the
last three decades, leaving his mark on virtually every aspect of national
environmental policy.

In decisions ranging from the disposal of mining waste in waterways to whether
aging power plants have to upgrade pollution-control equipment to oil drilling
on public lands, Bush has sought to minimize federal oversight, favored a style
of environmental enforcement that is more carrot than stick and tried to lessen
the cost of environmental regulation on business and industry.

White House officials say the president has brought a commonsense approach to
environmental policies that were hurting the economy by balancing economic needs
against environmental gain. Critics say Bush has steadily rolled back
fundamental environmental protections, siding with business and industry at the
expense of the public and the environment.

"I think it's fair to say that we have never before faced such a fundamental
challenge to every aspect of environmental protection," said Greg Wetstone of
the Natural Resources Defense Council. "These are not changes at the margins.
It's sweeping, it's across-the-board, and it's coordinated through the White
House."

Scott McClellan, the White House spokesman on environmental issues, said critics
are trying to scare the public in an effort to raise contributions.

"The president believes there needs to be a new way of thinking with regard to
the nation's environmental laws and regulations," McClellan said. "The zero sum
alternative approach of some of these special-interest groups will lead to
either no progress or dire consequences for our economy."

Without a strong economy, the nation can't afford to pay for the research and
new technologies needed to address many environmental problems, McClellan said.

McClellan cited the criticism Bush has received from Democrats,
environmentalists and others for one of his first major environmental decisions
-- to withdraw the United States from the Kyoto Protocol, the climate-change
treaty that sets country-by-country targets for reducing carbon dioxide and
other greenhouse-gas emissions

Shifting the economy away from greenhouse-gas-producing fossil fuels like oil
and coal in order to comply with the treaty would cost the nation an estimated
4.9 million jobs and billions of dollars, McClellan said.

Critics, however, cite studies that show near-term costs to the economy would be
far less and that potential long-term costs of delaying a shift to alternative
fuels could be catastrophic.

The decision to pull out of the treaty was one of Bush's highest-profile
environmental decisions. But political appointees, many of whom were drawn from
industries they now oversee, have quietly made dozens of other important
decisions.

One of Bush's first decisions upon taking office in January 2001 was to put on
hold more than a dozen regulations proposed or adopted in the final months of
the Clinton administration. Many were ultimately dropped or scaled back. Some
remain in limbo.

Typical are regulations proposed by the Environmental Protection Agency under
President Bill Clinton to control overflows of raw sewage from inadequate and
poorly maintained sewer systems. The regulations would have tightened operation
and maintenance requirements on sewage system operators. They had supported the
regulations in a compromise reached with the EPA, but withdrew support after
Bush took office, saying the proposals would cost too much. Two years later, the
regulations remain in limbo.

There are about 40,000 sewer-system overflows and 400,000 basement backups of
untreated sewage each year, according to the EPA. Between 1.8 million and 3.5
million people annually get sick from swimming in waterways contaminated with
untreated sewage from overflowing sewers.

One of the most controversial environmental decisions of Bush's tenure was to
delay the implementation of a tougher standard adopted under Clinton for arsenic
in drinking water of 10 parts per billion, instead of the previous standard of
50 ppb. Industrial polluters and municipal water suppliers had complained about
the expense of meeting the new standard.

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2002 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              47 of 291 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                     July 28, 2002 Sunday FIVE STAR EDITION

HOT TOPIC;
 NFL TRAINING CAMPS OPEN WITH AN EYE ON THE THERMOMETER

BYLINE: DAVE CAMPBELL, THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: SPORTS, Pg.D-1

LENGTH: 1035 words


Seeking relief from a Redskins training camp session where one thermometer hit
117 degrees, linebacker LaVar Arrington stripped to his shorts and plopped into
a 300-gallon tub of ice just outside the locker room.

"It's hot," Arrington said, complaining of cotton-mouth despite trying to quench
his thirst with a sports drink in each fist at the camp in Carlisle, Pa. "You
always make it a concern, but you've got to get better. You've got to get out
here and play. It's part of the game."

Across the NFL this summer, coaches and trainers are keeping a close watch on
their players, determined to avoid a repeat of last August's heatstroke death of
Minnesota's Korey Stringer. Some teams are shortening practices and starting
them earlier in the day, cutting the number of workouts in pads, and even moving
some workouts into climate-controlled facilities.

"Go back to last summer -- the whole league focused on this," said NFL spokesman
Greg Aiello. "The goal was to ensure that we are taking the appropriate steps to
minimize these risks."

The NFL has consulted with several experts and held discussions and seminars on
the subject. After learning that dietary supplements increased the risk of
heat-related illnesses, the league banned the herbal stimulant ephedra last
September and began random testing for it July 1.

A bottle of Ripped Fuel, which contains ephedra, was found in Stringer's locker.
There's no evidence that caused his death -- Stringer was a big man with a
history of problems with heat -- but it scared a lot of players out of using
supplements.

The league hasn't made any other significant changes, but each team now has a
heightened awareness of keeping players hydrated and out of the sun as much as
possible.

"We're confident our teams are doing everything they should be doing," Aiello
said.

Dr. Elliot Pellman, chairman of the New York Jets' medical department, is one of
the doctors the league consulted.

"You have to have the training staff and medical staff and coaching staff all on
the same page when watching the practices in extreme weather to make sure
everyone is tolerating the practices the same," Pellman said. "And if someone is
having a problem, you must do the proper things if he is getting ill.

"You need to practice in what would be real game situations," Pellman said. "You
could argue that if they are not acclimatized in their training, then in the
games they are at risk.

"But when it is 100 degrees and 100 percent humidity, practicing for a long time
is dangerous."

Because of a $100 million lawsuit from Stringer's widow, Kelci, the Vikings
aren't commenting specifically about their conditions at camp. But they have
made public their plans for dealing with the heat:

* A doctor will be on the field during all practices. Previously, a physician
was at practice for only some of the team's workouts.

* Large sun canopies, some attached to electric carts with fans, will provide
shade on the practice fields.

* The cafeteria at the Minnesota State University dorm where the team stays will
be air conditioned.

* Yellow practice jerseys will replace purple for the offense, when heat and
humidity call for lighter colors.

Citing the fact they were cleared by Minnesota's Occupational Safety and Health
Administration of any unsafe conditions at last year's camp, the Vikings
maintain their practices and procedures were sound and insist that this year's
heat-related precautions do not reflect "dissatisfaction with what was done
before."

The same goes for the rest of the league, although many teams acknowledge some
changes have been made in light of Stringer's death.

New Indianapolis coach Tony Dungy, who has the experience of supervising six
years' worth of summer workouts in the Florida heat, has been emphasizing
hydration. The Colts, like many teams, will conduct special teams workouts
without pads. Those practices will be primarily "teaching" sessions.

Kansas City, which travels north to train in the cooler woods of western
Wisconsin, will start its morning practices at 8 a.m., about an hour earlier.
Coach Dick Vermeil acknowledged the change comes out of concern about last
year's tragedy.

"We made the move to give our players more recovery time," Vermeil said.
"They'll get off the field earlier."

San Francisco, training in the steamy inland Central Valley in northern
California, will never wear pads -- like most teams -- for both of its
twice-a-day practices. The 49ers will put pads on in the afternoons only once at
camp.

"We're always filling our players with water and Gatorade continuously," said
Coach Steve Mariucci. We've got the ice tubs. We always have, and we always
will, but on the heels of Korey Stringer's death, you know that everybody's
going to take even more precaution."

Dallas, training in San Antonio, has only three of 16 morning practices
scheduled for more than an hour and one of them is a 75-minute workout -- the
only scheduled practice of the day.

In the afternoons and evenings, the Cowboys will be inside the climate
-controlled Alamodome.

Jacksonville Coach Tom Coughlin hammers away at a simple message to keep his
players safe from heat stress: Drink.

But nothing Coughlin says is as effective as the sight of what happens to
players who don't, says Jerry Palmieri, the team's strength and conditioning
coach. At a normal Jaguars camp, about 10 players will need IV help to replenish
fluids lost to the stifling conditions of Florida in July.

"As bad as it sounds, that might be the best selling point to the rest of the
team that they need to be hydrated," Palmieri said. "As soon as the rest of the
guys see someone with a needle stuck in them, they get the point. They don't
like that sight."

Redskins trainer Dean Kleinschmidt said every player gets the message about heat
dangers.

"In the old days, before big money, there were guys who didn't follow rules
much," Kleinschmidt said. "[Now] there's so much at stake, so much to lose."

Green Bay Coach Mike Sherman shared the same sentiment.

"We used to push hydration," he said, "but they never listened to you. And so
now I think they're listening a little more."


LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: David J. Phillip/Associated Press: Houston Texans defensive end
Uhuru Hamiter gets cooled off by a trainer last week.

                       Copyright 2002 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              49 of 291 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                     July 28, 2002 Sunday FIVE STAR EDITION

BYLINE: DAVE CAMPBELL, THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: SPORTS, Pg.D-13

LENGTH: 1035 words


Seeking relief from a Redskins training camp session where one thermometer hit
117 degrees, linebacker LaVar Arrington stripped to his shorts and plopped into
a 300-gallon tub of ice just outside the locker room.

"It's hot," Arrington said, complaining of cotton-mouth despite trying to quench
his thirst with a sports drink in each fist at the camp in Carlisle, Pa. "You
always make it a concern, but you've got to get better. You've got to get out
here and play. It's part of the game."

Across the NFL this summer, coaches and trainers are keeping a close watch on
their players, determined to avoid a repeat of last August's heatstroke death of
Minnesota's Korey Stringer. Some teams are shortening practices and starting
them earlier in the day, cutting the number of workouts in pads, and even moving
some workouts into climate-controlled facilities.

"Go back to last summer -- the whole league focused on this," said NFL spokesman
Greg Aiello. "The goal was to ensure that we are taking the appropriate steps to
minimize these risks."

The NFL has consulted with several experts and held discussions and seminars on
the subject. After learning that dietary supplements increased the risk of
heat-related illnesses, the league banned the herbal stimulant ephedra last
September and began random testing for it July 1.

A bottle of Ripped Fuel, which contains ephedra, was found in Stringer's locker.
There's no evidence that caused his death -- Stringer was a big man with a
history of problems with heat -- but it scared a lot of players out of using
supplements.

The league hasn't made any other significant changes, but each team now has a
heightened awareness of keeping players hydrated and out of the sun as much as
possible.

"We're confident our teams are doing everything they should be doing," Aiello
said.

Dr. Elliot Pellman, chairman of the New York Jets' medical department, is one of
the doctors the league consulted.

"You have to have the training staff and medical staff and coaching staff all on
the same page when watching the practices in extreme weather to make sure
everyone is tolerating the practices the same," Pellman said. "And if someone is
having a problem, you must do the proper things if he is getting ill.

"You need to practice in what would be real game situations," Pellman said. "You
could argue that if they are not acclimatized in their training, then in the
games they are at risk.

"But when it is 100 degrees and 100 percent humidity, practicing for a long time
is dangerous."

Because of a $100 million lawsuit from Stringer's widow, Kelci, the Vikings
aren't commenting specifically about their conditions at camp. But they have
made public their plans for dealing with the heat:

* A doctor will be on the field during all practices. Previously, a physician
was at practice for only some of the team's workouts.

* Large sun canopies, some attached to electric carts with fans, will provide
shade on the practice fields.

* The cafeteria at the Minnesota State University dorm where the team stays will
be air conditioned.

* Yellow practice jerseys will replace purple for the offense, when heat and
humidity call for lighter colors.

Citing the fact they were cleared by Minnesota's Occupational Safety and Health
Administration of any unsafe conditions at last year's camp, the Vikings
maintain their practices and procedures were sound and insist that this year's
heat-related precautions do not reflect "dissatisfaction with what was done
before."

The same goes for the rest of the league, although many teams acknowledge some
changes have been made in light of Stringer's death.

New Indianapolis coach Tony Dungy, who has the experience of supervising six
years' worth of summer workouts in the Florida heat, has been emphasizing
hydration. The Colts, like many teams, will conduct special teams workouts
without pads. Those practices will be primarily "teaching" sessions.

Kansas City, which travels north to train in the cooler woods of western
Wisconsin, will start its morning practices at 8 a.m., about an hour earlier.
Coach Dick Vermeil acknowledged the change comes out of concern about last
year's tragedy.

"We made the move to give our players more recovery time," Vermeil said.
"They'll get off the field earlier."

San Francisco, training in the steamy inland Central Valley in northern
California, will never wear pads -- like most teams -- for both of its
twice-a-day practices. The 49ers will put pads on in the afternoons only once at
camp.

"We're always filling our players with water and Gatorade continuously," said
Coach Steve Mariucci. We've got the ice tubs. We always have, and we always
will, but on the heels of Korey Stringer's death, you know that everybody's
going to take even more precaution."

Dallas, training in San Antonio, has only three of 16 morning practices
scheduled for more than an hour and one of them is a 75-minute workout -- the
only scheduled practice of the day.

In the afternoons and evenings, the Cowboys will be inside the climate
-controlled Alamodome.

Jacksonville Coach Tom Coughlin hammers away at a simple message to keep his
players safe from heat stress: Drink.

But nothing Coughlin says is as effective as the sight of what happens to
players who don't, says Jerry Palmieri, the team's strength and conditioning
coach. At a normal Jaguars camp, about 10 players will need IV help to replenish
fluids lost to the stifling conditions of Florida in July.

"As bad as it sounds, that might be the best selling point to the rest of the
team that they need to be hydrated," Palmieri said. "As soon as the rest of the
guys see someone with a needle stuck in them, they get the point. They don't
like that sight."

Redskins trainer Dean Kleinschmidt said every player gets the message about heat
dangers.

"In the old days, before big money, there were guys who didn't follow rules
much," Kleinschmidt said. "[Now] there's so much at stake, so much to lose."

Green Bay Coach Mike Sherman shared the same sentiment.

"We used to push hydration," he said, "but they never listened to you. And so
now I think they're listening a little more."

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2002 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              56 of 291 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                     August 6, 2002 Tuesday SOONER EDITION

ACCEPTING LIMITS

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg.E-2 LETTERS

LENGTH: 475 words


To my mind, part of what has made the United States great is that we do not
accept limits easily. After all, we have a long history of accomplishing the
impossible. Combine these ingredients, rugged individualism, the-sky's-the-limit
"can-do" attitude, capitalism, and what do you get? A robust, competitive
economic system of incredible creativity and productivity.

Ironically that same unwillingness to accept limits that makes us great may be
our undoing. People cannot sustain 60-hour to 80-hour work weeks and thrive for
long. We do age. Death is natural. And a business cycle cannot escalate forever.
I submit that denial of natural limits is a mental model that helped build the
context for the large-scale cheating that is showing up in U.S. businesses
today. Without respect for natural limits, we get what Alan Greenspan called
"infectious greed."

The upside of the current business crisis from a systems perspective is that the
system has been disrupted. Systems theorists tell us that disrupting a system is
actually the only way to get it to change.

In response to a disruption, a system inevitably reorganizes. If the current
reorganization acknowledges that growth has limits, we may create more
sustainable systems.

Here are a few things that might help us on the path to creating more
sustainable business systems that acknowledge limits to growth.

1. Practice proper selfishness -- realize when enough is really enough and when
our excesses impact others (and other systems).

2. Think of ways that "better" might not be "bigger" (change our mental model).

3. Practice consciously accepting natural limitations ("I did a lot today, even
though it wasn't everything there was to do"), while challenging all "unnatural"
boundaries (racism, sexism, etc.)

4. When you are working harder and harder to get the same result, consider that
perhaps a limit is being approached. Change your focus to either loosening the
limit or accepting that growth is slowing or stopping. (Working harder will
result in only burn-out and frustration.)

5. Identify and work creatively with the limiting factors, usually goals, norms
or resources (not to be confused with working creatively with the numbers.).
This works best as a prevention strategy, looking ahead at factors that might
constrain growth down the road. For every limit there are effective strategies,
but we are usually so busy doing what has worked before, we miss them.

6. Create win-win, cooperative ways to work rather than win-lose, competitive
approaches.

7. Insist that businesses broaden their understanding of "shareholders" to
include employees, customers, suppliers, communities, as well as stockholders.

Government legislation has started the reorganization. Assuring that there are
real systemic changes will require more. Are we up to it?

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Sharon Eakes is an executive coach.

                       Copyright 2002 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              63 of 291 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                    September 9, 2002 Monday SOONER EDITION

COSTLY CONVERSATION;
 A USEFUL BUT EXPENSIVE DEVELOPMENT SUMMIT

SECTION: EDITORIAL, Pg.A-14

LENGTH: 410 words


The World Summit on Sustainable Development held in Johannesburg during the past
two weeks aired several important questions, including how economic development
can best be achieved without unnecessarily depleting environmental resources.
The summit was marred, however, by the tendency of some participants to try to
put the burden for solving all problems on America.

America started the conference two strikes down with the third one whizzing
toward the plate. Even though the United States sent a credible representative
in Secretary of State Colin Powell, other states sent their presidents or prime
ministers. Strike one.

The Bush administration signaled just after coming to power in 2001 that it was
not going to sign the Kyoto Protocol on climate change, sacred text to
environmentalists and a convenient one-word indictment of U.S. environmental
policy. Strike two.

The third strike came in the form of general disapproval of a passel of U.S.
policies and positions, some of which were not on the agenda at Johannesburg.
One was the current U.S. effort to mobilize support for doing something about
Saddam Hussein and Iraq's nuclear weapons capacity. Some at the summit expressed
their emotional attachment to failure by booing Mr. Powell when he dared to
criticize Zimbabwe's inept President Robert Mugabe.

Actually, the United States put forward some constructive proposals for
promoting sustainable development and conserving the environment. These include
active support of partnerships between governments and the private sector in
environmental and anti-poverty programs overseas.

In the area where European Union countries deemed that they had suffered the
most severe setback -- the failure to agree on deadlines for replacing fossil
fuel-source energy by renewable sources such as wind and solar power -- they
were saved from the results of their own proposals by a coalition that included
Japan, Canada and the states of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries as well as the United States.

To stage the summit, the United Nations and other countries, private companies,
foundations and other nongovernmental organizations paid to fly some 40,000
delegates to Johannesburg, South Africa, for a 10-day-long conference -- this,
in a region where an estimated 13 million people are believed to be in danger of
starving. We'd like to say it was worth it for the exchange of views, but we are
not entirely sure.

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2002 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              69 of 291 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                   September 5, 2002 Thursday SOONER EDITION

POWELL GREETED BY JEERS, BOOS AS HE ADDRESSES WORLD SUMMIT

BYLINE: KENNETH R. WEISS, LOS ANGELES TIMES

SECTION: WORLD, Pg.A-1

LENGTH: 711 words

DATELINE: JOHANNESBURG, South Africa


Interrupted by jeers, boos and chants of "shame on Bush," Secretary of State
Colin L. Powell yesterday gamely attempted to defend U.S. programs to reduce
global warming and help the world's poor.

The disruption came during the final day of a U.N. summit on development here
and was the noisiest protest inside the conference hall during the 10-day
conference. The commotion, started by environmental activists, spread into the
ranks of delegates, who were frustrated by President Bush's decisions to
withdraw from an international treaty to reduce greenhouse gases and to not
attend the gathering of world leaders.

"Thank you, I have now heard you. I ask that you hear me," Powell said, breaking
off from his prepared speech.

South Africa's foreign minister banged her gavel, trying to bring the crowd
under control. U.N. police hustled half a dozen protesters in suits and ties out
of the main convention hall.

"Please, can we continue our meeting?" asked Foreign Minister Nkosazana
Dlamini-Zuma. "This behavior is totally unacceptable."

U.N. officials said the outburst illustrated what they called the Bush
administration's go-it-alone policies on the environment are viewed as out of
step with much of the world.

The protest proved to be only a temporary distraction from the concluding day of
the World Summit on Sustainable Development, which the United Nations sponsored
to bring together more than 100 heads of state and government leaders to tackle
twin issues of reducing poverty while protecting the environment.

Late yesterday evening, exhausted delegates gave their blessing to a political
declaration and a 65-page implementation plan that contains hundreds of goals
and recommendations. Many of the goals focus on reducing poverty and human
suffering by providing clean water, sanitation and energy to some of the poorest
regions of the world. Others aim to phase out cancer-causing chemicals, reduce
fossil fuel emissions responsible for global warming or slow the number of
species lost to extinction.

Environmental and human relief organizations yesterday piled on complaints that
the plan doesn't go far enough.

Although U.N. officials were pleased that it elevated key issues, even
Secretary-General Kofi Annan noted that expectations were perhaps too high. "We
didn't get everything we wanted," he said.

The United Nations sponsored the summit here a decade after the first Earth
Summit in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. The Rio gathering was widely credited for
focusing the world's attention on pressing environmental and poverty matters.
But many have been disappointed that so little progress has been made since
1992.

The Johannesburg summit was called to set up a plan to implement the many goals
outlined at Rio. Environmental groups and delegates in Europe pushed for
specific targets and timetables, as performance measures to keep governments on
track.

But the U.S. delegation successfully resisted some of those targets, saying the
administration would prefer to see action on existing goals before setting new
ones.

In lieu of new commitments, the United States rolled out a series of
partnerships that bring together governments, nonprofit groups, businesses and
international agencies to tackle specific issues.

Bush administration officials have been vague on specifics about the programs,
especially about financial commitments, causing many environmental and human
relief groups to dismiss these partnerships as merely recycled dollars and
programs.

That criticism, in turn, has turned attention back to why the administration
fought so hard against global targets in the implementation plan, such as the
European proposal that 15 percent of the world's energy supplies should come
from renewable wind and solar sources by 2010.

All this seemed to feed into yesterday's disruption of what has otherwise been a
polite conference.

The protest erupted when Powell in his speech defended the safety of genetically
modified grain, a hot-button issue in Africa. It quickly escalated when he
brought up the topic of global warming.

"The United States is taking action to meet environmental challenges, including
climate change," Powell said, his words being drowned out by catcalls and
whistles.

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2002 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              70 of 291 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                     January 6, 2002 Sunday SOONER EDITION

WHAT WILL BE NEXT FOR PITTSBURGH?

BYLINE: DOUGLAS HEUCK , POST-GAZETTE , BUSINESS EDITOR

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg.D-1

LENGTH: 447 words


Back in early 1995 when we started formulating PG Benchmarks, Pittsburgh was
listless. Despite many potential and obvious attributes, the region was treading
water while others sailed ahead.

The next year we started measuring the performance of this metro area --
Allegheny, Beaver, Butler, Fayette, Washington, and Westmoreland counties --
against 14 of these similar-sized regions. And since then, we have continued to
chart Pittsburgh's strengths and weaknesses in the economy, education,
government, the arts, environment, medical quality, transportation and general
quality of life.

The first year's results had some bright spots. In quality of life, Pittsburgh
was among the best. But the stark and dominating fact was that, economically, we
were vying for the bottom. Like the future of Scrooge, Pittsburgh's was bleak if
left unchanged. That was clearest and most portentous in the benchmark measure
of New and Expanded Corporate Facilities. This gauge of business climate showed
a lack of confidence among decision makers here and outside the region. Loud and
clear in Pittsburgh's last-place ranking was the message: Don't build your new
factory or corporate office in Pittsburgh.

The final look at the most important benchmark measures for 2001 is on page
three of this section. And if you compared last year's results with those of
1996, you'd find one big change. In New and Expanded Corporate Facilities,
Pittsburgh climbed from 15th to 4th.

Certainly, numbers can fluctuate. But a climb of that magnitude can't be
dismissed.

Much has happened in the past six years: new county government with new
leadership; large public investment in major Downtown projects with exciting
results; tax policies in Harrisburg that improve the business climate; new
leadership and cooperation between the great universities; continued maturation
of the Cultural District; bike trails; the Riverlife Task Force; revival in the
Mon Valley; and a growing venturesome spirit typified by FreeMarkets, the
Digital Greenhouse and Bioventure.

In many ways, Pittsburgh is becoming revitalized. But as the numbers on page 3
show, the task is far from finished.

The question now is, what projects will galvanize the region in the next few
years? On the rest of this page, reporter Dan Fitzpatrick looks at the status of
three broad themes from previous PG Benchmarks year-end reports.

In 1998, we asked readers "What should we do with our rivers?" The next year,
the topic was "Improving Oakland." And last year, we looked at making Downtown
more vital.

As the economy is expected to rebound this year, so should the energy involved
in pursuing a better Pittsburgh.


LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
PG BENCHMARKS YEAR IN REVIEW

                       Copyright 2002 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              72 of 291 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                     April 21, 2002 Sunday TWO STAR EDITION

WISE TO WIRING;
 ROBERT DAGOSTINO BUILT SUCCESSFUL BUSINESS BY STAYING ON TOP OF ALL THINGS
ELECTRICAL

BYLINE: STEPHANIE FRANKEN, POST-GAZETTE STAFF WRITER

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg.C-3 IN THE SPOTLIGHT

LENGTH: 1184 words


Robert Dagostino waved a few sprigs of crystalline tubing in front of his
visitors with the unabashed excitement of a kid who just won a science contest.

In reality, he recently snagged the contract to install telecommunications
systems in the Strip District's newest building, a Seagate Technologies Inc.
research facility.

Now that the building is nearly complete, he and Seagate's information
technology manager, Michael Pesta, showed off its high-tech features.

After explaining the benefits of the building's new kind of fiber optics lines,
they swept visitors down to the building's "clean room."

"Duffy, put on your space suit," Dagostino said to longtime employee Duffy
Valeri, who quickly obliged. Valeri, burly and dressed in jeans and work boots,
suited up in booties, gloves and coveralls, and stretched a white "bouffant" cap
over his mass of curls. He then entered the climate-controlled clean room that
he had been wiring.

For Dagostino, founder of Dagostino Electronic Services Inc., and his employees,
it's a brave new world.

Then again, it always has been.

Dagostino got his start in the business in 1973, when he began installing
telephones for Levinson Steel with the promise that he would equip the company
with the latest, best phone systems.

Today, that one-man operation, Dagostino Electronic Services, has blossomed into
a 60-person firm that provides state-of-the-art infrastructure systems for some
of Pittsburgh's highest-profile building projects, including Seagate, PNC Park
and Heinz Field.

It's a company that has survived by keeping abreast of rapid industry change. It
is staffed largely by Dagostino's trusted friends -- and his workers' friends --
who keep their jobs if they can keep up with the sprightly Dagostino, who had a
reputation in junior high school as the kid who spent all his spare time in the
electronics lab.

He said of his workers: "If they don't drop dead in the first couple of days,
they can work for me."

But survival in the electronics business, Dagostino has found, requires much
more than stamina. It also depends on a mix of skill, business savvy, boundless
enthusiasm and eagerness to quickly embrace technological change.

Over the decades, Dagostino has found that some elements in that mix came
naturally. Others, however, have been gained only after painful lessons.

Since the early days of his business, hehas recognized that he must be
forward-thinking to a greater extent than his competitors or even his clients,
in order to win business.

That part comes easily to him.

He does not have a college degree, but he pores over public NASA documents and
electronics industry publications, and he studies research reports produced by
the world's leading telecom firms in order to anticipate where the industry is
heading next.

Back in the late 1980s, his firm helped companies integrate their telephone and
computer systems, and it was an early adapter of business voice mail systems.

Today, it specializes in "future-proofing" buildings by installing
infrastructure systems that can expand when necessary with minimal impact on the
building and the workers within it.

Blowable fiber installed by Dagostino, for instance, is helping Seagate
accomplish that goal, said Pesta.

As far as he knows, the Strip District building is first in the region to use
the new product, which connects voice, data and video from workers' hubs to
central computer servers. Unlike most communications lines that serve the same
purpose, blowable fiber is remarkably flexible, he said. It literally can be
blown, with the aid of a small, motorized machine, for hundreds of feet -- even
around corners.

So workers no longer need to rip up floors and ceilings to add more wires when
computer systems require more bandwidth -- that is, capacity.

Pesta, who learned about blowable fiber through Dagostino, said he was slow to
warm up to the idea. It sounded too good to be true.

He spent a few sleepless nights wrestling with it. Finally, he decided, "Why
would this not work? I couldn't find an answer."

While it's all still new, Pesta said he couldn't be happier with the initial
results. "It's an IT guy's dream. The opportunities we've had to go the extra
mile have been amazing."

For Dagostino, who now has tackled a number of large projects for local
colleges, schools, companies, government clients and sports stadiums, the
Seagate project illustrates the way he likes to do business.

"You always need to have a different approach, a better solution -- something
that's better for the customer than what the competitor is offering."

That often means going beyond even what the customer has requested, he said.
That was the case with Seagate.

While astute about technological change and customer needs, Dagostino admits to
a shortcoming: "I am not a businessman."

To be fair, the Mt. Oliver native has made some business decisions whose results
have pleased him. For instance, early on, he decided he wouldn't spend his
career quibbling with customers over $50 TV or toaster repair jobs; he opted
instead to pursue work with business clients.

What Dagostino underestimated, however, was the precariousness of some of those
business financial situations -- the danger of doing work on good faith, in lieu
of timely payments from clients.

One of his clients in the late 1980s went bankrupt before it could pay the
$450,000 it owed his company, Dagostino said. An unsecured creditor, his firm
got nothing. From there, the situation snowballed. He couldn't make investments
in equipment or pay his taxes. He wound up owing the Internal Revenue Service
over $1 million.

"I went bankrupt in 1987," he said. "I lost everything."

That included personal property because he hadn't been careful to separate
business and private assets.

Thereafter, Dagostino had no choice but to start over again, with nothing.

"I began with enough tools to put in my tool box," he said.

A resurrected Dagostino Electronic Services began traveling the nation,
installing call centers for nonprofit organizations such as Mothers Against
Drunk Driving and the National Committee on the Prevention of Child Abuse.

His business started to grow again. This time, he hired a retired IBM executive,
Lou Ciocca, to manage business functions.

For the last three years, the company has grown 20 to 30 percent annually,
pulling in revenue last year of $6.2 million.

Its strategy has been to deliver high-quality -- not necessarily cheap -- work.
"I don't want to have my name associated with something that's an inferior
product," he said.

The company still employs people who've been with Dagostino from the beginning.

"As long as we're having fun and it's working, we'll do what we've been doing,"
he said.

Eventually, he intends to have those employees buy out his business, rather than
sell it outright.

"Considering the loyalty of the people I have, I'll have loyalty to them in
return. Eventually, they can put me out to pasture or whatever -- and send me a
check every week."


LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
ROBERT DAGISTINO

GRAPHIC: Photo: Steve Mellon/Post-Gazette: Data technician Duffy Valeri looks
out from one of two "clean rooms" at Seagate Technology's new state-of-the-art
building in Pittsburgh's Strip District. The clean rooms are free of dust and
workers there must wear full-body suits, masks and latex gloves.

                       Copyright 2002 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              74 of 291 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                      July 12, 2002 Friday SOONER EDITION

NEW EL NINO LACKS '97, '98 PUNCH

SECTION: SCIENCE, MEDICINE, TECHNOLOGY, Pg.A-2

LENGTH: 198 words


Government climate forecasters declared yesterday that El Nino had officially
returned -- although in a weaker than normal state.

Several consecutive months of slightly warmer temperatures and heavier than
usual rainfall in South America led the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration's Climate Prediction Center to make its announcement, even though
some leading scientists are still skeptical.

Vernon Kousky, an NOAA meteorologist and climate specialist, agreed the current
pattern is not a classic one, but said it does meet NOAA's definition for El
Nino.

"This time around, El Nino will not be as powerful as the 1997-98 event, but
we'll track it closely for any change in its projected strength," he said.

Bill Patzert, a satellite oceanographer at the Jet Propulsion Lab who tracks the
temperature of Pacific waters, said it still seems too early to conclude a
messy, stormy El Nino season was heading toward California.

Patzert, who has taken to referring to the weather system as "El No Show," said
ocean temperatures are only about 1 degree centigrade above normal, not the 3 to
5 degrees of added warmth that accompany a "whopper" El Nino, he said.

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2002 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              76 of 291 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                      July 14, 2002 Sunday REGION EDITION

SECTION: ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT, Pg.F-4

LENGTH: 2132 words


CARNEGIE FROM PAGE F-1

In April 1887, after the deaths the previous fall of his mother and younger
brother Tom, the 51-year-old Carnegie married the New York ingenue to whom he
had been secretly betrothed for several years.

After the wedding, he whisked Louise off to Britain for a four-month honeymoon.
They spent much of that time in Scotland, where Carnegie's fortune and
philanthropic inclinations had already earned him celebrity status.

Louise found Scotland so enjoyable, the Carnegies began spending several months
there each summer. After several years, they began to rent Cluny Castle in the
central Highlands, the ancestral home of Clan Macpherson.

The arrangement worked well for a decade, but in 1897 when Louise gave birth to
their only child, Margaret, Carnegie, then 62, decided it was time for the
family to have a permanent home in Scotland.

His first thought was to buy Cluny Castle, but although Carnegie was one of the
world's richest men, he couldn't convince its laird, Ewen Macpherson, to sell
his ancestral home. So he began looking for suitable property elsewhere.

He had three stated requirements for that property: it needed a view of the sea,
a trout stream and a waterfall.

While Carnegie loved Scotland, he found its cold, rainy climate difficult. Upon
the advice of Hew Morrison, an old friend and head of Edinburgh Library,
Carnegie decided to explore the remote area that extended north of Inverness
along the North Sea.

Though sharing a latitude with Juneau, Alaska, the first 50 miles of these
eastern coastal lowlands are embraced on three sides in the lee of mountains and
high moors and warmed by the Gulf Stream, creating a mild micro-climate. The
shoreline along three long, narrow bays or firths -- Moray Firth, Cromarty Firth
and Dornoch Firth -- boast more sunny days per year than any other location in
Scotland.

Prehistoric remains indicate humans inhabited the area as early as 1000 B.C.,
but the first recorded settlers were early 10th-century Norse invaders, who
found the climate balmy compared with their homeland. They called the area
Sutherland and found it an excellent base from which to launch raids to the
south.

The 20,000-acre estate along the firth's north shore that Morrison showed
Carnegie had first been delineated in 1275, as the castle of "Schytherbolle,"
which in Celtic translates as "place of peace."

The charter for the estate was granted in support of the new cathedral
established that year in the town of Dornoch, situated four miles to the east
along the coast. An ecclesiastic residence built on the grounds functioned as an
abbey until 1545, when it passed into the first of a long chain of private
hands.

Sharing the next 4 1/2 centuries of Scotland's checkered history, the estate now
known as Skibo, or "ship-shaped place" in Norse, saw many changes. Its fortunes
and fields waxed and waned and a succession of increasingly baronial mansions
were erected. The most recent of those mansions was a semi-gothic edifice built
in the mid-19th century whose construction costs had helped drive its owner into
bankruptcy.

When Carnegie rode up Skibo's long entrance lane, it was love at first sight.
The long swath of fertile, south-facing fields turns to gorse and broom as it
fringes the northern shore of Dornoch Firth, which, though miles wide when the
tide is in, retreats into a narrow channel twice each day.

Though the estate had several trout streams and a magnificent view of the firth,
there was no waterfall, but Carnegie was quickly assured that one could be
constructed anywhere he wished.

Carnegie quickly agreed to lease Skibo for one year with an option to buy, but a
few months later he negotiated a purchase price of 85,000 pounds, or about
$425,000 at the time.

Almost immediately, the Carnegies set to the task of creating their idealized
Highland home. Occupied by his business interests, including the struggle with
Frick over ownership of Carnegie Steel Co., Carnegie approved the plans for the
castle and then turned supervision of its construction over to Louise.

The existing structure was gutted to the walls, and two large additions were
added to create a four-story baronial mansion with more than 200 rooms and clad
in rose-tinted stone cut from local quarries. The cornerstone of the addition
reads "Margaret Carnegie laid me June 23rd 1899," an auspicious undertaking for
a child who was then just 2 years old.

Although Skibo's construction expenses were carefully managed, no detail was
overlooked, and no luxury was spared. Skilled craftsmen were imported to execute
the fine masonry and woodwork. Hundreds of area residents found steady
employment on the project for two years.

From the beginning, Skibo was also intended to be a showplace for modern
amenities, with electrical wiring and the most up-to-date plumbing throughout.
It boasted the first Otis electric elevator in Britain and prototype toilets by
Thomas Crapper. The furnishings and fixtures were also of the finest quality,
with tooled leather wall coverings, carved woodwork and stained glass.

Mindful of Skibo's history, Carnegie even had several stone walls from the
original 13th-century abbey incorporated into the structure.

All told, the two year refurbishment cost Carnegie an additional $1.5 million.
By coincidence, he had recently claimed about that much money when Frick had to
forfeit a deposit he had put up in his failed attempt to raise enough capital to
buy out Carnegie's steel interests. Years later, after the pair had parted
acrimoniously, Carnegie delighted telling Skibo guests who were awed by its
magnificence that the whole thing was just "a nice present from Mr. Frick."

By the time the Carnegies moved into Skibo in the summer of 1901, he had
negotiated his exit from the steel industry, selling his controlling interests
to J.P. Morgan for nearly $300 million.

Although beginning what would be nearly two remarkable decades of philanthropy
and social activism, Carnegie was more than ready to enjoy his retirement.

Other than Louise and Margaret, Skibo was his greatest joy and pleasure. He
called it his "Heaven on Earth," and thereafter the Carnegie family spent five
months there each summer, arriving in May and staying until mid-October.

Physically vital for his 65 years, Carnegie relished his estate, savoring all
the pastoral pleasures his wealth could buy. He avidly fished its private
waters, pulling trout from its rivers and salmon from the loch he had enclosed.
He cruised in his yacht on the firth and swam in Skibo's Olympic-sized, heated,
saltwater, indoor pool.

For golf, which had become a passionate pastime for him, he had his own
nine-hole course or the seaside links of nearby Royal Dornoch.

More than 8,000 books hand-picked by Hew Morrison lined the shelves of the large
library Carnegie had built next to his private offices.

The Carnegies also kept court at Skibo, entertaining the steady procession of
guests, both illustrious and obscure, who made the trek north to the train
station at the village of Bonar Bridge at the head of Dornoch Firth.

Skibo Castle was fit for entertaining royalty, though Carnegie's guest list was
considerably more egalitarian. He delighted in organizing eclectic gatherings,
inviting and mixing his guests without regard for their nationality, social
background, religion or politics. Old cousins and radical thinkers came and made
conversation with business tycoons, prime ministers, poets and philanthropy
seekers.

Visitors who occupied the 20 ample bedrooms ranged from King Edward VII and
Lloyd George to Teddy Roosevelt, Mark Twain, Rudyard Kipling, the Rockefellers,
Helen Keller and Booker T. Washington.

All guests had free run of the house, grounds and gardens, with instructions to
enjoy its pleasures as if it were their own.

There was, however, also eccentric routine to the day, to which all guests were
subject, no matter how distinguished. For example, each morning at 8, a bagpiper
in full Highland kilted regalia, would march around outside Skibo playing tunes
that roused late sleepers from their dreams.

The morning meal was served in the breakfast room off the main entrance hall,
accompanied by Bach and Haydn pieces played on the huge pipe organ. On their
first visit, each guest would be given a spoon embossed with "Skibo" in silver
lettering, but only if they had finished their porridge.

The Carnegies were certainly unstinting hosts, particularly Louise, who was in
charge of the logistics of the entertaining, always serving the best money could
buy. Dinner was always a formal affair in the main dining room, with up to 80
guests around the grand table, seated according to plans devised by their hosts
to ensure lively conversations.

Those conversations often would continue into the evening, as guests retired to
the living room or billiard tables.

By most accounts, Carnegie was also a beneficent master to the 85 or so locals
who were either employed at the estate or tenant farmers who worked its fields.
He paid generous wages and was known to help his employees with their financial
difficulties and often their personal problems. Numerous photographs depict the
tweed-suited Carnegie standing amid a group of smiling workers.

The Carnegies returned to Skibo every year until 1914, when the outbreak of
World War I so disillusioned the pacifist Carnegie that he couldn't bring
himself to return to his private heaven the following summer.

Carnegie was then past 80, and his vigor and health began to wane. A new country
residence, Shadowbrook in the Berkshire Hills near Lenox, Mass., provided some
consolation for Carnegie, but it was not Skibo. By the time the war ended in
April 1919, he was to frail to make the long transatlantic journey, and he died
on Aug. 11.

Louise, however, also loved Skibo dearly, and in 1920, she resumed the family's
annual summer residence, often joined by the then-married Margaret and her
family.

Although the grand days of entertaining dignitaries were much diminished, the
estate and castle were faithfully maintained throughout Louise's life. The
coming of World War II in 1939 brought an end to Louise's Skibo summer visits,
and she died in June 1946 without returning.

Margaret and her children continued summering at Skibo for decades, maintaining
the estate as best they could. Large tracts of property were sold off, and the
house and other estate buildings were moth-balled.

But by the late 1970s, the expenses and difficulties of managing so large a
property finally induced Carnegie's heirs to seek a buyer outside the family.

The main house at Skibo was still in serviceable shape, with virtually all of
its original furniture, fixtures and decoration intact, but it seemed unlikely
any buyer would be interested in assuming the enormous task and cost of
maintaining such a large building, despite its former magnificence and historic
significance.

In 1981, investors bought Skibo. For eight years, various schemes for using it
were considered, including using it as a prison or an orphanage. It was
considered for use as a hotel, but it was deemed to be too far north and too
remote to attract enough business or justify the enormous of bringing it up to
date. Finally, the owners decided to break up the estate and sell it and its
contents piecemeal.

Then in 1990, Peter de Savary, an English real estate entrepreneur and
yachtsman, entered into the picture. Having started the St. James Clubs, a
string of private hotels, de Savary saw a unique opportunity where others saw
only overwhelming chaos.

He intended to transform Skibo into a private club whose members could enjoy the
same privileged amenities, ambiance and experience of Carnegie's guests.

Paying $10 million for what remained of the estate, he immediately set about
making necessary repairs and restorations, such as fixing holes in the roof and
reclaiming the grounds, which had been overgrown.

De Savary also retrieved as much of Skibo's original furniture as he could find.
For example, the great dining room table had been packed up and was ready to be
shipped off to an American buyer, when de Savary snatched it back. Donald
Steele, a leading British golf designer, was hired to lay out 6,650-yard,
18-hole championship links course along the firth. Several years ago, a second
nine-hole course was added, following the plan of Carnegie's original course.

All told, de Savary has invested another $30 million into the project, despite
setbacks in other areas of his financial empire.

In 1994, the Carnegie Club was ready to host its first guests, offering them an
experience much like the one Carnegie had created a century before.




_

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2002 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              84 of 291 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                   December 19, 2002 Thursday SOONER EDITION

REGIONAL 'BRANDING' EFFORT DOWN TO 45 WORDS OR LESS

BYLINE: DAN FITZPATRICK, POST-GAZETTE STAFF WRITER

SECTION: LIFESTYLE, Pg.A-1

LENGTH: 1160 words


It's not a slogan -- and at 45 words, there's no way it could be.

But after three months of work, the 50-person group charged with creating a
"brand" for the Pittsburgh region has come up with two experimental sentences
meant to define the region and appeal to potential tourists, companies and
workers.

Just don't call it a slogan. Instead, the people entrusted with putting a
regional sales pitch together would prefer that you consider it a "brand
essence," a sense of what we as a region are and what others should perceive us
to be.

And their efforts thus far have determined that our collective essence, such as
it is, is this:

"Just as the steel from which it draws its roots, Pittsburgh has an authenticity
and durability that provides a strong foundation, yielding new opportunities to
grow and succeed. The amalgamation of our resources draws people together to a
place where ideas are invented and transformed."

Not catchy enough for you?

Don't worry, said Laura Gongos, managing director of Downtown advertising firm
Burson-Marsteller and the person in charge of the $200,000 regional branding
campaign. The statement is only a rough draft, she was quick to note.

"We may try to boil it down further than what this paragraph reads -- to a few
words," Gongos said. "It is very hard to do. One of the reasons we are
hesitating to do that is people will interpret it as a slogan or a tag line."

Gongos and her team are trying to avoid the word "slogan" because they consider
the campaign to be more serious than an advertising jingle and more
comprehensive than the typical ad campaign. They want to convey that what they
are attempting to do is serious business, not some attempt at creating a new
moniker such as "City of Champions" or "Pittsburgh: A City With a Smile on Its
Face" that can be tossed away after a few years like cologne that's gone bad.

The tricky assignment of agreeing on a singular identity for the Pittsburgh
region began earlier this year, when a 50-person group chaired by WQED's George
Miles hired the trio of Burson-Marsteller, McLean, Va.-based opinion research
firm Wirthlin Worldwide and Cincinnati consulting firm Landor Associates. With
$200,000 in start-up funds, contributed by local economic development
organizations, the team conducted workshops and surveyed potential tourists,
companies and young workers to see what they like and don't like about
Pittsburgh.

Wirthlin Worldwide, organizer of focus groups bringing together the target
audiences, this week reported that people see Pittsburgh as a "legitimate,
medium-sized city." But, it said, the region's image remains a "myriad of
different fragmented perceptions" and 20- to 30-year-old ideas that do not
constitute a unified brand, resulting in a place that remains a "relative
unknown" to the rest of the country.

"This whole process has gone a lot further than coming up with a pithy little
slogan or an ad campaign," Gongos said. "It really is developing a blueprint for
what [the region's] promise is moving forward."

That blueprint, which Gongos and her team are referring to as the region's brand
essence, could change again before Jan. 29, when she is scheduled to unveil the
group's recommendations at a Strip District event. Three other public events
will follow in February, with the team asking people across the region for
suggestions and changes.

The language might change, but the themes will most likely stay the same. Gongos
and her team know they want to emphasize the region's heritage, history and
industrial character, and use the analogy of steelmaking to make a statement
both about the region's ability to innovate and its amalgamation of people and
resources.

"I don't think we will ever get away from being the Steel City, quite frankly,"
she said.

While enough money is not available for a subsequent advertising campaign,
Gongos hopes the local organizations that already market Pittsburgh to tourists,
companies and potential workers will incorporate her final brand essence into
their own campaigns, walking the delicate line between what Pittsburgh is today
and what it hopes to become.

"Whatever the brand essence ends up being, it should end up being something we
are comfortable living with for a long, long time," she said.

"A brand essence should be able to live forever."

But there still is some disagreement about what Pittsburgh is and what it should
become. Wirthlin Worldwide ran into that dichotomy while surveying approximately
70 people around the country about Pittsburgh's appeal as a place to live, work
and play.

Wirthlin selected the 70 from a list of more than 1,000 people and promised them
anonymity. It divided them into three categories -- one being tourists, another
people who make decisions about corporate relocations and the third young
workers in such fields as biotechnology and information technology. Some were
tourists who contacted the Greater Pittsburgh Convention & Visitors Bureau about
vacationing in Pittsburgh. Some were corporate prospects that worked with the
Pittsburgh Regional Alliance, a group that tries to attract firms to the area.
Some were young professionals who recently moved here.

All three groups described Pittsburgh in positive and negative ways, often
contradicting themselves.

For example, people responding to Wirthlin's surveys described Pittsburgh as
"friendly" and "welcoming," but also a "racist" place with a "glass ceiling"
that limits advancement. One person who moved to Pittsburgh after law school but
eventually left for Atlanta "found Pittsburgh to be the most racially
discriminatory city in which I've ever lived. In addition, I found the
inhabitants if Pittsburgh to be the most backward thinking people I've ever met
in my life."

People also told Wirthlin that Pittsburgh was a good place to raise children and
cheap to live in, but was neither "young" nor "hip." They said it has a strong
heritage of innovation and excellence but lacks the qualities that make a city
"progressive," with citizens rooted in the past. They said Pittsburgh is home to
hardworking people, but that a top-notch work force was "tempered by the
negative residue of organized labor difficulties in the past."

One executive said, "Pittsburgh is perceived as stodgy with a tough climate and
union issues I don't have to face elsewhere."

But a common theme with all three groups, according to Wirthlin senior research
director Matt Pickworth, was "surprise" about what Pittsburgh has to offer.

"I just expected steel mills," said one.

A young worker added, "We had a company meeting that we held in one of the opera
houses Downtown. I walked in and -- I must tell you -- when I saw this opera
house I was like, 'This is Pittsburgh?' It didn't seem to fit the mental image I
had of Pittsburgh."

Another corporate executive said, "I'm surprised. Maybe there is more to
Pittsburgh than steel and snow."

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Dan Fitzpatrick can be reached at dfitzpatrick@post-gazette.com or 412-263-1752.

                       Copyright 2002 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              94 of 291 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                     March 20, 2002 Wednesday NORTH EDITION

SECTION: METRO, Pg.N-3 SCHOOL ROUNDUP

LENGTH: 772 words


Butler Area

Members of the Butler Area school board have voted against the intermediate
unit's budget for 2002-03.

Board members said they oppose the budget from Midwestern Intermediate Unit IV
zbecause of an allocation for a cyber school. Butler contributed $99,107 this
year for the operation of the unit.

The intermediate unit, headquartered in Grove City, includes 27 districts in
Butler, Lawrence and Mercer counties. A $4.5 million budget was adopted by its
board of directors in January.  It must be approved by a majority of the 27
local school boards.

Butler school board members nominated Director Penelope Kingman to sit on the
unit board. The election will be held April 24.


North Allegheny

Marshall Middle School received the Don Eichhorn Exemplary Middle School of the
Year Award for 2001-02 from the state.

Eichhorn is considered the "father of the middle school concept," and the award
recognizes Marshall for instructional strategies, continuous student progress,
balanced curriculum and positive school climate.


North Hills

The school board Monday approved refinancing a bond issue from 2000, and voted
7-2 to borrow an additional $1 million for future capital projects.

Matt Drozd and Cheri Neely voted against the measure.

Citing a new leak in the roof of West View elementary, Superintendent John
Esaias explained, "We know that we'll spend $1 million in capital projects over
the next three years."

Board President Carol Grom added that by delaying the vote, the district would
risk missing a favorable bond market.


* * *


As work on Martorelli stadium nears completion, change orders continue to
trickle in. The school board ratified an additional $3,528 for electrical and
lighting needs. An asphalt ramp and walkway were deleted at a savings of
$11,885.

Change orders exceed the project's contingency fund by about $236,000. The
district plans to cover the extra with $270,000 in revenue from renewal of its
beverage contract.


* * *


The board passed a resolution to support full state funding of increased
contributions to the Pennsylvania School Employees Retirement System. In a
letter to state legislators, the district warns that unless money is provided,
"a significant millage increase" will be required to cover the $750,000 cost
that will be incurred in 2002-03 alone.

The state recently passed legislation requiring local school districts to
increase funding to pensions for retired teachers by almost 500 percent.


Pine-Richland

Pine-Richland Opportunities Fund is asking alumni to submit up-to-date
biographical details to the Harris Graduate Connection for the upcoming alumni
directory. Former students can send their current name, address, phone number
and professional information to: Pine-Richland High School Alumni Directory
Project, c/o Harris Graduate Connection, Attn: Mike Frizzell, 6300 Center Drive,
Norfolk, VA 23502. They can also call (800) 201-4760; fax to (800) 860-9085; or
email at gcupdate@bcharrispub.com.


Shaler Area

Drug-sniffing dogs would be permitted in the intermediate and high schools under
proposed revisions to the district's drug policy, to be reviewed at tonight's
school board meeting.

"We don't think there is a huge problem, but we are not naive to think that we
don't have drugs in our community or in our schools," said Superintendent Donald
Lee.

Several other area school districts use "drug dogs" to monitor lockers and cars,
and have found them to be a deterrent to drug use, Lee said.

Also on tonight's agenda is the district's current use of security personnel in
the intermediate and high schools.

At the end of this school year the district will have the option to renew the
current contract with AM-GARD security. Lee wants the board to reject that
option and instead hire Capital Assets Inc. because the company offers a canine
search program.


South Butler

An agreement between the Pittsburgh Technical Institute and the district to
provide technology internships for students has been approved by the board.
Kevin McCabe, the district's technology coordinator, will oversee the program.

Students, who will not be paid, will help with the district's computer
maintenance during the summer and with moving equipment to the new elementary
buildings.


* * *


Joining dozens of other districts in the state, the board passed a resolution
opposing mandatory state seals on high school diplomas.

Superintendent David Pisani said the seals aren't needed because the district
meets or exceeds state requirements.


LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2002 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              104 of 291 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                     June 23, 2002 Sunday TWO STAR EDITION

TALES OF A MESSIANIC BILLIONAIRE, WEIRD BUSINESS IDEAS THAT WORK

BYLINE: CARNEGIE LIBRARY BUSINESS LIBRARIANS

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg.C-10 THE BOOK ON BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1064 words


"Soros: The Life and Times of a Messianic Billionaire" by Michael T. Kaufman.
Knopf, 2002.

George Soros has numerous identities. He is famed as a phenomenally successful
investor. He is a visionary philanthropist who has done more to assist and
develop troubled nations than any living private citizen. To some he is a failed
philosopher, dilettante and political naif. And one of his enduring legacies is
the Open Society Institute, a foundation devoted to creating more democratic, or
"open," societies in countries ravaged by war, dictatorship or repression.
Perhaps the most succinct summary of this extraordinary man comes from a
diplomat who observed that Soros is "the only man in the U.S. who has his own
foreign policy -- and can implement it."

As a young Jew who narrowly escaped both the Holocaust and communist rule in his
native Hungary, Soros understood from his early youth the cruelty and
destructiveness of totalitarianism. After escaping to England he enrolled at the
London School of Economics, where he met Karl Popper, whose philosophies on
"open societies" would change the course of his life. Popper believed that open
societies which "encourage continual arguments, refinements and revisions about
their own rules ... are much more effective than those based on immutable
dogmas." As Soros went on to make billions through his uncanny ability to grasp
the ebb and flow of world markets, the practical application of these ideas
became his great passion.

Using the Marshall Plan as his inspiration, Soros has undertaken a variety of
efforts aimed at stabilizing countries while helping them to develop into more
open societies. While the results of his philanthropy have occasionally been
mixed, the breadth, ambition and frequent success of his work are staggering.
For example, OSI grants to scientists during the ruble meltdown of the late '
90s may well have saved Russian science. Soros also has established democratic
foundations in communist Hungary and China (the former highly successful, the
latter a disaster), connected every Russian university to the Internet, and
provided running water to more than a quarter-million residents in war-ravaged
Sarajevo.

Michael T. Kaufman, a former editor of a Soros-funded magazine, has written a
surprisingly even-handed biography. "Soros" occasionally suffers from prosaic
observations and clunky writing, but ultimately is a thoughtful analysis on the
complex intersection of wealth and compassion.


"Weird Ideas That Work: 11 1/2 Practices for Promoting, Managing, and Sustaining
Innovation" by Robert I. Sutton. The Free Press, 2002.

In today's rapid-fire economic climate, companies simply must innovate to
survive. This means that they must often jettison traditional practices and
beliefs, and reinvent themselves anew. They must try to exploit old ideas in
novel and unusual ways, and look at their markets as nobody has ever done. In
this book, Stanford Engineering professor Robert Sutton offers his own
prescription for sparking the innovation that can help companies multiply their
knowledge base, break from the past and dive into the future.

Key to the "weird" ideas that are presented is a basic change in management
style. Sutton suggests a host of strategies -- 11 1/2 to be exact -- to stir the
pot in a stagnant environment, such as: hiring people who make you
uncomfortable; encouraging people to ignore and defy superiors and peers; and
forget the past, especially your company's successes. Sutton makes the case that
not only will these practices increase creativity and inventiveness, but they
also can be seen as excellent overall management principles from a strategic
point of view -- looking toward what will be profitable in the future, rather
than what makes money quickly.

Sutton does recognize that many old ideas are good ones. Cheerios survives while
scores of new breakfast cereals sink in succession; the goal is to create the
new Cheerios. In this light, he introduces the intriguing concept of "vu ja de,"
a reversal of "deja vu:" It happens when a normal experience or a well-used
object suddenly becomes fresh and exciting, as if you had never seen it before.

Full of tales of ground-breaking pioneers, from Saturn and Nokia to John Lennon
and the Nasakapi Indians, "Weird Ideas" shows how these concepts have been the
underpinning for the most successful enterprises. And yet the author knows that
many will respond negatively to his radical proposals: After all, "There are
some people who like working in a place where most things fail, are never
finished, or reach dead ends. But not most people." Most people will not be at
the heart of ingenious and inventive companies, but you might if you read this
book.


"Entrepreneur's Guide: Starting and Growing a Business in Pennsylvania" by the
Pennsylvania Dept. of Community & Economic Development Center for
Entrepreneurial Excellence, 2002.

Starting a business in Pennsylvania? The Entrepreneur's Guide from the
commonwealth is required reading. There are detailed checklists for writing
business plans, hiring employees, and choosing a site for your business. Novice
entrepreneurs, clueless about balance sheets and cash flow essentials, will find
immensely valuable worksheets that detail financial statements. There are lists
of local organizations that package loans and clarify the government contract
process. Do you need a license or other registration? The guide includes a
directory of state agencies that issue licenses and permits and an index of
every profession that requires a state license -- ranging from accountants and
funeral directors to health clubs and taxi services. This handy resource can be
used in conjunction with the state's Web site, http://www.inventpa.com, where
you will find a virtual compendium of information on state and federal financing
programs, trade show support, exporting incentives and other business
initiatives that help small businesses thrive.

Also recommended are:

"China Dawn: The Story of a Technology and Business Revolution" by David Sheff.
HarperCollins, 2002.

"Leading Quietly: An Unorthodox Guide to Doing the Right Thing" by Joseph L.
Badaracco Jr., Harvard Business School Press, 2002.

"Floating Off the Page: The Best Stories from The Wall Street Journal's 'Middle
Column' " edited by Ken Wells. Dow Jones, 2002.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Contact the business librarians, who also answer questions about business, money
and work, at (412) 281-7141 or at www.carnegielibrary.org/clp/libctr/business/.

                       Copyright 2002 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              110 of 291 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                    August 17, 2002 Saturday SOONER EDITION

ORNAMENTAL GRASSES ARE TEAM PLAYERS IN THE GARDEN

BYLINE: MARTY ROSS , UNIVERSAL PRESS SYNDICATE

SECTION: LIFESTYLE, Pg.C-1

LENGTH: 993 words


O rnamental grasses captured the gardening world's drama awards in the 1990s,
but these flashy marquee plants never really had the common touch. For years,
grasses occupied lonely places in the spotlight, set apart from the quiet and
comfortable circles of ordinary flowerbeds. Those days are over.

Start thinking of grasses as just another perennial plant, something to grow
among the roses, for example, and they happily abandon their domineering stage
personalities and participate gracefully in the life of the garden.

The combination of ornamental grasses and roses is still fairly cutting edge,
but it shows how far gardeners -- and grasses -- have come since chic designers
trumpeted grasses as the symbols of a splashy new garden style.

A decade later, gardeners have discovered that there are grasses that shout and
those that murmur. It isn't necessary to embrace the prairie look or change your
gardening style to appreciate and use them. Ornamental grasses (and sedges,
rushes and other grasslike plants) fit very nicely with what we're already doing
in the garden.

"People don't really want a garden just of grasses, so it makes sense to think
of them just like other plants," says Nancy Ondra, whose new book, "Grasses"
(Storey, $19.95), takes a fresh look at grasses of all kinds and the ways they
are used.

"This is just the beginning," she says. "There are going to be a lot more
grasses in perennial borders, and grasses are going to be just part of what
people are using in their design palettes."

Japanese blood grass (Imperata cylindrica 'Red Baron' ), which forms clumps of
bright red foliage and only grows to about 2 feet tall, was one of the first
grasses to cross the horticultural line dividing grass gardeners and perennial
gardeners.

"Because of the color of the plant, people could relate to it a little better,"
Ondra says. "It grabs your attention, and you can have the fun of pairing it
with other colors -- plus you don't need a lot of it to make an impact."

The introduction of little fescues (Festuca glauca) and fountain grasses no more
than 12 inches tall (Pennisetum caudatum 'Little Bunny' and 'Little Honey' )
also allowed gardeners an opportunity to get to know grasses in intimate
backyard surroundings and to experiment with them without overwhelming the
subtleties of their garden designs.

Shade gardeners discovered the charming Carex from New Zealand and elegant
golden Hakone grass (Hakonechloa macra 'Aureola' ), which loves a moist site and
spreads only slowly. Drought-tolerant grasses, annual grasses and varieties that
thrive in pots all helped shatter the stereotype of grasses as assertive
specimen plants.

"Some people say, 'I don't like grasses,' but once they are exposed to grasses
as a group, and the way they work with other plants, that changes," Ondra says.

Big grasses still have a place in gardens. Feather reed grass (Calamagrostis
acutiflora 'Stricta' and 'Karl Foerster' are two of the finest) and Panicum
'Heavy Metal' are sophisticated foils for daylilies, monarda, Russian sage,
asters and other tall flowers. These grasses have a striking upright habit and
blooms that reach 6 feet high and spread to form a lacy curtain.

Ondra likes to see tall grasses used as screens within a garden -- in beds
around a patio, for example, separating one area from another. Big grasses also
work as an extraordinarily decorative fence.

"You can have privacy without a lifetime commitment -- and you don't need a
permit to put in grasses," Ondra says. "Plus you get the rustling and the color,
which the fence wouldn't give."

To really appreciate most ornamental grasses, you have to be patient. Fescues,
fountain grass and other small grasses reach a respectable size in one season,
but they look much better after two or three years in the garden. Larger grasses
may need three to five years to fill out and really express themselves.

"One trick I've found is to use them in pots for the first couple of years,"
Ondra says. "You can bulk them up that way, and then when you move them into the
garden they've got some size on them."

Growing grasses in pots also gives you a chance to try different plant
combinations and experiment with natural backlighting and sidelighting, which
show grasses at their shimmering best. While you're at it, you'll probably
discover a few more spots where ornamental grasses can make the most of the
garden around them.


Two mail-order sources for grasses of all kinds are:

*Earthly Pursuits, 2901 Kuntz Road, Windsor Mill, MD 21244; 1-410-496-2523 or
www.earthlypursuits.net. Catalog $3.

*Limerock Ornamental Grasses, 70 Sawmill Road, Port Matilda, PA 16870;
814-692-2272 or www.limerockgrasses.com. Catalog $4.


*New Zealand flax (Phormium), which is actually a member of the Agave family, is
among the hottest new grasslike plants. Phormiums have striking bronze or
variegated sword-shaped foliage. Dwarf varieties are perfect for pots. They are
winter-hardy only in warm climates, but you can keep them over the winter in a
frost-free basement.

*Shade gardeners were left behind in the first wave of enthusiasm for ornamental
grasses, but Carexes, which thrive in partial shade, have changed the scene in
the dappled light under trees. C. elata 'Aurea,' sometimes called 'Bowles
Golden,' is one of the flashiest varieties.

*Roses are unexpected companions for ornamental grasses. In Nancy Ondra's book
"Grasses" (Storey, $19.95), photographer Saxon Holt captured some striking
combinations: Mexican feather grass (Nassella tenuissima) with 'Bonica,' and
Japanese silver grass (Miscanthus sinensis 'Variegata' ) with bright pink and
red roses.

*Try grasses with tropical plants. Purple fountain grass (Pennisetum setaceum
'Rubrum' ) is a good choice with coleus. Cannas, brugmansias, hibiscus,
elephant's ear and other tropical plants are all striking companions for
grasses.


LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Marty Ross is a garden writer in Kansas City, Mo.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Darrell Sapp/Post-Gazette: The Western Pennsylvania Conservancy
made use of ornamental grass in an arrangement along McKnight Road last year.
 Photo: Saxon Holt/Ornamental grasses are shedding their domineering
personalities and finding their way into the hearts of gardens, at home among
the flowers.

                       Copyright 2002 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              115 of 291 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                   September 26, 2002 Thursday SOONER EDITION

URBAN HISTORIANS ON WAY;
 GROUP'S FIRST CONFERENCE TO OPEN IN STRIP DISTRICT TOMORROW

BYLINE: PATRICIA LOWRY, POST-GAZETTE ARCHITECTURE CRITIC

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg.B-8

LENGTH: 823 words


Cities are almost as old as dirt, but the field of urban history is young -- so
young the Urban History Association its launching its first conference tomorrow
in Pittsburgh.

About 200 historians and other academics will gather at the Senator John Heinz
Pittsburgh Regional History Center in the Strip District to network, see the
city, buy each other's books, exchange ideas and present 111 papers on a vast
array of topics, from planning to politics to prostitution.

"Urban historians have always seen Pittsburgh as a place of interest," said Tim
Mahoney, a conference organizer who teaches history at the University of
Nebraska. "There's a well-documented history of Pittsburgh. It's a place that
urban historians in any field read a lot about."

"Pittsburgh is a great city undergoing great changes," said Carnegie Mellon
University history professor Joel Tarr, who talked the 14-year-old group into
coming here. "For historians and urbanists, it's a great place to look at and
experience."

Themes of the two-day conference include the history of Pittsburgh, urban
planning, 19th century social class and gender, and Asian and Latin American
cities -- allowing participants to pick sessions that coincide with their own
interests. And, with day passes at $25, Pittsburghers can do the same.

In a session on Pittsburgh's planning and urban revitalization, Duquesne
University's Robert Gleeson, assistant professor of public policy, will argue
that the leaders of the city's first renaissance failed to lay the foundation
for economic growth. Gleeson characterized the priorities of Renaissance I as
"office towers and cash cows" -- keeping corporate headquarters here,
modernizing the mills, and controlling their smoke and odor emissions.

But city fathers didn't focus on attracting the kinds of metalworking
businesses, for example, that would have provided a hometown market for
Pittsburgh steel. By contrast, Chicago attracted 935 new manufacturing companies
from 1950 to 1955.

In Pittsburgh, "there were people whose industries required growth, like the
railroads, who wanted to grow business, and small manufacturers who wanted to
attract more companies like themselves," Gleeson said.

But those "competing visions of Pittsburgh's future" were never realized. And,
"there are consequences. Pittsburgh's economic development agenda for many years
has been focused on retaining" rather than recruiting, he said. But that has
begun to change, he added.

James Borchert, retired professor of history at Cleveland State University, also
will engage in some revisionist history, challenging the long-held notion that
America's upper class began abandoning urban areas in the 1880s, driven away by
taxes, fear of crime and diverse populations.

"What I'm trying to argue is that in a number of cities, the upper class
remains," Borchert said. And in Pittsburgh, it not only remained, but shaped the
ideology and landscape of the East End, with the Oakland cultural and civic
center and the residential enclaves of Shadyside and Squirrel Hill.

By 1930, the East End had 66 percent of the region's upper class -- a statistic
Borchert gleaned from Social Register and Blue Book addresses.

"Urbanization was supposed to be pushing the upper class out, but it's clear
they took control of the process, adapted to it and remained," he said.

In 1988, the last year for which Borchert had numbers, 44 percent remained in
the East End, and the remainder were split between the Sewickley area and Fox
Chapel.

Perhaps the most controversial contrarian view will be that put forth by Ohio
State University history professor Steven Conn.

The new urban history, Conn said, emerged 30 years ago out of the political and
social climate of the 1960s, driven by concern for people usually left out of
the historical story and shaped by the methodology of the social sciences.

"No book was complete without its tables and graphs and regression analysis," he
said. "Urban historians have largely studied what they could count and
quantify."

And because much of what they could quantify has gone in the wrong direction --
crime up, for example, and population down -- urban historians have
inadvertently emphasized cities as places of disaster.

"The grand narrative that historians have fallen into is a narrative of
decline," Conn said. "I think we need to figure out how to write urban history
in a way that reflects that cities are the engines of our economic and cultural
life."

In a session titled "Sex in the City," three historians will present papers
analyzing New York's sexual politics in the decades before and after the turn of
20th century, exploring the politicization of prostitution, Italian women and
sexual politics and Italian masculinity and ethnic identity.


For a complete schedule of conference events, visit the Urban History
Association's Web site: www.unl.edu/uha/assoc.html.

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Patricia Lowry can be reached at plowry@post-gazette.com or 412-263-1590.

                       Copyright 2002 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              122 of 291 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                    October 29, 2002 Tuesday SOONER EDITION

CANDIDATES FOR PENNSYLVANIA SENATE

SECTION: TABS, Pg.B-4

LENGTH: 2002 words


(Vote for one in your district)

Term: 4 years

Salary: $63,629

Duties: The General Assembly is the legislative branch of the state government.
It is composed of two houses, the Senate and the House of Representatives. A
majority vote of both houses is necessary to pass a law. The Senate approves
executive appointments while it is in session. Senators will be elected in
even-numbered districts in 2002.

Questions: 1. How can the state best meet its constitutional obligation to fund
public education? 2. List your top three legislative priorities. 3. What is your
stand on developing a system of merit selection of appellate judges (Supreme,
Superior and Commonwealth courts) to replace the present elective system?


32nd District

Republican:

No candidate filed.


Democratic:

Richard A. Kasunic, no reply


38th District

Republican:

Ted Tomson, 27, Fawn

Education: B.S. in finance, Penn State University; M.S. in public policy,
Carnegie Mellon University.

Occupation: Consultant, Tomson Metal Co.

Qualifications: My education coupled with my experience in the agricultural,
recycling and retail industries gives me the broad view needed for this 38th
Senatorial District. In addition, I'm from Western Pennsylvania.

Answers: 1. Making the teachers' salaries and benefits funded by the state. This
could help in closing the gap between the wealthier school districts and the
poorer school districts. This can also reduce the school property tax. New
streams of revenue can come from legalized slots at the horse racetracks and
legalized video poker machines in taverns, regulated by the Liquor Control
Board. 2. Improve education. Improve the business climate in Pennsylvania.
Create a health safety net for senior citizens. 3. I am in favor of merit
selection, but I believe the system needs refining before choosing. I worry that
a small minority deciding can cause one type of judicial philosophy.


Democratic:

Jim Ferlo, 51, Highland Park

Education: Rome Free Academy High School.

Occupation: Councilman, City of Pittsburgh.

Qualifications: Thirty-year employment record as blue-collar wage earner and in
social services, governmental and elective office. I have been a full-time city
councilman elected by residents citywide in 1987 and in four subsequent district
elections. I have been accessible, accountable and an effective legislative
leader helping to rebuild our city and neighborhoods.

Answers: 1. A legislative special session is needed to reprioritize the state
budget to restore a minimum of 50 percent reimbursement to all school districts
with a plan for fair revenue enhancement and mandatory reduction in school
property taxes. 2. Mandatory reduction of tax burden on property owners for
funding of school districts. Expand coverage of the Children's Health Insurance
Program and prescription drug program. Improve the 38th District's riverfronts
through community involvement in plans for recreational, housing and new
business development. 3. The best process is for the citizenry to vote for
judicial candidates that are with merit.


40th District

Republican:

Jane C. Orie, 41, McCandless

Education: Vincentian High School; Franklin & Marshall College, B.A.; Duquesne
University School of Law, J.D.

Occupation: Pennsylvania state senator.

Qualifications: Lifelong resident of McCandless; assistant district attorney,
Allegheny County (1987-1993); deputy attorney general, Division of Criminal
Prosecution (1993-1996); state representative (1997-2001); state senator
(2001-present).

Answers: 1. On Jan. 29, 2002, the Pennsylvania Senate unanimously passed Senate
Resolution 101. I introduced SR 101 in a bipartisan effort to address equitable
and responsible school funding. The resolution resulted in the first
comprehensive and independent national expert review of the issue. The final
study that was released by the Legislative Budget and Finance Committee is
designed to serve as a work in progress for the Legislature as the property tax
issue and educational funding and equity is considered in the designated special
session. 2. Property taxes. Education. Economic development -- roads, sewage and
creating jobs. 3. The merit selection of judicial officers increases the
likelihood that a judge will be chosen by individuals with the appropriate
professional background to implement the commonwealth's laws and the
Constitution based upon his or her credentials, and not his available election
funding or popularity.


Democratic:

Dan DeMarco, 37, Ross

Education: Allegheny College, B.A. political science, 1987; Duquesne University
School of Law, J.D., 1993.

Occupation: Vice president and general counsel, The Hill Group Inc., a business
and government management consulting firm.

Qualifications: Attorney; government consultant; commissioner on the Ross
Township Board of Commissioners from January 2000 to present.

Answers: 1. The General Assembly must enact legislation to reduce and eventually
eliminate real estate taxes as the source of funding for public education. A
combination of local and state income and sales taxes can replace real estate
taxes. The commonwealth must increase by 15 percent its share of funding by
reducing unnecessary costs within the state government. 2. Reducing prescription
drug costs. Eliminating real estate taxes. Public safety. 3. The U.S. Supreme
Court recently ruled that in states where the people elect judges, judicial
candidates cannot be prohibited from expressing their opinions on issues that
may come before them as a judge. Judicial candidates should be permitted to
discuss their position on issues, but this ruling opens the door to negative
campaigning. I therefore believe that Pennsylvania appellate court judges should
be interviewed, tested and recommended for appointment by a bipartisan judicial
selection commission.


42nd District

Republican:

Thomas Stepnick, 43, Bellevue

Education: B.S. accounting, Bob Jones University.

Occupation: Certified public accountant.

Qualifications: Lifelong resident of southwestern Pennsylvania; homeowner;
married, father of two daughters.

Answers: 1. The state can best meet its obligation to fund public education
through controlling its costs by promoting and funding school choice for low-
and moderate-income parents to place their children in lower-cost educational
options such as parochial, private and home schools. More children being
educated in alternative schools relieves some of the burden of the state and
ultimately the taxpayers to fund public education. Expanding school choice gives
more parents the freedom to educate their children as they see fit. 2. Replace
property taxes with sales taxes for public school funding. Control prescription
costs through contracts with medical providers and reduction of government
regulation. Reduce business taxes and regulations to promote job and economic
growth. 3. I would continue to support the election of judges as is done now;
however, we must change the rules and standards of the legal system to allow
judges to discuss their views and positions on issues.


Democratic:

Jack Wagner, 54, Beechview

Education: Indiana University of Pennsylvania, B.S. safety management, 1974.

Occupation: State senator (Allegheny County).

Qualifications: State senator eight years; Pittsburgh city councilman 10 years
(president four years). Democratic caucus chair; Appropriations, Banking &
Insurance, Military & Veterans Affairs committees. Emergency management response
experience as paramedic, combat Marine, safety engineer, loss analyst.

Answers: 1. We must reform the way we fund education in Pennsylvania. In a
fiscally responsible way, we must increase the state's share of education costs,
distribute those resources more fairly among all districts and reduce our
dependence on local property taxes. 2. Property tax and reassessment reform.
PACE (Pharmaceutical Assistance Contract for the Elderly) law revisions so more
senior citizens become eligible for prescription drug coverage. Reform the way
the state funds education. 3. I favor the merit selection of Pennsylvania's
Appellate Court (statewide) judges for several reasons. Today, all judges are
elected, which means they must solicit campaign contributions to run for office,
or be wealthy. Most judges' campaign funds come from lawyers, who are likely to
appear before the very judges to whom they are giving money. This would appear
to be a conflict of interest, putting our judicial system in an awkward
position.


46th District

Republican-Democratic:

J. Barry Stout, 65, Somerset Township

Education: B.A. economics, Washington and Jefferson College; Pittsburgh
Institute of Mortuary Science; U.S. Army Corp of Engineers.

Occupation: State senator.

Qualifications: Member of the state Legislature since 1970 -- with this
seniority I've been able to develop the necessary resources to help address the
ever-changing needs of a diverse constituency. I also have raised six
college-educated children to adulthood.

Answers: 1. By restructuring the financing system to include: a) fair local tax
reform that will help to reduce school districts' reliance upon property taxes;
b) equalized funding for special education; c) resolution of the equality issue;
d) incentives for smaller classrooms and proactive measures for disruptive
students to assure safe and effective schools. 2. Responsible funding for public
education, with equitable taxation for property owners. Infrastructure
improvement -- highways, water and sewage. Economic development that would
support family-sustaining jobs. 3. I would give this serious consideration
provided the selection process is fair and equitable to all types interested in
serving in these appellate positions. The selection process would need to be
fair and balanced from a geographical, economic, social and political
standpoint.


50th District

Republican:

Bob Robbins, 58, Greenville

Education: Greenville Senior High School, 1962; U.S. Military Academy at West
Point, 1966; teaching certificate from Geneva College, 1973.

Occupation: Legislator.

Qualifications: Captain, U.S. Army infantry (Airborne/Ranger/Vietnam veteran),
1966-71; Greenville High School Social Studies Teacher, 1973-77; insurance
agent, 1977-82; Pennsylvania House of Representatives, 1983-90; Pennsylvania
Senate, 1991-present; Senate leadership, 1997-present.

Answers: 1. Reducing taxes is the overriding goal of taxpayers. I will insist
that any plan contain real taxpayer protections like local referendums on tax
increases above certain thresholds for schools opting into the new system. I
will work to provide fair and equitable funding to all schools and increase
funding to targeted areas of need (i.e. special education). I will also work to
provide schools with relief from unnecessary mandates. 2. Creating
family-sustaining jobs; enhancing economic development; supporting education. 3.
I support the regional selection of judges to represent the views of citizens
across Pennsylvania.


Democratic:

Kyle Klaric, 40, Hermitage

Education: Sharon High School graduate; bachelor's degree from Slippery Rock
University.

Occupation: President/CEO of Premier Hydraulics Inc., Farrell, Pa., and Klaric
Forge and Machine Inc. in Atlantic, Pa.

Qualifications: Experience in job creation. Unites business and government for
positive action. Urban League board. Technical Solutions board. Workforce
Investment Board chairman, Mercer and Lawrence counties.

Answers: 1. The state has to reinstate state funding levels to school districts
to ease the burden on local taxpayers and senior citizens. 2. Economic
development/jobs; reduction of property taxes; prescription drugs for senior
citizens. 3. I believe in the election process for judges but I would reduce the
terms from 10 years to five years. I would also allow judges to run on issues so
the voters would be better informed.

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
2002 VOTERS GUIDE

GRAPHIC: MAP: (State Senate distiricts: Western Pennsylvania)
 MAP: State Senate districts: Allegheny region and Pittsburgh)

                       Copyright 2002 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              124 of 291 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                   November 3, 2002 Sunday FIVE STAR EDITION

PERFECT CLIMATE OF ARUBA NURTURES PERFECT RELAXATION;
 ISLANDS IN THE SUN

BYLINE: MICHAEL A. FUOCO AND LINDA WILSON FUOCO, POST-GAZETTE STAFF

SECTION: TRAVEL, Pg.G-1

LENGTH: 2210 words

DATELINE: ARUBA


One of the first locals, er, creatures we encountered upon arriving in Aruba was
a large iguana that hung out around the pool at our resort.

Part of one of his legs was missing -- possibly from a fight with a stronger
iguana -- but he used his stump to wave and beg for pieces of lettuce we newly
arrived vacationers were only too happy to provide our not-so-little friend.

Despite his handicap, the iguana -- subsequently nicknamed "Tricycle" by our
son, Dante, 12 -- seemed happy. No, really, he did. We swear he was smiling.

And why not? Here he was living on Aruba, where the logo at the bottom of the
license plates says "The Happy Island." T-shirts and signs throughout the island
proclaim it "One Happy Island."

That, we happily found during our weeklong stay, was truth in advertising. Aruba
is beautiful, modern, clean, safe and relatively reasonably priced. For us, it
was paradise found.

One happy island, indeed.

We found ourselves in Aruba in August because we wanted a change from the waves,
crowds and Southern hospitality of the Outer Banks or Myrtle Beach, where we've
vacationed many times. Dante had become intrigued with tropical waters and the
mysteries they hold after watching the TV show "Survivor." We hadn't taken a
weeklong vacation in two years and needed sun and sand and solace.

A vacation on a Caribbean island seemed the answer.

But which one? And how to decide?

A search of the Internet presented all the Caribbean islands in their tropical
glory. But Aruba seemed more exotic and less commercialized to us than others we
considered, such as the Bahamas and the Virgin Islands.

After further research and a helpful travel agent at the South Hills AAA branch,
we were on an Apple Tours charter headed from Pittsburgh International Airport
on a 4 1/2-hour nonstop flight to 12 30' North Latitude; 70 West Latitude -- the
island of Aruba.

*

The smallest and most westerly of the ABC islands (Aruba, Bonaire and Curacao),
Aruba is just 19.6 miles long and 6 miles wide, with a total area of 77 square
miles. It lies 19 miles north of Venezuela and -- an important consideration for
vacationers -- is out of the range of most Caribbean hurricanes.

The island was claimed for Spain by Alonso de Ojeda in 1499, but because the
Spaniards considered it worthless, the native Arawak Indians were spared the
annihilation suffered by other natives on islands thought to be more valuable.
The Dutch took over the island in 1636 though they didn't view it as prime real
estate, either.

Gold was discovered in Aruba in 1824, but a century of mining depleted the
precious metal. Then, in 1924, another natural resource, oil, brought the island
one of the highest standards of living in the Caribbean. When the refinery
closed in 1985, tourism became Aruba's primary industry, though the refinery
reopened in 1991.

The unemployment rate is very low in Aruba and, not surprisingly, so is the
crime rate, giving it a reputation as a safe place to visit. Virtually everyone
we met on our trip commented on how comfortable they felt there compared to
other islands they had visited.

Once part of the Netherlands Antilles -- along with Curacao, Bonaire, St.
Maarten, St. Eustatius and Saba -- Aruba became a separate entity within the
Kingdom of the Netherlands on Jan. 1, 1986. Aruba has its own autonomous
government, though the Netherlands is responsible for Aruba's defense and
foreign affairs.

The island's official language is Dutch, and the native language is Papiamento,
evolving from several languages and originating in Curacao in the 1500s to
enable African slaves to communicate with their owners. English and Spanish are
spoken widely.

Linguistic scholars have written that Arubans have an innate aptitude for
language. Indeed, their English is fluent, with a pleasant lilting accent. We
sometimes have had more difficulty communicating with Pittsburghers than we had
with any Arubans we had the pleasure to encounter. But if we heard Papiamento
being spoken, we didn't realize it although Papiamento words such as "Bon Bini"
(Welcome) or "Dushi" (Sweet) were often featured on signs and in restaurants.

*

We found this island of 90,500 people to be one of constants and contrasts.

One constant: the climate. There is little variation from the yearly average of
81 degrees. The lowest average high temperature is 83 in January. The highest is
89 in September. The "lows" range from 75 degrees from January through March to
79 degrees in June.

Another plus for vacationers is the virtual guarantee of sunny weather. From
February through August, the island averages less than an inch of rain per
month. November is the wettest month, with an average of 3.8 inches. While we
were there, it did rain one day -- a few drops for about three minutes before
the sun gloriously reappeared.

Another constant: northeasterly trade winds that range from 21 to 31 mph.
Initially, the constant breeze is distracting, but before you realize it, well,
you don't realize it anymore. Indeed, the entire time we were there, we never
once felt seared by the sun, which is brilliant given the fact Aruba is only 12
degrees north of the Equator. In fact, at times it felt a bit cool coming out of
the ocean or the pool. This makes it especially crucial to remember to apply
ample sun block.

Chief among the contrasts are the differences between the island's south and
north coasts and the interior.

On the southwest coast, where about two dozen luxury resorts are located, warm,
aquamarine Caribbean waters gently lap upon white powder sand beaches lined with
palm trees. On this side of the island, the calm waters of the Caribbean are
never below 70 degrees and were closer to 80 degrees when we were there.

There are seven miles of uninterrupted beach from Druif Beach to Eagle Beach and
from Palm Beach -- where our resort, the Allegro Resort Aruba was located -- to
Malmok. The best swimming spots with the calmest water are found at Eagle and
Palm beaches.

But on the north coast, it's an entirely different scene. There are sand beaches
there -- Boca Prins, Boca Grandi and Bechlors -- and the scenery is also
beautiful, but swimming is not recommended because of strong currents, crashing
waves and rocky terrain.

Many vacationers -- including us -- had heard that the north beaches are "where
they feed the sharks." This information came from at least one travel agent, a
taxi driver and vacationers we met who said sharks are fed at the northern end
of the island to keep them away from the southern beaches.

We never confirmed whether this was fact or fiction -- OK, we're reporters but,
hey, we were on vacation. But we didn't see any sharks at Palm Beach, so maybe
it's true. Who cares, really? It's a fun story.

The resorts that ring Aruba's southwest coastline -- including 10 with casinos
-- are lushly planted with flowers and native vegetation that are watered by
piped-in irrigation lines.

Yet the island's interior is an arid desert with huge boulders punctuated by
stands of cactus and aloe vera and the distinctive watapana or divi-divi trees.

Constantly buffeted by the brisk trade winds, the divi-divi bend gracefully at
45-degree angles. They always point southwest -- away from the trade winds and
toward the resorts, making it well-nigh impossible to get lost.

Getting around Aruba proved to be easy and inexpensive. Rental cars are
available, but the public buses are plentiful -- as are the bus stops -- and
cheap. Round trips from the resorts to the heart of the shopping district, only
about four miles away in the capital city of Oranjestad (population 13,000), are
generally less than $2. The drivers are friendly and helpful.

And so was everyone we encountered. Everywhere we went -- our resort, stores,
restaurants -- we weren't just accommodated but welcomed with large smiles and a
warmth that seemed as genuine as it was contagious. Indeed, one of the giveaway
tour books available in hotels offers a welcome to the island that concludes:
"We respectfully request that as a visitor you treat our island and our people
with the same courtesy and dignity that is innate to our culture. It will be
returned."

It certainly was.

*

Calm waters, rough waves, desert landscape, a bustling shopping district,
international cuisine, casinos, night life -- Aruba has it all, and it all
provides for a variety of activities that a week's visit isn't enough to
accommodate.

This being an island, after all, water sports abound. Our all-inclusive package
not only provided us with all our meals, drinks (including alcohol) and snacks
but snorkeling equipment, rafts, pedal boats, kayaks and small sailboats.

Every day, we alternated between swimming and snorkeling in the ocean and
swimming in the resort pool that had a waterfall and two hot tubs. We never got
a raft because the Caribbean was so buoyant we could float just as easily
ourselves.

Of course, there was more for the taking -- sailing, parasailing, tubing, yacht
sailing, deep-sea fishing, wave runners and scuba diving.

Visibility in Aruba's clear waters can extend as far as 90 feet, making it the
perfect venue for snorkeling and for scuba diving and its offshoot, Snuba -- a
combination of snorkeling and scuba diving. Snuba gives a diver the experience
of scuba diving without having to wear restricting equipment. It's easy to learn
-- children as young as 8 do it. Air tanks that float on a raft are attached to
20-foot hoses that divers, accompanied by a guide, use to breathe underwater.

We signed up for a glorious four-hour sail on the brand-new 70-foot catamaran
Palm Pleasure, which made three dive stops off the coast of the island. For an
extra charge, Dante and Michael signed up for a Snuba dive at one of the sites.

The snorkeling was great -- beautiful coral and fish -- and the trip included an
open bar, a delicious lunch and a friendly crew that eased any fears anyone had.
Dante and Michael were lucky enough to get to Snuba at the wreck of the Antilla,
a 430-foot German freighter that the Germans sank themselves off the coast of
Aruba in 1940, shortly after Germany invaded Holland. They did so to prevent
Dutch sailors from capturing it.

With part of its bow still sticking out of the water, the Antilla wreck is the
13th-most-popular dive site in the world, according to an Internet survey. It
was also an eye-opening experience for Dante and Michael, who were accompanied
by two other tourists and a wonderfully helpful guide. The wreck was covered
with beautiful coral, and so many fish filled the waters around the wreck at
times they seemed to form a surreal screen. The 25-minute dive was an experience
neither will forget (and it provided an interesting topic for a writing
assignment Dante recently had in school).

So alluring was the Caribbean, we didn't take any of the many land excursions,
which included horseback riding, Jeep "safaris" and quad runner tours of the
interior, along with air-conditioned bus tours of the bars and shops. Aruba also
has golf, but one tourist we met said he had a difficult time -- less because
the course was tough than because the ever-present trade winds played havoc with
his shots.

We traveled by bus one day to Oranjestad, which translates to "Orange City,"
deriving its name from the ruling family of the Netherlands, the House of
Orange. We found it a bustling, modern, beautiful, clean city packed with
everything from exclusive jewelry, cosmetic, crystal and clothing stores to
beachwear shops, from fine restaurants to quaint cafes to a colorful market
along the waterfront that features fruit from Venezuela. The marina is a port of
call for cruise ships and fishermen sell their catches right off their boats.

The homes that line its streets are Dutch Colonial and are painted yellow,
brown, green and blue. Such profusion of color is maintained by a local mandate
that two adjacent homes cannot be painted the same hue.

Such quaintness, such an aesthetic perfectly summarize what we experienced in
Aruba -- one happy island we'd be more than happy to visit again.


If you go

Aruba

* ENTRY REQUIREMENTS: Valid U.S. passport or state-issued birth certificate with
raised seal and photo ID. The departure tax is US $34.25 and is usually included
in the airline ticket cost.

* CURRENCY: Aruba florin divided into 100 cents with $1 US equaling
approximately $1.77 Afl. The U.S. dollar is accepted virtually everywhere --
shops display both U.S. and Aruban prices, referred to speech as
guilders--making exchanging money unnecessary. However, you may want to spend 35
cents to get Aruba's best-known silver coin, the 50-cent yotin, which is square.

* DRINKING WATER: Aruba's drinking water is safe to drink, flowing from the
world's second-largest desalinization plant.

* ELECTRICITY: 110 volts AC (60 cycles) is identical to that in the United
States.

* TIME: Atlantic Standard Time, which is one hour ahead of Eastern Standard Time
in the winter, but the same during the months when daylight-saving time is in
effect.

* MORE INFORMATION: Aruba Tourism, 1-800-862-7822 or www.aruba.com (Aruba's
official government Web site); www.arubatourism.com.

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Michael A. Fuoco can be reached at mfuoco@post-gazette.com or 412-263-1968.
Linda Wilson Fuoco can be reached at lfuoco@post-gazette.com or 412-851-1512.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Chris Welsch/Minneapolis Star Tribune: Shaped by the strong wind
from the north, Aruba's divi-divi trees point southwest, making a compass
unnecessary.
 PHOTO: Michael A. Fuoco photos: Dante Fuoco is cast in silhouette by sunset as
a sailboat drifts off the coast of Aruba.
 PHOTO: Bustling, clean and picturesque, Aruba's capital city of Oranjestad is
on the southwestern coast. Dutch Colonial architecture in pastel colors abounds.
At the marina, cruise ships dock, merchants sell fresh fish right off the boats
every morning, and deep-sea fishing boats depart for half-day or full-day
excursions. With modern shopping malls and quaint stores, the city is the
primary shopping area on the island.
 MAP: Post-Gazette: (Aruba)
 MAP: Associated Press: (Dominican Republic) (Ariba) (St. Kitts)

                       Copyright 2002 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              136 of 291 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                     July 21, 2002 Sunday FIVE STAR EDITION

CHECK WEB FOR FORECAST BEFORE TRAVEL

BYLINE: BOB TEDESCHI, NEW YORK TIMES NEWS SERVICE

SECTION: TRAVEL, Pg.G-8

LENGTH: 1207 words


Recently, Karen Persichilli Keogh, who works in Manhattan directing Sen. Hillary
Rodham Clinton's New York operations, was scheduled to attend a 4 p.m. memorial
service in Boston with her husband. Since Delta's shuttle from La Guardia to
Logan flies every hour, the big question Keogh faced as she packed was whether
to leave the office by midmorning and face a mountain of work on Monday, or
leave later and risk missing the service.

Logging onto the Weather Channel's weather.com travel section, she found a
forecast for Friday afternoon indicating mostly clear conditions and little risk
of a delay. She took the 1:30 flight, getting a little more work done than she
would have otherwise, and made it to the service on time.

Of the 20 million to 25 million Internet surfers who visit weather-related Web
sites in a typical month, according to the Web research firm Jupiter Media
Metrix, roughly half will follow Keogh's mouse trail to weather.com, by far the
dominant site in this category.

There's good reason for weather.com's popularity: the site is comprehensive,
easy to use and fairly fast. The other reason for its vast audience, of course,
is the site's exposure on the Weather Channel's broadcasts, which provide
companionship to tens of millions of weather fans.

But there are lesser-known Web sites worth checking -- particularly for
travelers, once they realize how user-friendly these sites have become, and how
invaluable a recently updated forecast can be when scheduling a trip, packing
the suitcases and road-prepping the car.

In nearly all these Web sites, the forecasts tailored to travelers are far more
useful than the general forecasts on the evening news. On weather.com, for
instance, one of the newest features is the Interstate Forecast. Select the
highway you plan to take, and the site will return a 10-day forecast for cities
spread out every 90 miles along the way, including a box that gives the
percentage of likelihood that it will rain.

For those who are flying, there are interesting options on weather.com beyond
the flight forecast that Keogh used. For instance, there is a Travel Weather map
of the United States, showing pockets of rain, snow, ice, fog or windy
conditions.

Other sections will also help people on the road: under the Health tab, you can
check for flu outbreaks in specific states, or check the pollen counts of scores
of cities nationwide, as well as the prevalence of other sniffle-inducing
elements, such as mold.

For people traveling abroad, weather.com provides 10-day forecasts for 7,000
foreign cities, in addition to the 73,000 domestic locations it tracks. But when
it comes to locations, a competitor, Accuweather, has more to offer. According
to Jim Candor, who runs accuweather.com from State College, Pa., his site has
"hundreds of thousands" of locations worldwide with five-day forecasts.
(Domestic forecasts extend 15 days.)

Such forecasts are, of course, of no value when planning vacations well in
advance. Internet surfers who want detailed information about what a city's
weather conditions are like at different times of the year will find some good
information available -- at least for domestic travel.

The National Climatic Data Center, a division of the Federal National Oceanic
and Atmospheric Agency, has a Web site that lists average temperature and
precipitation data, by month, for dozens of American cities. (The Web address,
like many things government related, is a bit unwieldy: lwf.ncdc.noaa.gov/oa/
climate/                 research/cag3/city.html.)
Weather.com's Vacation Planner section has similar data, in an easier-to-read
format and covering hundreds, not dozens, of cities. For information on foreign
cities, though, weather.com promises more than it delivers. The site offers
links to thousands of foreign locations, but fully two-thirds of those pages
display climate charts with limited or no weather data. (A weather.com
spokeswoman, Stacy Kirk, said the site had no timetable on when it would have a
large percentage of foreign cities covered.)

Accuweather.com is no better. The site provides a destination guide, which one
would expect to list general weather descriptions alongside its lists of things
to do. But often, the weather information comes in the form of sentences like
this, on Athens: "October offers beautiful weather, with rain and some high
winds." For other cities, like Philadelphia, there is no description at all.

What sets Accuweather apart from most of its competition are the so-called
premium services it offers for weather-data fanatics who have no aversion to
spending a few bucks for more esoteric atmospheric details. For $5 a month or
$40 a year, subscribers get access to hour-by-hour forecasts that extend 15 days
for places in the United States, and 10 days for foreign locations.

Given that forecasts are statistically less reliable the farther out they go,
other premium features might be more enticing, such as the site's Storm Timer,
which plots the expected movement of storms over the next hour. Accuweather also
offers a free software application that Windows users can download, which
displays on the computer's taskbar the temperature of a given place.

In offering that new service, however, Accuweather is playing catch-up to a
similar service from WeatherBug.com. This Windows program, which requires
Internet Explorer, also allows users to view the outside temperature on the
taskbar.

According to Steve Rubel, a WeatherBug spokesman, the company has 5,000 weather
data stations in the United States. When you click on the temperature reading, a
larger page appears, with links to a seven-day forecast, a live picture of
weather conditions, and a travel button that will allow you to change the
settings and get data for another place.

The service is free, but WeatherBug offers paid enhancements to the service,
which might attract frequent travelers. For $20 a year, the pop-up page will
also include probable and potential airport travel delays around the United
States, and winter travel hazard warnings, among other things.

For example, on a recent Tuesday, the page showed possible and probable airport
delays -- and the weather most likely responsible for the delays -- in Michigan,
Seattle and southern Illinois. Rubel said about 10,000 people have signed up for
the premium services since they were first offered in November, while roughly 10
million have the free version.

Perhaps the best weather site that does not package its information specifically
for travelers is www.noaa.gov, the home of the National Oceanic Atmospheric
Administration, which also is the umbrella organization for the National Weather
Service. (The weather service also has a site, www.weather.gov, but it is less
sprawling than www.noaa.gov, and a lot less fun.)

Noaa.gov offers forecasts and other information that travelers can make use of,
such as the monthly average water temperatures for coastal towns, but it also
provides a comprehensive weather perspective that few other sites bother with.
For instance, users can access information on solar storms, view archived
satellite photos of major storms and brush up on the occasional weather trivia.

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2002 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              138 of 291 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                     August 26, 2002 Monday SOONER EDITION

FARMERS' ALMANAC SEES A ROUGH WINTER AHEAD

BYLINE: KEVIN WACK, THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: NATIONAL, Pg.A-2

LENGTH: 356 words

DATELINE: LEWISTON, Maine


If last winter's mild weather kept your snow shovel buried beneath beach towels
and tanning butter, the Farmers' Almanac recommends dusting it off this fall.

Folks from Maine to Colorado can expect heavy snow and colder-than-normal
temperatures, according to this year's edition.

"We are predicting a rough winter, with severe weather patterns that gradually
shift eastward as the winter progresses," writes Caleb Weatherbee, the pseudonym
used by the almanac's forecaster.

The 186-year-old almanac, which goes on sale tomorrow, made similar
prognostications last winter. Those predictions, based on a secret model known
to only two people that takes into account sunspot activity, planet position,
and effects of the moon, were mostly wrong.

It forecast several feet of snow last year for New England, but the region had
warmer-than-normal temperatures -- the toastiest winter ever recorded in
Portland, Maine, and Burlington, Vt. -- and a dearth of snow.

Perhaps the editors can be forgiven: Between La Ninas and El Ninos, and talk of
climatic change, there has been some weird weather, including droughts in the
United States and flooding in Europe.

The winter forecasts, which date back to Benjamin Franklin's Poor Richard's
Almanac in the mid-1700s, have become a signpost of Americana. Fretting about
their accuracy seems almost beside the point.

Editors insist the almanac's winter forecast has historically been accurate
about 75 to 80 percent of the time, even though most meteorologists say the
weather cannot be predicted so far in advance.

Such judgments don't seem to faze the publication's editor, who says long-range
predictions fill an important niche.

When the Farmers' Almanac, not to be confused with the Old Farmer's Almanac in
New Hampshire, began publishing in 1818, almanacs provided the only weather
forecasts available.

Back then, the predictions were used mostly by farmers. Nowadays, they may be
used more often to pick wedding dates, said editor Peter Geiger.

"I think you use different forecasts for different reasons," he said, also
acknowledging: "People do judge us."

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2002 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              140 of 291 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                  September 11, 2002 Wednesday SOONER EDITION

LOST SWAGGER;
 ECONOMY SHRUGS OFF ATTACKS AND GROWS, BUT CONFIDENCE GIVES WAY TO UNCERTAINTY

BYLINE: WILLIAM NEIKIRK, CHICAGO TRIBUNE

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg.C-11

LENGTH: 1729 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


After 28 years as a Rockette at New York's Radio City Music Hall, Susanne Doris
was settling into her third year as a United Airlines flight attendant when
Sept. 11 shattered her comfortable notions about the future.

Furloughed from her United job in October, the 50-year-old widow considered
herself lucky to land a Christmas job selling cosmetics at Macy's. It paid only
a little more than she would have received from an unemployment check.

"Everything was so literally up in the air at that point," she said, as she
pondered whether to change careers again and forget her dream of traveling the
world.

Doris was recalled to work at United on Feb. 1, but her anxiety remains high
because the airline is in such financial jeopardy that some fear it will be
forced into bankruptcy.

"Everyone is wondering what is going to happen," she said. "We all hope for a
good outcome."

Doris' uncertainty, multiplied millions of times, is the story of the American
economy since the Sept. 11 attacks. Across the country -- in corporate
boardrooms, on factory floors and in investment banks; in living rooms and
kitchens where families decide what vacations to take and whether to buy a car
-- a similar unease about the future has taken hold.

That is the abiding economic legacy of Sept. 11 as a naturally optimistic, even
swaggering America enters a new and riskier economic era. Old illusions have
been dashed as the attacks have rocked an economy already reeling from dot.com
busts and stock market swoons -- and now corporate scandals.

The federal budget has gone from surplus to deficit, and the country has plunged
into a war costing $2.5 billion a month with no end in sight. The rising expense
of public and private security is diverting dollars that could be used
elsewhere.

The direct costs of the attacks on the World Trade Center and Pentagon, while
significant, are limited -- the economy suffered a loss of about 1 percent to
1.5 percent.

"Businesses have been hurt more by the accountants than the terrorists," said
David Wyss, chief economist at Standard & Poor's in New York, referring to the
corporate scandals.

But the cost of piling uncertainty on top of uncertainty, as the Sept. 11
attacks have done, is incalculable. Businesses are reluctant to invest, fearing
another attack could torpedo the economy. Consumers are spending hesitantly, not
knowing what the future will bring. Lenders are demanding terrorism insurance,
but insurers are loath to provide it.

Economists struggle to predict what would happen in the wake of another attack.

Americans realize that "in an open society, we are not going to be able to stop
every attack," said Donald Straszheim, an economic consultant in California. "If
you accept that kind of premise, it seems to me there are ongoing costs. People
will continue to behave in ways different from the way they did before Sept.
11."

In addition, the threat of an attack on Iraq hangs over the country as the Bush
administration weighs removing Iraqi President Saddam Hussein in its war on
terrorism. The cost of an invasion has been estimated at $60 billion to $80
billion, and it would have an unknown effect on the economy, especially if the
Middle East plunges into a crisis and endangers the world's oil reserves.

At a minimum, economists agree, the new doubts have made the recovery from the
recent recession far more sluggish than it would be otherwise. Growth slowed
dramatically in the second quarter of 2002, and some analysts fear a second
recession may be on the horizon.

Given this climate, Americans probably will have to tolerate uncertainty to a
degree never required before.

One flight attendant, Barbara Rask of America Trans Air, said her 10-year-old
son told her he was afraid to board a plane because he feared a terrorist
attack. Rask told him she could not guarantee there would not be an incident,
but based on her experience, "I don't think anything is going to happen."

In a sense, Americans will have to cope with the threat of terrorism in much the
same way. Businesses and consumers may hate uncertainty, but if the economy is
ever to recover, analysts say, Americans may have little choice but to live with
their unease.

Consumers, in particular, seem far from that point. Many are still fearful of
flying, which has forced the nation's major airlines to slash flights and jobs.
Major restructuring is under way and could cause the airlines to rethink the hub
system that was so profitable, said Aaron Gellman, a Northwestern University
professor.

Hotels in major cities, meanwhile, have higher vacancy rates as travel has been
slashed. Resorts and theme parks such as Disney World are having a hard time.
Analysts say people are staying home more, fixing up their houses, taking short
car trips and spending more time with their families.

Smith Travel Research, a firm in Tennessee that tracks the hotel industry, said
in an April survey that revenue per room in 15 major cities, including Chicago,
was down 16.7 percent from a year earlier. In the first half of the year, hotel
revenue was $12 million a day less than before Sept. 11.

Mark Lomanno, head of Smith Travel Research, said there were signs of
improvement, with bookings picking up recently.

Business people also are traveling less as corporations scale back travel
because of the fear factor and to cut costs. The Travel Industry Association of
America reports that while business travelers are beginning to return to the
skies, corporate travel on airlines is still below the 2000 level.

To be sure, consumers have not stopped spending altogether since Sept. 11, but
their cash often goes to the special bargains that businesses are offering.

"They did not go into a hole and hide," said Fred Breimyer, chief economist at
State Street Bank in Boston. "They took advantage of low interest rates in
housing and propelled the market forward. An America under attack became an
America on sale."

In this climate, discount companies are doing the best. Retailers such as
Wal-Mart and Target are outperforming their rivals. The same is true of discount
airlines such as JetBlue and Southwest. In any restructuring to come, such
companies will emerge stronger, analysts said.

But recent evidence indicates consumers are pulling back a bit even on discount
spending, as the economy remains sluggish and jobs grow scarcer.

Consumer confidence has been up and down in recent months, although it has
recovered from the lows right after Sept. 11. Americans have taken comfort in
the fact that there has not been another major attack, but a nagging fear
remains.

Businesses are equally cautious about making job-creating investments.

Jeff Rudek, chief executive officer at Hyperion, a Sunnyvale, Calif., software
firm that helps companies develop internal controls, said American companies are
cautious, incremental investors these days, reluctant to strike out boldly and
invest in new markets and products.

Business investment this year is down 14 percent, though analysts recently have
reported signs of modest improvement.

"They will make smart investments that will help them improve the performance of
their companies," he said. "What we are seeing in the software industry is that
the days of the big multimillion purchases, the $10 million purchases with
distant paybacks, are over. Sept. 11 may have been the stake in the heart."

These days, Rudek said, companies are keeping their old computer systems, making
marginal updates rather than buying new ones.

"The pressure is on for companies to perform again," Rudek said, describing the
new, sober mood. "Profits matter again, not just revenue."

The doubts plaguing the economy take perhaps their most concrete form in the
demand for terrorism insurance, which everyone wants but few seem able to get,
and many large endeavors are grinding to a halt. About $8 billion in projects
have been halted because of a lack of terrorism insurance coverage, according to
a survey by the Mortgage Bankers Association of America.

"There's too many hard hats not working in America" as the result of a lack of
terrorism insurance, President Bush said in a recent speech.

Deborah Beck, executive vice president of the Real Estate Board of New York,
said a major construction lender, HypoVereinsbank, has declared it will not
finance projects in New York and Chicago until terrorism insurance questions are
resolved. Beck did not name the projects.

But perhaps nothing tops the experience of Tulelake, Calif., a town of 1,000
people near the Oregon border. For nearly two weeks in August, the town closed
city hall, stopped garbage collections and ordered its police cruisers off the
streets except in emergencies -- because its insurer refused to offer terrorism
insurance.

Town clerk Joe Cordonier said Tulelake finally obtained pooled coverage in
California.

Bush is strongly backing a terrorism insurance bill that would have the federal
government pay some claims if another attack occurs.

A more significant problem for the economy is that banks and other financial
institutions have become tight-fisted lenders, even though interest rates are as
low as they have been since the 1960s. Michael Drury, chief economist at McVean
Trading Co. in Memphis, said financing was tougher for companies to obtain.

"There are bigger risk premiums in interest rates than in the past, making it
hard to get the economy started again," he said.

Add to this mix still another source of anxiety -- the growing federal deficit.

Bush, who campaigned on a theme of smaller government, has been forced to
support a bigger one, especially when it comes to defense. Surplus funds that a
year ago might have been reserved to help bolster Social Security during the
retirement years of the baby boomers are now gone.

Robert Reischauer, head of the Urban Institute and former director of the
Congressional Budget Office, said that years from now Americans will look back
on Sept. 11 as a crossroads. For the first time in a generation, he said, people
are looking to the government to assist an economy in trouble with more spending
and regulation.

"I think Sept. 11, combined with the economic downturn . . . will result in a
turnaround in the way people view their national government," he said.


LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
911 THE ATTACK ON AMERICA/ ONE YEAR LATER

GRAPHIC: Photo: Joanne Carole/Bloomberg News: A sparse crowd gathers for teh
start of the Main Street Parade at the Magic Kingdom theme park at Disney World
nine days after the attacks. Business has picked up but is still down sharply at
theme parks across the country.
 Photo: Kevin P. Coughlin/Bloomberg News: A man leans on a planter near a n empy
ticketing line for the US Airways shuttles to Boston and Washington, D.C., in
the US Airways terminal at New York's LaGuardia Airport in May, months before
teh carrier filed for bankruptcy.
 Photo: Will Chandler/Anderson Independent-Mail: In the post-Sept. 11 retail
economy, discount companies such as Wal-Mart and Target are outperforming their
rivals. Here, Target employees Brain Carpenter, right, and Joseph Ader work at
keeping the shelves stocked with back-to-school merchandise in Anderson, S.C.

                       Copyright 2002 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              149 of 291 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                    January 10, 2002 Thursday SOONER EDITION

CARNEGIE INTERNATIONAL CURATOR STARTS WORLDWIDE SEARCH

BYLINE: MARY THOMAS, POST-GAZETTE ART CRITIC

SECTION: ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT, Pg.F-1

LENGTH: 1144 words


The year 2004 isn't so far off. Not if you're Carnegie International 2004
curator Laura Hoptman, who leaves for Paris today on the first leg of a global
exploration of contemporary visual art that will continue for another 12 to 18
months.

Hers will be the 54th installation of the prestigious exhibition, which was the
second of its kind in the world (in 1896, a year after the Venice Biennale) and
is the only such large contemporary art survey in North America.

Hoptman, who grew up near Washington, D.C., left the Museum of Modern Art in New
York City, where she was assistant curator in the Department of Drawings, to
become curator of contemporary art at the Carnegie Museum of Art, where her
foremost responsibility is the International.

She's been here less than two months, but she's already upbeat about Pittsburgh,
praising the ethnic restaurants, which remind her of New York's, and public
transportation: "I love the bus system. I'm a bus rider."

Hoptman is also looking forward to living in a city that "welcomed the only
exhibition of contemporary art in the United States. The people in Pittsburgh
have embraced [the Carnegie International] as something of their own. Pittsburgh
expects the International to surprise, to delight, to pique interest, to
challenge. For more than 100 years, this city has not only tolerated it but
encouraged it."

The International, she says, costs a lot of money and takes a lot of time. "It's
a huge, huge labor of love. I'm using all these cliches, but it's true -- I'm
almost daunted when I talk about it."

She explains that its historical precedents were the large universal expositions
that "brought the world" to cities. "The International does that in terms of
contemporary visual culture. It makes the town where this festival happens
necessarily a more sophisticated audience, as a result of this influx of
information."

Before MOMA, Hoptman was guest curator at the Museum of Contemporary Art,
Chicago (1993-95), curator at The Bronx Museum of the Arts, New York (1987-90),
and a researcher at the Whitney Museum of American Art, New York (1985-87).

She earned a bachelor's degree in art history at Williams College, Williamstown,
Mass., and completed a master's degree in art history in 1991 at The Institute
of Fine Arts at New York University.

She and her husband, artist Verne Dawson, live in Shadyside. Dawson, an Alabama
native whose fanciful, symbol-laced paintings were featured in the November
issue of Artforum International magazine, will keep his studio in New York City.

Hoptman's itinerary, which is subject to change, allows a year to a year and a
half for "research and development": a lot of travel, talking with colleagues
and at least one meeting with her advisory board. During the second year, the
show will start to come together. Invited artists will begin to explore the site
and prepare work. The last year will be devoted to preparing for the exhibition
and producing the exhibition catalog.

She expects to return to Pittsburgh from this initial trip on Jan. 22, after a
stop in Ghent, Belgium.

The members of the 2004 International advisory board, which will be larger that
that of the 1999 International, will be announced in February or March.

Hoptman, who will only say she's "in the same generation as 1999 International
curator Madeleine Grynsztejn," saw that exhibition and, "being a New Yorker,
knew a number of the exhibiting artists intimately." Having so many artists she
was familiar with already shown "in a certain way freed me, perhaps, to look at
the next generation."

As for her approach to ordering the exhibition, she says, "My only strategies
are to stay close to the ground -- talk to the artists, and my curatorial
colleagues."

Hoptman's unique relationship with artists -- socializing with them and being
married to an artist -- will most likely be a factor in her International plans.
"My milieu is artists. I know lots of them, and I think that helped me [in
earlier curatorial choices]."

As a curator, she says, she learned to listen to artists: "What they're making
and what they're thinking; they are the vanguard."

When she worked on the huge MOMA/P.S. 1 Contemporary Art Center "Greater New
York" show last year, she visited hundreds of studios throughout the region. "I
came across micro-communities of contemporary art, each different in its own
way."

Catching her attention are "certain ideas that younger artists are showing
interest in at the moment. [There's a] pod -- mostly men -- that's deeply
interested in science fiction. They have a handle on technology and they have a
handle on religion, not in a geeky way, but a metaphysical way."

Hoptman sees this as part of a prevailing "climate of opinion" -- what may have
been called Zeitgeist in the ' 80s. "Look at the popularity of 'Lord of the
Rings,' even 'Harry Potter.' It's not coming from the curators. It's coming from
the artists. It happens in tandem with the intellectuals and the academy."

Brooklyn artist Jesse Bransford, who makes "wall drawings of celestial systems
that he takes from the Internet," is an example of such an artist, many of whom
are 25 to 30 years old.

Hoptman was delighted, but not overly surprised, when she arrived at the
Carnegie and met Elizabeth Thomas -- recently appointed assistant curator of
contemporary art who will aid Hoptman with the International -- and Thomas
expressed interest in featuring Bransford in a Forum Gallery exhibition. That
exhibition will open March 16.

Hoptman had accepted the Carnegie position before the Sept. 11 terrorist
actions, something that's influenced the interpretation and reception of art, as
well as international travel.

"I think the fallout from Sept. 11 sort of confirmed what was already happening
in terms of mindset," she says. The "dizzying heights" to which the contemporary
art market had risen, the late 1980s crash and the ramifications thereof, had
led to a kind of "aesthetic exhaustion. There was this feeling of an ending.
[Since the attacks] some things have taken on a new sense of the absurd, a new
kind of significance ... [others are] fraught with all kinds of meaning, because
we've all lived through this together.

"All of us have changed since Sept. 11. Starting a new job, and [one] that's
primarily travel, is a challenge, but you gotta do what you gotta do.

"I think art is enormously important. But on a realistic level, art is
enormously important but I wouldn't die for it. One rule of thumb is that I
won't go to war-torn countries. I'm not going to be a cultural tourist."

As for the months ahead, while Hoptman acknowledges that she brings to her task
a personal taste and history, "I come with no expectations. I want to find
something that touches us -- that means something, not just is something."

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Lake Fong/Post-Gazette: Laura Hoptman, the curator of the 2004
Carnegie International, and husband, artist Verne Dawson, checked out an
exhibition at the Carnegie Museum of Art last summer.

                       Copyright 2002 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              158 of 291 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                     February 10, 2002 Sunday NORTH EDITION

BRIDAL GOWNS, TUXEDOS ADD PIZAZZ TO TRADITIONAL STYLES

BYLINE: LAMONT JONES, POST-GAZETTE FASHION EDITOR

SECTION: METRO, Pg.N-7

LENGTH: 1124 words


"When a bride tries on the right dress, she should feel confident, beautiful,
elegant and, most of all, extraordinarily happy."

-- Fashion designer Carolina Herrera


A wedding involves hundreds of decisions, from invitations and reception
victuals to vows and thank-you notes.

But for The Big Day, there is no decision more critical and controversial than
what the bride chooses to wear for her walk down the aisle.

Trends come and go but a drop-dead dress is forever. Fit, comfort and color are
obviously important. But the key to choosing a gown that will make guests gasp
is to combine just enough tradition with the right amount of trend.

"Bridal style, like all fashion, evolves with the society it is serving," says
Saks Fifth Avenue bridal director Monica Hickey. "It reflects the changes and
yet also pays homage to the past."

For spring and summer 2002, trends for bridal gowns are clearly classic in
styling with modern updates in comfortable fabrics and unconventional colors.
Strapless and spaghetti-strap dresses with detailed, fitted tops and lush, full
ball gown skirts appear to be the dominant style.

"Girls are still loving their shoulders," said Gregory Cherico, owner of Anne
Gregory for the Bride in Mt. Lebanon. "And this season, you're seeing a lot more
lace, which is very refreshing. Bias-cut dresses are popular and simple A-lines
are selling very well."

Designs in caviar and bugle beads, pearls, embroidery and lace add romance and
elegance while veils and trains inlaid with crystals lend sparkle.


Subtle colors

The silk, taffeta, organza and chiffon gowns are appearing not only in crisp
whites, creams and ivories, but also in creamy butterscotches, burnished
bronzes, brushed golds and sparkling silvers and platinums.

"We will always have the whites and ivories, but more subtle tones now," says
Barbara Patterson, owner The White Orchid bridal salon in Pleasant Hills. "It's
not called pink but blush. Cafe. Platinum. Girls are not as afraid of those
colors."

David Kaufman, managing director for the area Wedding World stores, also notes
the color evolution.

"We're selling a lot of dresses that aren't just plain white anymore," he says.
"Lots of silver and champagne and gold accents that really make the dress stand
out. We're finding pizazz coming back into a lot of the dresses."

Essentially, the ruling look is the princess bride's dream come true.

'The romantic princess look is certainly what's happening," says Patterson.
"It's much more glamorous. It's a more beautiful look."

She advises brides to know their own style and exercise their freedom to look
how they want to look.

"Try to keep your choices individual and not invite too many other opinions,"
urges Patterson. "It's going to make a much happier time."


Dressier tuxedoes

Unless your nuptials are informal and extremely intimate, the groom will want to
choose a tuxedo over a regular suit.

"The biggest trend in tuxedos is the mirroring of the dressier look in jackets
featuring three or four buttons and a notch lapel," says Scott Norris, general
merchandise manager for Men's Wearhouse. "It creates a look that is very similar
to that of a suit except for the satin on the pants and lapel."

Tuxedo looks are varied more this spring and summer than last. Vests remain
strong, appearing in more colors, patterns and styles. And while the traditional
black coat with white shirt and black tie is always appropriate, retro is making
an impact with black shirts and white ties.

There's plenty of latitude for the groom to express his personal style.
Four-button jackets, shawl collar styles with matching shawl-collar vests and
longer British morning coats are but a few of the latest trends.

The time of day and the season you're tying the knot in can make a difference.

For example, for formal daytime weddings, a stroller, tuxedo or tailcoat in
black, gray or navy works year-round, while gray cutaways and black tuxedoes or
tailcoats are best left for ultra-formal daytime weddings.

For evening weddings, generally after 4 p.m., black, gray or navy classic
tuxedoes or tailcoats work for formal weddings and black full-dress tails and
black tuxedoes or tailcoats are appropriate for ultra-formal ceremonies.

Some formalwear designers are giving tuxedoes a shinier look, as opposed to the
traditional matte fabrics. Industry leader Oscar de la Renta, for one, shows a
European influence with dapper silk and worsted wool tuxes in black, gray or
blue.

"In the past, some observers have predicted the demise of the tuxedo, but it
seems to be holding its own by adapting to the times with nontraditional
features," says Bruce Hampton, executive vice president of Men's Wearhouse.


White with some options

For spring and summer months or year-round in warmer climates, white or ivory
dinner jackets with black formal trousers are an option for formal or semiformal
weddings.

The type of jacket helps determine whether a fellow should wear a band collar,
spread collar or wing collar shirt and whether a vest or cummerbund with bow tie
is the best route to finish the look.

The white tuxedo shirt remains the most popular, but other options are gaining
wider acceptance.

"Not only are we seeing more men wearing shirts with regular collars, which work
with a standard tie, but the combination of a black shirt and black tie is
gaining popularity," notes Norris.

After Six is also moving groom fashion forward by brightening black tuxes with
unusual colors such as sea mist and avocado on lapel trims, ties and vests. And
Raffinati offers a decidedly urban flair with its dramatic pin-stripe "Zoot Tux"
with a long coat and the trim "Spectra" jacket without lapels in black or white.

"Despite our economy's current situation, men are more than ever concerned about
their appearance," observes Bob Bennett, president of the Hackensack, New
Jersey-based Men's Apparel Group, which manufactures tuxes by Raffinati, After
Six and Oscar de la Renta.

"Some tuxedoes fall into the generic category, but our tuxedos aim to give a man
presence, and to have presence, you need a personality and style."

However, no matter how stylish he fancies himself, a wise groom doesn't dare
make a decision about a tux without input from his fiancee. His choice ought to
complement her gown, so her input is essential.

A final word: If your tuxedo isn't too trendy, seriously consider buying it
rather than renting. After several wearings, it has paid for itself.

To receive a free groom's guide, send a self-addressed, stamped business-size
envelope to Groom's Guide, c/o Organ/Dallal Associates Inc., 1185 Avenue of the
Americas, 20th Floor, New York, NY 10003.


LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
WEDDINGS 2002

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Franka Bruns/Post-Gazette: The "candlelight"-colored satin gown
with crocheted lace and bead detailing is by Bridal Manufacturing ($900); veil
embellished with crystals ($350) and pearl and crystal tiara ( $250) by Malif
Henderson; earrings by Mary's Creations ($25). All from Carlisle's at Big Day
Wedding and Event Center, Penn Avenue at 26th Street, Strip District. Makeup by
artist Marya Pendro-Thomson for Trish McEvoy at Saks Fifth Avenue, 513
Smithfield St., Downtown. Manicure by Shannon Smith of Hair Together, Highlands
Mall, Natrona Heights.

                       Copyright 2002 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              160 of 291 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                    February 15, 2002 Friday SOONER EDITION

ENVIRONMENTALISTS CRITICIZE BUSH'S PLAN TO CLEAR THE AIR

BYLINE: ANN MCFEATTERS, POST-GAZETTE NATIONAL BUREAU

SECTION: NATIONAL, Pg.A-11

LENGTH: 1064 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Even before President Bush yesterday finished outlining his "clean-skies"
legislation that he said would fight global warming and improve America's air
without costing jobs, environmental groups were countering that it would instead
increase pollution when compared with current law.

Last year, when Bush refused U.S. participation in the Kyoto Protocol to address
global warming, a treaty that had been signed by 178 nations, he argued that its
mandate for reduced levels of carbon dioxide would devastate the U.S. economy
and give an unfair advantage to developing nations. But he promised then that he
would deliver his own anti-pollution plan.

Yesterday -- against a backdrop painted blue, to represent sky and oceans, and
emblazoned with the words "cleaner air, brighter future" -- Bush presented his
method to reduce carbon dioxide emissions by 18 percent over 10 years, using
more tax incentives to induce voluntary reductions in several forms of air
pollution and more opportunity for corporations to trade pollution credits, as
they now do to curb acid rain.

The president also pledged that the United States would help developing nations
be more responsible in using energy.

Keeping with his custom of making major announcements outside the White House,
Bush went to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Agency in Silver Spring, Md.,
to say it's important to make decisions based on "sound science, not what sounds
good."

The Kyoto treaty, the White House maintained, would have cost Americans $400
billion and 5 million jobs through 2012 and would have provided an unfair break
to developing nations such as India and China by requiring industrialized
nations to bear the brunt of reducing pollution around the globe. The Senate
never ratified that accord.

Bush yesterday also offered a plan to deal with sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxide
and mercury emissions from U.S. plants believed to cause not only pollution but
also asthma and other health problems.

A White House fact sheet says that in the United States, Bush's proposal would
cut sulfur dioxide emissions by 73 percent -- from current emissions of 11
million tons to a cap of 4.5 million tons in 2010 and 3 million tons in 2018.

But earlier proposals drafted under the current law, which was signed by former
President George H.W. Bush, cap sulfur dioxide emissions at 2 million tons in
2010. That means this White House would permit 50 percent more emissions than
the prior proposal, and postpone that emission target by almost a decade.

Both the proposed global warming and power plant anti-pollution policies are "a
massive rollback of our clean-air protections and a political payoff for the
administration's friends in the coal and power industries," the U.S. Public
Interest Research Group charged. It said Bush's plan would increase carbon
emissions and emit twice as much mercury as the current law allows.

Frank O'Donnell of the Clean Air Trust decried Bush's offering as "a polluter
protection plan. It's a Valentine's Day Massacre of the Clean Air Act."

In Ohio, Michigan, Indiana, Illinois, West Virginia and Kentucky, Bush's plan
would reduce sulfur dioxide emissions to 978,000 tons by 2020, O'Donnell said.
Last September, the Environmental Protection Agency had indicated that its
proposal aimed to reduce sulfur dioxides in the Midwest to 794,000 tons by 2020.

To combat smog -- more scientifically, nitrogen oxide -- instead of reducing
emissions by 2020 to 307,000 tons, as the EPA was suggesting last year, the
president's current proposal would reduce emissions to 389,000 tons.

It is widely expected that EPA regulations are about to be announced that would
substantially reduce the stringency of pollution standards governing older
plants that use coal. Environmentalists expect that pending EPA proposals will
weaken controls for chemical plants and refineries as well.

Bush's abrupt withdrawal from the global warming treaty -- signed in Kyoto,
Japan, during the Clinton administration's tenure -- angered many other
countries. Yesterday, Bush didn't dispute that greenhouse gases are believed to
be causing global warming. But he again rejected international mandates to
alleviate that.

He said $4.6 billion in tax incentives over five years would help reduce carbon
dioxide gases, generated by burning fossil fuel in cars and electric power
plants. He said tax incentives, not government regulations, are the way to
promote new energy technologies, more conservation and more renewable fuels.

The National Association of Manufacturers applauded the president's plan, saying
the Kyoto Protocol would be "ineffective and economically harmful to the United
States." The business group said it supports Bush's idea to have companies
voluntarily report their emissions to the Department of Energy, saying this
would prompt more manufacturers to participate in trading and reducing
emissions.

NAM also said it likes "more realistic" time frames for cleaning up U.S. air,
but that it wants to reserve judgment until it finds out whether the proposals
could cause a massive switch from coal to cleaner-burning natural gas. If that
happens, NAM said, it could "drastically raise the price of both electricity and
natural gas. Such price hikes, in turn, could threaten a number of backbone
industries in the United States and hit the pocketbooks of almost every business
and homeowner."

Spokesmen for environmental groups such as the Sierra Club, the Environmental
Defense Fund and the World Wildlife Federation said Bush's plan to link
environmental cleanup to economic productivity will not reduce pollution.
Several also pointed out that Bush's pledge that other measures would be taken
if emissions haven't been cut significantly by 2012 is a kind of dodge; after
all, he would no longer be president by then.

But the environmental groups were more interested in the president's plans for
tax incentives to promote cars that run on fuel cells, use methane released by
landfills, generate electricity from windmills and encourage more residential
solar heating.

Bush's proposals are certain to create controversy in Congress. Immediately
yesterday, House Democratic leader Richard Gephardt of Missouri denounced the
president's plan, calling it "a 19th-century energy policy that simply rewards
oil, gas and utility special interests."

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2002 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              163 of 291 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                    February 18, 2002 Monday SOONER EDITION

KEEP OUR TRAINS RUNNING, BY ALL MEANS

SECTION: EDITORIAL, Pg.A-14 LETTER TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 112 words


Subsidies to airlines and highway builders since 1945 have all but destroyed the
U. S. rail system, which was the world's most efficient transit system. Now
critics bemoan the pittance spent on Amtrak while acquiescing to the billions
spent on the less efficient modes of travel.

To compound this error, anti-rail pundits seem to assume that oil will be cheap
and plentiful forever, that no supply disruptions from the Persian Gulf can ever
occur again and the climate change will not be expensive or dangerous.

In a perfect world, no transit modes would be subsidized. But in 2002 America,
neglecting the potential of the railroads is a form of suicide.


LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Editor's note: The writer is an associate professor of electrical engineering
technology at Point Park College.

                       Copyright 2002 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              181 of 291 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                       May 7, 2002 Tuesday SOONER EDITION

POLITICS IS A LAUGHING MATTER WHEN CAPITOL STEPS PERFORM

BYLINE: ADRIAN MCCOY

SECTION: ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT, Pg.B-5 STAGE REVIEW

LENGTH: 580 words


In the wacky Washington world of the Capitol Steps, Yasser Arafat and Ariel
Sharon sing a duet of "You Don't Bring Me Flowers" and Tom Ridge frightens small
children with bedtime stories.

The Capitol Steps, who call themselves "the only group in America that attempts
to be funnier than Congress," bring their irreverent political satire to
Pittsburgh tomorrow in a benefit performance for Family House.

Family House provides affordable lodging for families of patients with
life-threatening illnesses or injuries when extended hospital stays are needed.
Money from the performance will go to Family House's Family Assistance Fund.

The "Beltway Brochettes" show Capitol Steps will perform tomorrow has about 30
song parodies and will be about two-thirds political humor and one-third general
topical issues. The touring show changes frequently because of its timely
nature; they usually add a new song every week.

The troupe got its start in 1981, when a group of staffers in then-Sen. Charles
Percy's office put on a satirical skit for an office Christmas party.

"We thought, 'We'll just do this for this one Christmas party and probably get
fired,' " recalls Elaina Newport, one of the Steps' founding members. "But what
happened was weird -- nobody asked us to stop. Like most things on Capitol Hill,
it just got out of control."

They were invited to perform at other Washington functions and soon were
juggling their day careers with comedy. By the time Percy left office, political
satire had become full-time, steady work.

They've performed for the last five presidents: "Six, if you count Hillary,"
Newport says. Two decades later, they haven't run out of material. They've
released 21 albums -- the latest being "When Bush Comes to Shove" -- and perform
constantly, both on their home turf and on tour. For the past 10 years, they've
produced quarterly specials that air on public radio.

The insider view of Washington gives their satire its edge. Originally,
performers couldn't just be actors or singers, they had to have done time on
Capitol Hill. But by the mid-' 90s, the performing schedule had become so busy
that they relaxed the rules.

Life in Washington provides an endless supply of material, Newport says. "The
first few months, we thought, pretty soon everybody will get competent and solve
all the problems. We realized about five minutes later that was not going to
happen. There's always something."

Sex scandals are the funniest material to work with, she says. "Comedy is based
on exaggeration. In Bill Clinton's case, the sex scandals were so ridiculous
that you almost had trouble being more ridiculous."

Since September, the political climate has changed sharply. "Right away on Sept.
12, a lot of our show was tasteless. A lot of things immediately had to be
retired.

"All of a sudden George Bush was smart, which was a problem for us," Newport
says. "Then, of course, the bipartisan bickering started up again and everything
was back to normal."

And yet, the objects of the Capitol Steps' satire take it in stride.

"One of the things I've learned over the years is that politicians are smart
enough to realize that a sense of humor makes them look more human, maybe more
trustworthy," Newport says. "You can say, 'If he can laugh at himself, OK, then
he's a guy I can identify with.' "


The Capitol Steps

Where: Carnegie Music Hall, Oakland.

When: 8 p.m. tomorrow.

Tickets: $50; 412-647-5811

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Adrian McCoy covers radio for the Post-Gazette.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Capital Steps got its start when staffers of
then-Sen.Charles Percy performed at an office Christmas party in 1981.

                       Copyright 2002 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              186 of 291 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                      May 14, 2002 Tuesday SOONER EDITION
                              Correction Appended

CANDIDATES FOR THE PENNSYLVANIA HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

SECTION: TABS, Pg.C-4

LENGTH: 10557 words


(Vote for one in your district)

Term: 2 years

Salary: $63,629

Duties: The General Assembly is the legislative branch of the state government.
It is composed of two houses, the Senate and the House of Representatives. A
majority vote of both houses is necessary to pass a law. Every law concerned
with taxation must originate in the House of Representatives.

Questions: 1. How can the state best meet its constitutional obligation to fund
public education? 2. List your top three legislative priorities.

8th District

Republican:

Dick Stevenson, 57, Grove City

Education: B.A. psychology, St. Francis College, N.Y.; M.B.A., Suffolk
University, Boston, Mass.

Occupation: State representative, District 8, elected November 2000; owner,
Stevenson and Co.

Qualifications: State representative, January 2001-present; chairman, Mercer
County commissioners, 1996-2000; Grove City borough council, eight years (six
years as president); business owner, Stevenson and Co., 20 years.

Answer: 1. As a state representative I have worked for meaningful tax reform
legislation to reduce the present reliance on property tax. Further, I oppose
state mandates unless money is appropriated to pay for them. The state must
honor its constitutional obligation to fund public education. 2. My legislative
record clearly indicates my support for (1) the elimination or reduction of
property tax, (2) the reduction of taxes and limitation of state spending and
(3) local control of schools.


Stevie Mick, No reply


Democrat:

Mark A. Lauer, No reply


10th District

Republican:

No candidate filed

Democrat:

Frank LaGrotta, No reply


11th District

Republican:

Brian Ellis, 32, Butler

Education: Graduate of Butler High School; graduate of the University of
Pittsburgh.

Occupation: Hansen Auto Inc., Lyndora, Pa., co-owner.

Qualifications: Being born and raised in the Butler area, I believe I know and
understand the values and concerns of the district. Having a degree in
communications has enabled me to develop planning and listening skills, while
running the family business has given me an appreciation for what challenges
small business owners of the district face on a daily basis.

Answer: 1. I am a product of public schools and truly believe that the education
of our youth is perhaps the most challenging issue facing our commonwealth
today. While the constitution calls for the "maintenance and support of a
thorough and efficient system of public education ..." I believe that some
school districts fall behind in funding while others get more than their share.
I am in favor of a more balanced system where local municipalities are capped on
what they can tax the residents. 2. (1) Controlled growth in rural areas. I
support mandating a development plan for each municipality that will enable them
to plan for and accommodate expansion. (2) Rapid improvement of our roadway
infrastructure to eliminate congestion along the 356 and 68 corridors. (3)
Finding an alternative funding for school taxes to ease the burden on property
owners and seniors.


Mark A. Shoaf, 39, Sarver

Education: B.S. speech communication, Clarion University, 1985; M.A. higher
education, Indiana University of Pennsylvania, 1989.

Occupation: Assistant to director for workforce development, Penn State's
Electro-Optics Center.

Qualifications: Serving second term on the Freeport Area School Board. Current
vice president and legislative director since 1997. Six years in workforce
development and have successfully created two training programs, In STEP and the
Armstrong Educational Trust.

Answer: 1. Develop a new funding formula based on accurate per-pupil instruction
costs and fund 50 percent. The state should not be able to fund less than 50
percent. 2. Tax reform: property taxes, business taxes; education funding
reform; strengthening the PACE program.


Bill Glassman, 39, Butler

Education: Bachelor of science, accounting; master of divinity.

Occupation: Clergy.

Qualifications: I have professional experience as a comptroller, auditor, tax
adviser, public speaker, educator and community leader. I have committed my life
to serving God, country and my fellow man and I have political and moral
principles which are not for sale.

Answer: 1. We're obliged to "maintain and support a thorough and efficient
system of public education." Despite the fierce pull toward centralization,
efficiency cannot be achieved from Harrisburg or Washington. I trust teachers
and parents in each district to know how to thoroughly educate our children.
I'll fight against unfunded mandates, support districts who stand against
OBE/SBE regulation, and eliminate unnecessary bureaucracy. 2. Protect life and
liberty; eliminate property and inheritance taxes; restore local control of our
schools.


Democrat:

Guy A. Travaglio Jr., No reply


12th District

Republican:

Daryl Metcalfe, 39, Cranberry

Education: Graduated from high school in 1980, served four years in the Army,
receiving a diploma from the Army Air Defense School in 1981. While stationed at
Fort Riley, Kan., he attended Kansas State University. Trained and employed as a
field engineer before elected.

Occupation: State legislator.

Qualifications: Meets the constitutional qualifications to hold office as a
member of the Pennsylvania House of Representatives. He is a husband, father and
veteran. Worked in the private sector for over 14 years and was employed by a
biomedical company as a field engineer prior to being elected.

Answer: 1. The Pennsylvania Legislature has historically and constitutionally
chosen to do this through a mixture of local and state tax revenues. The answer
to our educational funding concerns is not more money, but it is to use the
money we spend more efficiently and effectively. To make public education more
efficient we should eliminate unfunded mandates and restore local control.
Pennsylvania should also eliminate property tax as I have proposed in House Bill
418. 2. While serving in Harrisburg, I will continue to work toward limited,
more efficient government, less taxation and local control of education.


Democrat:

Linda Schoettker, 48, Connoquenessing

Education: Graduate, Butler High School, 1971; former motivational instructor at
Butler County Community College.

Occupation: Small business co-owner; former Pennsylvania Department of Public
Assistance caseworker.

Qualifications: 1999 candidate for Butler County commissioner; helped implement
welfare reform as caseworker; worked to promote small business growth as
participant in Volunteers in Service to America (VISTA) program; member of
Soroptimists International and the Unity Project.

Answer: 1. Pennsylvania should support public schools at the 50 percent level.
As the state contribution is increased, local school districts will be able to
dramatically cut property taxes without eliminating vital school programs. 2. As
your state representative, I'll work hard to implement common sense policies
that allow us to make progress on important issues. I'll work for a strong
patients' Bill of Rights, a real commitment to education from preschool to
college and an honest attempt to address spiraling property taxes with action
instead of unrealistic rhetoric.


14th District

Republican:

No candidate filed

Democrat:

Mike Veon, No reply


15th District

Republican:

Charles A. Camp, 45, Patterson Township

Education: Graduate of Rochester High School; B.S. in business administration
from Truman State University.

Occupation: Owner/operator, Gordon Camp Cleaners, Rochester; current Beaver
County commissioner.

Qualifications: A mix of private and public experience that is unique among all
candidates for this office. As county commissioner, provided bipartisan
leadership that will build a record 10 bridges in two years; reorganized
Community College of Beaver County, rescuing it from collapse; introduced modern
business practices to government.

Answer: 1. We need real reform of the tax system to create both fairness and
stability in funding public schools. I also support empowering school officials
(i.e. school boards and administration) to make choices and decisions on the
local level. By giving local officials more options in terms of how to fund
programs and activities, I believe we will make the use of public funds more
effective and efficient throughout the commonwealth. 2. Tax reform; education
funding; economic development.


Democrat:

Vince Biancucci, 61, Aliquippa

Education: Aliquippa High School, attended Youngstown State University.

Occupation: Executive assistant to state Rep. Nick Colafella.

Qualifications: Served as executive assistant to Colafella with 17 years of
experience on state issues, knowledge of the legislative process and awareness
of the needs of the district.

Answer: 1. The problem is that the state's percentage of funding basic education
has decreased from 55 percent in mid-1975 to only 35 percent today, resulting in
higher property taxes for working Pennsylvanians and increasing inequities
between richer and poorer school districts. We must take steps now to increase
the state's share of funding for basic education to ensure that all students are
treated equally in Pennsylvania and allow for reductions in local property
taxes. 2. Property tax reform; economic and job development; increased
prescription drugs for senior citizens/health care benefits.


Mario Leone, 39, Aliquippa

Education: Robert Morris College, bachelor's degree in finance; Wilson College;
certified by the minor judiciary board of education to serve as a district
justice.

Occupation: Flight attendant, US Airways, 15 years; Hopewell Township
commissioner, second term.

Qualifications: My education in both finance and law gives me the knowledge that
is needed to be an effective representative. Also, my governmental experience
proves my electability as well as my leadership qualities.

Answer: 1. Pennsylvania must get back to basics with funding public education.
In 1970, the state funded 54 percent. Presently, we are funding less than 34
percent. We must shift this burden back to the state and reduce our dependency
on local real estate taxes. Our present structure places hardships on our
residents, especially our most vulnerable citizens, our seniors. 2. Reform our
state education funding method by reducing our dependency on property taxes;
guaranteed health and prescription plan benefits for our senior citizens and
uninsured Pennsylvanians; new economic development and job creation programs.


Joseph Schafer, No reply

16th District

Republican:

Joseph Scioscia, 46, Bellevue

Education: B.S. physics.

Occupation: Manager.

Qualifications: 10 years active duty Air Force, seven years chemical production,
two years electronics and software production, four years Bellevue councilman,
father of five.

Answer: 1. Public education today bears no resemblance to what our constitution
requires. By requirement and in reality, public schools are massively
overfunded. We have allowed schools to become parent substitutes, which can
never be affordable. Article VII, Education, Section 1: The Legislature shall,
as soon as conveniently may be, provide by law for the establishment of schools
throughout the state, in such manner that the poor may be taught gratis. 2.
Bring jobs to Pennsylvania. Allow working Pennsylvanians to keep more of what
they earn. Limit the ability of local governments to raise taxes or to proscribe
our freedoms.


Ron Eggert, 40, Franklin Park

Education: North Allegheny High School; Robert Morris College, B.S. accounting.

Occupation: Controller, Interscope Technologies Inc.

Qualifications: This is my first experience running for office, thus my
experiences are solely in the private sector. My background as a business owner
and controller of Interscope Technologies provides insight to the challenges
facing business in Pennsylvania.

Answer: 1. By controlling the cost of education, which consistently over the
last 20 years has exceeded the rate of inflation. It is the cost of education
that is the problem. The outcry over the property assessments is a symptom of
the underlying problem. 2. Controlling escalating education spending. Reducing
our 9.99 percent corporate income tax rate. Investigate the causes of the
breakdown of the family and develop legislation that may help curtail it.


Democrat:

Susan Laughlin, 70, Conway

Education: Ambridge High School, 1950.

Occupation: State representative.

Qualifications: Worked in legislative office held by husband from 1973 to
present. As the legislator from 1988 to present.

Answer: 1.Our state constitution has an obligation to fund public education by
50 percent but in the last few years that is down to 34 percent, which hopefully
will be increased with a new administration. 2. Tax reform -- reducing property
taxes or eliminating them. Education equity. Health and prescription coverage.


19th District

Republican:

No Candidate Filed


Democrat:

Bill Robinson, 60, Pittsburgh

Education: Ohio State University, B.A. political science; Duquesne University,
M.A. political science.

Occupation: State representative.

Qualifications: 22 years of elective office. Education. Voting record.

Answer: 1. Equity funding for basic education needs. 2. Education, tax reform,
health care.


Jake Wheatley, 30, Pittsburgh

Education: North Carolina Agricultural and Technical State University, B.A.
political science; University of Pittsburgh, M.A. public administration.

Occupation: Training and education specialist.

Qualifications: The most important qualification for this office or any public
service position is the desire to represent and serve your community. As a U.S.
Marine of the Gulf War, through employment and volunteerism, I have learned this
lesson repeatedly. I have served this particular community in numerous ways.

Answer: 1. We need to create a rational, equitable and practical formula on how
Pennsylvania funds education. We should be funding our school districts at 50
percent, funding all-day preschool programs and rethinking our existing
financing mechanism, which is currently too dependent on property taxes.
Pennsylvania legislators should be collaborating with local leadership to
sponsor legislation that will increase parental involvement. We are in an
educational crisis, and I promise to be an advocate on behalf of our children.
2. Education, health care and economic development.


20th District

Republican:

Angelo Romano, No reply


Democrat:

Don Walko, 49, Pittsburgh

Education: Penn State University B.S. accounting; Dickinson School of Law J.D.

Occupation: State representative, attorney.

Qualifications: Long history of neighborhood advocacy; hard-working; not afraid
to take on powerful special interest groups for the common good; never forgot
where I came from.

Answer: 1. By increasing its share of the cost of basic education to 50 percent
while requiring a dollar-for-dollar reduction of property taxes. The special
education funding formula must be changed to reflect actual costs for school
districts. 2. 1.2 million Pennsylvanians have no health care coverage. My
proposals would provide more access to affordable health care, including access
to affordable prescription medications. Increased state funding for education
tied to dollar-for-dollar reductions in local school property taxes. $1 billion
in workforce development programs should be focused.


21st District

Republican:

No Candidate Filed


Democrat:

Frank J. Pistella, 51, Bloomfield

Education: John Carroll University, B.A., history, 1973; Harvard University John
F. Kennedy School of Government Certificate Program, 1985; Widener School of
Law, 1995.

Occupation: State representative.

Qualifications: I have served in the state Legislature for over 24 years. I have
dealt with issues ranging from lead paint abatement to improving health care
access for the elderly.

Answer: 1. The state can meet its obligation by giving more power to local
school boards to determine the programming and funding priorities within the
district. The state Legislature, on the other hand, should be concerned that
dollars are directed toward programs necessary to prepare students for college
or technical school and that meet the needs for a diverse and ever changing
workforce. 2. My top priorities now are the passage of legislation to define
assisted living facilities in the commonwealth and the creation of affordable
long-term care insurance policies.


22nd District

Republican:

Glenn P. Nagy, 46, Whitehall

Education: B.A., Washington and Jefferson College, 1977; M. Ed., University of
Pittsburgh, 1979.

Occupation: Food purchasing consultant; licensed auto appraiser.

Qualifications: Councilman, Whitehall Borough; board member, Economic
Development South (the Route 51 revitalization project); alternate delegate to
the South Hills Area Council of Governments; alternate delegate to Allegheny
County Boroughs Association. An intense desire to serve the residents of
Pennsylvania in state government.

Answer: 1. Through tax reform. The current system of funding education via
property taxes is antiquated and unfair. A new system based on sales or income
tax or both, as is done in Michigan, must be considered. 2. Property tax reform.
Working to provide assistance to municipalities who will be mandated by EPA to
restructure aging sewer systems. Encouraging economic development by making
Pennsylvania a more desirable place to do and attract new business.


Democrat:

Michael Diven, 32, Brookline

Education: John A. Brashear High School, diploma, 1988; Duquesne University,
B.A., 1993.

Occupation: State representative.

Qualifications: Elected to the Pennsylvania General Assembly, 2000; prior to
that served on Pittsburgh City Council, District 4.

Answer: 1. The state needs to move away from property taxes as the main support
for public education. We need balanced, fair, property tax reform that enables
school districts to provide for public education equally. 2. Economic
development. Improvements to public education. Property tax reform


23rd District

Republican:

No Candidate Filed


Democrat:

Dan B. Frankel, 46, Squirrel Hill

Education: 1978 graduate of Kenyon College.

Occupation: State representative, 23rd District; businessman.

Qualifications: I bring a combination of experience from the business, nonprofit
human service and government sectors of our community including my past position
as president of Jewish Family and Children's Services and as a current board
member of the Urban Redevelopment Authority.

Answer: 1. The state must eliminate or fully fund the mandates that it requires
school districts to pay for such as charter schools and cyber schools. In
addition, the special education subsidy must be increased and allocated in
accordance with the number of special education students. I have proposed
legalizing slot machines at Pennsylvania racetracks to generate additional
revenues for education. 2. Restoring adequate funding for public education. Pass
the Breast and Cervical Cancer Guarantee Act. Establishing the Office of
Environmental Advocate.


24th District

Republican:

No Candidate Filed


Democrat:

Joseph Preston Jr., 54, East Liberty

Education: B.A., political science and psychology, University of Pittsburgh;
George Westinghouse High School.

Occupation: Full-time member of the Pennsylvania General Assembly.

Qualifications: Accessible, accountable and responsible. Re-elected by the
people 10 times.

Answer: 1. Simply by putting the money up and taking away the unfunded mandates
for Social Security and pension payments. 2. Equitable school funding. Phase out
plan of property taxes. Revamping laws for taxis in Pittsburgh.


Patrick Dowd, 34, Highland Park

Education: University of Missouri, B.A. 1990; University of Pittsburgh,
M.A.1992, Ph.D. 1999.

Occupation: Teacher.

Qualifications: This is the first public office for which I have sought
election, and I am focusing primarily on education issues. For 10 years, I have
taught history and economics at the university and high school levels. My two
school-age children are enrolled in magnet programs of the Pittsburgh Public
Schools.

Answer: 1. The Pennsylvania Constitution charges the General Assembly with
funding "a thorough and efficient system of public education." To fulfill its
obligation, the General Assembly must replace the property tax with the income
tax because the equity of the income tax is more certain and predictable than
the property tax. The shifting of the tax burden will better enable the General
Assembly to provide higher quality education to all children in Pennsylvania. 2.
Reforming funding of public education. Offering more choice within public
education. Providing more funding for low-income housing.


25th District

Republican:

Paul Fero, 36, Monroeville

Education: Community College of Allegheny County (Boyce Campus), associate
degree in accounting, financial Services; Robert Morris College, B.B.A.,
economics and finance; University of Pittsburgh, master's degree in public and
international affairs, graduate certificate in international political economy.

Occupation: Adjunct faculty, Robert Morris University and University of Phoenix;
prospect manager, Mellon Financial.

Qualifications: Some of my work experience includes positions of significant
strategic and financial capacities at various firms across several industries.

Answer: 1. Increase funding and accountability to local school districts with
increased charter school choices. 2. Tax reform -- property tax -- establish a
$25,000 homestead exemption to property owners statewide, elimination of
inheritance and business franchise/capital stock tax. Education -- expand the
role of community colleges in workforce development. Transportation -- increase
funding/support for Mon-Fayette Expressway and maglev.


Democrat:

Joseph F. Markosek, 52, Monroeville

Education: B.A. University of Notre Dame, 1972.

Occupation: Legislator.

Qualifications: 10-term incumbent legislator. Eight years as a buyer and
engineer at the Westinghouse Water Reactor Division.

Answer: 1. Property tax reform -- the replacement of all or part of property
taxes with other taxes such as income or sales -- is the first step. Also the
limiting of unfunded mandates is important. 2. Property tax reform.
Transportation and infrastructure improvement. Economic development.


27th District

Republican:

Edward O'Donnell, 40, Banksville

Education: Canevin Catholic High School; B.S. business management, Robert Morris
University; M.B.A., Duquesne University.

Occupation: Insurance underwriter, MCOA Corp.

Qualifications: Republican committee member, City of Pittsburgh, for five years.
As a lifelong resident of the district, I have a strong desire to improve our
communities and create economic development.

Answer: 1. I support the idea of shifting the tax burden for public education
from a property tax to an income tax. The property tax burden, particularly for
homeowners on a fixed income, is becoming overwhelming. An income tax is a more
fair indicator of a taxpayer's ability to shoulder the public education burden.
2. Economic development -- particularly outside of Downtown Pittsburgh, in our
local neighborhoods and towns that have not been focused on in the past. Support
and protection of senior citizens -- strengthen senior programs and relieve the
property tax burden. Education reform -- the state must be convinced to step up
and increase its share of local school funding.


Democrat:

Thomas C. Petrone, 64, Crafton

Education: Crafton High School, 1955; U.S. Navy, 1956-58.

Occupation: State legislator.

Qualifications: Member, Pennsylvania General Assembly, 1981-present; Democratic
chairman, Urban Affairs Committee; member, Joint Air and Water Pollution Control
and Conservation Committee; board member, West Pittsburgh Community Development
Corp. Prior, over 20 years' experience in communications, public relations and
sales.

Answer: 1. Through a more equitable system for appropriating state assistance to
school districts so that wealthy and poorer school districts spend about the
same per student. Through local tax reform so that districts can reduce their
reliance on real property taxes. 2. To assure adequate funding continues for
economic development, community revitalization and transportation improvements.
Preservation and expansion of the prescription drug program for the elderly.
Passage of the charitable volunteer tax credit to foster increased volunteerism.


28th District

Republican:

Mike Turzai, 42, Bradford Woods

Education: B.A., University of Notre Dame, 1981; J.D., Duke University School of
Law, 1987.

Occupation: State representative, 28th District.

Qualifications: During my first term as state representative for the 28th
District, I have focused on making Pennsylvania more job-friendly by advocating
tax reductions, civil litigation reform and disciplined spending with an
emphasis on education and infrastructure.

Answer: 1. Whether through state or local taxes, it is Pennsylvania citizens who
are paying the taxes to fund public schools. The state cannot expect school
districts, which are essentially reliant on property taxes, to fully pick up the
tab for public education. The state needs to help. Spending more money, however,
does not necessarily mean better education. Unnecessary and burdensome mandates
from the state need to be addressed. 2. Tax reduction. Civil litigation reform.
Investment in infrastructure.


Democrat:

No Candidate Filed


30th District

Republican:

Jeffrey E. Habay, 36, Shaler

Education: B.A., 1988, American University, Washington, D.C., College of Public
and International Affairs. Fox Chapel Area High School, graduate, 1984.

Occupation: Majority deputy whip of the Pennsylvania House of Representatives.
Fourth term state representative.

Qualifications: Legislative assistant, U.S. Rep. Bill Clinger, R-Pa., and staff
assistant to U.S. Rep. Ken Kramer, R-Colo., in Washington, D.C.

Answer: 1. Authored "Taj Mahal" prevention law to prevent the building of
excessive taxpayer-paid educational castles. Fought successfully for solid
increases in local school funding in basic, special education, pupil
transportation and computers in the classroom. Will continue to visit all
district schools. Helped lead the fight for successful increases in state grants
and loans for college students and prime-sponsored the apprenticeship tax credit
and am drafting a plan to reduce tuition for Pennsylvania students in all state
colleges. 2. Meaningful and substantive tax reform by reduction in school
property taxes. Continue the massive rebuilding of North Hills/Allegheny Valley
roadways. Keep fighting to bring home more funding needed for local
firefighters, EMS and police.


Democrat:

Bobbi Jo Wagner, No reply


32nd District

Republican:

No Candidate Filed


Democrat:

Anthony M. DeLuca, 65, Penn Hills

Education: Westinghouse High School, Community College of Allegheny County, real
estate and political science.

Occupation: Full-time state legislator.

Qualifications: Two years Government Study Commission, 5 1/2 years councilman,
two years deputy mayor, 18 years state legislator.

Answer: 1. There needs to be a larger commitment to funding public education in
Pennsylvania as well as greater funding for poorer school districts to reduce
the inequity in funding between rich and poor school districts. Many school
districts in our states are financially distressed with a low tax base, high
property tax rates and a large percentage of the student population from
low-income families and having special education needs. We must take steps now
to increase the state's share of funding for basic education. 2. Patient safety,
tax reform and eliminating the 5 percent windfall to our local school districts
and municipalities in the reassessment process. Making prescription drugs more
affordable.


33rd District

Republican:

James M. McDonough, 52, Plum

Education: Penn State University, B.A. (Arts & Sciences), East Asian option
(spoken and written Mandarin Chinese), 1971; University of Pittsburgh, M.B.A.
(accounting and finance), 1977.

Occupation: Technology company CEO/CFO.

Qualifications: I am well-versed in the structure and functioning of business
organizations. I understand the laws and history of the constitutional republic
and its various entities. I have worked for big companies, government
organizations and started my own businesses. I can construct a budget and read a
balance sheet. I listen well, write well and can represent the interests of the
33rd District's people.

Answer: 1. I do not believe there is a constitutional obligation to fund public
education. 2. Repeal unconstitutional laws. Repeal archaic laws. Impel
government to carry out its actual constitutional duties, i.e., maintain
infrastructure, police, prisons, courts, etc.


Democrat:

Frank Dermody, 50, Oakmont

Education: B.A., Columbia University, New York; J.D., Indiana University School
of Law, Bloomington, Ind.

Occupation: State representative, 33rd District.

Qualifications: Former assistant district attorney, Allegheny County; former
district justice, Oakmont and Verona; former legal adviser, Allegheny County
district justices; chairman, Pennsylvania Commission on Sentencing.

Answer: 1.The state must eliminate the use of property taxes to fund local
schools. The state basic education subsidy and payments for special education
must be based on actual costs with a formula that provides funding where it's
needed. Pennsylvania must stop distributing funds based on political formulas.
All children have an equal right to a quality education. 2. Eliminate school
property taxes. Reform our health care system. Improve the transportation system
in all of Western Pennsylvania. In particular, secure funding to build a new
bridge crossing the Allegheny River in the Allegheny Valley and implement
commuter rail service from New Kensington to Pittsburgh.


34th District

Republican:

No Candidate Filed


Democrat:

Paul Costa, 40, Wilkins

Education: Allderdice High School; bachelor's degree in accounting, Point Park
College; Local Government Academy.

Occupation: Full-time legislator.

Qualifications: As a legislator, former president of the board of commissioners,
Wilkins Township, and deputy prothonotary, I have extensive experience in state,
local and county government with first-hand knowledge of the impact the state
has on our region.

Answer: 1. Pennsylvania has an obligation to prepare its young people for
tomorrow's economy. To accomplish that, Pennsylvania must provide a proper
education for all its children regardless of their individual school districts.
The state must step up to the plate and provide adequate funding. Whether
through a percentage of the state income tax, sales tax, other revenues or a
combination of these sources, we must fulfill our obligation to our children. 2.
Reform education funding structure. Adequate health care including prescription
drug coverage. Workforce development.


35th District

Republican:

No Candidate Filed


Democrat:

Lori Spando, 28, McKeesport

Education: Graduate, Serra High School, McKeesport; B.S. business
administration, Carlow College, 1996.

Occupation: Customer service, CVS Procare.

Qualifications: Board of directors, McKeesport Area School District,
2000-present; B.S. business administration.

Answer: 1. To relax mandates and fulfill its commitment to fund school districts
with a dollar-to-dollar match, which was its original obligation. 2. Property
tax reform. Education. Public safety.


Marc J. Gergely, 32, White Oak

Education: McKeesport Area High School; attended Indiana University of
Pennsylvania; Community College of Allegheny County, major history.

Occupation: Legislative assistant to state Sen. Sean Logan.

Qualifications: Elected to McKeesport Area School District, 1996-current, 1997,
youngest school board president in state; county Democratic committeeman;
formerly worked for state Sen. Albert "Buddy" Belan; understand state government
from an operations and policy perspective.

Answer: 1. Call a special session of the Legislature to explore all the means in
which public education has been funded in other states. Establish a bipartisan
committee from House and Senate leadership to compromise on the tax reforms
needed and develop strong legislation that protects property owners but still
adequately funds basic public education. 2. Tax reform for school districts and
equitable funding from the state. Continued development of Mon-Fayette
Expressway and renewal of riverfront brownfield properties. Protect senior
citizens' rights and expand programs.


Christopher Sean Terrick, 36, Munhall

Education: Attended St. Michael Parochial School of Munhall, Steel Valley High
School, and graduated with honors from St. Vincent College, earning a B.S. in
history in 1987. Earned certification as a Chartered Property Casualty
Underwriter (CPCU) in 1997.

Occupation: Resident insurance agent and broker.

Qualifications: Resident of Munhall for over 30 years. Past service on the Steel
Valley Enterprise Zone Advisory Committee; campaign worker for the Democratic
Party; active member in the Homestead Elks #650, American Legion Post 712,
Homestead Slavs Club and American Slovak Citizens Club of Munhall.

Answer: 1. The state Legislature needs to implement a new funding formula that
relies less on local property taxes. Not all school districts are created equal.
Poorer school districts with diminishing tax bases can't keep pace with
wealthier districts. Too large a burden is placed on local property owners who
can't afford rising taxes. Pennsylvania ranks in the bottom third in the country
in state money per student. The state needs to start paying its fair share. 2.
State funding of schools and reduction of property taxes. My district needs
economic development that will create well-paying jobs. Better health care and
medical assistance for our elderly.


36th District

Republican:

No Candidate Filed


Democrat:

Harry Readshaw, 60, Carrick

Education: Carrick High School; Duquesne University; Pittsburgh Institute of
Mortuary Science.

Occupation: Representative to General Assembly.

Qualifications: Four-term incumbent, House of Representatives; owner of
business.

Answer: 1. As a practical matter, there are only three forms of tax revenue
available -- sales tax, real estate tax and tax on income, either earned or
personal. Local school boards must make the final decisions on spending. 2.
Lowering real estate/property taxes and replacing with a more equitable
solution, and a way to subsidize education. Prescription assistance and expand
prescription drug program. Creating jobs/economic development. We must
continually fight to bring prosperity to Pennsylvania.


38th District

Republican:

No Candidate Filed


Democrat:

Diana L Olasz, 38, West Mifflin

Education: Steel Valley High School, 1982; Allegheny County Community College,
associate degree in nursing, 1987.

Occupation: R.N., Magee-Womens Hospital.

Qualifications: Worked for husband's campaign in two successful elections for
district justice. Worked in father-in-law's nine successful campaigns for state
Legislature. Did volunteer work in district office dealing with public.
Democratic committeewoman for eight years.

Answer: 1. To adhere to the promise of then-Gov. Thornburgh when he was governor
of Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. 2. Quality medical care for all. Jobs.
First-rate transportation system to encourage development of quality industrial
jobs.


Sam Baker, 29, West Mifflin

Education: Graduated from West Mifflin Area High School, 1991; B.S. human
biology, National University of Health Sciences, 1995; Doctor of chiropractic,
National College of Chiropractic, 1998.

Occupation: Doctor of chiropractic, self-employed.

Qualifications: Have lived economic development through the building of a highly
successful business. Well-educated, family-oriented professional with a passion
for people. Have an in-depth understanding of health care and education through
personal experience.

Answer: 1. The state needs to step up its funding from 35 percent to 50 percent
or greater. Increasing state funding will lessen local property taxes and help
out school districts that do not have a substantial tax base. 2. Affordable
health care for families and seniors on fixed income. Developing and
implementing a fair system of taxation at all levels. Implementing an efficient
method of funding education so no child is left behind.


Kenneth W. Ruffing, 35, West Mifflin

Education: West Mifflin Area High School, 1985; B.A. business administration,
Robert Morris College, 1990.

Occupation: Full-time state legislator, two terms.

Qualifications: West Mifflin Borough Council, eight years, council president,
two years; Democratic state committee, four years.

Answer: 1. The answer is change. We must cease the practice of funding education
through property taxes. Every student, as promised by our state constitution,
must receive a valuable and efficient education. The value of the property in a
school district should not determine the amount of money available for
education. 2. Supporting early childhood education. Creating an equitable school
funding system, while reducing the reliance on local property taxes. Expanding
workforce development.


39th District

Republican:

Monica A. Douglas, 31, Elizabeth Township

Education: B.A. political science, history, Clarion University, 1992; candidate
for M.P.A. (master in policy analysis/administration), Duquesne University
Graduate Center for Social and Public Policy.

Occupation: Associate director, corporate partnerships and human services,
Northside Leadership Conference.

Qualifications: I have experience in the nonprofit, private and public sectors.
For the past five years I have focused my energy on community development. I
have worked to develop creative solutions to community issues and have aided to
solidify partnerships between private and nonprofit organizations.

Answer: 1. Property taxes are the primary local funding source for school
budgets. In 1998-99, for example, the property tax represented 79 percent of all
local Pennsylvania school taxes. However, since all Pennsylvanians pay state and
local taxes, it's important to consider the cost of funding public education in
the framework of the state's overall tax structure. It is time to re-examine
legislation, like Act 50, to gauge the effectiveness in bringing about an
equitable application of funds. 2. Transportation and infrastructure
improvements. Property tax reform. Job growth and retention.


Democrat:

David Levdansky, 45, Forward

Education: Elizabeth-Forward High School; Penn State University, B.A. in
political science, 1977, B.A. in labor studies, 1978; University of Notre Dame,
M.A. in economics, 1980.

Occupation: State legislator.

Qualifications: Eighteen years in the House of Representatives; member of
Appropriations, Transportation, Environmental Resources and Energy, Game and
Fisheries, Joint Legislative Budget and Finance, Democratic Policy committees.

Answer: 1. Mandate reduction of school property taxes in exchange for increased
state funding with statewide tax shift based on ability to pay. Fair
distribution of state funds to ensure funding equity among the 501 school
districts. Fund special education based on actual costs, rather than a formula
that perpetuates inequality. 2. Campaign finance reform -- limit contributions
by moneyed interests to diminish influence in government; voluntary public
financing tied to expenditure limits. Property tax reform -- reduce school
district reliance on local property taxes by increasing state support of public
education. Health care reform.


40th District

Republican:

John A. Maher, No reply

Democrat:

No Candidate Filed


42nd District

Republican:

Tom Stevenson, 49, Mt. Lebanon

Education: J.D., Western New England College School of Law, 1977; B.S., Penn
State University, 1974, Mt. Lebanon School District, 1970.

Occupation: State representative.

Qualifications: Current state representative in third term; Mt. Lebanon
commissioner for seven years; lifelong resident of 42nd House District.

Answer: 1. A revised revenue stream must be adopted that reduces the
overreliance on property taxes, makes the school districts more accountable for
overspending, and eliminates the unfunded mandates that burden our school
districts. Realizing that the current funding formula has proven to be
inequitable, I authored HR 386 to study a way to reduce school districts'
reliance on property taxes as the dominant source of revenue. The results of the
study are expected in June. 2. Provide alternative funding source for local
school districts. Create a strong statewide library system. Allow distressed
municipalities to voluntarily disincorporate.


Democrat:

Mike Crossey, 51, Mt. Lebanon

Education: B.S. education, Duquesne University; M.S. special education, College
of St. Rose, Albany, N.Y.; Reading specialist, Duquesne University; M.S.
educational administration, Duquesne University.

Occupation: Schoolteacher.

Qualifications: My education and my teaching career have given me a lifetime of
working and helping children and their families achieve their dreams. I have
also been a local commissioner and county councilman.

Answer: 1. The state has shifted its responsibility to the local level. The
state should be paying 50 percent of the cost of basic and special education.
This can and must come from the surplus fund. We should begin by increasing the
percentage each year until we reach 50 percent. This would allow us to fund
schools adequately, reduce local property taxes and not increase state taxes. 2.
Property tax reform. Adequate and equitable school funding that eases the burden
on local taxpayers. Economic development that produces jobs for Pennsylvanians.


44th District

Republican:

John Pippy, 31, Moon

Education: B.S. environmental engineering, U.S. Military Academy at West Point,
N.Y.; U.S. Army Officer Basic Course, Fort Leonard Wood, Mo.

Occupation: Full-time legislator.

Qualifications: Currently serving in my third term as state representative. In
addition to my legislative responsibilities, I volunteer for numerous community
organizations, as well as serve in the U.S. Army Reserves. I am presently a
company commander in the 99th ARCOM.

Answer: 1. The state must find a fair system of funding public education. Our
special education programs are drastically underfunded. Increasing the
percentage of special education funding and reforming the funding formula is
necessary. This is my top education priority. 2. Airport area development and
transportation infrastructure improvements are vital to the continued growth of
the entire region. Meaningful, effective property tax reform is needed to solve
the problems facing our older citizens. Special education funding.


Democrat:

No Candidate Filed


45th District

Republican:

Herb Ohliger, 42, Scott

Education: B.S. psychology, University of Pittsburgh, 1982; B.S. information
science, University of Pittsburgh, 1987. Graduated Chartiers Valley High School,
1978.

Occupation: Computer system consultant.

Qualifications: Served as a Scott commissioner and have been involved with
several community organizations including the Rotary, the local Chamber of
Commerce, president of the Chartiers Valley Alumni Association and a member of
the Scott Conservancy.

Answer: 1. Pennsylvania can best meet its constitutional obligation to fund
public education by becoming more business-friendly and attracting jobs to
Pennsylvania. All levels of government officials must work together to attract
business to Pennsylvania. We saw in the last census that Pennsylvania lost
population compared to other states. If we can attract business to our state
that will bring in more people to fill the new jobs and employ those already
here, we will have a broader tax base to draw from. 2. Attract business to
Pennsylvania. Strengthen our education system. Work with local municipal
officials on problems confronting the people of the 45th Legislative District.


Democrat:

Nick Kotik, 51, Robinson

Education: B.A. in public administration, Indiana University of Pennsylvania,
1972.

Occupation: Township manager, Robinson, July 1, 2000, to Jan. 31, 2002. Resigned
my office to campaign full-time for the Legislature.

Qualifications: I served in various capacities in local government including two
terms as councilman in McKees Rocks. I held the appointive positions of
controller, treasurer, deputy tax collector and president of the planning
commission during the late 1970s and early 1980s. Served as an assistant to
state Rep. Fred A. Trello from 1987-2000.

Answer: 1.By having the political courage to set a course with the ultimate goal
of reaching the 50 percent level of funding for basic education over the next
seven years. 2. Assessment reform and overhaul of our taxation system based on
ability to pay. Addressing the health care crisis in Pennsylvania as it relates
to seniors, the nursing shortage and the uninsured. Economic development and
infrastructure assistance for local communities.


Louis F. Parrilla, 49, Stowe

Education: Sto-Rox High School, 1971; Staunton Military Academy, 1972; Community
College of Allegheny County, 1973; Point Park College, 2001.

Occupation: Chief deputy register of wills and clerk of Orphans' Court,
Allegheny County; President of LuFran Corp.; corporal of special police, Mellon
Arena.

Qualifications: Experience in business, finance and management; active in
numerous civic and community organizations; successful small business owner;
veteran of numerous political campaigns and governmental activities.

Answer: 1. Pennsylvania should begin to meet its financial obligation to our
schools and once more become an equal partner in providing sufficient revenues
to finance the cost of education. Over the years, the commonwealth's commitment
to public education has declined to a level of only 35 to 37 percent. 2. To
provide accessible and affordable quality health care for all Pennsylvanians.
Tax reform -- the property tax system needs to be fixed immediately -- freezing
property taxes for all Pennsylvanians at age 65. Strengthening our public
schools by increasing state funding for education by introducing new ways to
generate revenue other than raising taxes.


46th District

Republican:

Paul Snatchko, 25, McDonald

Education: Graduate, Fort Cherry High School; B.A., journalism, New York
University; interned at the Daily News and the United Nations.

Occupation: Formerly a staff writer at the Observer-Reporter and a free-lance
writer for the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette. Now a writer-researcher with the
Carnegie Hero Fund Commission.

Qualifications: McDonald-area native. Currently a McDonald councilman.

Answer: 1. By providing all students with a high-quality education regardless of
where they live. The state must provide more funds for less wealthy schools,
perhaps through changing the tax structure. The state also needs to lessen the
disparity in teacher salaries among school districts. 2. Delivering more state
funds to schools to lessen the local tax burden. Securing state grants for
revitalization of communities. Encouraging more quality housing options for
senior citizens and young professionals.


Democrat:

Victor John Lescovitz, 49, Smith Township

Education: B.A., Washington and Jefferson College; M.A., University of
Pennsylvania.

Occupation: State representative.

Qualifications: Served in office for 21 years. Served as chairman of House
Economic Development Committee. Serves as chairman, House Democratic Policy
Committee.

Answer: 1. To agree to pay the 50 percent to the school districts as mandated by
law. 2. Education. Economic development. Property taxes, lowering.


48th District

Republican:

James S. Fal, No reply


Democrat:

Timothy Joseph Solobay, 46, Canonsburg

Education: Graduate, Washington Hospital School of Radiologic Technology;
bachelor of science management degree, California Coastal University, Santa Ana,
Calif.

Occupation: State representative, 1999-present.

Qualifications: In addition to 3 1/2 years' experience in this office, I have
devoted the past 26 years to public service as a volunteer firefighter, Red
Cross official, emergency medical technician, cardiopulmonary resuscitation
instructor and former constable.

Answer: 1. Pennsylvania should reduce its reliance on oppressive local property
taxes and find a fairer means of funding public education. I support elimination
or significant reduction of property taxes, which are not based on ability to
pay. 2. Economic development and infrastructure expansion (water lines, sewers,
etc.); property tax reform, with the commonwealth paying for 50 percent of the
total cost of public schools, not the one-third it is now paying; emergency
services funding.


49th District

Republican:

No candidate filed


Democrat:

Peter J. Daley, 51, California, Pa.

Education: California High School, 1968; B.A. California University of
Pennsylvania, 1972; M.P.A. University of Pittsburgh, 1983; M.A., political
science, California University of Pennsylvania, 1975; J.D. Widener University,
1993.

Occupation: State legislator.

Qualifications: Eight-year elected mayor, borough of California; 10-term state
representative, 1983-present.

Answer: 1. The Legislature should meet the mandate of paying 50 percent of basic
education costs. This can be accomplished by revamping the antiquated school
property tax system with a new taxation method. Over five years, we should move
from school property taxes to personal income tax while maintaining commercial
and industrial property taxes. 2. Job creation, business development and
retention; statewide energy policy to better utilize state resources, protect
environment, stabilize market; establish a statewide small disaster assistance
program.


50th District

Republican:

No candidate filed


Democrat:

Robert Spence Jr., 58, Brownsville

Education: Associate's degree, Westmoreland Community College; four-year
schooling from AME church as ordained elder and reverend.

Occupation: Retired coal miner; retired minister.

Qualifications: A former international representative for the United Mine
Workers of America; co-founder of COMPAC, Coal Miners Political Action
Committee; former legislative director for United Mine Workers of America in
Pennsylvania; pastor of church for 17 years; four years on Brownsville Area
school board; seven years on Fayette County mental health/mental retardation
board; current member of Fayette County Drug and Alcohol Commission; former
president of Fayette County NAACP; member of Fayette County Youth Commission;
co-chairman of the Brownsville Area Juvenile Probation Office; member of
executive board, Boy Scouts of America in Fayette and Westmoreland counties.

Answer: 1. Having a countywide school district, eliminating property taxes and
replacing them with sales and sin taxes (taxes on cigarettes, gambling and
alcohol). 2. Provide better-paying jobs for the district; improve our education
system; improve roads and highways (Route 21 from Waynesburg to Uniontown and
Route 40 from Brownsville to Uniontown, making them four-lane highways); improve
water and sewage system in Greene County.


Bill DeWeese, 52, Waynesburg

Education: Graduated Waynesburg High School, 1968; B.A. history, Wake Forest
University, 1972.

Occupation: State representative, 50th House District, 1976-present.

Qualifications: My 26 years in the state Legislature have given me the
experience, knowledge and contacts necessary to be able to help my constituents
deal effectively with state government and to access the maximum state dollars
possible for the 50th District.

Answer: 1. The state's share of funding basic education has decreased from 55
percent in the 1970s to 35 percent today, resulting in higher property taxes and
inequities between richer and poorer school districts. I will continue to fight
to adopt a new education funding formula that injects more state dollars and
that gives local districts a variety of funding sources. 2. Job creation;
education funding reform that relieves the property tax burden; access to
affordable health care for all Pennsylvanians.


Lonnie L. Miller, 63, Carmichaels

Education: Graduated high school and 18-month residential and commercial
electricity. Twenty credits from Penn State and academy at Beckley, W.Va., on
use of electricity in mines.

Occupation: Retired March 1, 2000, Pennsylvania mine electrical inspector.

Qualifications: Common sense, goal-oriented person that will benefit
constituents I will represent. Being a homeowner, husband, father and
grandfather has prepared me to serve.

Answer: 1. Pennsylvania provides 38 percent of cost for education. This must be
increased and local property taxes must be decreased substantially. Both can be
accomplished by raising the personal income tax 1.5 to 2 percent, thereby
reducing local property taxes dollar-for-dollar in new money from state. 2.
Reduce local property tax; use money from tobacco settlement for health
insurance for those not covered; prescription drug assistance for senior
citizens.


51st District

Republican:

Joe Sabatini, No reply

Democrat:

Larry Roberts, 60, Uniontown

Education: Master's degree, Central Michigan University; bachelor's degree,
Bowie State College; graduate, Uniontown High School, 1959.

Occupation: Legislator/self-employed arbitrator.

Qualifications: Served nine years in the House of Representatives.

Answer: 1. Eliminate local property tax and raise the lost revenue with a state
sales tax or an income tax collected by the state. If any local property tax is
kept in place it should be capped and used only for fixed costs. The Legislature
should eliminate property taxes and then hold a special session on tax reform in
order to find a replacement tax. 2. Property tax reform; property tax reform;
property tax reform.


Terry Janosek, No reply

52nd District

Republican:

No candidate filed


Democrat:

James E. Shaner, 65, Lemont Furnace

Education: A.B. in education from Fairmont State University, W.Va.; Master's in
education from West Virginia University; 30 additional credits from California
University of Pennsylvania.

Occupation: Legislator, eight years.

Qualifications: Past experience as a state legislator.

Answer: 1. By instituting a 2 percent sales tax plus a 1 percent earned income
tax, if necessary. These monies would be more than adequate and the surplus will
be used to reduce property taxes dollar for dollar in each school district. 2.
Property tax reform; adequate educational funding; prescription drug costs for
seniors.


54th District

Republican:

No candidate filed


Democrat:

John E. Pallone, 41, New Kensington

Education: J.D., Cleveland-Marshall College of Law, 1988; B.A. economics and
business, Grove City College, 1983; Edinboro State College; Penn State
University.

Occupation: State representative; attorney.

Qualifications: Serving first term in the General Assembly; brings professional
experience as a practicing lawyer and commissioners' coordinator for
Westmoreland County to his new role of state lawmaker. Committee assignments
include Aging and Older Adult Services, Judiciary and Finance. Secretary for
Southwest Caucus and member of the Democrat Policy Committee.

Answer: 1. Provide adequate funding sources, particularly in the area of special
education and special needs. Secure alternate funding sources like gaming or
keno in Pennsylvania, similar to the states that surround us. 2. Education for
children and children with special needs; property tax relief, particularly
school property tax relief; economic and industrial development -- jobs; public
safety: fire, police, ambulance and EMS.


55th District

Republican:

No candidate filed


Democrat:

Joseph A. Petrarca, No reply


56th District

Republican:

Susanna Lisotto, 44, Irwin

Education: B.A. sociology, Geneva College; elementary education certification,
St. Vincent College.

Occupation: St. Vincent College Prevention Project -- prevention specialist.

Qualifications: Social service, educational and airline management experiences
demonstrate my desire to serve the public and ability to lead. My commitment to
end wasteful spending in government will remain constant while I lead by
example.

Answer: 1. Pennsylvania school districts receive an average of $10,400 per
student. The following legislative objectives may promote an efficient use of
existing tax dollars: Eliminate unfunded state mandates that burden school
districts and property taxpayers; establish voter referendum on large capital
improvement projects requiring bond issues; obtain additional educational
funding from Harrisburg contingent upon a dollar-for-dollar property tax
reduction. 2. Property tax reform; health care affordability; educational
efficiency.


Democrat:

James E. Casorio Jr., 37, North Huntingdon

Education: St. Francis College, M.A.; St. Vincent College, B.S.

Occupation: State representative.

Qualifications: My experience and service to our community enables me to
effectively represent the needs of my neighbors. Serving in my sixth year as a
full-time representative more than qualifies me for the General Assembly.

Answer: 1. The obligation of the commonwealth to adequately fund our public
education system must be fulfilled in order to give our young people a chance to
succeed in life. The commonwealth must fund a 50 percent level of basic
education to our local districts and correct the funding formula for special
education subsidies. I will continue to oppose vouchers. Vouchers are a drain on
public education funding and unconstitutional. 2. Health care reform
(prescriptions and insurance reform); crime prevention/public safety; job
retention within our infrastructure.


57th District

Republican:

Brian F. Boyle, 40, Greensburg

Education: Penn State University, B.S., 1984; Jefferson Medical College,
Philadelphia, M.D., 1985; member, Penn State/Jefferson five-year
premedical/medical.

Occupation: Physician.

Qualifications: Actively practicing physician; active in medical politics;
member, Pennsylvania Medical Society House of Delegates; member, PMS Young
Physicians Section; editor, Westmoreland County Medical Society Bulletin.

Answer: 1. As far back as 1650, Americans recognized the value of public
education and have promoted this belief by striking a balance of private/public
instruction. Instead of seeking solutions which favor the public school system
over private, or the reverse, I propose solutions which would benefit all.
Resource sharing of teachers, cyber technology and extracurricular activities
are cost-effective, win-win situations for everyone. 2. Tort reform; property
tax reform; prescription drug plan for seniors.


Democrat:

Thomas A. Tangretti, 55, Greensburg

Education: Jeannette House School, 1964; Indiana University of Pennsylvania,
1968, B.A.; University of Pittsburgh, Graduate School of Public and
International Affairs, 1974, M.P.A.

Occupation: Legislator.

Qualifications: 30 years of public service, including administrative assistant
to U.S. Rep. John Dent, Westmoreland county controller and 14 years as a
full-time legislator.

Answer: 1. Devise a way for school districts to reduce their reliance on
property taxes by exploring other alternative sources of revenue. 2. Reduce the
high cost of prescription drugs; maintain high quality of education in the
schools in my district; reinvesting in our communities for economic development
and quality of life enhancement.


58th District

Republican:

No candidate filed


Democrat:

R. Ted Harhai, 47, Monessen

Education: I graduated in 1973 from Monessen High School and earned a degree
from Carnegie Mellon University in 1977.

Occupation: I have served as the state representative for the 58th Legislative
District since 1998. I worked as an investment banker in New York and Chicago. I
decided to return to my hometown. Seeing the glory days of Monessen fade into
history, I was determined to help revitalize the entire region.

Qualifications: I have served as a state representative for over four years. I
have served as a councilman and mayor of Monessen. In the House, I serve on a
plethora of committees, including chairing the Steel Caucus. I am also involved
in numerous local projects and associations.

Answer: 1. Pennsylvania's current system of funding public education is
inadequate and fails to meet our constitutional obligation of funding our
schools. We must provide for more equitable funding of education and eliminate
or slash the burdensome property tax. The commonwealth must provide a greater
share of education funding. 2. Reduce or eliminate the property tax. This tax
disproportionately burdens seniors and poorer Pennsylvanians and is an
inequitable manner of funding schools. Expand PACE and PACENET. We must raise
income eligibility caps and eliminate exorbitant deductibles and co-payments.
Economic development. With the decline of the steel and mining industries, there
is an acute need for economic development.


59th District

Republican:

Jess Stairs, No reply


Democrat:

No candidate filed


60th District

Republican:

Jeff Coleman, 26, Apollo

Education: Liberty University, Lynchburg, Va., B.S. government; graduated in
January 2001; Orchard Hills Christian Academy, graduated in 1994.

Occupation: State representative.

Qualifications: Former Apollo borough councilman; interned with Sen. Rick
Santorum's office.

Answer: 1. Pennsylvania must maintain a strong public education system that is
both funded equitably and fairly, but with high regard to accountability to
taxpayers. The enormous investment we're making in public education must be met
with a watchful eye. Tax "reform" is important. Reform that simply shifts the
burden to a broader group of taxpayers, without an improved system, is simply
not reform. I favor a legislative special session to hash out and debate all
current funding proposals. We cannot do that without strong leadership from the
next governor. 2. Reducing and reforming the current school property tax burden
on Pennsylvania taxpayers. Reversing the anti-growth tax and regulatory climate
in our state. Shrinking the size of state budgets by reducing state spending.


Democrat:

No candidate filed

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
VOTERS GUIDE 2002

CORRECTION-DATE: May 15, 2002

CORRECTION:
Paul Snatchko of McDonald, the Republican candidate in state House District 46,
is 25. His age was incorrect in yesterday's editions

GRAPHIC: MAP: State House districts: Allegheny districts
 MAP: State House districts: Pittsburgh
 PHOTO: Stevenson, LaGrotta, Ellis, Shoat, Glassman, Travaglio, Metcalfe,
Schoettker, Veon, Camp, Biancucci
 PHOTO: Leone, Scioscia, Laughlin, Robinson, Wheatley, Walko, Pistella, Nagy,
Diven, Frankel, Preston, jDowd, Fero, Markosek, O'Donnell, Petrone, Turzai,
Habay, DeLuca, McDonough, Dermody, Costa, Spando, Gergely, Terrick, Readshaw,
Olasz
 PHOTO: Baker, Ruffing, Douglas, Levdansky, Maher, Stevenson, Crossey, Pippy,
Kotik, Parrilla, Snatchko, Lescovitz, Solobay, Daley, Spence, DeWeese, Miller,
Roberts, Shaner, Pallone, Petrarca, Lisotto, Casorio, Tangretti, Harhai, Stairs,
Coleman

                       Copyright 2002 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              188 of 291 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                     May 19, 2002 Sunday FIVE STAR EDITION

VIRTUAL HOUSE HUNT;
 REAL ESTATE WEB SITES SAVE BUYERS AGGRAVATION, TIME AND GAS

BYLINE: GRETCHEN MCKAY

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg.H-1

LENGTH: 1496 words


So you're in the market for a house. You know you'd like to live in Bethel Park,
need at least two bedrooms and don't want to spend more than $150,000. Where do
you begin?

Not too long ago, about your only options were to search the newspaper
classified section, flip through one of the free real estate guides at the
supermarket or simply drive around your dream neighborhood and look for signs.

It's become a whole lot easier, thanks to the Internet.

Type those criteria into Howard Hanna Real Estate Services' Web site, for
instance, and pictures of 16 houses in descending order of price will pop up for
your perusal, with all the particulars -- street address, room sizes, estimated
taxes, whether public transportation is available.

Prudential Preferred Realty's local site will come back with 18 houses, Coldwell
Banker's with 29 and RE/MAX and Northwood, 11 each. That's why more and more
home buyers are surfing the Web before contacting a real estate agent.

In 1998, the latest year for which figures are available, 37 percent of U.S.
consumers used the Internet in their home search, according to the National
Association of Realtors.

These days, more than 80 percent of consumers start their search for a new home
on the Web, estimates Steve Ozonian, president of Realtor.com, a site owned by
the national association.

"You can see photos of the house, plug in statistics, even take a walk through
the rooms," he says.

Better yet, it allows you to narrow the search for a home on your terms, from
the comfort and privacy of your own home.

"You can sit there for an hour or three months," says Ozonian. "It's up to you
when you launch an e-mail" that lets an agent know you're ready to take a look.

But the main reason Internet house-hunting is exploding is that it saves time.
One survey found that Internet buyers visit an average of four properties,
compared with eight for a traditional buyer.

So which sites in the Pittsburgh area are the most user-friendly?

All of the region's largest real estate companies allow you to search for houses
by street name, Multiple Listing Service (MLS) number, suburb or city
neighborhood and ZIP code; a few will even map the property's exact location.
And nearly all tell you which properties have an upcoming open house.

Every local real estate Web site provides detailed information about the
particular property -- number and size of rooms, lot size, whether it has a
dishwasher, the type of heat, etc. Many also have separate links for new
construction.

Most show both interior and exterior photos and, in some cases, offer virtual
tours. All feature a quick mortgage calculator that lets you figure out your
monthly payment. They also allow buyers to pre-qualify for a mortgage online.
One site even allows browsers to make appointments online with the listing
agent.

But only two sites allow buyers to search for a particular architectural style
of house, such as Victorian or contemporary, or for one that is 75 years or
older -- a must for old-house lovers.

Here's how the local sites measured up:


Coldwell Banker

Coldwell Banker (http://www.pittsburghmoves.com/) boasts the most user-friendly
site in large part because every community in a particular county can be found
by scrolling down one alphabetical list. (You don't have to know, for instance,
that Bethel Park is in the south.) Also, if you know the Web ID for a property
(listed in newspaper ads), you can view it immediately.

The site, which is updated daily, offers up to eight interior photos of each
house, maps the property, allows you to e-mail the listing agent directly and
gives fairly specific information about the rooms (crown molding, hardwood
floors, etc.) Using the Home Facts ID number, buyers can call to get a detailed
description of the home and from there, be connected in real time to a client
service coordinator, who will contact the listing agent to set up an
appointment.

Finally, the site allows browsers to request free buyer/seller guides.


Howard Hanna

Howard Hanna's Website (http://www.howardhanna.com/) runs a close second, and
only because you have to know in which of the five regions of Allegheny County
your preferred suburb is located to conduct a search. In addition, many of the
listings feature just an exterior picture, and virtual tours are virtually
nonexistent.

"We've found people are more interested in a quick picture," says director of
information services Joe Desuta.

The first to go online in 1995 and the largest real estate company in
Pittsburgh, Howard Hanna offers the most listings, including houses in central
Pennsylvania, Ohio and West Virginia. Updated twice a week, it is also the only
site that allows you to make an appointment online for certain properties.

In addition, the site includes pictures and information on all upcoming open
houses as well as homes featured on the Showcase of Homes TV show. As on the
Coldwell Banker site, browsers can map the property and e-mail the listing agent
directly. Unlike Coldwell Banker, each listing also features the estimated
taxes, school district and specific room and lot sizes.

Prudential

The best feature of Prudential Preferred Realty's Web site
(http://www.prudentialpreferred.com/) is the pictures. Almost 90 percent of the
properties feature a virtual tour, plus up to 10 additional pictures. A mortgage
calculator under the main picture is set and ready to go.

Like Howard Hanna's site, each listing includes information about room and lot
size, school district and estimated taxes. You can also directly e-mail the
listing agent. The site is updated daily.

Prudential has the best site for new construction. In addition to being able to
search by development or builder, you can view plot plans, see which lots have
already been sold and get a virtual tour of the building site and model homes.

According to e-commerce director Scott Sosso, within 60 days buyers will also be
able to get property updates such as price changes.

Northwood

In addition to street address, MSL number and municipality, Northwood Realty
Services' site (http://www.northwood.com/) allows you to search by plugging in
the Buyers Line number posted on the for-sale sign. Listings feature up to eight
photos, estimated payment for principal and interest and detailed information
about the interior. An added benefit: its Home Fair Tools link provides
community statistics, school reports, a moving calculator, timeline for moving
and a lifestyle optimizer that ranks cities according to criteria such as crime,
income and rainfall. You can also e-mail the agent directly.

RE/MAX

Since each of its offices is individually owned, RE/MAX International
(http://www.remax.com) doesn't have a local Web site. Users searching the
national site must take several steps to find Pittsburgh properties unless they
know a ZIP code or MSL number. But once you get there, you can search using such
criteria as older home (75 years +), whether it has a pool, fireplace or
hardwood floors, minimum square footage and lot size. It also provides a link to
the agent's local Web site.

What sets RE/MAX apart is its extensive library of articles and tips related to
selling and buying a home. Users can even sign up to receive a monthly or annual
reminder to do a self breast exam or get a mammogram.

"We're more of an information site than marketing site," says public relations
manager Jack Farrar.

Century 21

Local offices for Century 21 (http://www.century21.com/) are also individually
owned, so, again, users have to search the national site. As with RE/MAX
properties, users can search much more specific criteria, such as age of house,
style, type of construction, and whether a house has a formal living room or
library. This is also the only site that tells you if a sale is pending.

Unlike the other sites, Century 21's lists homes by price, not location. So if
you're looking for that two-bedroom in Bethel Park, you'll have to scroll
through every single listing. On the plus side, there's a link to receive a free
market analysis of the area (average sales prices, house characteristics) and
one click allows you to "explore the neighborhood" with regard to schools,
crime, even climate. You can also e-mail the agent directly. A Resource Kit
offers tips on buying, selling and moving.

Other sites

Other national Web sites give users a look at all the houses on the market. Two
are REALTOR.com (http://www.realtor.com/), owned by the National Association of
Realtors, and HarmonHomes.com (http://www.harmonhomes.com/), the online
classifieds service of Harmon Homes magazine.

Other popular sites that allow you to search by MSL number, city/state or ZIP
code include MSN HomeAdvisor (http://homeadvisor.msn.com/), Homes.com
(http://www.homes.com/), HomeSeekers.com (http://www.homeseekers.com/) and For
Sale By Owner (http://www.forsalebyowner.com/).


LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Gretchen McKay covers homes and real estate for the Post-Gazette.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING: Stacy Innerst/Post-Gazette

                       Copyright 2002 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              191 of 291 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                      June 2, 2002 Sunday TWO STAR EDITION

EUROPE RATIFIES PACT U.S. SPURNS

SECTION: WORLD, Pg.A-4 WORLD BRIEFS

LENGTH: 593 words


UNITED NATIONS -- European Union countries formally signed on to the Kyoto
Protocol, a pact aimed at stemming pollution and global warming that has been
opposed by the United States.

The ratification by the 15 EU countries on Friday is a major step toward putting
the 1997 treaty into force.

The ceremony at the United Nations headquarters in New York also highlighted the
Bush administration's isolation as the only announced opponent of the accord.
One by one, envoys from the 15 EU members presented the documents of
ratification from their governments to U.N. legal adviser Hans Corell.

The EU boosted the number of ratifications to about 70, topping the minimum
needed, and pushed the treaty about halfway to the goal of 55 percent of the
greenhouse gas pollution levels for it to enter into force.

Japan is expected to ratify next week.


Afghan unity tour

KABUL, Afghanistan -- Afghanistan's 87-year-old former king, who ended three
decades of exile in April, is visiting two major cities in a trip expected to
promote ethnic unity before a grand council chooses a new government.

Mohammad Zahir Shah will visit the southern city of Kandahar -- the deposed
Taliban militia's onetime stronghold -- and the northern city of Mazar-e-Sharif
in the next several days, his secretary, Amid Saddiq, confirmed yesterday.

Zahir Shah has made clear he is keen to act as a unifying figure to bridge the
gap among his nation's fractious ethnic groups.


Argentine banks

BUENOS AIRES, Argentina -- Argentina's government announced a plan yesterday to
slowly phase out a hated banking freeze, offering savings-account holders a
choice of bonds maturing in between three and 10 years.

Critics complained the plan makes thousands of Argentine depositors wait for
years to extricate their savings, but Economy Minister Roberto Lavagna insisted
it was the only way to end the freeze.

Offering a menu of options, Lavagna said depositors could elect a public bond in
pesos that matures in five years or a bond in dollars maturing in 10 years.


Fierce match recalled

BUDAPEST, Hungary -- More than four decades after it began, one of the most
famous water polo matches in history came to a symbolic end yesterday when
Hungarian and former Soviet players reunited to close a chapter in Cold War
history.

The water polo duel between Hungary and the Soviet Union at the 1956 Melbourne
Olympics in Australia was so fierce it became known as the "Blood in the Water"
match. Rife with political symbolism, the match was held just weeks after Soviet
forces invaded Hungary to crush an anti-communist revolution.

The referee ended the match with less than a minute to go, fearing the bloody
fight in the pool would spread to the stands. Hungary, ahead 4-0 when the match
was called off, was declared the winner and went on to win the Olympic gold
medal.

Yesterday's meeting, the first between the players since the game, was organized
by the makers of a documentary film about the match and the Hungarian
revolution.


Also in the world

Power was restored to the northwestern part of Stockholm, Sweden, early
yesterday, ending a three-day blackout just in time for the city's 750th
anniversary celebrations. A fire Wednesday afternoon damaged electrical cables
and knocked out electricity to 20,000 households and businesses... Gunmen
ambushed a truckload of people on a mountain road in southern Mexico, killing
26; Oaxaca Police Commander Jonas Gutierrez Coro said the Friday evening attack
apparently involved a land dispute.

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2002 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              196 of 291 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                     July 14, 2002 Sunday TWO STAR EDITION

ENJOY SMOOTH SAILING CLOSE TO HOME BY BETTE MCDEVITT

BYLINE: BETTE MCDEVITT

SECTION: TRAVEL, Pg.F-1

LENGTH: 2526 words


Sailing -- skimming silently across the water, powered only by the wind -- can
make the most inhibited person squeal with delight. This region's many lakes,
carved by glaciers thousands of years ago, are now dappled with sailboats.

At most of these lakes, people are willing to show you the ropes, or line, as
you will learn to call it.


Lake Arthur

Two years ago, Keith Otto of Evans City wandered over to the sailing area at
Lake Arthur in Moraine State Park to take a break from fishing. He chatted with
some sailors who invited him to go out for a sail. One thing led to another, and
before the summer was over, Otto and his three children were on the water,
sailing like old salts. "When [many people] think of sailing, they think of
fancy yacht clubs, Martha's Vineyard and John Kennedy out there in his fancy
boat, but here at Moraine, sailing really is for anybody," Otto said.

Lake Arthur, an hour north of Pittsburgh, is the closest sailing area for most
people, especially those who live to the north of the city.

There are two major sailing areas at Moraine: Watts Bay, where boats are docked
on shore, and Davis Hollow, farther along the North Shore, where large boats are
docked in the water.

A word of caution: People tell tales of driving on Route 422, seeing boats with
bright sails billowing in the wind, then spending hours trying to find the
sailing area. Directional signs in the park are minimal, in keeping with the
environmental standards. It's a good idea to stop at the park office on the
South Shore and get a map. (Or take along the "If You Go" box on Page F-6 for
directions.)

It is worth the search.

Members of the Moraine Sailing Club, which has its headquarters at Watts Bay,
will welcome newcomers and often take them for a sail. Saturdays are racing days
for club members, but there are other sailors on the lake as well. Sundays are a
big day for recreational sailing. During the week, you sometimes may have the
lake to yourself.

Several years ago, club members started a Community Sailing Program to attract
individuals and families who want to learn to sail and don't have a boat of
their own. Program members share the use of club-owned boats with others, a less
costly plan rather than renting or owning and maintaining your own boat.

Members help to maintain the boats and acquaint new community sailors with the
program and equipment. Club members will teach you to sail, and when you are
certified, you can reserve for use any of the boats that have been purchased or
donated to the program. The fleet consists of eight Sunfish boats stored on a
boat rack at Watts Bay, four Flying Scots and one 15-foot Coronado.

On race days, club members are always scouting for newcomers to serve as crew.
Those duties may be as simple as serving as ballast, shifting your weight from
one side of the boat to the other, and possibly loosening and tightening the
lines, to adjust the sail, when the wind changes. There can be moments of great
excitement. Winds shift constantly on a lake, unlike the ocean, and learning to
sail on a lake prepares you for anything.

To sail at Lake Arthur, or any other state park lake, you don't need sailing
certification, but you do need a launch permit ($10 one year; $18 for two years)
and personal flotation devices for each person onboard.

There are committed sailors at Lake Arthur.

Hugh Baxter of Harmony sails almost every day at Moraine. He says that sailing
entails hours of boredom interrupted by moments of sheer terror. He is, though,
the same person who believes that sunlight sparkling on the water is better than
Christmas.

Joe Shields of McCandless was the person Keith Otto encountered that day at
Watts Bay. Shields uses a week of his vacation time to operate a sailing camp,
along with other club members, for youngsters. John Bridges of Gibsonia, who
grew up sailing on the Isle of Wight, is always ready to help children and their
parents or grandparents build a small wood sailboat called an Optimist. Sean
Marshall of Crafton runs the community Sailing Program as a volunteer. Jean
Bongiovanni of Allison Park owns a wooden sloop, which means it has a "fixed
keel," anchored at Davis Hollow, but she likes to bring her boat to Watts Bay
and be with the friends she has made. "I'm a product of the system here," she
said. "I began with the Red Cross sailing lessons, then joined the Community
Sailing Program, and now I have my own boat."

This summer, 22 people, most of whom have never sailed before, are building
16-foot sailing skiffs, with the help of Bridges and members of the Western
Pennsylvania Wood Workers and George Miller from the Cleveland Amateur Boat
Builders Society. On Aug. 24, the first day of a two-day Moraine State Park
Regatta, their boats will be on display on the South Shore, and there will be a
mass launching at 2 p.m. This is a good day for anyone interested in sailing to
come to the park, because Moraine Sailing Club members will be available to take
people out in their boats.

Sailors and anglers co-exist on Lake Arthur, with occasional grumbling from
both, when sailors tangle with fishing lines. Although properly schooled sailors
are taught to right the boat without help when it capsizes, it is comforting to
see the fisherman's motorboat within shouting distance. This year, in some
parks, including Moraine, the powerboat limit has been raised from 10 to 18
horsepower. Most sailors are simply grateful that they do not have to deal with
boats traveling at higher speeds, as on some lakes.


Lake Erie

Allan Murphy, a Moraine sailor who lives in Zelienople, sailed often on Lake
Erie with his wife, Mia, and sons Paul and Allen. "Day sails, night sails, and
trips across Lake Erie to Canada -- we did it all."

Murphy described seeing "waterspouts," small tornadoes on the water, while
sailing to Canada. "Since the funnel is sucking up water, it is surrounded by
spray and is the color of the water, which was gray when we saw them. The spouts
we saw lasted less than 15 minutes each, although we did see as many as three at
once."

Murphy says waterspouts are not something most day sailors out of Erie will see.
"Winds near the shore are less likely to create waterspouts. There are still the
occasional summer storms, but you can see them coming and they are pretty
well-predicted nowadays."

As the children grew older and had more activities at home, the Murphys sold
their Catalina and bought a smaller boat, which they keep at Lake Arthur. "We
enjoyed many orange sunsets on board as well as golden sunrises on Lake Erie.
The bay enabled us to sail on very windy days when the lake was too boisterous,
and the lake allowed us to find wind on days when the bay was too still."

On a recent day, at Erie's Bayfront Center for Maritime Studies, Capt. Tiffany
Krihwan and Anne Danielski, director of Sea Grant, a hands-on environmental
program, were preparing to take a class from Erie's Strong Vincent High School
aboard the sloop Momentum. It was hard to tell the crew and the teacher from the
students.

"I can't wait to get out on the water," Krihwan said. "That's where these kids
see that the world is a whole lot bigger than what they thought."

Debbie Beard, the teacher, also makes frequent use of the program, Environmental
Rediscoveries, which involves elements of physics, chemistry and navigation.

"These kids live right up over the hill here, and most of them have never been
on the water," Danielski said, adding that the program is available to young
people from Pennsylvania from May to October. "Our busiest months are May and
September and October. Through the summer, we have more time for other groups,
such as scout troops."

Jim Stewart, the director of the center, is a former Pittsburgher who learned to
sail on a Sunfish at Moraine, then went to Erie, and fell in love with the lake.
The center is committed to making sailing accessible to all and offers a variety
of programs.

For example, under the supervision of skilled craftsmen, disadvantaged youth
from the inner city are now building the "Erie Boat," a replica of a
19th-century fishing vessel. "This was the boat that helped Erie claim the title
of 'freshwater fishing capital' of the world," said Stewart.

The center offers an adaptive sailing program for the handicapped. Through a
partnership with the Junior League of Erie, the center provides a specially
designed 10-foot dinghy, which will not capsize, a dockside lift, and sailing
instruction for individuals with disabilities who would like the freedom to sail
independently. There's also a U.S. Sailing Keelboat Certified sailing school and
an archaeological program designed to preserve and protect the countless
shipwrecks, which lie beneath the waters of Lake Erie.

Stewart suggests visitors make a combo of the city of Erie and Presque Isle.
"Come here and spend a weekend, take a ride on our sloop, the Momentum, owned by
Pittsburgh businessman Ron Esser, then Rollerblade or bike on the Peninsula, and
go to the beach or Presque Isle. There are some nice restaurants and the
Maritime Museum."


Pymatuning

Chris Harlan of Mt. Lebanon keeps his San Juan sailboat at Moraine, but he is
sweet on another body of water.

"For my money, Pymatuning is the best sailing lake anywhere in these parts.
Though farther from Pittsburgh [two hours] than Lake Arthur, its terrain and
climate make for ideal sailing conditions from April through November. The flat,
rugged and simple countryside allow for a breeze with respectable momentum
coming from Lake Erie. Pymatuning is the quintessential dinghy-sailing lake -- a
small sailboat paradise." A dinghy is a small boat with a removable centerboard.


Glendale Lake

Two other Moraine sailors, Bill Tingle of Upper Burrell and Tom Uehling of
Allison Park, both sailed for many years at Glendale Lake in Prince Gallitzin
State Park, north of Altoona. Both recommend it for camping, cabin rental and
sailing. According to Uehling, many of the sailors who camp and use the cabins
there are from the Pittsburgh area. In fact, the club and sailing program at
Moraine are modeled after a Glendale Lake program.

No matter where you learn to sail, you can have an endless summer vacation on
the water, with picnics on shore, usually with a gentle breeze over your
shoulder, and never have to pack a suitcase.


If you go

Sailing

* MORAINE STATE PARK

Moraine State Park is west of Butler on Route 422. To reach the office and South
Shore Recreation Area, take Exit 99 on I-79, turn right toward Butler, and then
take the South Shore Exit to the park. There is no access to the North Shore
from state Route 422 heading east from I-79, so, take the South Shore Exit, as
described, get back onto state Route 422 heading west, and take the North Shore
Exit; or, if going there directly from Pittsburgh, get off I-79 at Exit 96, the
Portersville exit, turn left, and in Portersville, turn right on West Park Road,
then follow the signs for the North Shore.

There are 10 boat-launching areas around the 3,225-acre Lake Arthur. At the
Crescent Bay Area, through the Rita James Co., sailboats, rowboats, canoes,
kayaks, motorboats and pontoon boats may be rented in the summer, and paddle
boats and canoes are available in the off season. For the sailing club, contact
Gerry Brandt at 412-488-0803, or send e-mail to gbbrandt@bellatlantic.net, or
Sean Marshall at srm@telerama.com.

For information on the family boat building project, call Linda Harvey at Butler
Chamber of Commerce, 724-283-2222, or regatta@butlercountychamber. com.

For park information: 724-368-8811. For the marina: 724-368-9346. Red
Cross-certified sailing lessons are offered at Rita James Co. (724-368-9000);
$212 for three days' instruction.

* PRINCE GALLITZIN STATE PARK

Prince Gallitzin State Park, in northern Cambria County, is reached by state
Routes 36 and 53 and U.S. Route 219. The 1,600-acre Glendale Lake has eight
public boat-launching areas conveniently located throughout the park, along with
three public mooring facilities for sailboats, pontoon boats and runabouts. A
watercraft concession and marina provides various services, including sailboat
rentals. Phone: 814-674-1000 (main office). The address for the sailing club is:
Lake Glendale Sailing Club, Box 291, Clearfield, PA 16830. Phone contact for the
club is Commodore Gary Johnson, 1-814-742-4209. The only lessons are those
provided through a summer camp in June.

* YELLOW CREEK STATE PARK

Take state Route 422 12 miles east of Indiana, Pa., or 18 miles west of
Ebensburg, Pa., to state Route 259 South. Follow Route 259 to park entrance.
From Johnstown, take state Route 56 west to Brush Valley, then Route 259 North
to the park. From Pittsburgh, take state Route 22 East to state Route 119 North
to state Route 422 East. Travel on Route 422 for 12 miles to state Route 259
South. Turn right into park entrance. You can rent the park's two Hobie Cats or
one sailboat. Lessons are provided at a low cost along with the rental. Phone:
724-357-7913.

* PRESQUE ISLE STATE PARK

Presque Isle State Park, on Route 832, from I-79 north or Route 5, offers a
13-mile-long looped road system within the park. A boat rental concession is
located in the Grave Yard Pond area and provides a variety of powered and
nonpowered craft, but not sailboats. A marina with nearly 500 slips that can
accommodate boats up to 42 feet in length is open from May 1 through Oct. 31.
Park phone: 1-814-833-7424. For programs at the Bayfront Center for Maritime
Studies, call 1-814-456-4077.

* PYMATUNING STATE PARK

Pymatuning State Park is in southwestern Crawford County. The park office is
about 1.5 miles north of Jamestown, Pa. Approximately three-fourths of the
17,088-acre Pymatuning Reservoir is in Crawford County and the remaining
one-fourth is in Ashtabula County, Ohio. Phone: 724-932-3141. There are no
sailboat rentals at the park, but there are two sailing clubs -- the Pymatuning
Sailing Club, on the north end of the lake, and the Pymatuning Yacht Club on the
south end. Sailing Club contact is James Heaney, 1-216-561-2966. The Sailing
Club is a "co-op" type, where everybody joins in the maintenance.

* KEYSTONE STATE PARK

Keystone State Park, on State Road 1018, three miles from the intersection of
State Road 981 and state Route 22 in New Alexandria and five miles from Latrobe,
has a 78-acre lake with a public launch, but no rentals or classes. Visitors
center: 724-668-2566.

* CHAUTAUQUA, N.Y.

Chautauqua, 2 1/2 hours from Pittsburgh, is regarded as one of the finest
sailing lakes in the nation. Jim and Arleen Star, Pittsburghers, coordinated the
sailing program for youth the past few years, involving about 450 youth each
week. The Institute has a Web site: http://chautauqua-inst.org. To register
children for the sailing classes, call 1-716-357-6348.

* MORE INFORMATION:

Information on state parks is available at www.dcnr.state.
pa.us/stateparks/index.htm; or call toll-free 1-888-727-2757, from 7 a.m. to 5
p.m. Mondays through Saturdays.

Bette McDevitt


LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Bette McDevitt is a free-lance writer who lives on the North Side.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Keith Srakocic/Associated Press: Two men paddle their canoe in
front of a flotilla of sailboats at Lake Arthur at Moraine State Park. This
year's Moraine State Park Regatta will be Aug. 24 and 25.
 Photo: Joyce Mendelsohn/Post-Gazette: Lake Arthur is the closest sailing area
for most Pittsburghers, especially those who live north of the city.

                       Copyright 2002 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              204 of 291 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                     August 8, 2002 Thursday SOONER EDITION

THE ULTIMATE HOMEMAKER;
 JANE CRICKS, PITTSBURGH'S OWN QUEEN OF THE KITCHEN, STILL HAS THE ANSWERS

BYLINE: SUZANNE MARTINSON, FOOD EDITOR, POST-GAZETTE

SECTION: FOOD, Pg.F-1

LENGTH: 2943 words


"IT'S A MARK OF INTELLIGENCE TO FOLLOW INSTRUCTIONS"

-- JANE CRICKS' CREDO (ADOPTED FROM HER ETNA HIGH SCHOOL ENGLISH TEACHER)


Follow instructions? Ha! Some cooks hadn't even read the recipe. n "Then they'd
get panicky and call me," says Jane Cricks with a laugh.

Cricks is the first to tell you that she doesn't have all the answers, but in
her 42 years in consumer education at Duquesne Light Co.'s Utility Hall she sure
got bombarded with the questions.

Q: Why did my meringue weep?

Q: Why did my nut rolls crack?

Q: Why didn't my bread rise?

"No question went unanswered," she says. "If we didn't know, we knew where to
find out."

So, here goes:

A: Meringue weeps if the egg whites are under- or overbeaten. The sugar should
be added slowly and beaten until completely dissolved.

A: Nut rolls crack when bakers try to stuff too much filling into them.

A: Bread is made with yeast, a living thing. Not cooling the milk after scalding
kills the yeast plant. Or the bread may have risen too high and then fell when
the gluten in the flour couldn't support the structure. It's been properly
raised when a fingertip leaves an indentation.

Cricks, now 81, started working for the electric company in 1943, retiring 18
years ago when it closed its Utility Hall on 435 Sixth St., Downtown, to move
into One Oxford Centre. If management didn't leave fingerprints on the range,
there was handwriting on the wall.

"They said they appreciated all that we'd done, but there wasn't even a kitchen
in the new place," she recalls. "We knew the end was coming."

So like a generation of home economists -- three or four co-workers were allowed
to continue until retirement -- she found herself cooking for only herself and
her family. The consummate director of consumer education was gone, and the
public was left without answers, or at least without a real, live Pittsburgh
person to answer them.

"I loved it!" she exclaims over a long, lingering lunch among the books at
Hartwood Restaurant, just over the hill from her Shaler home.

In its heyday, Utility Hall had 20 home economists (their dishes were washed by
two housekeepers) to teach consumers about new appliances. Heinz, Westinghouse,
and Equitable, People's and Manufacturers Gas also helped consumers one on one.
Today, company after company has resorted to computerized voice mail, e-mail,
and telephone systems with more branches than any oak.

"Last week I spent an hour on the phone trying to get help with a service,"
Cricks says. (She won't reveal which one.)

Friends still ask her questions, she says, and, as for others, "there's nobody
locally to ask. Even nationally, you dial an 800 number and there's no
personalized touch anymore."

Cricks was that personalized touch, and many PG Food readers still mention her
reverently by name.


Learning by error

Jane Grau was born in Etna and inspired by her elementary, junior high and high
school teachers in what was then known as Domestic Science. "We sewed a little
apron and hat and made Eggs Goldenrod."

Her interest in cooking started early. When she was 10 or so she remembers
getting home from school at 4 o'clock -- in time to listen to Karen Fladoes, who
founded Utility Hall in 1930, on the radio.

"One of her recipes was for a peach pie. It used canned milk. You froze the can
of milk and then whipped it. I didn't hear the part about freezing, and the pie
never turned out. It was my first big mistake."

The eldest of four children (her dad delivered groceries to H.J. Heinz's family
in Sharpsburg), she says girls weren't expected to go to college, because
"they'll just get married anyway." She did, though, graduating from Heidelberg
College in Tiffin, Ohio, in 1943. She majored in home economics.

When she applied for a job at Duquesne Light, the interviewer asked why she
didn't go to Carnegie Tech. Three reasons, she said.

"My college cost less, I didn't have the personality to fit into a large school,
and I wanted to get away from home."

She had her work cut out for her. In 1943, electric ranges were virtually
nonexistent in Western Pennsylvania, because 99 percent of the homes had gas
stoves. Cooking with electricity wasn't easy. You had to do your own wiring, and
because World War II was raging, kitchens were third in line for the required
220-volt service. (War materials came first.)

"People didn't think you could even cook food with electricity," Cricks
remembers. "Gas was what they trusted. They'd tell us, 'This is the way my
mother cooked, this is the way my grandmother cooked.'

"The big thing they had to learn was to turn the burner on high for it to heat
up, and then turn it down."

It took 20 years or so to increase the percentage of homes with electric ranges
to 35. "That's pretty good," she says. "From zero."

When an electric range was sold, a home economist followed it right to the home
to teach the new owner how to use it. Day, evening, even weekends. No charge. No
overtime, either. "We were free to work as many hours as we wanted," she says
with a laugh.

Utility Hall had a truck on call to haul equipment and appliances to department
stores, Grange halls and theaters so employees could give cooking lessons.
Pittsburgh Public Schools were hard to get into, so they started in the suburbs.
"The head of the home economics department was a real stickler -- she would
never let us come in," Cricks says. "She wanted her teachers to be the sole
source of authority."

Whether they wore her down, or the political climate shifted, they eventually
modernized the schools' classroom kitchens -- half electric ranges, half gas.
"It was only fair."

Traveling 'salesmen'

The women of Utility Hall were considered part of the sales staff, though they
never sold anything -- just made consumers want to buy. Their boss was always an
engineer who didn't know a Bunsen burner from a hotplate, and in the earliest
days you could spot the women's status by where they worked. "Home economics is
always in the basement," Cricks says. Or on the top floor, especially if there
is no elevator.

Their mission was to promote electric appliances -- in utility parlance, "get a
load on the line," she says. So they demonstrated the joys of Sunbeam mixers or
Westinghouse Electric Roasters, which used 1,250 watts and could do a 25-pound
turkey.

The roaster is still one of Cricks' favorite appliances. That and the Crock-Pot,
which she refers to as the "slow cooker." They didn't promote one brand over
another.

Success sparked a move to the street level with a display area and a spacious
dining room with a demonstration stage. Women, properly attired in hats and
gloves, came Downtown in those days, especially for a free meal. At these ladies
luncheons, there was real china and cutlery, not tacky paper plates and plastic.

No caterer needed apply. They did the shopping and the cooking, too.

"We knew they came for the lunch," Cricks jokes, "and we'd make an announcement
before our demonstration, 'Please don't take out your cards until we're
through.' They could play cards afterwards."

No wonder it was a hot ticket. Some women made up names of "clubs" so they could
eat again and again. Says Cricks with her signature hearty laugh, "Our favorite
joke was whether The Daughters of I Will Arise would show up."

Cricks was so good, the gas company tried to steal her away. She said, "Do you
think I'd sell my soul?"

At Utility Hall's peak, there were 6,000 phone calls a month. (One of them might
have been yours.)

The most challenging times were during the three strikes when workers were
locked in to monitor the system operations. "We washed their clothes, cooked
their meals," she says. The pickets marched outside.

True pioneers

It's difficult to imagine what things were like for a professional woman working
Downtown in the early days when pollution permeated the atmosphere.

"We had to change our slips at noon because they were soiled," she recalls,
echoing the complaints of businessmen whose white shirts no longer were by noon.
"You couldn't see across the street."

Today, Cricks believes she practiced her craft in a field pioneered by the best.
She remembers Julia Kiene of Westinghouse, which promoted the Victory Gardens of
WWII. "She caressed that range like it was a living thing."

Kiene was fearless, cooking a standing rib roast on the bottom shelf of the
oven, a pan of cream puffs on the top. She would cook a whole bushel of potatoes
at one time. Because people believed all the heat would leak out of the range,
she wrapped ice cubes in stove insulation and put them in the oven while baking
a cake. "The ice cubes were still frozen!" Cricks marvels.

Those were the days of the grand demo.

When the microwave was new, the Home Economists in Business chapter -- an
educational group of 50 -- had experts in town three different times to explain
how it worked. Cooks were scared to death.

Cricks had her own little adventure with the magical machine: "I demonstrated
the first microwave in Pittsburgh. Microwaves then were great big things that
were cooled by water. One day I was giving a demonstration in a furniture store
that had no water, so the owner piped it in with a hose from the fire hydrant
out front."

Nothing untoward happened, but then she was used to taking her show on the road.
"We moved around like the circus."

In the ' 60s, the company tapped into a cheaper way to talk about the joys of
electricity without making house calls. Its name was radio.

It was talk radio, and Cricks went in with "only myself and my brain --
listeners could ask anything." For eight years, she did an hourlong call-in show
at 6 p.m. Monday, 3 p.m. Wednesday and noon Friday.

That was grueling, but TV was something else. Once in a closed-circuit TV
demonstration, she was making a coleslaw in a blender when the plastic wrap that
covered the vegetable bowl fell in. "I said, 'I think I made a mistake here. You
were never supposed to blame the appliance."

Looking back, she sees she could have just ignored the faux pas. Nobody was
going to eat the slaw anyway.

Today's TV celebrity chefs don't impress her. "They are entertaining," but
seeing Martha Stewart touch her hair while she's cooking drives Cricks crazy.
Besides, she is well aware of the staff behind the scenes who do all the
chopping, greasing, measuring and baking that makes cooking look so simple.

Although some questions through the years have been downright daffy, to this day
Cricks believes any question is legitimate, although sometimes it's hard to keep
up. So the Electrical Women's Roundtable brought in experts from around the
country to discuss trends, and every year Cricks traveled to Chicago to check
out appliance innovations. One that didn't make it was a vertical broiler that
cooked meat upright in the oven, the grease dropping into a pan below. It was
before self-cleaning ovens, and it was easy to clean up after. "I don't know why
it didn't make it."

Anybody's who's faced a charred broiler pan would wonder, too.

Though modern-day electronics may mean a simple toaster comes with 15 pages of
instructions, and an equal number of pages in Japanese, help is often hard to
find.

The woman many considered the ultimate homemaker says she "married late" -- she
became Mrs. Ernest Cricks when she was 38 and in the bargain got a daughter,
Arlene Sloan. She enjoys cooking for two grandsons, who like to eat.

Her husband, who died six years ago, worked his way up to vice president of
operations at Glenshaw Glass. He never complained about the demands of her job,
but once.

"Our company president said he thought we all ought to have all-electric homes,"
she says. "Nothing was written down, but we knew."

No subsidy, of course. "My husband talked about how much it was going to cost us
to take out the gas line, put in insulation, have new doors and windows."

But they did it. "When I retired, we went back to gas heat. We have both."

Where can you call?

Though the company appreciated the education of the multitude, Cricks says sadly
that Utility Hall was seen as "an expense. We were on the red side of the
ledger."

It was too hard to prove how consumer service builds business. And so it goes.
Today, there are only a smattering of places to call for help -- among them,
Kraft Kitchens and Betty Crocker (now combined with Pillsbury) and Penn State
Extension.

There are all those 800 numbers on the back of a box, can or bag, sometimes
answered by clueless people with little training or concern. Sometimes it seems
as if you're calling into an empty room.

Cricks says it again: "We never left a question unanswered. If we didn't know,
we found out."

Where are the Jane Crickses of the kitchen when you need them?

Here's a bonus answer. As for that turkey that you've had frozen since a year
ago Thanksgiving, ask her:

"It's not going to hurt you, but it's not going to taste very good, either."


Apple Dumplings

Pastry for two-crust 9-inch pie

6 baking apples, pared and cored (3 inches in diameter)

3 tablespoons raisins

3 tablespoons chopped nuts

2 1/2 cups brown sugar

1 1/3 cups water

Heat oven to 425 degrees. Prepare pastry. Gather into a ball. Roll 2/3 of pastry
into 14-inch square on lightly floured cloth-covered board; cut into four
squares.

Roll remaining pastry into 14-by-7-inch rectangle; cut into 2 squares. Place an
apple on each square. Mix raisins and nuts. Fill each apple. Moisten corners of
each pastry square. Bring opposite corners up over apple and pinch. Repeat with
remaining corners. Pinch edges of pastry to seal. (We made this pastry on a hot
day, and next time we will divide dough into thirds for easier handling.) Place
dumplings in an ungreased baking dish 13 by 9 by 2 inches.

Heat brown sugar and water to boiling. (We did this in the microwave.) Carefully
pour around dumplings. Bake, spooning or basting syrup over dumplings 2 or 3
times. Bake 40 minutes until crust is golden and apples are tender. Serve warm
with cream or sweetened whipped cream. Also good with cinnamon ice cream.

Jane Cricks


Sticky Buns

2 packages dry yeast ( 1/4 ounce each package)

1/2 cup warm water (105 to 115 degrees)

2 cups lukewarm milk, scalded then cooled

1/3 cup granulated sugar

1/3 cup vegetable oil or shortening

3 teaspoons baking powder

2 teaspoons salt

5 1/2 to 7 1/2 cups all-purpose flour

1 egg

Dissolve yeast in warm water in large mixing bowl. Stir in milk, sugar, oil,
baking powder, salt, 3 cups flour and egg. Beat until smooth. Mix in enough
remaining flour to make dough easy to handle. (We used all the flour.)

Turn dough onto a well-floured surface; knead until smooth and elastic, about 8
to 10 minutes. Place in a greased bowl -- greased side up. Cover; let rise in a
warm place until double in bulk, about one hour. Dough is ready if indentation
remains when indented with finger.

Punch down dough; divide into halves. Roll 1 half into a rectangle 12 by 10
inches. Spread with additional melted butter or margarine. Mix 1/2 cup sugar and
1 tablespoon cinnamon; sprinkle half sugar mixture over dough. Roll beginning
with 12-inch side. Pinch edge to seal. Stretch roll to make even. Cut roll into
12 1-inch slices. Place in a 13-by-9-inch pan that has sticky syrup (see recipe
below); place slightly apart in pan. Wrap pan with heavy-duty foil. Repeat with
remaining dough. Refrigerate 12 hours but no longer than 48 hours. To bake
immediately, do not wrap. Let rise until double, about 30 minutes.

Bake at 350 degrees for 30 to 35 minutes. Immediately invert pan on heat-proof
serving plate. Let pan remain a minute so caramel drizzles over rolls.

Yields 2 dozen rolls.

Tester's note: We used both methods of baking, refrigerating one pan, baking the
other after the rolls were raised. Both worked well.

Note that the baking powder is not a mistake. The baking powder helps stabilize
the dough. The sugar and cinnamon mixture for placing on the rolled dough is in
addition to the amount given in the dough recipe.

We agree that the rolls are best when used on the same day. Can reheat in a
microwave for better results on the second day.


Sticky Bun Topping

1 cup butter

1 1/3 cups firmly packed brown sugar

4 teaspoons corn syrup

Melt butter in a saucepan over medium heat. Add sugar and corn syrup. Bring to a
full roiling boil. Take off heat immediately. Do not overcook. Pour into two
13-by-9-by-2-inch pans. Place cut side of rolls on syrup.

Jane Cricks


Glazed Ham Balls

This was a favorite at the women's luncheons and demonstrations at Utility Hall.
The sweet and sour syrup are a perfect foil for the spiciness of the ham.

1 pound ground ham

1 pound ground pork

2/3 cup cracker crumbs

2 eggs

1 1/2 cups evaporated milk

1/4 teaspoon salt

1/4 teaspoon thyme (powdered)

1/3 cup minced onion

1 cup brown sugar

1 teaspoon dry mustard

3 tablespoons vinegar

Combine ham, pork, cracker crumbs, eggs, milk, salt, thyme and onion, using an
electric mixer. Divide into 16 portions. Roll each portion into a ball. Place in
a shallow baking dish, 8 by 12 inches. Combine brown sugar, vinegar and mustard
in a saucepan. Cook over medium-high heat until boiling. Pour syrup over ham
balls. Bake in a 350-degree oven for 1 hour.

Yield: 8 servings.

Tester's note: Our balls looked more like flying saucers. We think today's
ground pork may have had more fat than the lean pork ground especially for Jane
Cricks. You might ask the butcher to grind some special for this recipe.

Jane Cricks

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
PG TESTED Suzanne Martinson can be reached at smartinson@post-gazette.com or
412-263-1760.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Martha Rial/Post-Gazette photos: Jane Cricks, former home
services director for Duquesne Light's Utility Hall for 42 years, relaxes over
lunch at the Hartwood Restaurant in Indiana Township.
 PHOTO: These sticky buns are among the many treats to emerge from the kitchen
of Jane Cricks, home service director for Duquesne Light's Utility Hall for 42
years.

                       Copyright 2002 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              218 of 291 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                    October 17, 2002 Thursday SOONER EDITION

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg.C-16 EARNINGS

LENGTH: 764 words


Allegheny Technologies

posts $7.5 million loss

The specialty metals producer blamed a weak economy for a third-quarter loss of
$7.5 million, or 9 cents per share. The results reflect a charge of $3.4
million, or 4 cents per share, for previously announced plans to eliminate 340
employees in its flat-rolled business, which includes Allegheny Ludlum.

Excluding one-time items, the loss came to 4 cents per share, in line with Wall
Street estimates. Sales fell 13 percent to $469.3 million. Allegheny
Technologies earned $8 million, or 10 cents per share, in the year-ago quarter.

Chief Executive Officer Jim Murdy told analysts that business conditions
remained very difficult.

"We see the potential for weakening of the economy in the fourth quarter. But
who really knows?"

The stock market's problems added to the company's woes. It recorded a pension
expense of $5.4 million for the quarter, which reduced after-tax earnings by 4
cents per share. In the year-ago quarter, Allegheny Technologies had
pension-related income of $10.1 million, or 7 cents per share.


II-VI

The Saxonburg laser products company said fiscal first-quarter profits fell 6
percent despite a 7 percent increase in revenue. Net income totaled $2.2
million, or 15 cents per share, on revenue of $29.2 million, vs. earnings of
$2.3 million, or 16 cents per share, and revenue of $27.3 million in the
year-ago quarter. The company said it expected second-quarter earnings of 10 to
15 cents per share.


Ford Motor

Ford Motor Co. posted a third-quarter loss of $326 million, or 18 cents a share,
vs. a loss of $692 million, or 39 cents a share, a year ago. Sales rose 9
percent to $39.6 billion. Excluding the charge related to the sale of its
European vehicle repair business, and other one-time expenses, Ford had an
operating profit of $220 million, or 12 cents a share, vs. a loss of $502
million, or 28 cents a share, excluding one-time items, a year ago. The
consensus forecast of analysts surveyed by Thomson First Call was that Ford
would earn 3 cents per share in the latest quarter.


Coca-Cola

Coca-Cola Co.'s earnings rose 8.5 percent in the third quarter but the company
said its results for the year may come in slightly below Wall Street
expectations. Its shares sank. Coca-Cola said it earned $1.16 billion, or 47
cents a share, up from $1.07 billion, or 43 cents a share, a year ago. Excluding
a 1-cent-a-share charge, the latest results were in line with the consensus
forecast of 48 cents a share by analysts surveyed by Thomson First Call. Revenue
rose to $5.32 billion $4.70 billion a year ago.


IBM

International Business Machines Corp. said third-quarter net income fell to
$1.31 billion, or 76 cents a share, from $1.6 billion, or 90 cents, a year ago.
Sales declined 1 percent to $20.3 billion. Excluding losses from its hard-disk
drive division, IBM said profit would have been $1.69 billion, or 99 cents a
share, vs. $1.71 billion, or 97 cents, a year ago. Sales would have risen to
$19.82 billion. On that basis, analysts on average had forecast earnings of 96
cents on sales of $19.7 billion, according to Thomson First Call.


Pfizer

Pfizer Inc. reported third-quarter net income of $2.35 billion, or 38 cents a
share, up from $2.1 billion, or 33 cents a share, a year earlier. Revenue rose
12 percent to $8.73 billion. Earnings before an accounting change and costs
related to its pending acquisition of Pharmacia Corp. rose 12 percent to $2.45
billion, or 39 cents a share. That beat analysts' consensus forecast of 38 cents
a share, according to Thomson First Call's survey.


National City

National City Corp. reported a 5 percent increase in third-quarter profits. The
company earned $374.2 million, or 61 cents a share, up from $356.6 million, or
58 cents a share, a year ago. Earnings matched the consensus forecast of
analysts surveyed by Thomson First Call.


Banks

ESB Financial Corp. reported third-quarter net income of $2.27 million, or 26
cents per diluted share, vs. $1.86 million, or 22 cents per diluted share, a
year ago.

First Bell Bancorp Inc. reported third-quarter net income of $2.1 million, or 50
cents per diluted share, vs. $1.5 million, or 35 cents per diluted share, a year
ago.

F.N.B. Corp. reported third-quarter net income of $24.1 million, or 54 cents per
diluted share, vs. $19.4 million, or 44 cents per diluted share, a year ago.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2002 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              221 of 291 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                    October 22, 2002 Tuesday REGION EDITION

PROFITABLE U.S. STEEL TOPS FORECAST

BYLINE: LEN BOSELOVIC, POST-GAZETTE STAFF WRITER

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg.E-6

LENGTH: 454 words


U.S. Steel reported its second consecutive quarterly profit yesterday, crediting
higher prices and shipments at its domestic and Slovak mills as well as
cost-cutting.

Net income totaled $106 million, or $1.04 per share, vs. a year-ago loss of $23
million, or 26 cents per share. Revenue jumped 16 percent to $1.91 billion,
while combined shipments from the steelmaker's domestic and Slovak mills rose 7
percent to 3.8 million tons. Domestic prices for sheet and plate products were
up 6 percent from the second quarter while prices for the Slovak mill's output
jumped 13 percent.

Excluding one-time items, U.S. Steel earned $1 per share vs. the 64 cents per
share Wall Street analysts were expecting. More than half of the variance was
caused by analysts using a much higher corporate income tax rate in their
forecasts than what U.S. Steel had to pay.

"I thought it was still a good quarter," said independent metals analyst Charles
Bradford.

U.S. Steel shares closed yesterday at $12.84, up a penny.

But given the market's recent strides, other market watchers said stocks were
due for a profit-taking sell-off.

"We had a significant run-up in a short period of time," said Alan Ackerman,
executive vice president of Fahnestock & Co. "It is important for investors to
know that not all rallies are created equal. Bear markets tend to see sharp
rallies ... but more times than not, those rallies are not enough to turn
sentiment around."

Investors again rewarded companies that exceeded earnings forecasts. Printer
maker Lexmark rose $1.19 to $56.94 on third-quarter profits that beat analysts'
expectations by a penny a share. Diversified manufacturer 3M advanced $3.69 to
$129 after meeting earnings expectations.

Last week's earnings winners also traded higher yesterday. GM rose $2.69 to $37,
Citigroup climbed 54 cents to $35.52 and IBM advanced $1.30 to $75.55.

But Microsoft stumbled 64 cents to $52.51 after chief executive Steve Ballmer
said on an Australian business TV program that a sharp 26 percent increase in
fiscal first-quarter sales was an anomaly and that business conditions remained
difficult.

The market's advance came despite tepid economic news. The Conference Board
reported that its Index of Leading Economic Indicators declined 0.2 percent in
September. The reading matched expectations, but it still suggested that the
economy faces further weakness.

Advancing issues outnumbered decliners 9 to 5 on the New York Stock Exchange.
Consolidated volume was light at 1.78 billion shares, but above Friday's 1.74
billion.

The Russell 2000 index, which tracks smaller-company stocks, rose 5.26 to
368.63.

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2002 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              224 of 291 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                    November 15, 2002 Friday REGION EDITION

REED TRIO TO DEBUT AT WAYNESBURG COLLEGE

SECTION: MISCELLANEOUS, Pg.A-14

LENGTH: 754 words


A brainstorming session not only led to something relatively rare for this area,
it also gave birth to a novel music ensemble. Engrossed with coming up with
something interesting to add to this season's Performing Arts Series at
Waynesburg College, Pat Roth, associate dean for student services, and Melissa
Trifaro, group and corporate sales manager for the Pittsburgh Symphony, struck
paydirt.

After sending out a few feelers, Trifaro approached James Rodgers, bassoonist
for the symphony, about the possibility of forming a woodwind ensemble and
heading to Waynesburg for a debut concert. Rodgers went one better when he
suggested eschewing the flute and French horn, standard instruments (along with
clarinet, oboe, and bassoon) in a woodwind quintet, and going with an all-reed
trio made up of fellow symphony musicians Ron Samuels on clarinet and oboeist
Scott Bell.

"Personally, I'd been wanting to form a reed trio for quite a while," Rodgers
said. "I feel it's very important for symphony orchestra musicians to play
chamber music, and I'm excited and honored to be able to perform in this
relatively rare form of ensemble in front of an appreciative audience."

Said to produce a distinctive "reedy" sound with variations that blend well
together, reed trios didn't come into their own until the late 19th century and
early 20th century, primarily through the compositions written specially for
them by French composers Jacques Ibert and Darius Milhaud, whose music will be
included in the Waynesburg College program.

Another piece that will be included is an original work, "Suite for Oboe,
Clarinet, and Bassoon" written in 1969 by American contemporary composer Alec
Wilder.

"The suite is a lot of fun to perform," Rodgers said. "It's very tonal and
accessible and has something for everyone, including humorous and lighthearted
elements as well as more somber moments."

While planning the Waynesburg College concert, Rodgers opted for substantial
classical music and avoided the more esoteric, avant-garde compositions. For a
while, he toyed with the idea of featuring solo or duet pieces but finally
decided there's enough diversity in the repertoire to stay solely with
compositions written for all three players.

"Reed musicians work with an incredibly thin piece of wood that's greatly
influenced by changes in the weather," Rodgers said. "On cold, dry days, the
reed won't flex or vibrate as much as it does on hot humid days, when the
instruments are easier to play."

Instruments such as the bassoon and oboe are double-reeded, meaning they have
two pieces of wood bound end to end by wire or string. The concept of a double
reed goes back to ancient Chinese and Indian folk instruments that made their
way into the Western world.

Reed instruments produce their sound by vibrating a piece of bamboo-like wood
from the Arundo donax plant, which thrives best in the climate that also
supports the growth of wine grapes. The best are believed to come from southern
France.

Following their ensemble premiere performance at Waynesburg College, Rodgers
hopes the trio will remain together and schedule additional concerts, for which
he would like to add music by composers such as Villa Lobos, Martineau and
Schulhoff, known as "the German jazz master."

"Schullhoff wrote some amazing music," he said. "His 'Divertissement' defies
description. I know of him through his compositions for contrabassoon,
especially for his 1922 piece for solo contrabassoon titled 'The Bass
Nightingale.' "

As the symphony's principal contrabassoonist, Rodgers says the instrument he
plays in roughly half the concert programming is pitched an octave lower than
the regular bassoon (his second instrument) and reaches the very lowest notes in
the orchestra. The double bass, for instance, can reach a C three octaves below
middle C. The contrabassoon can go one step lower to B-flat.

Unfortunately, you won't find Rodgers pulling out his contrabassoon during the
Waynesburg concert.

"There'd be a huge gap in our range," he explained. "The oboe and clarinet
occupy the alto and soprano range. The bassoon is in the bass/tenor range.
Therefore, the contrabassoon would be totally out of place."

The Pittsburgh Reed Trio is at the Performing Arts Center at Waynesburg College
at 7:30 p.m. Tuesday. Tickets cost $5. Call 724-852-3256.

Dave Zuchowski is a free-lance writer who covers arts and entertainment for
Washington Sunday. He can be reached by e-mail at owlscribe@yahoo.com.

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2002 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              229 of 291 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                    December 1, 2002 Sunday TWO STAR EDITION

COSTA RICA'S RICHES;
 CENTRAL AMERICAN COUNTRY OVERFLOWS WITH TROPICAL DELIGHTS

BYLINE: DR. R.L. ROMANO

SECTION: TRAVEL, Pg.C-1

LENGTH: 2190 words

DATELINE: SAN JOSE, Costa Rica


Sparkling waters, plunging waterfalls, lush colorful foliage, smoldering
volcanoes (some of which occasionally erupt), voluptuous sandy beaches and the
cacophony of brilliant birds flying free are common spectacles in Costa Rica.

Costa Rica is in many respects unique, boasting a climate considered to be one
of the three best in the world. Bounded on the east by the Caribbean and on the
west by the Pacific Ocean, the country has superb beaches (playas) -- often
nearly isolated crests of sugary sand surrounded by sub-tropical vegetation and
sometimes miles of coconut palms. Wildlife, especially many varieties of exotic
birds, inhabit the foliage and verdant growth of the entire country. Species of
monkeys, iguana, snakes (including boa constrictors) and leopards and other wild
felines share the countryside with humans. (On my three visits to the country, I
have never seen the cats or boas except in the zoo.)

Among the people who rely on the country's delights for a living is Alfonso
Martino. Not a Tico himself (a man in Costa Rica calls himself a Tico; a woman
is a Tica), Martino comes from Foggia, Italy, bringing to his Resort Martino a
Roman influence and the cuisine of Sardinia. He is a linguist, a lawyer, an
architect and designer, a gourmet chef, raconteur and a lover of beauty and art.

In Costa Rica, Hotel Martino is considered "very expensive." We paid $69 (U.S.)
per person per night, for a most comfortable room and two meals each day --
including taxes and service. We also were met at the airport in San Jose and
transported to the hotel, included in the rate.

Of course, there are many other accommodations in and around San Jose, the
capital city of Costa Rica, ranging from moderately priced and inexpensive
adequate accommodations, to deluxe quarters with complete amenities and
magnificent views.

The Quality Hotel Central Colon is only eight blocks from downtown San Jose and
is such a resting place -- 103 spacious rooms, complete amenities, seven
stories, beautifully decorated public rooms, open-air restaurant for al fresco
dining, bars, casino and live entertainment.

My first trip to Costa Rica occurred in the mid-' 70s, and at that time we
stayed at the Hotel Irazu -- named after one of the volcanoes. It was rustic but
adequate. The change in available hotel space between then and my second trip,
in 1995, was astonishing -- attesting to the popularity of this attractive land.

It is a 20-minute taxi ride from Resort Martino to the Teatro Nacional (the
National Theater) in the heart of San Jose -- a good place to begin exploring
this unusual dynamic city. The theater (circa 1890) itself is a splendid
structure, built in a neoclassic German style. It is an icon of culture,
sponsored by the coffers of the 19th-century coffee barons. It opened Oct. 10,
1897, with a performance of Faust by the Paris Opera and Ballet.

From the theater, it is a short walk to the Musco Nacional, housed in the
imposing bullet-ridden fortress. The bullet holes are from the civil war of
1948, which, I am told, did not last for more than 48 hours. The museum presents
a historical overview of Costa Rica and now offers an exhibit of jade jewelry
and figurines.

Nearby is the Museo de Oto, which contains more than 2,000 pre-Columbian gold
artifacts with items dating between A.D. 500 and 1500.

There are many parks and monuments in this region: the Parque Nacional with its
tranquil palm and bamboo groves and the frothy white marble sculpture, the
Monumento Nacional, depicting four women who represent the spirits of the
Central American nations; William Walker, a potential conqueror, is shown
fleeing from the powerful woman representing Costa Rica. A statue of Juan
Santamaria, the country's national hero, stands at the park's southwest corner.

The Cafe Parisienne, in front of the golden-yellow Gran Hotel, is a standard
stop-off for anyone in this busy area -- for coffee, a drink, conversation and
reading. It is very close to the theater and other spots that present live
entertainment, folklore dance performances, and shows presented by gringo
theater groups. One needs to check the current printed matter or their hotel
concierge for exact dates and location.

To acquire a sense of the people, their energy and bustle, and the San Jose
ambience, it is worth wandering through the many side streets, exploring the
local color, the shops and boutiques in the neighborhoods surrounding the
theater, and some of the hotels in the area. One must keep in mind that the
noise level is considerable in downtown San Jose, and even the most expensive
architectural construction may not block it out sufficiently for comfort. For
this reason, I cannot recommend these inner-city hotels, although they are
elegant and eager to pamper their guests. I prefer the Quality Hotel Centro
Colon or other watering places away from the downtown hurly-burly.

We decided to explore the environs of our hotel, to spend a day visiting some of
the quaint small towns nearby and survey several of the volcanoes in the
immediate vicinity. We decided that the many beautiful beaches were too far away
and would require a good deal of driving time.

Rather than renting a car, we chose to call the driver who had taken us to San
Jose from the resort. He was an engaging young man who enjoyed practicing "his
English" with his customers and ferreting out the meaning of my many idioms and
quips. His name was Esterling Alfaro Guerrecros, and he and his father owned
their taxi. He agreed to take us for a full-day sojourn for $50.

There are many volcanoes in Costa Rica. Volcan Irazu, which I had seen
previously, is the largest, with four craters. Neil Armstrong once proclaimed it
the place on Earth most like the moon, and that was my first thought when I saw
its ashy craters. Volcan Rincon de la Vieja soars nearly 600 feet above sea
level and spreads over 156.25 square miles. And then there is Volcan Arenal,
perhaps the most spectacular sight in all of Costa Rica. It spews molten lava
and noxious gases several times each day.

In 1995, I spent a full day at its foot at the Tabacon Hot Springs and Spa.
Nowhere else can a visitor float in a hot water pool sipping vino tinto (red
wine) and watch a mountain spew red-hot lava.

On this visit, we chose to drive to Volcan Poas, because it was relatively close
to several towns we wanted to visit. Poas has one of the biggest craters in the
world, nearly a mile wide, and a turquoise-colored lake.

It is best to visit the craters early in the morning before a cloud cover might
emerge to impair the view. Guerrecros made this the first stop on our day's
itinerary. The road to this simmering volcano weaves upward in a crazy-quilt
pattern, past vistas of coffee plants, swirls of smoke rising from cattle
ranches, and rivers flowing in deep green valleys. The air felt chilly and moist
as his car climbed, and a gray-white mist streaked the sky.

But nothing prepared us for the breathtaking sight, an enormous hole with a
diameter of two kilometers that is Volcan Poas. A foggy mist came and left,
shrouding the view somewhat but passing quickly.  The veil of drizzle and haze
lent an eerie character to the already other-worldly scene.

It was difficult to pull ourselves away from this spectacular view -- it seemed
like having to return to Earth -- but other places and sights beckoned. (If we
had wanted to stay overnight, there is a Poas Volcan Lodge, moderately priced
and resembling an English country manor. It is 10 miles southeast of the crater,
set high in the cool mountain air.)

We drove next to a small town called Zarcero, directly west of the volcano. It
may be the most picturesque town in the country. The main plaza is dominated by
an elegant blue and white church, although seeing it again on this occasion, it
appeared in need of some repair and fresh painting. Topiary artist Evangelisto
Elanco has wielded his pruning shears to cypress bushes growing on the grounds
of the church, creating fanciful elephants, bulls and matadors. (I was told he
was offered a job by the Disney company, but he declined, stating he could not
leave his pet projects hovering on the green lawn.) They beg to be photographed,
if only to convince the viewer that they really do exist.

Zarcero is in the center of rich scenic agricultural lands, foothills to the
surrounding mountains. Roads in this region twist and turn enough to make one
dizzy. The land appears colored in every shade of green imaginable. It is
perhaps this scenic drive that so impressed Adriano Martino, Alfonso's son, who
lived in Italy and Europe for most of his life. He compared it to a journey
through Switzerland, and I agree, except of course that in Costa Rica, one is
never far from an ocean.

We had a late lunch in Zarcero. The town is not noted for its posh restaurants
and hostelry. There is a very inviting bed-and-breakfast on a side street, built
around an Eden-like garden and courtyard. Although they did not serve lunch, the
Tica who answered our bell was kind enough to show us the public rooms (only two
of them) and the blossoming garden.

We motored next to a town called Sarchi, the most popular crafts town in the
country. Sarchi is almost overdone in its quaintness -- even the trash cans and
trucks are decorated with colorful designs reminiscent of Pennsylvania Dutch
plaques and Moorish tiles.

Oxcarts were the main method of transportation in bygone days and are still seen
in Sarchi and elsewhere. Brilliantly painted and decorated, they are often
purchased by tourists to be shipped back home. They can be used as tea carts,
indoors or out, as plant holders or merely as conversation pieces. They are made
in different sizes and sell for various prices.

The Plaza de Artesia at the south end of town is a shopping area reminiscent of
our own shopping malls. Not only are the oxcarts on display -- one can watch the
craftsman paint and decorate the wood as they assemble them -- but also handsome
wooden and leather rocking chairs and an array of wooden and painted bowls,
plates, cups, saucers and platters.

At Fabrica de Carretas Joaquin Chaverri, a family run oxcart factory, the
artisans are eager to talk and chat with visitors and to present their work.
Naturally visitors are tempted to purchase something -- I chose several small
oxcart wheels as outdoor decorations.

In store after store and in every roadside stand, cafe and bar, one finds an
array of miniature carts, napkin holders, liquor cabinets and paper products of
all kinds displaying the oxcart logo.

There is a restaurant, the Las Carretas, near the factory, serving regional
dishes and Costa Rica's excellent beer. One of the dishes is made of papaya
stalk mixed with vegetables and meat, called nicadello de nanava -- quite tasty
if you like papaya.

Buses run regularly from San Jose and Alajuela to Sarchi throughout the day, and
the town is on every tour company's list of day trips.

Back at the Resort Martino, Alfonso and Adriano Martino (and their staff) had
planned an outdoor barbecue party for Friday evening, two days before we were to
leave the country. All of the hotel guests as well as many travel agents in the
area and others involved in the hotel industry were invited. They were to be
assisted by Alfonso's friend Lucrecia M. Cordero J., editor of a monthly
periodical called Friends in Costa Rica. She would act as hostess at the evening
party

We watched the sun set that evening from our balcony, a glass of vino tinto in
hand. Actually, it was the aftermath of the setting sun. It was a glorious
sight, pigments fusing in the sky like water-color paints blending on a
turquoise palette -- reds, orange, purplish blue. Each night it was a different
sky show, each one spectacular. It left us silent for a time.

And then it was dark -- no moon in sight but many stars shimmering in the black
sky. The salsa music already had begun, live with several muchachos in the group
and a senorita singing. Guests were lining up at the buffets for food and drink.
We soon found that the hotel staff had outdone themselves -- seafood of all
varieties, fresh salmon, marinated vegetables and, of course, the inevitable
pastas. My favorite vino tinto was served, along with champagne and Costa Rican
beer.

The party became a whirlpool of shimmering bodies, agile men and slender women
whose arms and legs glistened in the flickering torch lights, dancing, bodies
undulating to the Latin-Calypso tempo. On the dance floor, I told my wife that
she could move any way she wished, no need to know specific steps, so long as
she "kept the beat." The cadence seemed to increase -- the talking, laughing,
dancing, the rhythms of the drums and the singing, songs in Spanish that I had
never heard before -- and I thought this was such a perfect way to end a
Technicolor excursion to a vibrant land and people.


IF YOU GO

Costa Rica

* Resort Martino can be found on the Internet at www.hotelmartino.com or call
1-866-272-7477.

* For Costa Rica Tourism, www.tourism-costarica.com or call 1-800-343-6332.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Dr. R.L. Romano is a clinical psychologist practicing in Pittsburgh.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Alisha Blackwood/Associated Press: Costa Rica contains a number
of volcanoes among its picturesque vistas. Volcan Arenal spews molten lava and
noxious gases several times each day.
 PHOTO: Rick Sammon/Associated Press: Just outside of San Jose, Costa Rica's
capital, visitors begin to see the natural wonders of the rain forest.
 MAP: Post-Gazette: (Costa Rica)

                       Copyright 2002 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              234 of 291 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                     January 11, 2002 Friday SOONER EDITION

ARGENTINA FREEZES MORE BANK DEPOSITS

BYLINE: TONY SMITH, THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg.C-10

LENGTH: 553 words

DATELINE: BUENOS AIRES, Argentina


With national finances crumbling, the Argentine government tightened its grip on
the banking system yesterday, freezing more of its citizens' savings in an
effort to keep the country limping along.

After days of juggling the devastated accounts of the nation, the government
finally unveiled a plan to protect banks from mass withdrawals by panicked
depositors -- at least for the next months.

It announced money over $10,000 in checking accounts and $3,000 in savings
accounts will be switched into fixed-term deposits that will be off-limits to
depositors for at least a year.

Argentines had expected the government of President Eduardo Duhalde to lift
banking restrictions yesterday, but instead it extended a ban on foreign
exchange transactions until today, when people exchanging pesos for dollars must
pay a floating rate.

Smaller balances could be transferred into pesos at the new official rate of 1.4
pesos to the dollar and withdrawn according to limits in place since Dec. 1,
after a run on banks saw Argentines yank $2 billion in a single day.

Argentines can now withdraw 1,500 pesos, or just more than $1,000 at the new
official rate, from their checking accounts monthly, and an extra 1,200 pesos --
about $860 -- from savings accounts.

Waiting in line at a downtown branch of Banco Rio, Marcelo Borselli, 31, a
security guard who earns $570 a month, was desperate to withdraw his savings.

"I need to get my hands on my money. The government has to lift these
restrictions," he said.

The next move the government could make -- lifting a ban on foreign exchange
transactions, in place since street violence ousted former President Fernando de
la Rua last month -- is fraught with danger.

The government has eased the peso's decade-old peg to the U.S. dollar to 1.4
pesos per dollar for imports, exports and large-scale business transactions, in
the hope of boosting local industry and exports.

But ordinary Argentines buying hard currency must pay a floating free-market
rate.

If that rate plummets, it could set Argentina on a course for the kind of
hyperinflation that wracked the economy in the 1980s.

Deputy Economy Minister Jorge Todesca said government would soon try to
renegotiate its foreign debt.

Confidence is hardly likely to return short term, as Argentines and Wall Street
analysts alike fear the government is making up policy as it goes along.

"There's no time for test runs, changes of plan or U-turns," read a front-page
editorial in the business newspaper Buenos Aires Economico. "The government ...
has increasingly less room to maneuver to find a serious and rational path to
lead the country out of turmoil."

President Duhalde, a populist critical of free-market economics, is trying to
soothe both Argentines and angry foreign investors who sank nearly $90 billion
into Argentina between 1994 and 2000.

Walter Molano, chief Latin American economist at BCP Securities in Greenwich,
Conn., predicted foreign banks would be loath to bring in fresh capital to prop
up their Argentine operations in the current climate.

"It is not logical to surrender precious resources in order to save a marginal
market," he said.

"I would not be too surprised to see foreign owners walk away. They made a bet,
and lost."

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Dario Lopez-Mills/Associated Press: People wait in line to enter
the Buenos Aires branch of Lloyds Bank yesterday morning. Argentines lined up at
banks yesterday to find that they still couldn't withdraw savings or buy foreign
currency after the government delayed lifting banking restrictions.

                       Copyright 2002 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              238 of 291 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                     March 23, 2002 Saturday SOONER EDITION

NOTHING'S SACRED;
 IN WAKE OF ENRON, EVEN GE FACES QUERIES FROM ANALYSTS

BYLINE: JOHN CHRISTOFFERSEN, THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg.A-8

LENGTH: 640 words

DATELINE: FAIRFIELD, Conn.


For years, General Electric Co. has sat atop the marketplace as the world's most
valuable and, in some estimations, most admired company.

But as the economic downturn and collapse of Enron Corp. led to unprecedented
scrutiny of corporations, even blue-chip companies that pride themselves on
consistently strong profits are facing challenges.

The climate change was evident this week when William Gross, a leading bond fund
manager, issued a blunt report raising concerns about the proportion of
short-term debt held by GE Capital, the financing arm of GE. He also challenged
the company's explanation for issuing $11 billion in longer-term bonds and the
source of its consistently strong profits.

"The corporation's honesty remains in doubt," wrote Gross, who heads Pacific
Investment Management.

GE denied misleading investors and noted that it has been stepping up its
disclosures, most recently in its annual report.

"We understand people are interested in more disclosure and we are trying to
provide it," said Gary Sheffer, a GE spokesman.

GE issued a statement Thursday that detailed plans to reduce short-term debt and
reaffirmed its earnings plans for this year and next year.

"GE is obviously adjusting to the reality and potential risk in the marketplace,
which has changed in the last six months," Jeanne G. Terrile, first vice
president of Merrill Lynch, wrote in a report Thursday. "No individual company
can always count on being able to sail around a crisis of confidence in the
marketplace."

Terrile predicted that rating agencies should be pleased by GE's efforts to
shift its debt load from short-term commercial paper to longer-term bonds.

GE Capital, the company's financing arm, has commercial paper outstanding which
totals three times the size of lines of credit with its banks which back them
up, Gross wrote. Normally companies that borrow in the commercial paper market
are required to have bank lines at least equal to their commercial paper, he
said.

Without the benefit of using so much low-cost commercial paper, Gross said, GE's
operations "to me resemble more closely the failed conglomerates of yesteryear
such as Gulf Western and LTV."

Commercial paper allows companies such as GE to reduce expenses by borrowing at
a lower interest rate than issuing bonds. But relying too much on commercial
paper can pose risks if the market runs into trouble.

Gross declared that his fund will not own GE commercial paper in the foreseeable
future.

Gross also questioned the explanations given by GE Chief Executive Officer
Jeffrey Immelt and his predecessor, Jack Welch, for the company's steady and
stellar growth in earnings.

"It grows earnings not so much by the brilliance of management or the diversity
of their operations, as Welch and Immelt claim, but through the acquisition of
companies (more than 100 companies in each of the last five years)...," Gross
wrote.

GE Capital entered the year with a high proportion of commercial paper in its
debt because of substantial growth in assets during the fourth quarter, GE said.
GE Capital is increasing its backup bank lines from $33.5 billion to $50 billion
and plans to reduce the use of commercial paper as a percentage of debt to 25 to
35 percent by the end of the year, down from 42 percent now, GE said.

Shares of GE declined in the wake of Gross's report. Yesterday, GE stock ended
at $37.87, up 42 cents.

While investors are nervous about accounting and finance issues in general, some
observers think applying those fears to GE are still misplaced.

"It's absolutely one of the highest-quality companies in the world," said John
Inch, an industrial analyst with Bear Sterns in New York. "People who might like
to think there are integrity issues at GE are just barking up the wrong tree."


LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jim Mcknight/Associated Press: General Electric Co.'s Chief
Executive Jeffrey Immelt is under scrutiny after the collapse of Enron Corp.
Analysts have questioned the company's steady earnings through acquisition of
companies rather through sound management.

                       Copyright 2002 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              240 of 291 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                      April 22, 2002 Monday SOONER EDITION

BUSH ADMINISTRATION HAS EYES ON ANOTHER ALASKA OIL PRIZE

BYLINE: KIM MURPHY, LOS ANGELES TIMES

SECTION: WORLD, Pg.A-7

LENGTH: 1059 words

DATELINE: ANCHORAGE, Alaska


The U.S. Senate last week rejected oil drilling on the Arctic National Wildlife
Refuge, but the Bush administration quietly is preparing to open 9.6 million
acres of pristine coastal lands on the other side of Alaska's North Slope for
oil and gas leasing in 2004.

Unlike ANWR, the lands within the National Petroleum Reserve-Alaska, west of the
Prudhoe Bay oil field, do not require further congressional approval for oil
drilling.

U.S. Interior Secretary Gale Norton has ordered federal land managers to move
quickly to expand leasing within the reserve, where the oil industry found
potentially significant deposits during an initial lease sale on 4.6 million
acres opened for exploration in 1999.

The amount of oil underlying the reserve won't be known until May, when the U.S.
Geological Service completes its study, although the quantities are likely much
less than what the Arctic refuge holds. A draft environmental impact statement
on expanded leasing in the reserve is due to be completed at the end of this
year.

The reserve is the summer home to millions of migratory birds, the largest lake
in the American Arctic and 500,000 caribou. With 23.5 million acres, the NPRA is
the largest tract of undeveloped land in North America. It has not galvanized
opponents the way neighboring ANWR has because it is not a designated wildlife
refuge, and because its wide sweep of tundra potentially can accommodate both
wildlife and oil wells more easily than the narrow ribbon of coast in the Arctic
refuge.

"The NPRA doesn't get the level of attention for developing areas of protection
that it should, primarily because a lot of the attention is focused on trying to
protect the Arctic refuge," said Deb Moore of the Northern Alaska Environmental
Center. In the meantime, center officials said in a recent report, "A vast wild
lands in Alaska's western Arctic stands to be defaced and irrevocably
transfigured."

The Clinton administration launched recent exploration within the reserve,
signing leases on 1 million acres in the northeastern section nearest the
Prudhoe Bay and Kuparuk oil fields in 1999. At the time, there was speculation
that the move could help take development pressure off the Arctic refuge, 100
miles to the east.

But the Bush administration has moved forward on both fronts, citing the
nation's dependence on volatile foreign oil suppliers. As early as June 3, the
Bureau of Land Management will reopen the 4.6 million-acre northeast quadrant
originally offered for leasing in 1999, confident that recent oil discoveries
there will boost interest on about 3 million acres still available.

Two of the reserve's most stunning areas are Teshekpuk Lake and the Colville
River bluffs, a major nesting area for peregrine falcon and other raptors.

Both are considered world-class wildlife areas. Up to one-quarter of the Pacific
flyway population of brant (33,000 were counted one year) molt near the lake,
and up to 27,000 Canada geese have been counted in some years. Both areas were
largely set aside during the 1999 lease sales.

But conservation groups say there are areas elsewhere in the reserve that also
deserve protection because of their importance as wildlife habitat or
archaeological treasures (evidence of human habitation in this part of the
Arctic dates back 11,000 years).

"The ecological integrity of the North Slope is at serious risk from unplanned,
piecemeal and damaging development. The most biologically rich and recognized
wildlife and wilderness values of the region are not permanently protected,"
those groups told the BLM.

In addition to birds, conservation groups have raised concerns about moose, gray
wolves, grizzly bears, polar bears, seals and beluga whales that depend on the
reserve, along with the 400,000 to 450,000 animals of the Western Arctic caribou
herd, the largest in America. The herd's concentrated calving area lies mostly
along the southwestern border of the area proposed for oil drilling in 2004.

Audubon Alaska and other groups have urged the BLM to invest in comprehensive
studies now to allow oil development to proceed in a way that would protect the
reserve's most important resources.

Oil is not the only resource within the NPRA. The reserve also contains large
quantities of hard-rock minerals and the nation's largest deposit of coal.

Gene Terland, the BLM's acting associate state director in Alaska, said the
agency is in the process of drafting alternative development scenarios that will
look at protection of wild and scenic rivers, subsistence issues and wildlife
resources. But oil and gas leasing will be "the primary activity," he said.

In May, in an announcement that sent shock waves through the oil industry
because the NPRA before had shown so little promise, Phillips said it had struck
oil in five of six wells drilled over the previous two seasons in the NPRA. How
much oil it discovered has not been disclosed, but it could be sizable.

As oil development begins to probe the outer reaches of the North Slope, the
logistical challenges are becoming formidable. During the debate on ANWR on
Capitol Hill, industry officials pledged they could limit damage to Arctic
wildlife and tundra by restricting exploration to the winter and hauling in
equipment over temporary ice roads.

But parts of the NPRA might be too far for ice roads, BLM officials say. "This
stuff way out there, you're looking at whole new logistical challenges there,"
BLM spokesman Ed Bovy said.

This year, Phillips built about 30 miles of ice roads within the NPRA and went a
step further, opening a wildcat well known as Hunter 52 miles past the end of
the farthest ice road. The drilling rig and associated equipment were hauled in
on a monstrous, soft-wheeled vehicle known as a Rolligon, capable of moving over
roadless snow. It took 188 trips, eight hours each, to move an estimated 5.5
million pounds of equipment to the Hunter drilling site.

Developing more efficient ways of operating on ice roads is crucial. Yet because
of changes in the Arctic climate regime, the window for operating in the winter
months is becoming smaller all the time.

So far, the federal government has pledged not to allow any new exploration that
involves gravel roads, which leave a scar on the fragile tundra, even decades
after oil activity has ceased.

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2002 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              254 of 291 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                    August 11, 2002 Sunday FIVE STAR EDITION

AVIATION INDUSTRY SAYS IT IS IN THE DARK;
 INFORMATION SHARING IS A SENSITIVE SUBJECT IN AIR SECURITY

BYLINE: GREG SCHNEIDER, THE WASHINGTON POST

SECTION: NATIONAL, Pg.A-10

LENGTH: 1270 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


After using passengers' belts to tie Richard C. Reid to his seat aboard American
Airlines Flight 63 in December, a reserve pilot took Reid's shoes into the
cockpit for a closer look.

There he discovered the shoes were rigged with a bomb and realized that he had
just carried them into the most sensitive part of the plane.

Calling it "one of the dumbest things I ever did," the reserve pilot, identified
only as Kent in a videotape prepared by his union, said he would not have made
such a blunder if he had known what his airline knew: The federal government was
on the lookout for terrorists putting weapons in shoes.

American Airlines Inc. officials were warned about shoes less than two weeks
before Reid's Dec. 22 flight, but never told flight crews because the government
did not make it clear that they should, an airline spokesman said.

That is the most harrowing known example of blind spots that persist in the air
security system nearly a year after the Sept. 11 attacks.

The federal government has made few changes to the system for alerting airlines
and airports about terrorist threats. While Congress has budgeted billions of
dollars for revamping baggage and passenger screening and mounted investigations
into how agencies share intelligence with one another, the aviation community
continues to complain that it is out of the loop.

Pilots, airlines and airport managers argue that improved security means not
just catching a bomber at the airport, but also anticipating his actions and
disrupting them in advance, which requires having better access to information.

Plans to greatly expand intelligence under the new Transportation Security
Administration have faded under skepticism from Congress, which has cut the
agency's budget and urged it to focus on checkpoint screening.

Even without an expansion, the agency needs a new infrastructure of secure
communications to relay intelligence to all U.S. airports. That system is being
planned, but officials would not comment on when it would be completed. In the
meantime, the proposed formation of a new Department of Homeland Security has
cast doubt on the TSA's role in intelligence.

Push for pilot guns

The climate of uncertainty is a key factor in the push by airline pilots for the
right to carry guns in the cockpit. Many pilots say they feel powerless and
uninformed, and they exchange heated e-mails describing ongoing security
breaches that they believe the government and the airlines are not communicating
about.

The airlines, which oppose arming pilots, are using the same argument about lack
of intelligence information to push instead for a smart-card system to identify
"trusted travelers."

Leaders at the TSA and the Transportation Department, none of whom would allow
themselves to be identified discussing the sensitive topic, insist that
intelligence is not suffering, and point to a number of recent improvements to
the system.

The TSA's intelligence unit has more than doubled in size, to 83 staffers, since
being transferred over from the Federal Aviation Administration earlier this
year. Part of that staff includes a new intelligence group dedicated to the
federal air marshals, who can be put onto particular flights more easily because
of new scheduling software. And a new secure Web site allows airports and
airlines to have quicker access to watch-lists of suspicious travelers.

Critics acknowledge that in a life-or-death emergency, the government likely
would find a way to communicate with the right people. But even some of the
TSA's own federal security directors, put into individual airports to oversee
every aspect of security, complain that they are being shut out of the daily ebb
and flow of threat information.

The periodic warnings put out by the TSA strike some as "a big joke," said an
airline security official who requested anonymity. "They're always so vague that
a lot of us opt to not even put the information out there. ... I've never seen
one that was the least bit ... detailed. It's more like, 'We have informed
sources that advise there is a threat against U.S. corporations and airlines
either here or in Europe.' It's like, oh, well, we kinda already knew that."

Two threats discussed

TSA officials recently gathered to discuss two pieces of intelligence
information, according to a source within the agency. One tip warned that
terrorists might use artificial limbs to conceal weapons. Another said there is
renewed danger in allowing non-citizens to rent or lease aircraft.

Neither tip contained specific details, and reacting to either could produce
loads of thorny consequences. Should the TSA order airports to single out
amputees for searches? How will flight schools survive if foreign pilots are
prohibited from renting planes?

TSA staffers met recently with U.S. Customs officials to learn how that agency
handles the issue of smuggling and artificial limbs, but so far have taken no
action.

The other tip led the FAA to restrict foreign access to U.S. pilot licenses
while still allowing non-citizens to take flying lessons, though a
Transportation Department spokesman said the government would keep an eye on
that situation.

The TSA's intelligence unit gets those kinds of tips by culling through CIA and
other government briefings, as well as raw data passed on from airports and
airlines.

It operates around the clock in a special suite of offices in the FAA's
Washington headquarters, with shielded walls and encrypted phone lines to
prevent eavesdropping.

The TSA has expanded the intelligence unit by hiring experts who specialize in
certain world hot spots or various modes of transportation. The agency got $9
million in intelligence funding for 2002 and has requested $14 million for 2003
to support an increase from 83 to 100 staffers.

After the TSA gets information, it can issue a security directive, ordering
airlines or airports to take specific precautions, or an information circular,
which is a broader warning. Both documents are widely distributed via e-mail or
fax and often leaked to the press. Thus the information is "scrubbed" to remove
sensitive details that could compromise intelligence networks. That results in
vague language, such as in this information circular from December:

"The U.S. government has information indicating that a possible aviation-related
terrorist attack on U.S. interests or military forces may occur within the next
24 to 48 hours.

There are no details available regarding location, modus operandi or the
identity of the perpetrators."

Before Sept. 11, the FAA sometimes sent out more detailed information through
secure links with its eight regional offices around the country. The TSA is
dismantling those offices and instead plans to set up secure communications with
federal security directors overseeing each of the nation's 429 airports.

Large airports will have their own directors, and small airports will share
them, so the TSA will must build links to nearly 200 such offices to replace the
FAA's eight. Through those secure links, the TSA hopes to send out intelligence
information in a quieter and more targeted way, changing each airport's security
procedures with minimal public attention.

But already some federal security directors complain that they are having
trouble getting intelligence.

Because they are not sworn law enforcement officers, several directors said in
interviews, they are being kicked out of meetings among local law enforcement
officials, and federal agencies like the FBI do not recognize their authority.

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2002 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              261 of 291 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                   September 17, 2002 Tuesday SOONER EDITION

HOME NO ASSET HAVEN?;
 AFTER CORPORATE SCANDALS, HIDING MILLIONS IN MANSIONS MAY BECOME HARDER

BYLINE: JILL BARTON, THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg.E-1 THE WORKING LIFE

LENGTH: 646 words

DATELINE: BOCA RATON, Fla.


Executives and celebrities have long poured millions into magnificent estates in
Florida and a few other states, knowing that if they file for bankruptcy their
grand homes can't be touched.  But with the recent string of corporate scandals,
some disgraced executives might not be able to take advantage of such provisions
much longer.

Tired of millionaires taking advantage of liberal bankruptcy laws, U.S.
lawmakers are pursuing legislation to curb alleged abuses of the so-called
homestead exemption. One provision would require a person to live in a home for
40 months to claim the exemption.

"The goal is if some famous person moves to Florida and buys a huge home, you
can force [him] involuntarily into bankruptcy and [he] won't get to keep the
house," said University of Florida law professor Jeffrey Davis, who has
consulted with Florida lawmakers about changes in state law.

Under the legislation, if someone like ousted WorldCom chief financial officer
Scott Sullivan were to declare bankruptcy, he could not keep the lavish $15
million estate, complete with movie theater and six Jacuzzis, that he is
building in Boca Raton. Sullivan was arrested last month on charges of
falsifying the books by more than $3.8 billion; he used the home as collateral
for his $10 million bail.

Florida, Texas, Iowa, Kansas and South Dakota have unlimited homestead
exemptions that allow people who declare bankruptcy to keep their homes while
creditors scramble to seize everything else.

Experts said the vast majority of the nearly 1.5 million people who file for
personal bankruptcy each year have homes valued at less than $125,000. Attorney
Stuart Young said new restrictions could hurt people who need protection, such
as retirees who become overwhelmed with medical bills or college students who
run up too much credit card debt.

Sen. Herb Kohl, D-Wis., who has been pushing for reforms, said that while people
have been abusing the system for years, the Enron debacle has heightened the
concerns. Authorities are trying to seize millions in assets from Enron
executives.

Florida's rules were derived from its past as a Spanish possession and were
designed about a century ago to lure people to its mosquito-infested, steamy
climate.

"The concept was even if you owe debts, it wasn't responsible to make you
homeless, so the family was protected even if the dad was a drunkard or a
gambler," said G. Ray Warner, resident scholar at the American Bankruptcy
Institute and a law professor at the University of Missouri.

With Florida's population booming, the rules lost their original purpose long
ago.

Corporate raider Paul Bilzerian walked away from $300 million in debts while
keeping a $5 million Florida mansion, despite a conviction on fraud charges and
a 13-month prison sentence in the 1980s.

Actor Burt Reynolds declared bankruptcy in 1996, but creditors could not touch
Valhalla, his $2.5 million estate in Hobe Sound. O.J. Simpson used the rules to
exempt his home from the $33.5 million civil verdict against him over the
slayings of his ex-wife and her friend.

Marvin Warner, a one-time ambassador to Switzerland, bought a Florida horse farm
while seeking protection from $300 million in debt after his Ohio-based bank
failed in 1985.

Other disgraced executives have homes in Florida and Texas but have not filed
for bankruptcy. They include former Tyco International chief executive Dennis
Koz-lowski, who is accused of using a $19 million no-interest loan from his
company to pay for his personal palace in Boca Raton.

Still, even if the laws are amended, experts said the wealthy would find ways to
protect their assets.

"The sophisticated debtors are going to move it out of the country, to an
account in the Caymans, for example, or hide it in some other way," Warner said.


LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Taylor Jones/Associated Press: Former WorldCom chief financial
officer Scott Sullivan used his $15 million estate near Boca Raton, Fla., as
collateral last month when he posted $10 million bail after his indictment on
conspiracy charges. The photo was taken June 28, when the house was under
construction.

                       Copyright 2002 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              265 of 291 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                   November 30, 2002 Saturday SOONER EDITION

EL NINO BECALMED HURRICANE SEASON;
 EXPERTS DON'T EXPECT TO BE LUCKY NEXT YEAR

BYLINE: PATRICK REYNA, THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: NATIONAL, Pg.A-2

LENGTH: 390 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


With only four hurricanes, the Atlantic storm season that ends today was the
calmest in five years, and forecasters were thanking the climate effect known as
El Nino.

Don't expect such help next year, though. Storm expert William Gray said El Nino
will probably be gone before the new season begins July 1, and he echoed the
concerns of other forecasters over the potential for a killer storm.

"It's quite ominous because there's been such a buildup of people along the
Southeast coast," said Gray, from Colorado State University.

In all, the season produced a dozen tropical storms, two more than average. The
four hurricanes -- Gustav, Isidore, Kyle and Lili -- were two fewer than
average, and all developed in less than a month, between Sept. 8 and Oct. 4.

Eight of the 12 cyclones came in September, setting a monthly record, said Ed
Rappaport, deputy director of the National Hurricane Center in Miami.

El Nino also suppressed hurricane activity in 1997, but federal forecasters
hadn't expected it to be strong enough to have an impact this year.

El Nino is characterized by an abnormally warm sea surface in the central
equatorial Pacific Ocean. This results in increased evaporation and rising air
currents that can affect the winds overhead that steer the movement of weather.

Despite El Nino, northern tropical storms were plentiful. Six came ashore in the
United States.

The year's deadliest and most powerful storm, however, came ashore in Louisiana,
the first hurricane to make landfall in the United States in three years.

Lili struck on Oct. 2 as a Category 2 storm with top sustained winds of 110 mph
after it had already buried a mother and her three children in a mudslide in St.
Vincent in the eastern Caribbean.

The storm took four more lives in Jamaica.

A swing north across the Gulf of Mexico saw Lili grow, with winds reaching 145
mph, but it weakened significantly before hitting Louisiana -- surprising
weather experts.

"This is the most recent example of problems we have in forecasting tropical
intensification changes or weakening," Rappaport said.

Gray will issue his first hurricane forecast for 2003 next Friday, and he's
expecting storm activity to kick up again.

"We think we'll be back in the era of six of the last eight years," he said. "We
think we're in an upswing."

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2002 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              269 of 291 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                      April 9, 2002 Tuesday SOONER EDITION

AS COLLAPSE OF ENRON SHOWS, SUCCESS IN THE NEW ECONOMY CAN BE FLEETING;
 SPEED OF INNOVATION CAN QUICKLY MAKE A GOOD IDEA OBSOLETE

BYLINE: GREG IP, THE WALL STREET JOURNAL

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg.F-32 THE TOP 50

LENGTH: 2242 words


When Winstar Communications Inc. filed for bankruptcy-court protection last
April, it listed $5 billion in assets, including a network providing local phone
and Internet service in 60 cities.

A few months later, executives from Third Avenue Trusts, a New York firm that
often invests in bankrupt companies, mulled bidding about $150 million for
Winstar's assets. After checking around, they worried that Winstar had a
reputation for unreliable technology and customer service. And its industry was
too chaotic for chief executive officer Martin Whitman to feel confident.
"There's got to be great opportunity in the Winstars of this world. I just can't
tell you who is a good telecom company or who's a bad telecom company," he said.

Winstar's assets later sold for $42 million. For all the money it spent building
switching stations, wiring buildings and deploying rooftop antennas, the company
couldn't find enough customers. Without them, its network was a collection of
rapidly depreciating equipment that couldn't support Winstar's crushing debt
load.

Winstar's descent from multibillion-dollar telecom star to near worthlessness in
less than two years illustrates a fundamental change in the longevity of
companies. Value today is increasingly derived from intangible assets --
intellectual property, innovative technology, financial services or reputation.
As Winstar's investors and lenders found, the value of such assets can erode
with shocking speed if customers find something better.

Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan noted recently that "a firm is
inherently fragile if its value-added emanates more from conceptual as distinct
from physical assets." An office building or auto factory can keep producing
even if its management is discredited, whereas Enron Corp.'s collapse shows the
vulnerability of a company whose value is based on its reputation, he said.
"Trust and reputation can vanish overnight. A factory cannot."

Winstar is among the most spectacular in a wave of corporate meltdowns that has
claimed energy trader Enron, broadband pioneer Global Crossing Ltd. and storied
photographic innovator Polaroid Corp., which had more than 3,000 patents when it
filed for bankruptcy protection last fall. As stunning as their failure is how
little they've left behind.

Consider what investors are paying for the debt of companies in bankruptcy
protection, ownership of which often brings control of a company. Enron's bonds
now trade for 13 cents on the dollar, Polaroid's for 5 cents, and Global
Crossing's for 2 cents, proof of how little investors think they can recover.
Accounting firm Arthur Andersen LLP is fighting for its life because of the
erosion of its "capitalized reputation," to use Greenspan's phrase.

The recession, accounting gimmickry and bursting of the technology bubble have
been factors in these collapses. But rapid technological change and the
increasing importance of intellectual, as opposed to physical, property suggest
that once these recent factors have faded, corporations will still be more
vulnerable to swift extinction than they once were.

Fifty years ago, tangible assets such as real estate, equipment and inventories
represented 78 percent of the assets of United States nonfinancial corporations.
Today, the proportion is 53 percent, according to Federal Reserve data. Much of
the shift is due to growth in intangible assets such as patents, copyrights and
goodwill -- the difference between what a company pays to acquire another and
the net worth of the acquisition as reported on its balance sheet. Leonard
Nakamura, a researcher at the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia, estimates
that annual investment in intangible assets, which he classifies as research and
development, software purchases and advertising, rose from 4 percent of gross
domestic product in 1978 to almost 10 percent in 2000.

In the last decade, many companies tried to relieve themselves of hard assets.
Enron's strategy was to move away from making money by delivering gas through
pipelines and generating electricity. Instead, it wanted to become a trader,
buying and selling gas, power and broadband capacity in markets it was pushing
to deregulate.

"People like assets, they can go in the field and kick them," Enron's
then-president Jeffrey Skilling said in an interview in 2000. "It gives people a
certain warm feeling. What's becoming clear is that there's nothing magic about
hard assets. They don't generate cash. What does is a better solution for your
customer. And increasingly that's intellectual, not physical assets, driven.

"The market is sending us a very clear signal," Skilling went on. "We are in a
new economy, and the market is willing to pay for market position, not
necessarily assets."

Skilling poured resources into EnronOnline, an electronic marketplace that at
one point handled a quarter of the over-the-counter electricity and natural-gas
trades in the country. But when Enron was engulfed by a crisis of confidence
over its use of off-balance-sheet partnerships to hide debt, its hard assets
kept it alive for a while as its intellectual assets pulled it down. Enron used
its gas pipelines as collateral to secure $1 billion in new credit lines in
early November.

As EnronOnline's customers demanded more collateral or stopped doing business
with it, its trading volume melted away in what Skilling later told Congress was
a "classic run on the bank." UBS Warburg later bought Enron's trading unit,
including EnronOnline, in exchange for a royalty on future profits; it paid no
cash.

The most valuable companies today, with a few exceptions, make most of their
money from intangible assets: Microsoft Corp.'s software, Pfizer Inc.'s drug
patents and Walt Disney Co.'s film and television productions. Even the world's
most valuable company, General Electric Co., though known as an industrial
company, derives a quarter of its profit from financial services. These
formidable franchises are unlikely to erode soon. But rapid shifts in corporate
standings show nothing can be taken for granted.

Total collapses remain rare, but major reversals of fortune are not. In the
1981-82 bear market, three of the 100 largest companies in Standard & Poor's
500-stock index lost at least two-thirds of their market value, according to
Aronson & Partners, a money-management firm. In the 1990 bear market, none did.

In the latest bear market, 26 companies at some point sustained losses of that
magnitude. Most are technology and telecommunications companies, including
Hewlett-Packard Co. and AT&T Corp. But the losers also include broker Charles
Schwab Corp. and retailer Gap Inc.

A big factor is the pace of innovation, which rapidly outdates intangible
assets. Twenty years ago, Polaroid was among the world's most admired technology
companies. But its franchise in both consumer and commercial instant photo
developing was eaten away first by one-hour photo labs and later by digital
imaging. Many of the company's attempts to develop new products proved costly
failures.

Big pharmaceutical companies earned immense profits and rich stock valuations in
the 1990s from their intellectual property. Now some of them are seeing profits
and values threatened as patents expire and their labs labor to produce new
ones. Schering-Plough Corp.'s stock has lost nearly half its value since late
2000 as it struggles to replace the revenue it will lose when its allergy drug
Claritin loses patent protection. ImClone Systems Inc.'s market value plunged by
two-thirds last year when the Food and Drug Administration refused to consider
its application for approval of its cancer drug.

Upstart biotechnology companies, meanwhile, helped by new drug-discovery
techniques, accounted for about 18 percent of traditional drug approvals in the
1990s, up from 11 percent in the 1980s, says Joseph DiMasi, director of economic
analysis at Tufts University's Center for the Study of Drug Development. Their
existence is even more volatile, since their value is based not on their labs
but on experimental treatments which can fail in clinical trials or be rejected
by regulators. While biotech pioneer Amgen Inc., 22 years old, commands a market
value bigger than century-old Schering-Plough, numerous other biotech companies
have disappeared in the last decade.

The speed of technological change also played a role in eroding the value of
companies in the fiber-optic communications business, exacerbating a glut
generally blamed on the stampede of companies laying cable. A technology called
dense wavelength division multiplexing, developed in the 1980s and deployed
during the latter half of the 1990s, vastly increased the capacity of each fiber
strand. It was as if a change in the traffic signals turned a single-lane
highway into a 160-lane highway, says Wynn Quon, an Ottawa, Ontario, technology
consultant.

Early users got a cost and speed advantage. But almost all the start-up carriers
began applying the new technology as soon as they could. "We leap-frogged each
other," said Jason Martin, Williams Communications Group Inc.'s director of
technology. Along with other advances in transmission technology, DWDM increased
the capacity of optical fibers. Carriers cut prices in hopes of gaining market
share. Demand fell short of expectations, and the glut was aggravated by the
increased capacity made possible by DWDM.

"If we were restricted to the old transmission technology, we would have needed
all the fiber in the ground we had, plus more," said Andrew Odlyzko, director of
the University of Minnesota's Digital Technology Center. Many of the upstart
broadband carriers would have done quite well, he says. Instead, most are in
bankruptcy protection or close to it.

Broadband has often been compared with canals, railways, and even the early
telecommunications systems, which were also typically financed with debt. "This
made sense because they were matching long-lived assets with long-lived
liabilities," noted Michael Mauboussin, United States investment strategist at
Credit Suisse First Boston. But, he said, financing broadband networks with debt
was a mistake. Innovation altered the economics of the business faster than the
debt could be paid. Had companies financed their networks with stock instead,
they would have been spared the crushing interest payments and more would likely
have survived.

The combination of heavy debts, falling revenue, and skittish investors as well
as the rapid obsolescence of yesterday's technology are producing a tide of
bankruptcy filings. Forty percent of the largest filings since 1980 have
occurred since the beginning of 2001, according to Edward Altman, a New York
University finance professor. And recovery rates -- what lenders can expect to
get back after companies are restructured or their assets sold -- were an
estimated 21 cents on the dollar last year, excluding financial-services company
Finova Group Inc., whose assets were subject to an unusual bidding war. That's
the lowest since Altman began gathering data in 1978.

Winstar's assets, at first glance, seemed valuable. The company offered local
phone service -- a business that didn't experience the capacity glut of
long-haul fiber. By using wireless antennas, it evaded local Bell companies'
control over wires that connect buildings. By 2000, Winstar had wired, or had
the rights to wire, 5,400 buildings. It expanded its services to long-haul
broadband, Web hosting and online business services. Its payroll peaked at 4,500
in early 2001.

But while Winstar claimed tens of thousands of customers, it had trouble serving
them, subjecting them, among other things, to mistake-prone billing systems.
Whitman's New York investment company had subscribed to Winstar's service, but
it found that bad weather or construction of a new building nearby would
occasionally interfere with radio signals and interrupt service. His firm went
back to AT&T.

"Our guess was if you had the choice, you would take cable over this because
these are antennas sitting on a roof," subject to possible physical or
electronic interference, says Peter Faulkner, who was then among Whitman's
associates. Convinced Winstar's creditors had unrealistic expectations of the
value of its assets, Third Avenue never made a formal bid for the company.

That December, IDT Corp., a Newark, N.J., firm that specializes in buying
telecom assets on the cheap, bought Winstar's assets for less than a third of
the price Third Avenue had considered paying. IDT Chairman Howard Jonas says
Winstar's faulty billing systems have been replaced. He argues its antenna-based
phone service by some measures is more reliable than fiber-optic cables, which
can be damaged by underground water seepage or excavation work, and IDT plans to
expand it. But IDT also is pulling Winstar out of many smaller cities that
didn't have enough buildings for its network to be profitable. All but a few
hundred of the company's workers have been laid off.

Whitman doesn't doubt someone will make a lot of money from telecom assets such
as Winstar's. It just won't be him. He has pursued more familiar ventures such
as Safelite Glass, a chain of auto-glass-repair shops whose debt he bought for
50 to 60 cents on the dollar back in 1999. Safelite has since emerged from
bankruptcy protection. "How much older economy can you get than that?" he ased.

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2002 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              273 of 291 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                   December 15, 2002 Sunday FIVE STAR EDITION

IMAGES ON PAPER MONEY REVEAL A NATION'S PRIORITIES

BYLINE: DAVID STANDISH, UNIVERSAL PRESS SYNDICATE

SECTION: TRAVEL, Pg.G-6

LENGTH: 1716 words


When traveling abroad, most of us usually think about the local currency only in
terms of how many -- or how few -- pesos, yen or pounds constitute one U.S.
dollar. We hardly pay any attention to what the money looks like.

But the images and designs on a country's paper money say a lot about it.
Through their money, countries project their self- image to foreigners and their
own citizens, too. They reveal what's important to them, what they think is
special and wonderful about themselves, and how they want to be seen by the
world.

Not long after President Richard Nixon's first visit in 1972, China came up with
two separate currencies, one for regular folks and another for the new influx of
tourists. The tourist yuan bills were new and crisp and looked like cigarette
coupons from the 1950s. Engraved on the front were tranquil bucolic scenes,
while on the back were instructions in English on their proper use.

The other notes were worn, dingy, barely two-thirds the size of the tourist
yuan, and emblazoned with images not from Chinese landscape painting, but of
socialism on the march. There were happy workers bearing hoes, and one note
featured a young woman in hitch-'em-up overalls riding a tractor like a proud
cowboy. China was supposed to be waterfalls and picturesque mountainscapes to
visitors, but cheerful communal work to the Chinese.

The differences among currencies from Caribbean nations are another example of
contrasting messages. A lot of them look like they were ripped out of
come-hither travel brochures.

The back of the current Cayman Islands $10, for example, is a shot of a perfect
crescent beach with a windsurfer zipping along on the water and a leaning palm
tree shading an open treasure chest (the last possibly a subliminal ad for
Cayman banking practices), all framed by fetching undersea creatures. True beach
money.

But then there's Jamaica. One of the appealing things about Jamaica is that it's
a country with a complex history, not just a beach, and you can see this on the
money. Pictured on the $2 and the $10 are Paul Bogle and George William Gordon.
Both were leaders of the failed Morant Bay Rebellion of 1865, a movement to give
greater rights to newly freed slaves, and both were executed for their trouble.

Rather than a beach or colorful undersea scene, the back of the $10 shows a
bulldozer, earthmover and crane digging away. Putting a mining site on the money
says that the bauxite industry is as important a part of Jamaica's economy as
agriculture and tourism.

So there's a lot to be learned by actually looking at foreign paper money.

Certain visual themes emerge. The most common are fearless leaders, the great
and near great, just folks, local pastimes, the romance of industry,
transportation, agriculture 101, zoo parade and tough guys.

Most represented are fearless leaders, past and present. Who's on every Iraqi
bill? You guessed it: Saddam Hussein. Because money is produced by governments,
it's no surprise that there's a certain institutional narcissism, with
politicians on the front and a dull governmental building on the back. Our own
paper money is a perfect, and perfectly boring, example of this practice.

Happily, many countries are more enlightened about their choices, representing
artists, writers, musicians and scientists -- people notable for accomplishing
something other than running a country. Australia is pretty hip in this regard.
There's only one politician in 10 portraits, and that's Elizabeth Cowen, who
became the first female member of Parliament in 1921.

The stark-blue $10 is really peculiar. Its face features A.B. "Banjo" Patterson
(the Outback poet and storyteller who wrote "Waltzing Matilda," Australia's
unofficial anthem) wearing a jaunty, understated western hat. To his left
there's a cowboy galloping on horseback, flicking a whip at a group of wild
horses that seem to be racing out of Banjo's right neck and shoulder, like
spooked equine Athenas.

These are superimposed on a cacophony of circles and curves, plus a see-through
holographic window with a windmill in it. There's little danger of nodding off
while handling Australian money. (It's also technologically advanced and since
1996 has all been printed on a thin, flexible polymer -- plastic by any other
name.)

Peru's 10-nuevos soles note celebrates a truly local hero, J. Abelardo Quinones,
flying upside down. In 1941, while World War II was occupying nearly everyone's
attention, a short, bloody border war broke out between Peru and Ecuador. Both
sides claimed that the other had invaded first. Peru won, coming away with a
huge chunk of Ecuador's piece of the Amazon basin.

Even such little-noticed conflicts have their heroes. Quinones was a 21-year-old
Peruvian army aviator, and one of the original fearless hot dogs, whose
upside-down evasive maneuver during one battle is commemorated on the bill. He
was killed in action.

A few currencies have guys on them you really wouldn't want to run into in a
dark alley. Starring on Mexico's 100-peso note is Nezahualcoyotl, who was the
ruler of a state on Lake Texcoco, now defunct, having been filled in to become
part of Mexico City's vast smoggy sprawl. About 1418 A.D., at age 15, he was in
flight from usurper assassins with his father, then the ruler, who ordered him
to hide in a tree, where he watched as his father was murdered. But he returned
after many years in exile, fighting his way to reclaim his home state, and is a
symbol in Mexico of opposition to tyranny.

Some of the most charming bills are truly egalitarian. Many are simply portraits
of typical people, such as the lovely Tahitian bill depicting a woman with a
blossom in her hair, surrounded by fish and flowers.

Others represent local pastimes. One recently retired note from Iceland depicts
an endearing winter scene: a whole family doing what sensible people do during
those endless, dark, howlingly cold winters, sitting around a warm fire while
Dad reads to them. Another charmer is the current Mongolian 500-tugrik. Two
10-wide rows of oxen are dragging a bell-shaped yurt to its new home, a
depiction of that most essential of nomadic pastimes, moving.

It's surprising how many notes are devoted to celebrating the romance of
industry. There are lots of smokestacks and factories mightily polluting away,
shown on various currencies as symbols of progress. Likewise, there are vast
modern construction projects, particularly hydroelectric dams and airports, too.

These are especially favored on the money of developing countries to demonstrate
the great progress they've made. Also planes, trains and ships, all three of
which turn up on the current 10-ringgit bill from Malaysia. And along with the
many crops and harvests found on world money, there are an awful lot of
tractors, a prosaic piece of essential equipment that many countries clearly
don't take for granted.

Some of the bills form an engaging bestiary, a sort of zoo parade. African
currencies, not surprisingly, are richest in this regard, literally going from A
(the aardvark on Zambia's 1,000-kwacha) to Z (the zebra on Malawi's 500-kwacha).

And the images are not limited to our warm-blooded friends. Until recently, for
instance, Sri Lanka had some gorgeous fish on its money. Lithuania's 1-talonis
note presents a couple of unprepossessing geckolike lizards. And Cape Verde's
1,000-escudo note shows a convention of insects.

The creatures most represented are birds. They're on more than a third of world
currencies. For years Canada had portraits of birds on the backs of all its
bills. The $1,000, its largest, still shows a down-home pair of pine grosbeaks
perched on a branch.

Japan's 1,000-yen note is splendid, with a pair of red-crowned cranes really
getting into their mating dance. The subdued cream-and-green coloring makes it
even snazzier. An added bonus for users: In Japan, cranes symbolize good luck,
happiness, long life and marital bliss.

Another eye-catching category seems descended from the Op Art of the ' 60s. The
Swiss are generally thought of as a fairly stolid, conservative bunch. But you'd
never know it from their money.

Their 10-Swiss franc note, for instance, is complicated enough to make your head
hurt. Its face features architect Le Corbusier, who looks like his forehead is
undergoing a nuclear explosion. The back is supposedly a representation of his
design principles, but only his mother would know. The images superimposed on
images, with a few swirls thrown in, create a computer microgrid effect that's
like an outtake from "The Matrix" -- positively dizzying.

This over-the-top complexity actually says something about Swiss fussiness
regarding money. Counterfeiting is an enormous problem with paper money, and one
effective dodge against it is to design bills mind-bogglingly intricate and
tricky (secret inks, watermarks, special metallic threads).

The lovely variety of world paper currencies was diminished this year by the
arrival of the dreaded euro, which in one bland swoop eliminated 11 of the
world's oldest, prettiest and most idiosyncratic paper currencies. It's like the
menu of your favorite five-star restaurant had been reduced to one dish.

It was sort of sadly amusing that the only thing the participating countries
could agree upon being quintessentially European, designwise, were architectural
details: windows, gates and bridges. The euro isn't exactly awful, and it is
making economic life easier, but still it's a loss -- 11 species extinct.

We should enjoy the diversity of the remaining world paper currencies while we
can. They may be becoming obsolete. More and more financial transactions are
entirely electronic.

Credit cards are taking over. There are even new ersatz currencies like airline
miles. Certain South American countries are trying out "dollarizing" --
eliminating their own local paper currency in favor of simply using U.S.
dollars.

The euro may simply be the wave of the future. In 20 years, all the currencies
of North and South America may be consolidated into the "amera." And 50 years
after that, there may be just one single global currency: the "worldo."

Which would, naturally, have no imagery, so as not to offend anyone.


LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
David Standish, the author of "The Art of Money" (Chronicle Books, $19.95),
teaches in the graduate magazine program at Northwestern University's Medill
School of Journalism and is a contributor to national magazines.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Joshua Dunn/Tony Armour Photography photos: Tough guy
Nezahualcoyotl, whose name translates to "Fasting Coyote," is revered in Mexico
as a symbol of opposition to tyranny. A formidable warrior, he also was a poet.


 Photo: Cover: Australia pays tribute to A.B. "Banjo" Patterson, the outback
poet who wrote "Waltzing Matilda." The handsome cowboy design and a holographic
windmill are imprinted on plastic currency.
 Photo: Tahiti shows off its island beauty on the back side of a bill showing a
lovely native woman complete with blossom in her hair. Colorful fish that play
off the coral reefs complete the picture of tropical paradise.

                       Copyright 2002 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              279 of 291 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                      May 5, 2002 Sunday TWO STAR EDITION
                              Correction Appended

BREAKING DOWN THE WALLS OF TRADITION

SECTION: SPORTS, Pg.A-1

LENGTH: 2510 words

DATELINE: ITEN, Kenya


The day that changed Emily Rotich's life dawned like any other. By the time the
sun's rays touched the green and gold hills along Kenya's Great Rift Valley, the
women who live there were already hard at work.

These highlands, homeland of the Kalenjin tribe, are so close to the equator
that the sun rises promptly at 6 each morning. Kalenjin women are equally
dependable, rising before dawn each day to fetch water, gather firewood and brew
tea before their husbands and fathers wake up. After breakfast, they labor past
dusk, tending crops, caring for children and cooking meals for extended families
that can number into the dozens.

Such is the rhythm of life in rural Kenya, where most families live in round,
straw-topped clay huts without electricity or running water, much like their
ancestors. This is a place where change comes slowly, almost imperceptibly, and
progress is measured in increments like this: One Saturday 18 months ago,
Emily's parents excused her from her daily chores.

Instead, she journeyed to a town called Iten to run in a 10-kilometer race in
which the winners would be invited to train, for free, at a one-of-a-kind camp
founded by one of the world's top women runners, a Kalenjin named Lornah
Kiplagat. It was the best chance Emily was ever going to get to follow a new
Kalenjin tradition -- to become an elite long-distance runner on the lucrative
international circuit.

Just having a day off was a rare treat for Emily, a tall 22-year-old with big
brown eyes and a shy smile. The closest thing in her experience are Sundays,
when she gets up and runs for at least 90 minutes -- and then makes breakfast,
attends a three-hour church service and returns home to prepare dinner. "You
see," she said, smiling, "I do not have to do anything after 3 o'clock."

Hard work is certainly no stranger to young Kenyan women like Emily who aspire
to become world-class athletes. And one by one, they are beginning to lug home
more than water and firewood. They are lugging home trophies and prize money and
new opportunities for their families and their nation.

Kenya's long-distance dynasty

Over the past 35 years, Kenyans, especially the Kalenjin, have established
themselves as the world's premier distance runners.

Kenya ranks near the bottom worldwide in nearly every social and economic
category -- in life expectancy, per capita income, child mortality, you name it.
But in footraces longer than 800 meters, on the track or on the road, Kenya is
indisputably No. 1.

Since 1968, Kenya has won every Olympic steeplechase it has entered (it
boycotted the 1976 and 1980 Games) and has collected 38 Olympic medals at
distances between 800 and 10,000 meters, far more than any other country. In the
1996 Boston Marathon, the most lucrative marathon in history, Kenyans finished
Nos. 1 and 2 -- and took 12 of the top 18 places.

Until recently, however, Kenya's long-distance running dynasty was only half a
dynasty, reserved for men. The achievements of Kenyan women were barely worth
listing: no Olympic medals, no world cross-country titles, no major marathon
victories.

No wonder, given the prevailing attitudes toward women.

According to tradition in one Kenyan tribe, if you killed a man, you owed his
family 100 sheep or goats. If you killed a woman, 30 would do.

The custom has disappeared; the mind-set has not.

"In some areas," said Dr. Emily Obwaka, a public health worker in Nairobi, "if a
man walks into the home and there are only women and children, he will say, 'Is
there no one here?' "

Attitudes are gradually changing as the number of women doctors, lawyers,
teachers and elected officials grows. But in a nation that especially reveres
long-distance runners, the rise of Kenya's women into the global running elite
has enormous potential to open doors for women and improve economic conditions
for everyone.

"We can run, and we can change the world," said Esther Kiplagat, who finished
fifth in last year's New York City Marathon. "The day you return home, and your
neighbors see what you have accomplished, you become a model. And then in 10
years to come, Kenyan women will not be under men."


Kip Keino, national hero

The Kenyan running mystique can be traced to the 1968 Olympics in Mexico City.
Three Kenyans won gold medals -- Naftali Temu in the 10,000 meters, Amos Biwott
in the steeplechase and, in the 1,500 meters, Kipchoge Keino, the most famous
and beloved.

Keino arrived at the Games with stomach pains that were later diagnosed as a
severe gall bladder infection. He still managed to lead the 10,000 meters until
two laps remained, at which point he collapsed. Keino was helped to his feet,
which disqualified him from the race, but he finished it anyway. Two days later,
he placed second at 5,000 meters.

By the day of the 1,500 meters, doctors had told Keino he was too ill to
compete. So he remained in the athletes village until deciding that he owed it
to his country -- which had been independent for fewer than five years -- to at
least participate. He left the village in a taxi, and when it got stuck in one
of Mexico City's notorious traffic jams a mile from Olympic stadium, he got out
and jogged the rest of the way.

The warm-up served Keino well. He won the race by 20 meters, still the largest
margin of victory in an Olympic 1,500, and he defeated world-record holder Jim
Ryun, who hadn't lost at that distance in more than three years.

This courageous performance established Keino as one of the great Olympic
champions. More important, it made him a national hero, a unifying force in an
infant nation struggling to assemble more than 70 ethnic groups and 42 languages
into a coherent whole.

Thus began one of the world's great athletic dynasties.

Kenyans, particularly members of Keino's tribe, a subgroup of the Kalenjin
called the Nandi, began to treat running as a livelihood and a means to glory,
not merely a way to get from place to place.

One of Kenya's early track coaches, Hussein Ali, likened Keino to a drop of ink
on the tip of a pen perched above a piece of blotting paper.

"The drop must fall somewhere," he said. "After that, what happens to the ink?
It spreads. So that drop is important. That drop is like Kip Keino. Then the
Nandi had a hero -- you do what the hero does."


Built for speed

The rise of the Kalenjin runners has fascinated exercise physiologists and sport
sociologists around the world.

That a country the size of Texas with only 29 million people has produced so
many champion runners is amazing. Even more astonishing is that 75 percent of
Kenya's top runners are Kalenjin, who make up only 10 percent of Kenya's
population.

The Kalenjin tribe is Kenya's fifth largest ethnic group. The name, which means
"I tell you," is a catch-all term for eight subgroups, all of which settled in
the highlands overlooking the Great Rift Valley in the 1800s.

Before the 1968 Olympics, the Kalenjin were known mainly for their resistance to
British rule. The Kalenjin were not "subdued," as they put it, until 1906.

Nowadays, when it comes to running far and fast, the Kalenjin have subdued
everybody else.

John Manners, who has been researching and writing about the Kalenjin for
decades, has determined that from 1987 to 1997 Kalenjin runners won 40 percent
of the biggest international honors in men's distance running. In an essay
titled, "Kenya's Running Tribe," Manners wrote, "I contend that this record
marks the greatest geographic concentration of achievement in the annals of
sport."

Dozens of researchers are trying to figure out why.

There's no shortage of theories, ranging from hero worship of Keino, to the
drive to escape poverty, to a pet idea of Manners: that the male circumcision
ritual, in which boys are shamed if they react to pain, uniquely prepares
Kalenjin men for the pressure of an Olympic final.

There are physiological theories, too.

The Kalenjin have lived for generations at high altitude, between 5,000 and
10,000 feet, and their hearts and lungs have adapted to low-oxygen air, making
their cardiovascular systems exceptionally strong. They eat a diet rich in
protein and starch, providing the carbohydrates and energy needed to endure for
long distances. They also tend to have a slight body build, ideal for distance
running. Combined with their strong hearts and lungs, the result is, as American
runner Keith Brantly once said, like having "a V8 engine in a Volkswagen."

Most researchers agree that the remarkable success of Kalenjin runners comes
from a combination of factors, some of them genetic. Assuming a genetic factor,
however, it stands to reason that Kalenjin women should have been succeeding
like the Kalenjin men.

But they haven't -- until recently.


Lornah sets up camp

Emily Rotich knows all about Kip Keino and the legacy of Kalenjin champion
runners. But even as she was running competitively in secondary school, she
never considered trying to join them on the international circuit.

Since graduation, she's had the same goal as most Kenyan sons and daughters: "I
want to assist my family."

For boys, that often means continuing to run, with the support of parents and
spouses. Athletic success has so permeated Kalenjin culture that boys assume
they can best help their families by running fast enough to attract the
attention of an agent, who will send them abroad to enter races with prize
money.

Girls are less likely to consider this path, although they do have more
opportunities than they did three decades ago when Kip Keino opened the way for
Kenyan men. Girls today have a better chance of finishing secondary school,
avoiding the often-debilitating female circumcision ritual and being valued for
more than the dowry they might fetch their families at marriage.

Still, when Emily completed the Kenyan equivalent of 12th grade, she decided the
best way to help her family was to return to the shamba, the family farm. For
nearly three years, she worked 12-hour days in the fields, planting and weeding
and harvesting. Then a neighbor stopped by to talk about his new job.

He had joined a construction crew and was helping to build Lornah Kiplagat's
running camp. He said Lornah wanted to use the money she won on the
international racing circuit to help develop the next generation of female
runners. She planned not only to train girls to run, but also to teach them
skills -- such as how to account for their money and operate computers -- that
would serve them well even if they never became star athletes.

The very next morning, Emily got up even earlier than usual. She began running
before her workday began, wearing canvas shoes with rubber soles, the strongest
ones she owned. For the five months leading up to the 10K race in Iten, she
trained every single morning.


A rough ride to Iten

When Emily's big chance came on that August Saturday 18 months ago, she had to
hustle just to get to the race.

Her family's shamba is prosperous by Kenyan standards, encompassing 30 acres.
The family grows corn, wheat and vegetables, and raises goats, sheep and 17
cows.

It is also remote. The nearest village, Burnt Forest, is an hour away by foot.

The Rotich family doesn't own a car or truck, so when they go to Burnt Forest,
they walk. Walking isn't exercise or recreation in rural Kenya -- it is
transportation. It's not unusual for 60-year-old women to walk 45 minutes to the
nearest tarmac road, where they can hail public transportation.

It never occurred to Emily that a one-hour hike through the Kenyan highlands,
more than a mile above sea level, might sap some of the strength she needed to
compete that day. If Kip Keino's determined performance at the 1968 Olympics
showed nothing else, it showed that Kenyans aren't ones for making excuses.

Emily's trek to Burnt Forest ended only the first leg of her journey. The rest
of the way she traveled in matatus -- minibuses or covered pickup trucks that
serve as public transportation.

To maximize profits, matatu drivers cram as many people as possible into their
vehicles; 30 in an 18-seat minibus is typical, and when there's not an inch of
space left in the back of a pickup, people stand on the back bumper and hang
onto the door. This would be dangerous even if there were speed limits on
Kenya's rough roads. There aren't.

Lonely Planet's East Africa travel guide jokingly calls the matatu "Kenya's
contribution to world culture," but it cautions, "Matatu travel is not a bed of
roses. In fact ... the beds most often associated with matatus are the ones in
hospitals."

Having no choice, Emily wedged herself in for the 45-minute matatu trip from
Burnt Forest to the city of Eldoret. There she caught a second matatu for the
30-minute ride to Iten, a village nestled at the edge of the Elgeyo Escarpment.
It overlooks the western side of the Great Rift Valley at an altitude of 8,000
feet.

Iten is best known as the home of St. Patrick's, a boys' boarding school run by
Catholic missionaries that is a distance-running powerhouse. So many Olympians
have attended school there that the tradition of each gold medalist returning to
plant a tree has been discontinued for lack of space. Recent winners have
settled for shrubs or flowers.

These days, Iten is gaining attention as the home of Lornah Kiplagat's High
Altitude Trainings Center, the first Kenyan running camp built by a woman.


Running the red dirt roads

Emily arrived intact and finished third in that 10K race on that Saturday in
August. Lornah invited her to join the camp.

She has spent the past 18 months there, lowering her 10K time to 34 minutes,
befriending the Kenyans and Europeans who train at the camp, and adjusting to
her first pair of real running shoes.

She still wakes up before sunrise. Not to fetch or cook, but to begin training
on the red dirt roads that wind up and down the green hills surrounding Iten.
Some mornings, she and the other young women from Lornah's camp pass 60 or 70
other runners. Most are Kalenjin. Most are men.

Emily also passes girls on their way to primary school. Sometimes they run
behind her. Sometimes they cheer her on. Sometimes they simply stare.

In rural Kenya, it is still unusual to see a woman on foot without a load.


The Kenya team:

Lori Shontz, 33, a Post-Gazette sportswriter since 1994, has covered everything
from Penn State football to the Olympics. Last fall she won a Pew Fellowship in
International Journalism and spent 10 weeks in Washington, D.C., studying at The
Johns Hopkins University School of Advanced International Studies, followed by
five weeks in Kenya reporting this project.


     Martha Rial, 40, a Post-Gazette staff photographer since 1994, has
covered local, state, national and international stories. She won a Pulitzer
Prize in 1998 for "Trek of Tears," a photo essay on the plight of refugees who
fled genocide in Rwanda and Burundi. She returned to the region in 2000 for a
follow-up special section called "Journey Home."

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
TOMORROW: THE PIONEERS WHO LED THE WAY. (SERIES) FAST FORWARD THE RISE OF
KENYA'S WOMEN RUNNERS -- AND HOW SPORTS CAN CHANGE THE WORLD

CORRECTION-DATE: May 10, 2002

CORRECTION:
In Sunday's first installment of Fast Forward, our series on Kenya's women
runners, we understated the number of Olympic medals won since 1968 by Kenyan
men at distances between 800 and 10,000 meters. It is 38, not 33.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Martha Rial/Post-Gazette photos: EYING EMILY/Emily Rotich, an
aspiring long-distance runner, attracts attention during an afternoon run near
Iten, Kenya. In rual Kenya, where women raise kids, tend crops and fetch
supplies, It is unusual to see a wonan on foot who isn't carrying something.
Emily took a day off from her family farm 18 months ago for the chance to join a
unique training camp geared towerd women. Earnings on the women runners are not
just making money, they are investing in their nation's future.
 PHOTO: A LOT ON THE LINE/Emily Rotich, far right, joins other runners at the
start of Kenya's first women-only 10K race, sponsored by Lornah's Kiplagat's
High Altitude Training Center in Iten, Kenya. Emily placed third. Some runners
could not afford shoes. Strong performances at local races like this one against
some of Kenya's best up-and-coming competitors improve a runner's chances of
attracting an agent who might sponsor her on the international circut.
 PHOTO: TIME FOR HERSELF/Emily has her hair braided for the wonen-only 10K at
Lornah's Kiplagat's training camp.
 PHOTO: A FINISH LINE/Emily receives congratulations form Peter Langerhorst,
Lornah Kiplagat's husband and agent, after finishing eighth in the senior ladies
division at one of the biggest cross-country meets in the Rift Valley area.
Given the extraordinary talent of the region's runners, eight-place is a fine
showing for a young runner like Emily.
 PHOTO: DAILY CHORES/Emily scrubs the dining room floor after breakfast at
Lornah Kiplagat's training camp. The runners wash their own laundry and divvy up
other household tasks.
 PHOTO: WORKING OUT/Emily lifts aomemade weights made of tin cans and cement
after her morning run.
 INFORMATIONAL GRAPHIC: James Hilston/Post-Gazette: (Kenya: No. 1 in
long-distance running but near the bottom in social, economic development.

                       Copyright 2002 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              285 of 291 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                      July 26, 2002 Friday SOONER EDITION

LURE OF LUMA;
 NEW ASPINWALL SPOT OFFERS EXPERIENCE THAT'S LIGHT, TASTY AND GOOD-LOOKING

BYLINE: MACKENZIE CARPENTER, POST-GAZETTE STAFF WRITER

SECTION: ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT, Pg.28 ON THE TABLE

LENGTH: 1284 words


Restaurants like Luma in Aspinwall are a dime a dozen in bigger cities like
Boston, Chicago and Los Angeles -- upscale neighborhood eateries whose savvy
owners have the business plan down pat for attracting diners: paint the dining
area in chic melon tones, string lots of twinkly halogen lights on wires across
the ceiling, serve a menu with plenty of salmon, ahi tuna and "shallot
reductions" on it -- with a duck dish thrown in for good measure -- and name the
place something vaguely Italian-Spanish-Mediterranean (but after an inanimate
object, not your uncle Louis).

Not to be cynical.

Luma, in Aspinwall, is formulaic, too, but in a good way: It's an attractive,
lighthearted, tasty replacement to the cozy but dark Buck's American Grill on
Brilliant Street, where everything was carpeted and wood-paneled, where burgers,
not mahi-mahi, ruled the roost. The food here is trendy if not exactly inventive
or visionary: Luma shouts "profitable business venture," not "lifelong dream";
it is not a place where the chef lies awake at night thinking of new ways to
braise veal cheeks.

But who's complaining? Walk past the pleasant outdoor dining area into Luma's
dining room and get a shot of Prozac: light, butter-colored walls, snowy
white-linen tablecloths, tiled floors and a friendly staff that will seat you
without a reservation, and take your kids in good stride, too.

Around you, there's good people-watching material: trim blond Fox Chapel women
in expensive Italian leather sandals and pink and green sweater sets; a shaggy
double for Jimmy Buffett in flip-flops and Hawaiian shirt; an Edie Falco/James
Gandolfini lookalike couple, and, of course, your mother-in-law with her helmet
hairdo.

And most of them seem thrilled to be there. Since its owners, Gregory Ackerman
and Michael Rudman, opened Luma on May 9, it's done very good business, and why
not? There is a huge untapped market in the neighborhood: Hey, the Fox Chapel
women could come here for lunch every day and have something different and
yummy, like the signature lump crab cake ($10) with a red onion caper sauce,
which Rudman appears to have brought over from an earlier stint at Andora
Restaurant in Sewickley.

Indeed, both men seem to have done their time on the Pittsburgh restaurant
scene: Rudman, 33, who oversees the kitchen, is a Mt. Lebanon native who trained
at the Culinary Institute of America in Hyde Park, N.Y., and also worked at the
Monterey Bay Fish Grotto and Morton's. Ackerman, in charge of the wines, started
out as a server at Jake's Above the Square Downtown and then, when it was
replaced by Siena, moved into a management capacity before moving on to
Andora's. After the two decided to go into business together, they scouted 19
locations, Ackerman said, before settling on the former Buck's Grill site on
Brilliant Avenue.

Despite such combined experience, the two have concocted an awfully big menu for
such an intimate place -- with 19 entrees -- and the menu's tiny type itself is
hard to read (although Rudman says it will be redesigned). Such ambition is
often hard to sustain, but on two recent visits only one of four entrees was a
flop, not bad for a restaurant that seems very busy. The starters and salads
were of mixed quality: the zucchini rolled with capicolla, fresh mozzarella with
basil in a vodka tomato cream sauce ($6) was delightful, the fried, breaded
zucchini as light as air, contrasting nicely with the creamier mozza and salty
meat folded within. Seared scallops, a special appetizer, were tender and sweet
if almost overpowered by an oily, salty soy glaze.

Indeed, the chef's hand is lavish, overly so, when it comes to oil at Luma: The
ubiquitous julienned red peppers that top or accompany every dish shimmer with
it, and an arugula, red onion, portobello and toasted pine nut salad ($6) could
have used less, not more of the warmed pancetta dressing it was tossed in.

But these were by and large successful starters. Not so the quesadilla of
roasted corn, tomatoes and jack cheese with mango guacamole ($7), which wasn't
anything better than you could get at Chi-Chi's, and the "napoleon" of beefsteak
tomato, Bermuda onion and fresh bocconcini mozzarella and a honey balsamic
roasted shallot pattern ($7). It was nothing more than a stack of hamburger
fixings on a plate, featuring mealy supermarket tomatoes and thick rinds of
onion that completely overpowered the mozza and what little dribs of balsamic
vinegar "pattern" that I could discern.

Our only dud on the lengthy entree list, however, was a chicken, apple pesto
sausage and "colossal" shrimp dish ($16) grilled with a New York herb butter. It
was dry and, except for the sausage, tasteless -- the chicken little more than a
boneless breast tossed on the plate next to the blackened-almost-to-a-crisp
sausage and the not-so-colossal shrimp. It cried out for a sauce or something to
bring it all together. Not acceptable.

But Luma begins to glow again with the Atlantic salmon pan-roasted with a
champagne sauce and minted pine nut pesto ($21). It was luscious, high-class
comfort food, as were the crab cakes ($24), although my dining companion was
discomfited by the way the red onion caper sauce -- really a mayonnaise-like
aioli -- was dribbled all over the dish, rather than served on the side. And
because these cakes were baked, there was no seared crust, which I missed.

But wow, they were good. There's no question that Luma gets excellent fish and
meat from its purveyors -- our waitress claims that its veal chop ($29) is the
same one served at Morton's, and the pork tenderloin marinated in sesame and
ginger and chargrilled with soy butter and scallion "trees" ($12) was achingly,
meltingly good, a reminder once again why humans were meant to be carnivores
(bring it on, vegans!).

The wine list, like the food, is au courant but doesn't overreach. Ackerman says
he's focusing on value "rather than the super-high end": He has a "$20 for 20"
program where 20 wines are offered for $20 each, and features house wines for
$4.75 a glass and featured wines at $6.50 a glass ranging from a Duck Pond Pinot
Noir from the Willamette Valley in Oregon to a Raymond Estate Chardonnay.

Desserts, made out of house by the caterer Tallulah, were fine, including a warm
chocolate mousse cake with vanilla ice cream which appealed to kids and adults
alike who shared it, and a creme brulee, perfumey with almond, that I wouldn't
let anyone else touch.

The service was efficient one night, sloppy the next: a long wait for the
entrees during one visit, no wait at all another night, but this is a noisy,
crowded popular place, so unevenness is probably to be expected. Just be
thankful that the business plan is working and that there's one more good place
to eat in Aspinwall, rather than one less. Luma's vervy, if somewhat slapshot
approach to fine dining doesn't make it another Laforet, but its presence is a
sign that restaurant entrepreneurs are seeing the Allegheny River valley --
Sharpsburg and Oakmont in particular -- as promising territory for new ventures.
And how bad can that be?


LUMA

8 Brilliant Ave.

Aspinwall

412-781-0355

412-781-4399

HOURS: Mon.-Thurs. 11 a.m. to 10 p.m.; Fri.-Sat. 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.; Sun. 4 to 9
p.m.

BASICS: Seats 82 people inside, 24 outside. All major credit cards accepted.
60-bottle wine list. Wheelchair accessible. No smoking in main dining areas;
smoking permitted in bar. Entrees range from $9 to $29. American cuisine with
global influences, emphasizing seafood, chicken, pork, veal and steak. Oral
children's menu.

CRITIC'S CALL: 3 STARS


LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
WEEKEND MAG

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Martha Rial/Post-Gazette: Kari Klusmeier prepares a table at
Luma, an upscale neighborhood restaurant with a trendy menu.

                       Copyright 2002 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              287 of 291 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                    August 22, 2002 Thursday SOONER EDITION

BUSH IS NO WHIZ, BUT HE'S RIGHT;
 WHEN IT COMES TO THE ECONOMY, HIS DETACHMENT IS JUST WHAT WE NEED

SECTION: EDITORIAL, Pg.A-17

LENGTH: 660 words


What did you think of President Bush's Waco, Texas, economic forum? The media
didn't think much of it. All Tuesday, CNBC anchors could barely report on the
event without smirking. Just hours after it ended, Slate.com's headline jibed,
"Fake Forum." The next day, The Washington Post's "analysis" was headlined this
way: "A Sunny Thing Happened at the Bush Forum/Tough Economic Issues Get Little
Attention."

The overall takeaway from the reportage is that Bush is so detached from
ordinary Americans that his re-election-minded advisers felt they needed to
stage a show to fool people into thinking he really does care.

But maybe that's not so bad. Maybe detachment is what we need. History proves
that leaders who kept their eye on the fundamentals of economic growth did a lot
better than those who tried to micromanage every problem.

Of course, Bush's distance extends to all aspects of his presidency, not just
economics. On Aug. 4, for example, the Texan was in Kenne-bunkport, Maine,
playing golf with his father. Reacting to news of a terror-bombing in Israel, he
said, "I call upon all nations to do everything they can to stop these terrorist
attacks. Thank you." Then he added, speaking of his golf shot, "Now watch this
drive."

Now that's detached. And once upon a time, this style of leadership was much
admired. The French call it sang-froid -- literally, "cold blood," as in, don't
get too hot about things.

In 1588, the legendary English sea captain, Sir Francis Drake, was playing lawn
bowls when news came that the Spanish Armada was nearing Britain, bent on
conquest and subjugation. Drake absorbed the news, then returned to his game,
saying, "There is plenty of time to win this game, and to thrash the Spaniards,
too." Cool, indeed.

To be sure, there's not much evidence that Bush is another Drake, but in any
case, that froid-y style of leadership is out of fashion. Instead of the stiff
upper lip of a Winston Churchill, we seem to want the bitten lip of a Bill
Clinton. Indeed, with Clinton one also got moist eyes and endless expressions of
I-feel-your-pain victimologizing.

Of course, the economy boomed under Clinton, leading some to confuse good
empathy with good policy. Yet the economic recovery that he rode upward through
the ' 90s actually began in the second quarter of 1991, almost two years before
he took office.

Moreover, if Clinton is going to be credited for the productive activity of 280
million Americans, then he also must be blamed for the corrupt activities of a
corporate few, wheedling and deedling on his watch. According to official
government findings, the shenanigans at Adelphia, Arthur Andersen, Enron, Global
Crossing, MicroStrategy, Qwest, Tyco and WorldCom all began between 1997 and
1999, before Bush took office.

Indeed, the success of the economy depends on the non-interference of
politicians. That was the great insight of 18th-century French economists, who
saw that kings and queens weren't helping by meddling.

So they came up with the economic equivalent of sang-froid, which is
laissez-faire, or "Let people do as they choose." And two centuries of economic
history prove that the cool detachment of the state -- leaving people the space
to figure things out for themselves -- is superior to warm-and-fuzzy
intervening.

Bush may not know many French words or much economic history. And he's no heroic
figure. But he is correct to think that the economy grows most when the
government does least. That means holding the line on taxes and spending, as he
has tried to do, in spite of the critics.

So maybe it helps that his style is detached, even aloof, because it helps him
keep cool when other politicians are hot to trot out some economic snake oil.

And speaking of cool, if he holds his next fake forum in breezy, chi-chi
Kennebunkport, and not sweaty, red-necky Waco, the reporters will like him a bit
more.


James P. Pinkerton is a Newsday columnist.

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2002 P.G. Publishing Co.
