
                              11 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                      April 13, 2001 Friday SOONER EDITION

HUMANS CAUSE GLOBAL WARMING

BYLINE: PAUL RECER, THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: SCIENCE, MEDICINE, TECHNOLOGY, Pg.A-14

LENGTH: 424 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


New evidence that global warming is caused by man-made gases comes from
researchers using computer models that show a temperature increase in the
world's oceans.

Two models developed independently by researchers using slightly different
techniques both linked rising global temperatures to an increase in atmospheric
greenhouse gases, principally carbon dioxide from the burning of oil, gas and
coal.

"We think this is some of the strongest evidence to date that human-induced
effects are changing our climate," said Sydney Levitus, a researcher at the
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration and co-author of one of two
global warming studies appearing today in the journal Science.

The studies appear in the wake of President Bush's decision last month to reject
the Kyoto climate treaty, a 1997 international plan to reduce the emission of
greenhouse gases in order to curb global warming. Bush said the plan, which
calls for a sharp reduction of carbon dioxide emissions, was too expensive and
unwise during a time when the U.S. faces energy and economic problems.

Levitus said the model produced by his group is in close agreement with another
computer model that was produced independently and analyzed by Tim P. Barnett
and two co-authors at the Scripps Institute of Oceanography at the University of
California, San Diego. Their work also appears in Science.

Barnett said the "fingerprint" of human influence on the warming climate is "so
bold and big that you don't have to do any fancy statistics to beat it out of
the data. It's just there." The results, he said, "are certainly compatible"
with the idea that the warming of Earth "has been caused by anthropogenic
[human] sources."

George Boer, a researcher at the Meteorological Service of Canada in Victoria,
British Columbia, said the climate modeling work "is collaborative evidence"
that human activity is causing the global climate to warm. Global temperatures
are thought to have risen by about 1.1 degrees over the last century. The top
few thousand feet of the ocean waters have increased in temperature by about a
tenth of a degree.

The new studies tie in the observed effects on the ocean temperatures with those
of the land and the atmosphere.

The computer models mathematically express the effects of various elements of
the climate. The researchers found that the computer models precisely matched
the observed temperature rises only when factoring in the greenhouse gases added
to the atmosphere by manmade activities, said Levitus.

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2001 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              35 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                      July 7, 2001 Saturday SOONER EDITION

BUSH CUTS EMISSION AID OVERSEAS;
 PLAN TO REDUCE CO2 POLLUTION FROM THIRD WORLD

BYLINE: JOHN HEILPRIN, THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: NATIONAL, Pg.A-5

LENGTH: 524 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


President Bush, after faulting the Kyoto climate treaty for excluding developing
nations from its requirements, wants to cut U.S. aid for helping Third World
countries combat global warming.

While asking Congress for nearly $4 billion to address climate change, roughly
the same as last year, Bush proposes reducing assistance to other countries by
$41 million from last year's $165 million. He calls for shifting more
responsibility to private industry.

The figures are contained in a June 29 report, a copy of which was obtained by
The Associated Press, that Bush sent to House Speaker Dennis Hastert, R-Ill.,
and Sen. Robert C. Byrd, D-W.Va., the Senate president pro tem.

The White House declined to discuss the report on the record yesterday.

One senior administration official disputed that the numbers reflected a cut and
said they were part of a previously planned reduction for the final year of a
five-year international aid plan.

The 52-page report provides the first public look at an inventory of Bush
spending on climate change. The issue, along with Bush's related energy
policies, has become increasingly prominent with Bush's reversal of a campaign
pledge to regulate carbon dioxide pollution and his rejection of the 1997 Kyoto
accord that has been broadly supported but not ratified by any U.S. allies in
Europe.

Much of Bush's climate change budget amounts to shifting about $400 million
toward areas such as burning coal more cleanly, insulating homes to use less
energy and giving tax credits for electricity produced from wind and
less-polluting agricultural waste.

Europeans have been unhappy with Bush's condemnation of the Kyoto agreement,
which commits industrialized countries to reduce emissions of carbon dioxide.

Just before heading to Europe, Bush told reporters on June 11 the U.S. should
help reduce heat-trapping pollution from Third World countries. "We want to work
cooperatively with these countries in their efforts to reduce greenhouse
emissions and maintain economic growth," he said.

However, his budget would reduce money for programs intended to assist countries
like Brazil, India, Indonesia, Mexico, the Philippines, Poland, Russia, South
Africa and Ukraine increase their industrial development with only minimal
contributions to global warming.

In his report, Bush says several U.S.-backed projects are ready to be
privatized. Those include projects creating more efficient lighting in Mexico
and wind power in India, using agricultural waste as fuel for electric power and
heat in Brazil and expanded coal-bed methane recovery in China.

"Some programs were reduced to eliminate unrequested earmarks or certain
projects approaching commercialization that are more properly funded by the
private sector," Bush's report says. "Other higher priority programs were
increased."

The report notably excludes any price tags for the new initiatives Bush
announced last month to study the rise in the Earth's temperature, fund research
for technology to cut heat-trapping emissions and bolster coordination among
research institutions throughout the world.

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2001 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              37 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                   November 18, 2001 Sunday TWO STAR EDITION

MANY GROUPS DEBATE MODERNIZING ADOPTION;
 BILL OVERHAULS PENNSYLVANIA'S 77-YEAR-OLD LAW

BYLINE: MACKENZIE CARPENTER, POST-GAZETTE STAFF WRITER

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg.B-1

LENGTH: 1594 words


How long should a mother have to change her mind after placing her baby for
adoption?

Whose rights are more important -- an adopted child's right to know his past, or
a mother's right to put that past behind her?

And if the adoptive parents break a pledge to stay in touch with the birth
mother, should she be able to sue to enforce the agreement?

For three years, a Joint State Government panel examined these and other thorny
questions in an effort to overhaul Pennsylvania's 77-year-old adoption law. The
resulting bill, which was introduced last month, has something in it for
everyone to support, or oppose.

While Senate Bill 859 would give adult adoptees greater access to birth records,
many advocates say it's still too restrictive.

Religious groups, on the other hand, believe the open records provision goes too
far, and oppose a provision allowing third-party adoption by non-spouses,
including homosexual partners.

The bill also would shorten Pennsylvania's four- to six-month revocation period
-- the time a birth mother has to change her mind -- to 20 days, in step with a
national trend toward shorter waiting periods.

Such changes are welcome, say some who have tried to adopt a child in
Pennsylvania and given up.

"Pennsylvania is an adoption-unfriendly state. I tried contacting some
Pittsburgh attorneys, but it was pretty discouraging. I just didn't think I
could spend three years on a waiting list," said Susan Muschweck of Marshall.

Eventually, she went to Louisiana, and after one failed adoption -- "the birth
mother changed her mind, and it was like a death for me" -- she adopted two
girls in quick succession.

While failed adoptions are rare -- fewer than 1 percent of the total --
Muschweck's experience in other ways is fairly typical.

Pennsylvania "is one of the worst states in the nation to adopt a child," said
Lynn Mischen, who runs an adoptive parents' support group.

Besides burdensome paperwork and that lengthy waiting period, there's a supply
problem.

"We just do not get the babies here like other states do," Mischen said. This
is, in part, she believes, because the state's settled population means there
are more extended families to help raise a child.

The bill's authors hope that its sweeping approach will ease passage, given that
past efforts to change individual parts of the law always sank in committee.
Predictably, opponents are crafting amendments to change it.

The Pennsylvania Catholic Conference, a lobbying group in Harrisburg, is happy
with the current law, said spokesman Fran Viglietta, and sees no reason for
change. It opposes the new provisions allowing gay couples to adopt and the open
records approach, arguing that it doesn't provide enough privacy to birth
parents.

"We don't oppose adoptees searching for birth parents, but our conference is
convinced those who wish to be unidentified have a right to this
confidentiality," said Viglietta, citing wording that lets adoptees get birth
certificates if the parent can't be found to give permission.

Groups that back the rights of adopted adults don't like the open records
provision, either, but for another reason: It allows only adoptees born after
the bill's passage to get their birth certificates so they can trace biological
parents.

"We are treated still as dirty secrets," said Cynthia Bertrand Holub, head of
the Pennsylvania branch of Bastard Nation, a national lobbying group for birth
parents and adoptees. "It's preserving the whole culture of shame that sealed
our birth records in the first place."

Keeping secrets

Lots of states are taking a new look at adoption laws, most of which were passed
after World War II as social workers became more involved in the placement of
children and the move to seal records accelerated in a climate that treated
illegitimacy as a stigma.

There is a misconception that such laws were passed to protect birth mothers'
privacy, adoption experts said, when, in fact, the impetus was to guard
middle-class adoptive families from public scrutiny and interference by birth
parents.

Many states allowed adoptees to see their birth certificates until relatively
recently in adoption history. In 1953, the year that Pennsylvania court records
were sealed, a separate law was passed that said adult adoptees could obtain
their birth certificates.

"What that tells us is that the original intention was not to protect birth
mothers' privacy from their offspring, but to simply keep court records, which
include home studies, counseling and other records, confidential. And many of
those records don't pertain to us. But birth certificates do, and they
recognized that," Holub said.

But in 1984, fearful that open records would lead to more abortions by women
worried about confidentiality, the Pennsylvania Catholic Conference successfully
lobbied to deny adoptees access to those original birth certificates.

Today, it's a different landscape for the estimated 6 million adopted people in
the United States. More are seeking birth records, federal law promotes the
adoption of "special needs" children over foster care for them, and more
same-sex couples want to adopt.

At the same time, the marketplace for infant adoptions has changed dramatically.
Demand has jumped, fueled by the increase in older, infertile couples, while
supply is at an all-time low. Before Roe vs. Wade in 1973, 95 percent of
out-of-wedlock pregnancies ended in adoption; today, that figure is fewer than 3
percent as more young mothers opt to keep their babies.

For those relative few who decide to place their babies for adoption, one of the
most emotional issues is how long they should have to change their minds.

Mothers aren't back on their feet in 72 hours, the waiting period in many
states, said Connie Haessler, adoption services director at The Children's Home
in Shadyside.

"States that have three-day revocation periods worry me," she said. "The mother
still may be recovering from the birth, may be feeling hormonal and may not have
gotten sufficient counseling."

When Judy Vasalinda placed her child for adoption 37 years ago, there was a
six-week revocation period in Pennsylvania. Under the new bill, it would be 20
days. "I was very certain that was what I wanted to do, and that was enough time
for me," said Vasalinda, director of Adoption Connection, an adoption agency in
New Brighton.

But Sue Romberger, founder of an online support group for birth parents and
adoptees who have lost touch, thinks that a 60-to-90-day waiting period is
preferable.

"Less than three weeks is a short time to make a decision with lifelong
ramifications," Romberger said. "While I will never know if she would have used
it, my birth mother was never told she had the right of revocation. And no child
should ever grow up to find they were relinquished because there was no time to
calmly, after birth, consider the options."

Unexpected opposition

While there's enough in the bill to stir controversy, its crafters say they're
surprised about opposition to a provision that makes open adoption agreements,
in which the birth and adoptive parents agree to stay in some form of contact,
legally enforceable.

Currently, if the adoptive parents don't uphold the bargain, the birth parent
can't sue to force them to. That would change under the law.

But the National Council for Adoption, a Washington-based lobbying group, has
strongly fought most aspects of open adoption for years, and this provision is
no exception. "I don't want to see another 'custody-like' court battle down the
road," said Patrick Purtill, the council's president.

Mary Ann Petrillo, a Westmoreland County lawyer who handles about 100 adoptions
yearly, has problems with that provision, too.

Her clients sign agreements spelling out their responsibilities, and, "From day
one, I caution them about being extremely serious about following through with
the birth parents," she said.

"Shame on them if they don't uphold it," she added. "But what you want to be
careful about is turning adoption into something that resembles long-term foster
care, which allows the birth parents to come onto the scene through
court-ordered intervention."

Proponents say that's unlikely under this bill. No monetary damages may be
sought and the burden of proof is on the birth parent, who must show that
enforcement serves the best interests of the child.

"First, an 'open' adoption with continuing contact is not a scenario that is
right for everyone," said Nancy N. Newman, a Philadelphia lawyer who headed the
advisory panel. "But when both parents make an agreement, it should be
enforceable, the goal being to promote permanency in the adoptive family by
assuring that the birth parent was completely comfortable with her decision."

Despite these ongoing battles, proponents hope that the national trend toward
openness will help the bill through what is certain to be a difficult passage.

Today, open records are the law in Alabama, Delaware, Alaska, Kansas and
Tennessee. Many other states are considering such legislation, although efforts
have stalled in several under pressure from lobbyists, religious groups and the
American Civil Liberties Union.

Changes are under way in the Pennsylvania proposal, but its essence will remain
intact, said Sen. Stewart Greenleaf, R-Montgomery, Senate Judiciary Committee
chairman. This bill, he vowed, will see the light of day.

"It addresses a lot of emotional issues," he said, "but it's a reasonable
compromise."

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: : Steve Mellon/Post-Gazette Karen Krzys kisses her new daughter,
19-month-old Kenwyn, shortly before the family's adoption is finalized in
Allegheny County juvenile court yesterday. More than 100 adoptions were
finalized as part of National Adoption Day, a nationwide effort to increase the
number of adoptions of foster children. Krzys and her husband, Joe, formerly of
Pittsburgh, live in Massachusetts with their other two adopted children.

                       Copyright 2001 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              39 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                     August 7, 2001 Tuesday SOONER EDITION

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg.E-3 LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 1776 words


CITY NEEDS OPPORTUNITIES

I am originally from Pittsburgh, I worked in Pittsburgh, I am proud of
Pittsburgh, and would gladly move back to Pittsburgh, except for one thing --
opportunities!

In addition, I have significant experience in technology sales, marketing and
management. Do you know how many people there are within a 6-hour drive of
Pittsburgh who are just like me? At a minimum, thousands. More likely, tens of
thousands.

I read often about how companies in Pittsburgh have had a difficult time
recruiting and keeping people. Well, join the crowd! I also heard a local CEO
speak a few years ago complaining about how there were not enough technical
marketing people in the area. Again, ridiculous.

Speaking from experience, the only significant differences between marketing
vacuum pumps and computers or software are the audience, the distribution
channels and the technology. Granted, there are idiosyncrasies to both -- such
as analyst relations and road shows/seminars to name two in the
computer/software industry -- but nothing is so significant as to prevent an
intelligent person from doing an excellent job.

The toughest thing to learn is the technology, but in most cases the technology
is probably too highly specialized to have a large pool of talent to begin with.
From a company's perspective, there are two options: 1) If the technology is
most important and you need someone to create white paper, et. al., hire an
engineer with a little business savvy, and 2) If you are seeking a creative
marketing person, hire an experienced marketer who has worked in various
industries and teach that person the technology.

Now, the real keys to recruiting and retaining good people:

*Pay them fairly. Everyone likes to tout the lower cost of living in Pittsburgh.
I will grant you that it is less expensive, but not so much so that a person
should expect a pay cut. The idea is to better yourself and most job seekers
expect an increase to change jobs. So if you want talent, recognize it and
reward it. If the person is good, you should reap the benefits of his or her
knowledge and productivity.

*Take some management courses yourself, because no one wants to work for an
archaic, lethargic, overbearing, shortsighted or otherwise overly rigid
management team. You must be progressive in the way you manage and treat
employees if you actually want to increase market share.

*Provide for future opportunities. No one wants to stay in the same position
year after year no matter how good he is. There must be advancement or even
lateral opportunities to provide for personal growth.

I may not be the authority on this, but these are all critical issues. As far as
the city getting the message out, that's good, but this is not an advertising
issue. Everyone in sales and marketing must realize the value of word of mouth.
Word of mouth is that Pittsburgh is a great city, but there are too few decent
opportunities and decent companies to work for. If you improve the business
climate, the people will follow. I believe Mayor Tom Murphy has been addressing
the issue from a government perspective, but now the corporate community needs
to follow suit.

DAVE SATINA

Wayne, Delaware County


McClatchy no model

Regarding Mark DeSantis' July 31 Private Sector essay on Kevin McClatchy,
"McClatchy Provides Lesson in Entrepreneurship," I must take issue with Mr.
DeSantis' characterization of Kevin McClatchy as a model for 21st century
entrepreneurship.

Unlike the majority of entrepreneurs in American history, Mr. McClatchy relied
on the largesse of politicians and public coffers to achieve his goals, rather
than on private capital and the strength of his ideas. His achievement was born
more of deft political skills than of classic entrepreneurial drive. If in his
achievement he has set the tone for a new age, where the taxpayer is the
unwilling source of venture capital for private gain, then our economic system
has indeed entered a very troubling era.

Nor has he handled controversies over stadium food and banner policies in a way
that most of us would define as enlightened. Indeed, his response consisted more
of a mixture of spin, half-truths and evasions. The result was a series of
symbolic half measures that satisfied no one, initiating a tense standoff with
local officials.

I find myself asking whether this city or country would ever have achieved its
economic prominence if men like Frick and Carnegie had followed the McClatchy
plan a century ago.

JOHN CLARK

Brookline



City no 'drag'

Dan Fitzpatrick, in "Technotes: Entrepreneurial Drag," July 26, correctly
reported that a National Commission on Entrepreneurship (www.ncoe.org) report
ranked Pittsburgh 30th out of 39 comparably sized areas when it came to
start-ups and growth of existing businesses from 1992 through 1997.

While it's not a great ranking, it's important to note that Pittsburgh is one
region of the country that has been extremely active since 1997 in building on
the base of high-growth companies we identified in our report. There have been
countless public and private initiatives in the region to foster the growth of
an entrepreneurial economy in Pittsburgh, including the work of the Pittsburgh
Technology Council, Innovation Works and the New Economy Club.

Since 1997, Pittsburgh has been doing exactly what we urge community leaders to
do in our report: learn about the "industrial structures" in their regions,
build on the strengths of those structures and then foster a climate conducive
for entrepreneurial growth companies within the region's strongest industry
sectors. Pittsburgh may well be on its way to going from "entrepreneurial drag"
to "entrepreneurial surge."

PATRICK VON BARGEN

Executive Director

National Commission on Entrepreneurship

Washington, D.C.


Airline's workers: Change

US Airways employees worry and fret about losing their jobs when worry and fret
will not make a company profitable, but good management and good hard-working
and personable employees will. The choice to present to management is: "We will
concede to match cost and services with the other carriers, but management must
shape up or ship out and quit raping the company for their own benefits."

If the employees feel they cannot concede, then close it down and see how well
they can live on that. Traffic controllers will answer that question. Carrier of
choice? No way, not as long as some of your employees have an attitude, as did
the captain and flight attendant on a recent flight from Florida. You have a
choice, change or die; another carrier will insist its employees treat the
public with respect.

RICHARD W. FRAER

Mt. Lebanon


No to living wage move

The lead article in the July 29 PG Business Section, "Rage Over a Living Wage,"
summarizes the arguments of the 72 organizations that now believe that "everyone
wins" from enacting what The Pennsylvania Economy League says would place
Pittsburgh and Allegheny County in the highest fifth of all enacted living-wage
rates. I appreciate that URA Director, Mulugetta Birru, the Pittsburgh Regional
Alliance, Jim Roddey, the Allegheny Institute for Public Policy and the six
chambers of commerce in the Mon Valley and Turtle Creek areas recognize that
such a law will scare business away from this region.

I myself gave up on the issue while tuned for two hours to Chris Moore's radio
talk show that was filling in for a delay/rainout of a Pirates' game one weekend
in May. At that time, two guests representing 57 supporting organizations
convinced Chris Moore of the validity of "everyone wins," apart from Mellon
Bank, which doesn't deserve it, by adopting "living wages." Well, it is Citizens
Bank's problem now, not Mellon's! I phoned Chris to tell him that firms would
move out of the city or, as a minimum, cut back on making available entry-level
jobs in the city. Any notion that the new minimum would impact only a few
prospective, high-school, high-tech, entry-level employees, such as MSA has
hired since 1963, is naive. It will disrupt pay structures, and that can be
avoided most easily by not hiring entry-level prospects, at least not in the
city or in Allegheny County.

Chris Moore made a comment that exceptions can be made, but that was not
reassuring to me. When I could not change his thinking, I satisfied myself with
the thought that he deserves the right to be brainwashed after being hostage to
the rain delay and two guests for an hour and a half before buying the panacea
of a living wage.

Since the living wage is such a great win-win solution, should Pittsburgh not
raise its level even higher? Should the city and Allegheny County not lead on
this benchmark dimension, rather than merely be in the top fifth? If Linda
Wambaugh (executive of the East Liberty-based Alliance for Progressive Action)
thinks this is a solution to the region's problems, and an end to people's
struggling, she should push for Allegheny County to be the leader nationally.

With 60 cities and governments already having such legislation, and another 75
considering it, this is a chance to get national publicity. Her view, "Every job
out there should pay a living wage, no matter what," may get enacted. If it
does, the 1990-2000 population decline and gentrification of the region will
continue. Remaining jobs may pay the living wage but more young people will be
out of work, forced to find work in "exempted industries" such as fast food
restaurants or move elsewhere to get jobs. I am not overly optimistic that
Wambaugh and her 72 supporting groups will attribute a decline in employment in
this region to this law, if the Allegheny County living wage bill is passed.

The only possible silver lining I see to the potential enactment of the
Allegheny County living wage proposal and the Pittsburgh Living Wage law (which
exempts anyone participating in the URA facade improvement programs designed for
redevelopment efforts in neighborhoods) is that evidence of negative effects of
such laws may be seen quickly. That may lead to changes before a broad
anti-business reputation attaches to this area. But, change "is a fearful
thing," says Wambaugh, so perhaps we should not count on that. A better
strategic insight may be recognition that this issue will push any remaining
growth to the periphery of the region, much as we've seen take place for 20
years. It seems to be a safe bet that Wambaugh's living wage should be
successful in helping drive high school graduates outside of Allegheny County.

ALFRED A. KUEHN

Chairman & CEO

Management Science Associates Inc.

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2001 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              45 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                     July 26, 2001 Thursday SOONER EDITION

U.S. REJECTS GERM WAR AGREEMENT;
 MOVE JEOPARDIZES 7 YEARS OF TALKS ON ENFORCEMENT, DRAWS CRITICISM

BYLINE: ALEXANDER G. HIGGINS, THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: NATIONAL, Pg.A-1

LENGTH: 681 words

DATELINE: GENEVA


The United States abandoned seven years of global talks on enforcing a treaty
banning germ warfare yesterday, surprising even its allies and prompting
criticism for the latest in a string of go-it-alone U.S. positions.

The Bush administration insisted that it still stood by the 1972 Biological
Weapons Convention but said it had too many objections to a draft accord on
enforcing the treaty, making further negotiations useless.

"In our assessment, the draft protocol would put national security and
confidential business information at risk," U.S. chief delegate Donald A. Mahley
told delegates at a negotiating forum in Geneva.

"More drafting and modification of this text would, in our view, still not yield
a result we could accept," Mahley said, announcing the decision based on a Bush
administration review of the 210-page draft.

The U.S. decision effectively kills the protocol, which negotiators worked out
in seven years of talks and which requires full consensus to be approved. Nearly
all the other 55 countries at the conference expressed support for the accord,
although some had sought changes to be negotiated in the next three weeks.

The stance fueled criticism that the United States is taking isolationist
positions on a number of multilateral issues, after Washington's rejection of a
climate change accord and its doubts about other arms-control agreements.

U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan said the United States is "practically
standing alone in opposition to agreements that were broadly reached by just
about everyone else," Annan's spokesman Fred Eckhard said. Annan hopes that
Washington will "close ranks with the rest of the international community,"
Eckhard said.

"Even though I understand some of the rationale, I was rather surprised by the
U.S. argument at this stage," said Ambassador Seiichiro Noboru, head of the
Japanese delegation at the 56-nation meeting. "We may need a few days to
reflect."

Noboru said negotiators had to figure out how to bring the United States back on
board because the protocol "still presents the most realistic way to strengthen"
the 1972 convention.

When the convention was created during the Cold War, negotiators left out
enforcement details because no one seriously thought any nation would try to use
germ warfare. The United States has pushed for a way to give the treaty teeth
since Iraqi armaments discovered after the Gulf war showed that it had been
useless in stopping violators.

Mahley said Washington would come up with new proposals and rejected criticism
of the U.S. stand.

"There is no basis for a claim that the United States does not support
multilateral instruments for dealing with weapons of mass destruction and
missile threats," he said.

In Washington, a senior Bush administration official said at least 37 items in
the protocol made it "unacceptable" to the United States, and all the concerns
had also been voiced under President Bill Clinton.

"It's not a case where the administration came in and said, 'Another
multilateral agreement we can trash.' " he said. "The unanimous interagency view
was that this protocol added nothing to our verification capabilities. Nothing."

One of the U.S. objections was over inspections that the protocol would allow
into sites suspected of developing biological weapons. Mahley said the protocol
did not protect sensitive information. Countries or competitors could raise
unfounded concerns and bring inspections that would damage security or business
secrets, he said.

The Bush administration has been criticized both at home and abroad for
rejecting the Kyoto climate-change negotiations, demanding amendment of the
Anti-Ballistic Missile treaty, and demanding the watering down of an agreement
to curb trade in small arms.

Those positions are seen as continuing an isolationist trend that included the
U.S. Senate's 1999 refusal to ratify the nuclear test ban treaty and the Clinton
administration's rejection of the 1997 treaty banning land mines.

Canada and South Africa said they regretted the U.S. decision.

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2001 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              52 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                     October 26, 2001 Friday SOONER EDITION

CLIMATOLOGISTS CASH IN ON ALASKA ICE CONTEST;
 RIVER WATCH SHOWS BREAKUP COMING EARLIER

BYLINE: MAUREEN CLARK, THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: SCIENCE, MEDICINE, TECHNOLOGY, Pg.A-3

LENGTH: 298 words

DATELINE: ANCHORAGE, Alaska


For 84 years, winter-weary Alaskans have amused themselves every spring by
placing bets on when the ice on the Tanana River will break up. Now those years
of data have helped climate researchers conclude that spring is arriving
earlier.

The study by Stanford University scientists in today's issue of the journal
Science relied on records from the Nenana Ice Classic, an annual guessing game
held in the community 230 miles north of Anchorage.

The contest was started in 1917 by engineers building a railroad bridge over the
Tanana. Because ice halted construction, the idle engineers whiled away their
time by placing bets on when the ice would break up.

Now a wooden tripod is placed on the ice and is hooked up to a clock onshore.

Those who come closest to guessing the exact time and date when the ice breaks
and the tripod moves downriver share a jackpot that has grown to more than
$300,000 in recent years.

Breakup on the river is seen as the unofficial start of spring in Alaska, and
contest organizers have carefully recorded the date and time of its arrival
every year.

Stanford marine biologist Raphael Sagarin learned of the contest while doing
research in Alaska last year and realized the possibilities.

"I immediately thought this might be a great record of climate change. It turns
out to be really good, accurate data," said Sagarin, who co-wrote the study with
Stanford biology professor Fiorenza Micheli.

The researchers analyzed contest records and discovered that, on average, the
Tanana River breakup is occurring 5.5 days earlier in recent years than it did
in 1917.

The findings are in line with historic temperature data from Nenana and
Fairbanks, about 40 miles away.

The study did not address what might be behind the change.

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2001 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              65 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                    December 2, 2001 Sunday TWO STAR EDITION

SILICON VALLEY DOYENNE SAYS NOT FEARING FAILURE IS KEY TO SUCCESS

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg.C-3

LENGTH: 757 words


When Janet Hartung left Pittsburgh more than a decade ago, she was one of Mellon
Financial Corp.'s highest ranking female executives. After a short stint at a
start-up, she joined Wells Fargo and then Mondex.

Almost three years ago, eBay recruited her to Silicon Valley, southeast of San
Francisco, to provide what they described as "adult supervision" for the
payments company through which all of eBay buyers and sellers process their
transactions. She assumed the CEO position at Billpoint during the height of
eBay's unprecedented growth.

This year, Billpoint will process $9 billion in transactions. More than 37
million individuals regularly conduct business on eBay annually. And, 3 million
new people sign up each quarter.

Because of her MasterCard experience, such volumes weren't foreign to Hartung,
whose last name changed to Crane when she married. While the volumes weren't
unusual, the new environment in which she worked was decidedly different from
what she experienced in Pittsburgh.

"The preservation of turf is much more minimal [in Silicon Valley] because of
growth," explains Crane. In the workplace, she said, "It's very open and
sharing."

People tend to be much more transient in their Silicon Valley jobs. Because jobs
were plentiful there, employees were less concerned about job loss, and they
were more willing to support teammates. Since others reach out to them, new
employees are integrated more quickly.

Also, Crane notes, "It's a much more diverse work force in the Valley." Being
different is celebrated rather than feared there.

"If you're bright and you work hard, you are accepted," said Crane. Despite the
pervasive eagerness to diversify the work force, women in Silicon Valley have
not yet cracked the glass ceiling.

"At the top of companies, women haven't really made it through," Crane said
sadly. She is the exception to this rule.

The rapid pace of change in the Valley gives her hope that women will soon have
more opportunity. "Change is the norm. That's what's to be expected," said
Crane, suggesting that this presents significant potential for women.

To some extent, Crane says,the norm is "to tear down what you do now and start
over." If women like Crane can tear down existing barriers for other women in
the Valley, the rest of the country may discover the enormous potential of women
to contribute to a company's success.

The readiness of Silicon Valley people to start over also allows them to
undertake substantial risk. "It is not at all unusual that people have worked
for themselves here," Crane said.

In such an entrepreneurial climate, business failure rates are relatively high.
However, a failure in the Silicon Valley is less of a scarlet letter.

"Failure is OK so long as you had a decent strategy and you worked hard on it,"
Crane contended. A similar attitude here would catapult southwestern
Pennsylvania light-years ahead. Failure here is feared and not revered.

This more than any other factor throttles this region's economic progress.
People in this area share the Valley's conviction about the value of hard work,
but this region almost never celebrates a failure as part of a longer-term
process regardless of how much effort was involved.

Generally, when people work in a climate that discourages but still accepts
failure, they will reach for the impossible with a fierce determination to
achieve it. "The vast majority of the people [in Silicon Valley] are
level-headed, enthused and upbeat. They work hard, and they believe in what they
do," Crane noted.

The recent economic decline that burst the dot.com bubble tempered Silicon
Valley's self-confidence. "Now they've seen the business cycle," said Crane, a
veteran of several downturns within the industries in which she was working.

In the Valley's now-more-challenging climate, Crane believes that, "The area's
relentlessly upbeat, sunny attitude will prevail." Even when it defies the odds,
she said, "You just jump in, and make it work."

Although they lack the pervasive self-confidence and tolerance for risk that has
become the bedrock of Silicon Valley, Pittsburghers are tremendously
resourceful. They know how to make things work despite imposing hardships.

After suffering one of the largest job losses seen in any American city in the '
80s, Pittsburghers rebounded. A dose of Silicon Valley's youthful exuberance and
undaunted belief in the untapped potential of the future would help Pittsburgh
to fan the flames of such companies as eBay here.

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Linda A. Dickerson is a principal in Dickerson & Mangus Ink, an issues
consulting firm. Her column appears weekly.

                       Copyright 2001 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              77 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                     July 11, 2001 Wednesday SOONER EDITION

AIR FUNNELS 'PAINT' EARTH'S SOIL

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg.E-6 LET'S TALK ABOUT

LENGTH: 267 words


The Earth is a gigantic collage painted with different soils from all over the
world. The dust devil is one of the natural processes that serves as Earth's
paintbrush.

Similar in appearance to mini-tornadoes, dust devils are air funnels of sand,
debris and dust common to warm, dry environments, such as deserts and the Great
Basin. As the sun warms the ground in the early afternoon, the ground heat rises
and warms the air directly above the surface. As the warm air surrounds the
cooler air higher in the sky, motion-air circulation creates a funnel-like shape
called a vortex.

Depending on where the vortex forms, it may pick up debris and become visible as
a dust devil. Dust devils can transport dust, sand and even pollen across oceans
and continents. Did you ever imagine that the particles that make you sneeze
could be from another continent?

The images of NASA's Total Ozone Mapping Spectrometer (TOMS), which monitors the
ozone and measures other particles in the air, allows scientists to study dust
devils in action to more fully understand their significance.

Dust devils are not unique to Earth, however. They are also found on Mars, a
planet of extremely dry environments because of its lack of rain. NASA's Mars
Global Surveyor spacecraft has caught images of dust devils on the Martian soil
over recent years. Unlike the dust devils on Earth, the air funnels on Mars
leave tracks as they travel, creating what some consider art on the face of the
planet.

Whether on Mars or Earth, dust devils are constantly creating and changing the
surfaces of these planets.

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
DUST DEVILS

                       Copyright 2001 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              79 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                   March 14, 2001, Wednesday, SOONER EDITION

BUSH REVERSES CLEAN AIR PLAN;
HE NO LONGER WANTS TO REGULATE CARBON DIOXIDE EMISSIONS

BYLINE: SETH BORENSTEIN, KNIGHT RIDDER NEWSPAPERS

SECTION: NATIONAL, Pg. A-1

LENGTH: 762 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Reversing a campaign pledge he made last September, President Bush announced
yesterday that he will not regulate power plants' emissions of carbon dioxide,
which scientists say contributes to global warming.

Bush's change in position contradicted the public stance taken recently by his
Environmental Protection Agency chief, Christie Todd Whitman. The president's
policy reversal reflects his sensitivity to pressure from big business and from
Vice President Dick Cheney, who is directing energy-policy oversight for the new
administration.

Promising to regulate carbon dioxide "was a mistake," Cheney told Republican
senators yesterday. The administration must back away from Bush's campaign
promise because of a national energy crisis and high electricity prices, Cheney
said.

The burning of fossil fuels -- especially coal and oil -- produces carbon
dioxide, a key ingredient of global warming, the world's top scientists
reiterated earlier this year in a United Nations report.

Bush wrote a two-page letter yesterday to Sen. Chuck Hagel, R-Neb., saying that
regulating carbon dioxide would reduce the use of coal to generate electricity.
Hagel and three other Republican senators -- Larry Craig of Idaho, Pat Roberts
of Kansas and Jesse Helms of North Carolina -- had written the president to
oppose the plan to regulate carbon dioxide.

"At a time when California has already experienced energy shortages, and other
Western states are worried about price and availability of energy this summer,
we must be very careful not to take actions that could harm consumers," Bush
said in his letter.

His policy change angered environmental groups, some Republicans and scientists
who study global warming. But utility interests cheered Bush's stand as
consistent energy policy.

"It only took President Bush 60 days to walk away from his most explicit
environmental campaign promise," said Philip E. Clapp, president of the
Washington-based National Environmental Trust. "It is clear from this decision
that the oil industry can persuade the president to abandon the promises he made
to American voters."

During his campaign, Bush offered a "four pollutant" plan to regulate carbon
dioxide and mercury emissions from power plants under the Clean Air Act, just as
the law now regulates sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxide, which cause smog.

In Saginaw, Mich., on Sept. 29, Bush unveiled his energy policy and said: "We
will require all power plants to meet clean air standards in order to reduce
emissions of sulfur dioxide, nitrogen dioxide, mercury and carbon dioxide within
a reasonable period of time."

His letter to Hagel yesterday said only sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxides and
mercury should be regulated. "I do not believe, however, that the government
should impose on power plants mandatory emissions reductions for carbon dioxide,
which is not a 'pollutant' under the Clean Air Act."

Whitman had put out the opposite message in recent public statements. In a
recent Knight Ridder interview, she promoted the four-pollutant plan as
something that "would have enormous impact" on global warming. "The key here,
the challenge, is to engage in a four-pollutant strategy that recognizes carbon
dioxide, that puts goals, some caps, on emissions of carbon dioxide," Whitman
said.

A Whitman spokeswoman declined to comment yesterday on Bush's policy reversal,
referring reporters to the White House.

Utility interests, including coal companies, had pressured the administration to
accept that the four-pollutant policy conflicted with sound energy policy.

"We thought there was an inconsistency in regulating carbon dioxide and pursuing
the energy policy they were going to pursue," said Frank Maisano, spokesman for
the Global Climate Coalition, a coalition of business groups including utilities
that lobbies on global-warming policies. "This is finally a good piece of news."

Paul Bailey, vice president of the Edison Electric Institute, an electric
utility lobby, said, "We have shown that voluntary approaches work as a way of
limiting carbon dioxide emissions."

Environmental groups charged that Bush was co-opted by energy interests.

"He's turned his back on the weight of the consensus of the science of global
warming, which shows that the problem is alarming and much more severe than
thought before," said David Doniger, senior attorney at the Natural Resources
Defense Council and the EPA climate-policy director during the Clinton
administration. "He's demonstrated that he can be pushed around by the coal
industry."

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2001 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              81 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                    March 15, 2001, Thursday, SOONER EDITION

READ MY SUPPORTERS;
BUSH BACKS AWAY FROM HIS EMISSIONS PLEDGE

SECTION: EDITORIAL, Pg. A-16

LENGTH: 267 words


In a classic case of special interests trumping the general welfare, President
Bush has reneged on his campaign pledge to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases
from power plants.

This move comes as scientists, largely in agreement on the human impact on
global warming, have concluded that the effects of climate change will be more
devastating than had been previously believed.

"We must be very careful not to take actions that could harm consumers," the
president wrote to a senator in a letter announcing his policy reversal. Costs
must be weighed and consumers must be considered. But the global consequences of
inaction must also be factored into the equation.

Coal companies and electricity producers lobbied hard to stave off regulation of
carbon dioxide emissions and found a very willing audience in Vice President
Dick Cheney and Energy Secretary Spencer Abraham.

Environmental Protection Agency Director Christie Whitman, who actually believes
her role is to protect the environment, was on the losing side of this debate.
Although Mrs. Whitman has been signaling the administration's commitment to
carbon dioxide reductions, President Bush didn't hesitate to decide against her.
A spokesman for Mrs. Whitman would say only that the EPA director would follow
the president's lead.

In years and decades to come, as the polar ice caps continue to thin and the
glacial ice caps vanish from the tops of mountains, these policy debates and
power struggles over global warming could be seen as a crucial turning point.

And where is President Bush at this critical juncture?

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2001 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              82 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                     April 2, 2001, Monday, SOONER EDITION

NO HEADLINE

SECTION: NATIONAL, Pg. A-4, NATIONAL BRIEFS

LENGTH: 613 words


GLOBAL WARMING SERIOUS, POLL SAYS

WASHINGTON -- Two-thirds of Americans say President Bush should develop a plan
to reduce the emission of gases like carbon dioxide that have been blamed for
causing global temperature increases, says a poll released yesterday.

In the middle of last month, Bush reversed himself on a campaign promise that
his administration would reduce carbon dioxide emissions. His administration has
also announced it will pull out of an international agreement aimed at combating
climate change. The Time-CNN poll, taken after the announced pullout, found that
three-fourths of Americans say they consider global warming to be a serious
problem. More than four in 10 said they consider the problem very serious and
three in 10 said it was fairly serious.

School violence survey

LOS ANGELES -- A majority of U.S. teens say they used violence in the past year,
and one in five high school-age boys took a weapon to school, according to a
survey by the California-based Institute of Ethics.

The random survey, conducted last year among more than 15,000 teen-agers at
schools nationwide, showed that 75 percent of boys and 60 percent of girls said
they had hit someone out of anger in the past year.

The survey also showed that 43 percent of high school boys, 37 percent of middle
school boys and 19 percent of high school and middle school girls believed it
was OK to hit or threaten a person who made them angry.

Teen gunman charged

GARY, Ind. -- A teen-ager accused of fatally shooting a student outside a high
school was scheduled to be formally charged with murder today.

Investigators said Donald Ray Burt Jr., 17, a former student at Lew Wallace High
School admitted shooting sophomore Neal Boyd, 16, on Friday.

Police said Burt "wanted to tell us the situation, but his parents advised him
not to say anything." Donald Ray Burt Sr. said his son did not kill Boyd. He
said the teen-agers were best friends and that Burt shot at people who tried to
attack Burt and Boyd.

Teacher-student sex scandal

WOODSTOCK, Ga. -- Three young, male teachers in Woodstock High School have
resigned and face charges. And on Friday, Principal J. Rick Ingram announced his
resignation.

History teacher and coach, Brad Chapman, 24, resigned after administrators found
he had played hooky to take a weekend trip with a 15-year-old girl. He was
charged with sexual assault on Feb. 23. On March 13, coach Richard Paul Adams
II, 29, was charged with attempted sexual assault for sending an explicit note
propositioning a 16-year-old female student. Another coach-teacher, Gene R.
Groves, 25, was charged Thursday with sexual battery and sexual assault against
a person in his custody.

Overdue WWII medal

SPRINGFIELD, Va. -- A World War II Army veteran received a Bronze Star on
Saturday -- 56 years after he parachuted into France on D-Day.

Francis Lamoureux, 81, was among the members of the Army's elite 82nd Airborne
Pathfinder Team that flew into France on June 6, 1944, 30 minutes before the
main airborne invasion and five hours before the Normandy landings.

All his fellow Pathfinders received Bronze Stars for bravery during the mission.
But Lamoureux missed the ceremony and did not get his medal.

Also in the nation . . .

Demand for tech-savvy employees has fallen by 44 percent in the past year,
according to a study to be released today by the Information Technology
Association of America . . . Two Swiss architects who converted an abandoned
London power plant into a soaring museum of modern art were named yesterday as
this year's recipients of the Pritzker Architecture Prize established by The
Hyatt Foundation.

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2001 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              86 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                       May 7, 2001 Monday SOONER EDITION

ON ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY, BUSH IS STEERING US TO A SENSIBLE CENTER

SECTION: EDITORIAL, Pg.A-12 LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 267 words


The media are portraying President Bush either as "stumbling" on the environment
or as selling out to big oil and other corporate interests. As an environmental
lawyer, I see the situation differently.

After decades of environmental extremism, President Bush is trying to move our
environmental policy toward the middle of the road, where sound science and not
overzealous ideology prevails.

Take arsenic in drinking water. Arsenic is not an industrial pollutant in
drinking water; it is a naturally occurring chemical. Removing it from drinking
water costs money, so much so that the Clinton administration's eleventh-hour
decision to set the standard at 10 parts per billion would put many water
companies out of business. When the current standard of 50 parts per billion is
already infinitesimal, why put water companies at risk where there is no
demonstrable benefit to public health?

Unfortunately, environmental policy has become a matter of public relations more
than science, with industry ceding the field to extremists. How else can it be
that so many people actually believe that carbon dioxide, the gas we all exhale
thousands of times a day, is causing global climate change? How else can it be
that people so readily accept the notion that oil and gas drilling will
inevitably harm the vast wilderness of Alaska?

It will take time for reason and science to overcome a generation of hysteria
and misinformation. I think President Bush is off to a great start. I hope the
voices of science and industry will rejoin the public policy debate.

BRAD TUPI

Upper St. Clair

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2001 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              92 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                   February 23, 2001, Friday, SOONER EDITION

METEOR CRASH TRIGGERED 'GREAT DYING'

BYLINE: USHA LEE MCFARLING , LOS ANGELES TIMES

SECTION: SCIENCE, MEDICINE, TECHNOLOGY, Pg. A-1

LENGTH: 698 words


Earth's greatest mass extinction -- an Armageddon that wiped out nearly all life
on the planet 250 million years ago -- may have been triggered by a massive
meteor collision like the one that millions of years later helped end the reign
of the dinosaurs, a team of scientists reported today.

The attention-grabbing findings are reviving a long-standing debate over whether
single, dramatic events such as asteroid impacts are largely at fault for the
series of catastrophic die-offs that have plagued the planet; or whether slower
processes, like volcanoes run amok, climate change and toxic shifts in sea water
chemistry should shoulder much of the blame.

For decades, scientists have puzzled over what could have caused the
Permian-Triassic catastrophe 250 million years ago. The extinction is called
"The Great Dying," because it wiped out 90 percent of ocean species and 70
percent of those on land.

"This was the mother of all extinctions," said Luann Becker, a geochemist at the
University of Washington and lead author of the study published in today's issue
of the journal Science. "What makes it so remarkable is that virtually all
marine life and a good portion of land life forms were eliminated in a very
short period time."

The dinosaur extinction 65 million years ago, which is more widely known by the
public, is closely linked to a meteor: a large impact crater, unique space
metals deposited by the meteor and crystals altered by the impact have all been
found. But no telltale traces of a meteor had been found for the Permian
extinction event.

Now, a team of scientists who analyzed ancient rock says they have found unique
chemical fingerprints -- an "asteroid calling card" -- suggesting that a space
rock slammed into Earth about 250 million years ago, the same time as the
extinction.

Based on the extent of the damage, the space rock would have been three to seven
miles across, surmised Robert J. Poreda, an earth scientist at the University of
Rochester and one of the paper's co-authors. "The impact of a bolide of this
size releases an amount of energy that is basically about 1 million times the
largest earthquake recorded during the last century. It was like a magnitude
12.0 earthquake," he said.

The team does not have direct evidence of an impact. Rather, the clues consist
of chemical traces, including unique carbon structures called "Buckyballs."
Buckyballs, or buckminsterfullerenes, are named after Buckminster Fuller because
they resemble the geodesic domes he invented. The cage-like molecules can trap
gas within them as they form. The Buckyballs were found in rock that existed at
the time of the extinction, Becker said.

These Buckyballs are clearly stowaways from space, the team reports, because
they are filled with forms of helium and argon gases that could only have been
formed in stars, far outside our solar system. They were likely delivered to
Earth by a comet or an asteroid, the team suggests.

Ken Farley, a California Institute of Technology geochemist and expert on the
use of noble gases to study Earth processes, said he believed the gas within the
Buckyballs came from outer space. "There's nothing on Earth that looks like
that," he said.

While the finding suggests that some kind of asteroid impact occurred, Farley
said, he warned there was no evidence to show that the impact was large enough
in itself to have caused an extinction event. The fullerenes could have come
from a series of smaller meteor impacts, which were not damaging.

"One needs to be very careful not to say this caused the [Permian] extinction,"
he added.

While there is widespread acceptance of the idea that an asteroid impact played
a role in the extinction of the dinosaurs 65 million years ago -- and 60 percent
of other species alive at the time -- the issue of how important the asteroid
was in the extinction process is far from resolved among scientists. "Just
because there's an impact doesn't mean everyone drops dead," said Nan Crystal
Arens, curator of fossil plants at the University of California Berkeley Museum
of Paleontology and an expert on how plants survive times of massive
environmental stress.

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2001 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              106 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                      April 16, 2001 Monday SOONER EDITION

ECO-UNFRIENDLY;
 THE BUSH ADMINISTRATION IS MAKING GREENS SEE RED

SECTION: EDITORIAL, Pg.A-10

LENGTH: 392 words


Foes of environmental legislation thought former President Clinton overstepped
the bounds of his powers by promulgating protective rules just before leaving
office. They must be deliriously happy with the Bush administration's concerted
attack on environmental protection laws.

The latest proposal from the Bush White House would relax for one year some of
the strictest mandates and deadlines in the Endangered Species Act and allow
federal officials more "discretion" in deciding which endangered species were
worth saving.

The proposal also would limit the ability of citizens and environmental groups
to obtain court orders that would require the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service to
protect various species. Interior Secretary Gale Norton is apparently living up
to her reputation for allowing industries to "self-audit" their compliance with
environmental laws. One can just imagine corporate leaders sitting around the
boardroom, making their own decisions as to whether they were living up to the
terms of the Endangered Species Act, especially if doing so might cost them a
bundle or force them to give up a promising revenue stream.

Traditionally, most of the environment-saving steps have come as a result of
court orders rather than the so-called "discretion" of federal bureaucrats
charged with administering the Endangered Species Act. It's no wonder that
environmentalists have reacted with alarm to the proposal, accusing the Bush
administration of trying to "close the door to Noah's Ark."

The White House, through its appointment of Ms. Norton, its rejection of the
Kyoto accord on global warming, its sacking of proposed arsenic standards and
the relaxation of mining regulation, has shown a sharp hostility to the
environment. President Bush occasionally has slipped a soothing sentence or two
about the environment into his campaign and presidential addresses. Instead, we
can expect more and more of these regulatory changes designed to wear down
environmental defenses and slip damaging changes in environmental law into the
body of federal regulations.

True to its oil-industry origins, the Bush-Cheney administration is proving to
be a resourceful enemy of conservation.

It will take considerable vigilance on the part of friends of the environment to
keep the White House in check for the next four years.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2001 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              114 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                   December 30, 2001 Sunday TWO STAR EDITION

MORE THAN A PARADE OF ROSES;
 PASADENA'S HIGHLIGHTS GO BEYOND FOOTBALL AND BOWL FESTIVITIES

BYLINE: SUSAN EDMONDSON, THE GAZETTE (COLORADO SPRINGS)

SECTION: TRAVEL, Pg.E-1

LENGTH: 2001 words

DATELINE: PASADENA, Calif.


Pop quiz: Who has a pretty flower bed of white gardenias? Who drives real fast
and real hard? Who can't keep her foot off the accelerator?  That's right. It's
the little old lady from Pasadena.  Go granny, go granny, go granny, go.  Poor
granny. If only she would realize she doesn't need her brand new shiny red
Super-Stock Dodge to get around her beautiful Southern California hometown.
Granny really should park that Dodge in the garage and take a hike.

It may be true that nobody walks in Los Angeles, but Pasadena is quite the
opposite. Be it window-shopping in Old Pasadena or the Playhouse District,
strolling through the historic neighborhoods or exploring the gardens nearby at
The Huntington, this city just 20 minutes north of downtown Los Angeles is best
seen on foot.

Thanks in no small part to its history as a winter resort for the wealthy, its
display of floral abundance on New Year's Day and even its reputation from the
classic Beach Boys song, Pasadena has long been viewed as a home for the Brahmin
of Southern California. In the 1800s and early 20th century, people were lured
to the town by its balmy climate and its promise of culture and the genteel
life. That promise was filled in abundance through theater, art, shopping,
world-renowned residential architecture and fine dining.

Like any city, Pasadena has seen good times and bad, but changes in the past 20
years have made the area a popular destination beyond its Jan. 1 moment in the
national spotlight for the Tournament of Roses Parade and the subsequent Rose
Bowl Game, which will be played this year on Thursday. Witness these recent
achievements:

* The revitalization in the 1980s of the Old Pasadena shopping district.

* An extensive renovation of the Norton Simon Museum by renowned architect Frank
Gehry, completed in 1999.

* Ongoing efforts by residents to preserve and protect the city's classic
bungalow homes.

* Construction of the Paseo Colorado shopping area, slated to open this fall
with Macy's as its anchor.

The city lacks the flashier attractions and amusement parks of its Southern
California neighbors, and its more refined sensibilities can be a challenge for
families with young children. But there's certainly enough to fill a long
weekend, and Pasadena's proximity to Los Angeles and other cities makes it a
good base camp for exploring.

But it's not your granny's Pasadena, either. A few days' visit -- wearing a pair
of comfy shoes -- should reveal something closer to the truth about the town.

More than 200 buildings dating back more than a century make up the heart of the
city. Old Pasadena was revitalized in the 1980s and early ' 90s, and now the
20-block area packs in scores of restaurants and a healthy mix of independently
owned and chain retail stores. The usual names are here -- Banana Republic, J.
Crew, The Gap, Pottery Barn, Crate & Barrel, Esprit, Restoration Hardware and
Saks Fifth Avenue.

Pasadena likes to boast of its more than 500 restaurants, but few achieve that
classic Southern California casual-yet-schmoozy ambience as well as Twin Palms.
Two 100-foot palms tower over the enormous open-air dining area with a
retractable canvas covering; you could choose to sit inside, but why? Cocktails
flow from two bars, jazz fills the air, diners keep their sunglasses on.

Surprisingly, you won't have to drop a lot of cash here; the well-rounded
California-Mediterranean menu features individual pizzas for about $11, pasta
entrees for about $10- $15, or seafood and other entrees for around $20. Celebs
were as ubiquitous here as sunshine when Kevin Costner owned the place, but you
still may catch a familiar face a few tables away.

Traveling east from Old Pasadena on Colorado Avenue you'll reach the Playhouse
District. The Pasadena Playhouse, a National Historic Landmark, anchors this
area that's home to a healthy smattering of restaurants, bookshops, antique
shops and home-interior stores.

The details: Both districts are along Colorado Boulevard. The Twin Palms is one
block east of Colorado Boulevard, at Green and DeLacey streets,
www.twin-palms.com.

Save the better part of a day for the Huntington Library, Art Collection and
Botanical Gardens, an urban oasis stretching over 200 acres. The Huntington is a
time warp, where it's easy to immerse yourself in historic books and
manuscripts, 18th- and 19th-century British and French art, and, of course, the
15 specialized gardens that are home to more than 14,000 kinds of plants.
Founded by railroad and real-estate magnate Henry E. Huntington, the complex
opened as a public museum and garden in 1928, a year after his death.

Docent-guided tours of the garden are free (start times vary by day and season)
and are essential if you want more out of your experience than simply a pleasant
stroll while trying to decipher a bunch of Latin names. Only real diehards can
take in all the gardens, so the best strategy is to pick a handful and simply
accept that you'll have to bypass some. Not to be missed is the 10-acre Desert
Garden, filled with so many bizarre otherworldly shapes you'll swear you've
stepped into a sci-fi B-movie. The Australian Garden also has an air of the
unusual, and children will love the Jungle Garden, with its numerous waterfalls,
lily ponds and a massive bamboo grove. The most photographed area is by far the
Japanese Garden, complete with koi ponds, a bridge, a Japanese home and a Zen
garden and bonsai display. As you head back toward the galleries, stroll through
the fragrant Rose Garden and pretend you're in a Merchant-Ivory film.

The heart of the Huntington is the library, with more than 200 books,
manuscripts and photos on display (the collection contains more than 5 million
works). A Gutenberg Bible, a manuscript of Chaucer's "The Canterbury Tales,"
early editions of Shakespeare, and the writings of Washington, Jefferson and
Lincoln are on view here.

Peaceful pastoral scenes and portraits of Britain's upper crust dominate the
gallery, which also includes works by Americans such as Mary Cassatt, John
Singer Sargent, Frederick Remington and Gilbert Stuart. The most prominent
works, however, are Thomas Gainsborough's "The Little Blue Boy" and Thomas
Lawrence's sumptuous "Pinkie." It's easy to stand agog at these works on
opposite walls of the gallery, but give equal attention to works by John
Constable and J.M.W. Turner, who both excelled in very different ways at
capturing clouds and the sky.

The details: The Huntington, 1151 Oxford Road, San Marino, about eight minutes
from central Pasadena. Admission: $10 adults, $8.50 seniors, $7 students, free
kids under 12. Closed Mondays. www.huntington.org.

Intimidated by art museums? Don't know a Picasso from a Pissarro? Not to fear.
The Norton Simon houses seven centuries of European art from the Renaissance to
the 20th century, plus ancient works from India and Southeast Asia. But at a
manageable 51,000 square feet, the museum isn't overwhelming, and you can devote
your full time and attention to works by artists as diverse as Raphael, Goya and
Renoir. In fact, although the newly opened Getty Center in West Los Angeles gets
all the buzz, many art critics agree the Norton Simon has a better collection.

Gehry's extensive redesign of the museum has greatly improved gallery spacing,
lighting and ambience. Upon entering, you'll encounter the museum's most popular
pieces, Impressionist works by Manet, Monet, van Gogh, Toulouse-Lautrec and
Degas (in fact, the Norton Simon has more than 100 works by Degas, including a
complete set of his sculptures). Figures of Krishna, Shiva, Buddha and Vishnu
are well represented in the lower level, featuring works in stone and bronze
spanning more than a dozen centuries.

The details: Norton Simon Museum, 411 W. Colorado Blvd., at Colorado and Orange
Grove boulevards, within walking distance of Old Pasadena. Admission: $6 adults,
$3 seniors; parking free. Closed Tuesdays. Best times to visit are Mondays and
Friday evenings. www.nortonsimon.org.

Architecture geeks will surely salivate at the Gamble House, and if you're not
an architecture geek, you'll likely become one after a visit to this historic
home. Built in 1908, the home is internationally recognized as a masterpiece of
the Arts & Crafts style of art and architecture. Docents guide small groups of
visitors through nearly every room, pointing out subtle details that most folks
would otherwise miss.

With nearly all its original furnishings, the home shows the then-radical vision
of architects Charles and Henry Greene, who blended the wood-intensive styles of
Japanese and Swiss architecture with the carefree Southern California lifestyle.
Open sleeping porches and an ingenious cross-ventilation system take optimum
advantage of Pasadena's climate. More breathtaking, however, are the
custom-designed lighting, glasswork, furniture and accessories. From the leaded
art glass in the front door to every wooden peg and joint, the home is pure
harmony.

Some visitors find the abundance of wood -- teak, mahogany, maple, cedar and oak
-- somewhat dark and oppressive. In fact, docents love to tell a tale about how
the home was almost resold as a private residence in the 1960s. But when the
Gamble heirs caught wind of the potential new owners' plans to "brighten the
place up" with plenty of coats of paint, the home was taken off the market and
later presented to the city of Pasadena and the University of Southern
California so its legacy could be preserved. It's now a National Historic
Landmark.

The details: Gamble House, 4 Westmoreland Place, in the 300 block of North
Orange Grove Boulevard. One-hour guided tours are $8 adults, $5 seniors and
students, free for kids under 12. Open noon-3 p.m. Thursdays-Sundays.
http://gamblehouse.usc.edu.

Although the Gamble House and the Wrigley Mansion (headquarters of the
Tournament of Roses Association) are the most famous homes in Pasadena, the city
is renowned for its authentic bungalow-style homes. Unlike, say, Bel Air or
Beverly Hills, it's easy to stroll through the neighborhoods of Pasadena -- and
the homes are far more interesting to look at, anyway.

The bungalow style grew out of the Arts & Crafts movement of the turn of the
century. With a low-slung roof, an open floor plan and ample use of wood and
other natural materials, bungalow homes exemplified a new, more casual style of
living.

Two areas of Pasadena in particular make for a pleasurable walk to explore
bungalow homes. In the bookstore at the Gamble House, you can buy a map ($1.50)
of a self-guided tour around the Gamble neighborhood. Within just a few blocks,
more than 20 turn-of-the-century homes, many of them built by Greene and Greene,
are on view.

More than 800 homes built from the 1900s through the 1930s stand in marvelous
condition in Bungalow Heaven, a landmark district surrounding cozy McDonald
Park. The area is roughly bounded by Orange Grove Boulevard, Lake Avenue,
Washington Boulevard and Holliston Avenue. Go to http://home.earthlink.net/
bhna/ to print out a map of the area for an informal walking tour.

The Pasadena Convention & Visitors Bureau, 171 S. Robles Ave., also has
information about self-guided walking tours.


Pasadena, Calif.

* GETTING THERE: Nearest major airports are Los Angeles International or the
more convenient Burbank Airport. In moderate traffic, Pasadena is about a
20-minute drive north on the 110 Freeway from downtown Los Angeles.

* TOURNAMENT OF ROSES: The 113th Tournament of Roses Parade will be Tuesday; the
Rose Bowl Game will be Thursday. By midsummer, hotels are filling up for the
celebration. For parade grandstand tickets ($35-$80), call 626-795-4171; the
parade also can be viewed free from designated street-side spots. For more
information, visit www.tournamentofroses.com.

* INFORMATION: Pasadena Convention & Visitors Bureau, 626-795-9311;
www.pasadenacal.com.


LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Rene Macura/ Above: Mike Bell dresses as President Bush riding
the back of Osama bin Laden in the 25th annual Doo Dah Parade in Pasadena,
Calif., last month. The event is a parody of the Rose Parade held in the city
each Jan. 1.
 Photo: Reed Saxon/Associated Press Left: Pasadena is a city made for walking,
particularly the section called Old Pasadena, with its shops, restaurants and
theaters.
 Photo: Tim Berger/Pasadena Star-News: TOP: Settlers in the 1800s and early
1900s were lured to Pasadena by its climate and potential for culture. Surviving
through ups and down, the Southern California city today is a popular tourist
destination.
 Photo: Tournament of Roses Archives: "Symbols of America" was among the floats
on display at the 2001 Rose Parade in Pasadena, Calif. The city is well known
for the parade and the Rose Bowl held each New Year's Day, but Pasadena offers
many attractions, from museums to gardens to shopping.

                       Copyright 2001 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              115 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                    March 8, 2001, Thursday, SOONER EDITION

CUT-RATE AIDS DRUG MAKER ASKS SOUTH AFRICA FOR ACCESS

BYLINE: RACHEL L. SWARNS, THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: SCIENCE, MEDICINE, TECHNOLOGY, Pg. A-4

LENGTH: 707 words

DATELINE: JOHANNESBURG, South Africa --


An Indian maker of generic drugs asked South Africa yesterday to give it the
right to sell eight AIDS drugs currently available only from their
patent-holding multinational companies at high prices.

The announcement by Cipla Ltd. of Bombay, a large producer of drugs, opened a
new front in the struggle over patented medications in a country, and continent,
ravaged by AIDS and too poor to afford life-prolonging treatments.

South Africa has more people infected with HIV than any other country on earth
-- roughly 20 percent of its adults carry the virus -- but few can afford the $
10,000 to $ 15,000 that is the normal cost of the AIDS regimen in the West.

Cipla's move came as a leading producer of anti-HIV medicines, Merck & Co., said
it was slashing prices in South Africa and other developing countries on two
important AIDS drugs in a developing price war.

It began last month when Cipla offered to sell drugs to South Africa and other
governments for $ 600 a year per patient, or about $ 400 below the price offered
by most big drug companies that hold the patents.

But South Africa could take advantage of the offer only if it compelled the
patent holders to license the drugs, for instance on the ground that in national
emergencies, demand was not being met at fair prices.

In a letter to the Department of Trade and Industry yesterday, Cipla said it was
asking for a patent commissioner to grant this kind of compulsory licensing.
Such a decision could give Cipla the upper hand in the African market.

The multinationals argued that they need high prices in order to carry out their
research, despite the fact that the prices put the remedies out of the reach of
millions of people with HIV.

The price cuts are welcome news to Africans, but even the much lower costs could
overwhelm many countries, whose per-capita incomes might be half of the annual
drug cost. South Africa has not indicated at what price it would be willing to
buy, and presumably it would rely on international donors to bridge the gap
between the lower charges and its ability to pay.

The country has spent this week consumed with AIDS developments. Thousands of
banner-waving demonstrators have marched the streets demanding drug price cuts,
and lawyers for the big drug makers went to court to block a law aimed at easing
access to AIDS drugs.

That case was postponed until next month, but the intensifying protests and
emboldened competition are increasing pressure on the drug industry.

Merck yesterday said it would make one of its key drugs, Crixivan, available at
$ 600 per patient per year, and another, Stocrin, available for $ 500. They each
are taken in combination with other drugs as an HIV "cocktail." Merck said that
at those prices, it would make no profits on the sales.

In the United States, Crixivan costs more than $ 5,000 per patient per year.

Other companies have also responded to the price pressures. Last month,
GlaxoSmithKline PLC said it would offer discounted drugs to employers and
nonprofit groups.

Two weeks ago, the Bush administration agreed to continue the policy of not
seeking sanctions against poor countries ravaged by the AIDS epidemic, even if
U.S. patent laws are broken, so long as the country abides by World Trade
Organization treaties.

And South Africa is riding a wave of international support, after being
pilloried for demanding low-cost drugs and neglecting expert opinion on the
cause of AIDS.

"There's an increasing understanding that the epidemic has catastrophic
implications in many developing countries," Julian Fleet, a senior advisor on
law and ethics at the U.N. AIDS agency, said in a telephone interview from
Geneva.

"Increasingly, governments in the North are realizing that mechanisms like
compulsory licensing are tools that should be considered to make medicines more
affordable," Fleet said. "There has certainly been a change in the last year to
18 months."

It has been the images of the dying, in part, that have forced the climate to
change. In December, the United Nations reported that 25.3 million people in
sub-Saharan Africa -- the bulk of the world's infected -- had HIV or AIDS. Last
year, 2.4 million in the region died of AIDS.

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2001 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              122 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                   December 27, 2001 Thursday REGION EDITION

BYLINE: MARLENE PARRISH, POST-GAZETTE STAFF WRITER

SECTION: FOOD, Pg.D-1

LENGTH: 2978 words


WELL-OILED

DESSERTS

SPANISH SWEETS INCLUDE A SURPRISING INGREDIENT

Spanish pastry chef walks into a bar in Madrid. Orders a fino sherry. Strikes up
a conversation with a vacationing French chef, who is nursing a pastis. They
fall into shop talk.

"I am pastry chef and I make beautiful brioche, so buttery, so good," says the
Frenchman.

"I too make a beautiful brioche," counters the Spaniard. "I call my Mallorcan
sweet yeast bread ensaimadas, but I make it with olive oil and scent it with
citrus."

"Olive oil? Mon Dieu! But, my chocolate mousse, thick with heavy cream, cannot
be duplicated," sniffs the French chef.

"I too make a chocolate mousse. Its velvety texture comes from fragrant olive
oil," beams the Spanish chef.

"Olive oil again? Quel desastre! Do you make clafouti?"

"Si, Senor. I make pastel vasco, a Basque cherry tart. Same thing."

"C'est pas possible!" exclaims the Frenchman. "I suppose you also make perfect
pate a chou with olive oil? And cookies and cakes?

"But of course," says the Spaniard. "All with olive oil."

In the Spanish kitchen

Is there a right or wrong way here? No. In most countries, there is a global
pastry cart, offering a similar array of tarts, cakes, biscuits and pastries.
The constant is the global sweet tooth. But the differences arise from the local
market baskets and cultural acceptance that determine which ingredients are
chosen in making them.

In Spain, desserts and sweetbreads are most often made with olive oil, not
butter. That's not hard to explain (except perhaps to a French chef) when you
consider the geography. Spain's landscape is covered with olive groves, not
dairy farms. Spain is the world's largest producer of olive oil.

Sweet pastries deep-fried in olive oil are common in Andalusia, in the south of
Spain. It might seem strange to the American sensibility, but the ubiquity of
fried food, even pastries, is logical. For one thing, traditional houses in
Southern Spain have no ovens -- it is simply too hot to use them. For another,
olive oil is plentiful.

Fritters, pancakes and doughnuts are all deep-fried in olive oil. Little fried
puffs such as bunuelos are made for saints' days, particularly for the festival
of San Isidro, the patron saint of Madrid.

But the best known of the fried sweets are churros -- rings or sticks of fried
dough that seem to be made in every market and chocolateria. Spaniards dip this
ridged pastry into cups of pudding-thick chocolate, so dense a spoon can almost
stand up.

Spanish sweet breads and desserts are eaten at all hours of the day. But they
are seldom served as desserts after a heavy meal, as in America. In Spain, fresh
fruit is the preferred dessert, and most often it will be a platter of sweet
oranges, the fruit introduced by the Moors centuries ago and often used as a
symbol of Spain. Another frequent light dessert after a meal is flan, the
caramel custard that is the emblematic sweet of the country, the national
dessert.

Janet Mendel, an American journalist and food writer who has lived in Spain for
35 years, is an expert on traditional Spanish foods and folkways.

"In Spain, as in Arabic countries, the offer of sweets of all kinds is a gesture
of hospitality," she says. "Platters of small cakes and pastries are proffered
to guests, usually accompanied by decanters of dessert wines and liqueurs --
anise, brandy and sweet sherries. Sweetmeats are also an essential ingredient of
every holiday and festival. These special celebrations are accompanied by
specific puddings, sweet breads and cookies, often made in honor of a local
patron saint."

Many of the regional sweetmeats feature almonds, which are grown in abundance.
Turron, a Spanish nougat made from honey and egg white and studded with almonds,
is the most famous of these.

Marzipan is made from ground, blanched almonds and sugar. It is molded into
amusing shapes, both large and small, with some of the most beautiful examples
made by the confectioners in the city of Toledo. Spanish marzipan, pale and
delicately flavored, bears no resemblance to the garishly colored, harshly
flavored wannabes found in American confectionery samplers.

There is no more Spanish a confection than yemas, a family of sweets made from
egg yolks and sugar and formed into various shapes. Egg whites were once used to
clarify sherry, and the yolks were traditionally given to charities, usually to
convents. The nuns then created dessert specialties from the yolks, their sale
sometimes being the religious order's sole source of income.

In the American kitchen

American home cooks can learn a lesson from our Spanish amigos. If olive oil is
as versatile, healthful and multi-flavored as nutritionists say it is, it might
make sense to substitute it on occasion for butter in selected breads, pastries
and desserts. It would reduce the cholesterol-laden richness of some desserts.
The challenge is to do so without losing the character and flavor of the
original recipe. It's easier than you think.

Most people appreciate the vegetal aspects of olives and olive oil, and their
natural partnership with garlic, onions, anchovies, capers, peppers and
tomatoes. But olives and their oils can be used as either a vegetable or a
fruit. To use olive oil in sweet breads and desserts, you have to treat it as a
fruit, pairing it with such ingredients as honey, almonds, apricots and brandy.

If you want to put olive oil into baked goods, here's the proof of the putting.

* Olive oil makes even, fine-textured baked goods such as breads and coffee
cakes. Layer cakes that have oil in the batter have a moist and tender crumb.
Many commercial cake mix directions call for vegetable oil for just those
reasons.

* Olive oil has antioxidant properties that retard staling and produce a product
that stays fresh longer.

* Best of all, using olive oil in baking dramatically cuts the cholesterol and
saturated fat content in baked products that traditionally contain shortening
and butter.

But you can't substitute olive oil for butter willy-nilly or one-for-one. An
experienced cook will understand what olive oil will and won't do, how it will
work in a given recipe, how the flavors interact, how far to go in experimenting
and, when the flavors and combinations are just right, when to stop.

Since you can't just throw ingredients together or follow a simple exchange of
olive oil for butter, follow these three important guidelines.

* Amount to use -- As a rule of thumb, use 25 percent less olive oil than the
specified solid fat. When a recipe calls for a teaspoon of butter, for instance,
you would use three quarters of a teaspoon of olive oil.

* Flavor of the oil -- Use a lightly flavored oil for baking. There are almost
as many levels of taste, overtones and undertones in olive oils as there are in
wines. Ideally, you will have three olive oils in the pantry -- a delicate
virgin or extra-virgin one for salad dressings, dunking and drizzling; a heavier
one, simply labeled olive oil, for full-flavored and robust cooked dishes; and a
light one for baking. You'll have to taste.

* Supporting flavors -- With the flavor of butter gone, other flavors need to
shine. Herbs, spices, chocolate and citrus tones will have clarity. This is
really important. Never leave a void.

To begin, try using olive oil in these old favorites: Carrot, chocolate, fruit
and spice cakes; cookie bars and brownies. Use it in graham cracker, nut or
cookie crusts. It works well in corn bread and other hot batter breads, muffins
and biscuits. Use it in cake mixes that call for vegetable oil. Do use your
head, though. Every bread or pastry isn't a candidate for the switch.

If you are concerned about calories, and who isn't, know that olive oil has no
more calories per ounce than any other cooking or salad oil. But since you'll
use less fat, measure for measure, when you convert recipes, you'll end up with
fewer total calories. As for storage, keep olive oil in an airtight container
and away from light in a cool cupboard.

When you embark on your own butter-to-olive-oil baking challenge, you might
parody the "I Can Do Anything" song from "Annie Get Your Gun," to get into the
mood.

"There are things olives do better than butter,

"Olives do many things butter can do.

"Yes they can, yes they can, yes they can!"


Box: Baking Conversions


Butter Olive Oil

1 teaspoon 3/4 teaspoon

1 tablespoon 2 1/4 teaspoons

2 tablespoons 1 1/2 tablespoons

1/4 cup 3 tablespoons

1/3 cup 1/4 cup

1/2 cup 1/4 cup plus 2 tablespoons

2/3 cup 1/2 cup

3/4 cup 1/2 cup plus 1 tablespoon

1 cup 3/4 cup



SPANISH CITRUS BRIOCHE

Instead of butter, this beautiful brioche uses lightly flavored, extra virgin
olive oil. The loaf is delicately perfumed with the zest of orange and lemon,
and it is airy and flavorful. Use a fluted pan to give the classic brioche
shape. Or bake the brioche in a loaf pan to allow you to make even slices. Stale
brioche makes excellent french toast. Many recipes for brioche call for double
risings of the dough and a rest overnight in the refrigerator. This version is
quick and easy to put together in the food processor, but it can also be stirred
together conventionally in a large bowl. It is not kneaded.

3 tablespoons warmed milk

1 1/2 teaspoons dry yeast

2 cups all-purpose flour

3 large whole eggs, at room temperature

1/4 cup sugar

Grated zest of an orange

Grated zest of a lemon

3/4 teaspoon salt

6 tablespoons lightly flavored olive oil

Spritz a 4 1/2-cup fluted brioche mold or a 9-by-5-by-3-inch loaf pan with
nonstick cooking spray. Heat the milk but allow it to become only warm, not hot.

Sprinkle the yeast over the bottom of a food processor and add the warm milk
along with a small pinch of sugar, 1/3 cup flour and 1 egg. Pulse 8 to 10 times
until you have a starter and the mixture is creamy.

Put the remaining flour on top of this starter but do not mix it in. Cover the
bowl with the top of the food processor. Allow the mixture to stand until you
can see that the starter has begun to foam and that the yeast is activated.
Depending on the conditions in your kitchen, it can take from 15 minutes to an
hour.

Add the other 2 eggs, sugar, salt and orange and lemon zests to the work bowl.
Turn the machine on for 10-15 seconds, until the dough has come together to form
a ball. Leave the machine on and pour the olive oil in a fine stream through the
feed tube. The stream should be fine enough so that the ball holds its shape.
The movement of the ball of dough around the edge of the bowl will work the oil
into the dough.

If you are mixing by hand, work the oil into the dough a few tablespoons at a
time, mixing with a wooden spoon until the oil is incorporated. The dough is
fairly forgiving. In any case, the dough will be wet and creamy.

Spoon and scrape the dough into the brioche mold or bread pan. Although a "top
knot" is traditional on individual brioches, it gets in the way of slicing on a
larger loaf such as this one. I prefer to leave it off.

Allow the dough to rise to the top of the pan. Depending on the temperature of
the kitchen, this can take from 1 to 2 hours. The dough will be very light and
will have risen to about three times its original volume.

Bake the brioche in a preheated 375-degree oven for 30 minutes until it is
golden brown and, when the bottom of the pan is thumped, it produces a hollow
sound. Remove the loaf from the oven. Allow it to rest for 5 minutes, then turn
it out of the pan and cool on a rack. Serve plain or toasted with jam or a fruit
compote. A glass of dessert wine would be wonderful. Makes 1 loaf.

Adapted from Paula Wolfert recipe


SPANISH CREAM PUFFS

The luxurious treats are made from a batter called choux paste -- a simple
mixture of fat, flour and eggs. Shape it into cream puffs or eclairs and fill
with pastry cream, pudding or whipped cream. Fill with a savory mixture for hors
d'oeuvres. The French call this pastry pate a choux, but it works in any
language. When the Spaniards make the dough, they use olive oil, not butter.
Drop the dough into hot fat and the resulting confection is called bunuelos.

1 cup water

6 tablespoons lightly flavored olive oil

1/4 teaspoon salt

1 teaspoon sugar (use only for dessert puffs)

1 cup flour

4 large eggs

Lightly spritz a baking tray with nonstick baking spray or line it with
parchment paper and set aside. Preheat the oven to 425 degrees.

In a large saucepan over medium-high heat, bring water, olive oil, salt and
sugar (if using) to a boil. Remove from heat and add flour all at once and beat
with a wooden spoon until well blended. Reduce heat to medium. Return pan to
heat and stir vigorously with a wooden spoon until mixture forms a ball and
leaves sides of pan (about 1 to 2 minutes).

Remove pan from heat and let mixture cool for 5 minutes. Transfer mixture to a
food processor. If you don't have a food processor, beat in the eggs one at a
time according to the method below, beating hard after each addition. The result
will be the same, but it will take a bigger effort.

Whirl in eggs, one at a time, processing briefly after each addition until
smooth.

Note: After each egg is added, mixture breaks apart into clumps and is slippery
but will return to a smooth paste after beating. Let batter cool for 10 minutes
before shaping.

Shaping: You need two spoons to shape cream puffs. With one spoon, scoop up
about 2 tablespoons batter for a large puff, 1 tablespoon for a medium-size
puff, or 1 1/2 teaspoons for a cocktail-size puff. With other spoon, push batter
off first spoon and drop in a mound onto prepared baking sheet. Place mounds
about 2 inches apart.

Baking: Bake in upper third of preheated 425 degree oven for 15 minutes. Reduce
heat to 375 degrees. Pull out the tray and poke a cut in the lower side of each
puff with the tip of a knife. Continue baking until puffs are firm, dry and
golden brown, about 15 minutes more. Let cool on racks. Use within 24 hours, or
wrap airtight and freeze.

Serving: With a serrated knife, cut upper third from each puff and scoop out
moist interior. Fill with pastry cream or ice cream. Dust with a little
confectioners' sugar and drizzle with chocolate sauce if desired. Makes about 2
dozen large puffs, 3 dozen medium-size puffs, or 5 to 6 dozen cocktail-size
puffs.

Marlene Parrish


SPANISH CHOCOLATE MOUSSE WITH, SHHHH, OLIVE OIL

No, it will not collapse. No, it does not taste oily. Basque chef Teresa
Barrenechea makes this silky chocolate mousse at her Manhattan restaurant,
Marichu. "More and more, people don't want to eat so much cream," she says. "I
don't tell guests this dessert contains olive oil when I serve it. I wait until
I hear them murmuring, 'Mmh-mmmh.' " The chocolate flavor is intense, and
there's a hint of berry, but in spite of the generous amount of extra-virgin
olive oil, its flavor is subtle. Embellishment isn't necessary, but Teresa
sometimes serves the dessert with an orange sauce.We prefer raspberries.

6 ounces very good sweet dark chocolate (such as Lindt, Callebaut or
Ghirardelli), chopped

3 large eggs, separated

2/3 cup confectioners' sugar, sifted after measuring

1/4 cup double-espresso coffee, at room temperature, or 1 tablespoon instant
espresso powder

2 tablespoons Chambord or Cointreau

3/4 cup extra-virgin olive oil

Raspberries

Melt the chocolate in a small bowl in the microwave or in a saucepan over very
low heat. Let cool to lukewarm.

In a medium bowl, with an electric mixer, beat the egg yolks and sugar on medium
speed until smooth. Beat in the coffee and Chambord just to combine. Then stir
in the melted chocolate. Add the olive oil and mix well.

Thoroughly wash the beaters so that they are free of grease. In another medium
bowl, beat the egg whites until almost stiff. Gently fold 1/3 of the egg whites
into the chocolate mixture and whisk until patches of white disappear. Repeat,
whisking the remaining egg whites into the chocolate mixture, 1/3 at a time,
until patches of white disappear. Do not overmix.

Transfer the mousse into a pretty bowl or individual dessert dishes, cover and
refrigerate until ready to eat. Serve cold with raspberries. Makes 6 servings.

Teresa Barrenechea


FLAN AL CARAMELO

Flan, a baked custard with a caramelized sugar sauce, has become a part of the
international culinary repertoire and needs no translation. Flan is a staple in
just about every restaurant in Spain. Should you prefer an orange variation, add
one more egg and substitute 1 1/2 cups orange juice for the milk and 1 teaspoon
grated orange zest for the lemon zest.

1/2 cup plus 6 tablespoons sugar

2 tablespoons water

3 whole large eggs

2 large egg yolks

2 1/2 cups milk

1/8 teaspoon salt

1/4 teaspoon grated lemon zest

Whipped cream, if desired

To caramelize sugar, in a small heavy saucepan, cook 1/2 cup sugar and water
over medium heat, stirring constantly, until the syrup turns golden in color
(the sugar will crystallize before it liquefies). Immediately pour the syrup
into 6 individual custard cups.

Preheat the oven to 350 degrees. Whisk the whole eggs and egg yolks in a large
bowl until uniform in color. Whisk in the milk, remaining sugar, salt and lemon
zest.

Divide the mixture among the prepared cups. Place cups in a baking pan and add
enough hot water to come halfway up their sides. Bake about 45 minutes, or until
a knife inserted in the custard comes out clean. Remove cups from pan and let
cool. Cover and refrigerate until chilled.

Run a knife around the edge of each cup and unmold the flan onto a dessert
plate, spooning the caramelized sugar over it. Serve with whipped cream, if
desired. Makes 6 servings.

"The Best of Spain," by Evie Richter

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2001 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              123 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                     April 8, 2001 Sunday TWO STAR EDITION

A MATTER OF DEGREE;
 THE NEW FRONTIER FOR SURFERS IS COLD WATER -- AS IN ANTARCTICA

BYLINE: PATRICK JOSEPH, UNIVERSAL PRESS SYNDICATE

SECTION: TRAVEL, Pg.F-8

LENGTH: 927 words


When most people think of surfing, they envision Hawaii or Southern California.
They think warm. The image usually doesn't extend to the fir-lined beaches of
Oregon or rocky shores of Maine, where ocean-surface temperatures are frigid
even in midsummer.

But surfing is now a global, year-round sport. Thanks to nearly 50 years of
improvements in wet-suit design, cold weather is no longer a serious impediment.
Surf culture has taken root in such unlikely places as Ireland, Norway, Alaska
and Patagonia. Surf magazines increasingly turn their editorial gaze away from
the tropics to run dispatches from the high latitudes.

Winter has long been considered surfing's high season in the Northern
Hemisphere, thanks to the proliferation of storms that rage offshore and the
heavy swells they produce. Storms in the North Pacific send ocean swells
hundreds of miles to form the huge waves that break at a remote spot off
Northern California called Maverick's.

Cold water's answer to Waimea Bay, Maverick's sees waves up to 50 feet high,
attracting big-wave specialists from around the world. Winter water temperatures
in the area regularly dip below 50 degrees Fahrenheit, as much as 30 degrees
colder than the North Shore of Hawaii.

While cold-water surfing is nothing new, crowded conditions in the warmer breaks
may be contributing to its appeal. According to a recent item in The New York
Times Magazine regarding a phenomenon dubbed "surf rage," the sport has
experienced a stunning 63 percent increase in popularity over the last seven
years.

With the influx of so many newcomers, territorial hostility occasionally boils
over into violence at the more popular warm-water breaks. While not immune to
such problems, cold water usually promises smaller crowds and, if one is willing
to explore, outright solitude. It may even be that cold water -- really cold
water -- is surfing's newest frontier.

As if to drive that point home, a group of eight surfers last year set off for
the Antarctic Peninsula in search of ridable waves along the icy headlands of
the Lost Continent. They sailed out of Argentina with a collection of surfboards
and custom-made wet suits, plus Web cams, laptops and satellite uplinks so that
Walter Mittys everywhere could tune in over the Web.

The swell was there, but they found the coastline generally lacked the kind of
topography needed to form breakers. Nevertheless, they gamely paddled out amid
the pack ice and leopard seals, seven millimeters of neoprene between them and
the elements.

Even in terms of cold, they weren't setting any records. "Believe it or not,"
team member and surfing journalist Steve Hawk wrote in an e-mail correspondence
on the expedition Web site, "we're actually surfing warmer water, in warmer
weather, than a lot of surfers who dare to surf midwinter waves in places like
New England and the Great Lakes."

That cold truth is especially evident in Maine. "We're pretty hardcore," admits
Mark Anastas, owner of Liquid Dreams Surf Shop in Ogunquit. "The air temps may
be down in the 20s and, you know, as far as the water temperature goes, every
degree it drops below 45 feels like 10.

"It bottoms out at about 34," he says, noting that the water gets so dense that
it hurts to fall, eyelashes crust over with ice, and the hoods on the wet suits
occasionally freeze.

Of course, winter surfing in Maine would be inconceivable without either wet
suits or dry suits. Water conducts heat away from the body as much as 26 times
faster than air. In 34-degree water, hypothermia would occur in minutes. The
suits work by placing a barrier between skin and water to slow that process.

As the name suggests, wet suits are permeable, designed to allow a thin layer of
water to be trapped against the skin where it's immediately warmed by the body's
heat. Millions of tiny air pockets in the neoprene material form an effective
insulator against the cold.

Dry suits, by contrast, are watertight. They also tend to be bulkier and
looser-fitting, and therefore less attractive to surfers, for whom flexibility
is key.

Wet suits have greatly improved in the last five years. Nylon liners have
increased comfort and the ease with which the suits go on and off. New chemical
compositions have rendered the neoprene material more elastic, making for a
skin-tight fit that promotes greater warmth.

Anastas says these advances have contributed to a new level of prowess on the
home break. "Maine surfers were always a step or two behind," he says. "We
couldn't get the same amount of practice in. But with these new wet suits, we're
able to go out year-round. You're beginning to see some young kids out here who
really tear it up."

Is he worried that overcrowding will extend to cold-water surf spots? "It's
already a zoo some days here in the summer," he says. "But no matter how good
the suits get, I don't see people flocking to Maine to surf -- not in winter."


If you go ...

Matt Warshaw's new book, "Maverick's," tells the story of big-wave surfing in
both warm and cold water, culminating in the tragic death of Hawaiian surfer
Mark Foo, who drowned while surfing Maverick's in December 1994 (Chronicle
Books, $29.95).

To revisit the exploits of the American surfers who went to Antarctica, "the
unsurfed continent," visit www.quokka.com.

Liquid Dreams Surf Shop, established in 1996, maintains a Web site at
www.liquiddreamssurf.com. The real-world coordinates are 365 Route1 Main St.,
Ogunquit, ME 03907; 207-641-2545 or e-mail info@liquiddreamssurf.com.

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jim Ready: Winter surfers take on the challenge of the rocky
coast of Maine, where ocean-surface temperatures are frigid even in midsummer.

                       Copyright 2001 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              138 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                     April 3, 2001, Tuesday, SOONER EDITION

KRZYZEWSKI, OLSON A VANISHING BREED

BYLINE: BOB SMIZIK

SECTION: SPORTS, Pg. C-1

LENGTH: 778 words

DATELINE: MINNEAPOLIS


When Mike Krzyzewski of Duke and Lute Olson of Arizona walked onto the court at
the Metrodome last night to coach in the championship game of the NCAA
tournament, they were men at the top of their profession, men who could, and
probably would, retire in their current positions.

Job security had long ago ceased to be an issue with them. In that respect,
Krzyzewski and Olson are a vanishing breed.

The frantic search for a winner in college basketball, which is exceeding all
bounds of reason, is limiting the chances of coaches to attain the level of
success achieved by Krzyzewski and Olson.

In today's climate, where winning -- and the millions that come with it -is
all-important, coaches rarely get the time necessary to build successful
programs.

"There's hardly any commitment now," Krzyzewski said. "It's really sad. I mean,
who do we have? About 40 or 50 guys losing jobs? In the last five or six years,
there's probably 300. That's not right."

In fact, if Krzyzewski and Olson were making similar climbs up the coaching
ladder today as they did 20 to 30 years ago, they'd almost certainly never have
the opportunity to secure such plum jobs. If they had, there's an excellent
chance they would have been fired before they reached success.

Consider Krzyzewski, who has been at Duke since 1980 and, for five seasons
before that, was the coach at Army.

In the frenzy to find the hot coach today, he likely would never have been hired
at Duke. A school of Duke's prestige hiring a coach from Army isn't a likely
scenario. Better yet, a coach from Army who had a losing record in his final
season would most certainly never be hired by a school playing in such a
prestigious league as the Atlantic Coast Conference.

That's right, Krzyzewski was 9-17 in his final season at Army. In the current
atmosphere, such a record might have got him fired at Army instead of a
promotion to Duke.

But, suppose Krzyzewski got the Duke job. He still would not have been around to
win two national championships and advance to nine Final Fours. In all
likelihood, he would have been fired after three seasons.

When Krzyzewski took over at Duke, it wasn't the preeminent basketball program
in the country, but it was one of the best. Krzyzewski's predecessor, Bill
Foster, was 73-24 in his final three seasons. Duke made the NCAA tournament
every year, once losing in the national championship game and once in a regional
final.

After going 17-13, with Foster's talent, Krzyzewski had consecutive seasons of
10-17 and 11-17. In that third year, Duke lost at home to Wagner, a humiliating
defeat, which, combined with his 21-34 record over two seasons, had some people
demanding a change. Today, it's hard to imagine such a record at such a school
not resulting in Krzyzewski's dismissal.

Anyone who doubts that need only look around.

Tennessee fired Coach Jerry Green this year after four seasons. He had taken his
team to the NCAA tournament every year. In four years, he won 89 games. He was
22-11 this season.

Green's case might be the most appalling, but it was not the only one.

Brad Soderberg took over Wisconsin on an interim basis early in the season when
Dick Bennett, who coached the Badgers into the Final Four of the NCAA tournament
last season, retired. Soderberg was fired. Larry Hunter won 19 games with Ohio
University. He was fired. Joey Stiebing was Sun Belt Conference coach of the
year at New Orleans. He was fired.

Denying Olson the opportunity would have come in a different form. He was an
almost immediate success as a head coach. He went 24-2 at Long Beach State in
1973-74 and followed that at Iowa by winning 39 games in his second and third
seasons. After still more success, he left Iowa after the 1980 season for
Arizona, where he had one losing season before turning around a terrible
program.

Today, Olson probably never would have gotten that first chance at Long Beach
State.

He was 38 when he took his first college job, which came after one year at a
junior college and 12 as a high school coach. A candidate presenting such a
resume today wouldn't be allowed to fill out an application. Learning the game
at the high school level -- once the road to success -- is passe.

The road to success today is to be a successful player, preferably at a
high-profile program where the best contacts can be made, then learn your trade
on the college level.

Krzyzewski and Olson are great coaches, regular visitors to the Final Four, who
never would have had their chance to reach for greatness in the climate that
exists in the college game today.

Bob Smizik can be reached at bsmizik@post-gazette.com.

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2001 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              143 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                      May 5, 2001 Saturday SOONER EDITION

FIGHTING ON TWO FRONTS

SECTION: EDITORIAL, Pg.A-14 LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 445 words


I am president of USWA Local 1557 in Clairton. Our local represents 1,500
members at the U.S. Steel Clairton coke plant and 50 members at the Koppers
Industries plant here in Clairton. As president I have made it my No. 1 concern
to keep our plants and our members working.

I'm writing because our jobs and our industry have come under attack on two
fronts: the Kyoto protocol and the steel dumping crisis.

The Kyoto climate treaty, negotiated by the United Nations, would create a
severe requirement for the United States to reduce emissions of carbon dioxide
and other greenhouse gases. Carbon dioxide is given off when fossil fuels,
including coal, oil and natural gas, are burned. Use of these fuels is essential
to the public well-being. Therefore, we heartily endorse President Bush's
rejection of the treaty as it now stands.

The Kyoto protocol cannot be effective because it does not require developing
countries to limit or reduce their emissions. What sense would it make for the
United States to follow an ill-advised global warming policy when it will have
no significant effect on the problem it was supposed to address? The Clairton
coke plant is the largest and cleanest coke plant in the nation. What sense
would it make to shut our plant down for emitting carbon dioxide, then turn
around and have another country produce the same product?

We should learn a lesson from what is happening in California with the
electricity crisis and what can occur when government loses sight of the need to
ensure that the economy rests on a sound energy base while environmental
improvements are made.

As for the second battle, the steel dumping crisis has reached catastrophic
proportions. Since 1997, 18 steel companies have filed for bankruptcy, eight in
the last six months. Americans don't mind fair competition, but the steel
dumping by foreign countries is not fair and it is illegal. Foreign countries
such as China are using slave labor, prison labor and child labor to produce
their steel. They then dump their product into the U.S. market.

Though we remain the most efficient steel industry in the world, the unfair
advantage of countries that exploit their workers and the unfair trading
practices by these foreign nations have put our entire industry and our national
security at risk. The United States cannot afford for the steel industry to go
the way of the shoe and clothing market.

Can you imagine going to war with a country such as China and then asking it to
sell us steel so we can make our guns, tanks, planes and bombs?

JERRY STRELICK

President

Local 1557, District 10

United Steelworkers of America

Clairton

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2001 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              146 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                       May 21, 2001 Monday SOONER EDITION

NET RESULTS;
 A BIRD IN THE HAND MEANS A LOT OF INFORMATION TO ORNITHOLOGISTS FOR
POWDERMILL'S BANDING PROGRAM. AND THEY DON'T REALLY MIND THE BITES.

BYLINE: DON HOPEY, POST-GAZETTE STAFF WRITER

SECTION: SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY AND MEDICINE, Pg.A-10

LENGTH: 1530 words


The white-eyed vireo flitted around the ponds and through the cattail marshes,
hedgerows and brushy alders of the Powdermill Nature Reserve on a sun-splashed
early May morning. Then, like a knuckleball into a catcher's mitt, it plopped
softly against a billowed mist net.

The bird struggled briefly, its feet tangled in the fine-threaded netting,
before Robert Mulvihill arrived to deftly pull it free. He dropped the bird
unharmed into a brown paper bag and closed the bag with a clothespin.

After checking the rest of his nets, Mulvihill returned to a sparsely furnished
lab in a whitewashed, cinderblock building. There, he banded the bird and
carefully recorded information about its species, age, sex, wing length, fat
deposits and body weight that was transferred to a computer database later that
day.

Placing the tiny aluminum tag imprinted with a code number and U.S. Fish and
Wildlife phone number on the bird's ankle and recording the information took
less than a minute. Mulvihill then released the bird through a small sliding
wooden door in the banding lab window.

The whole process hasn't changed much in 40 years, and its low-tech sameness,
300 days a year, year in and year out, is one of its strengths.

On April 24, the longevity of the banding program, started as a Carnegie Museum
of Natural History pilot project in 1961 by Robert Leberman, was rewarded when
it captured and banded its 400,000th bird.

Sometime next month it will pass another milestone as the number of original
bandings and recaptures of previously banded birds hits 500,000.

"This is one of the oldest bird-banding programs in all of North America, and
the oldest professionally staffed, year-round program going," said Mulvihill, a
43-year-old field ornithologist. He has worked at the 2,200-acre research center
abutting Forbes State Forest in Westmoreland County since 1978, when he arrived
as a volunteer.

"The data we have collected on these birds over a long time shows consistent
patterns. It's a phenomenal research tool."

Special, and not so special

Over its four decades of operation, Powdermill's avian research program has
banded about 10,000 birds a year and collected data on nearly 200 species,
ranging from hummingbirds to pileated woodpeckers to the occasional raptor and
40 different kinds of warblers.

This year, the program's spring bird count -- a running total that's available
on the Powdermill Web site -- is up over 1,400 birds and 93 species.

Because virtually all of the data has been collected by Leberman, Mulvihill and
a stable group of volunteers, the database is among the cleanest, most
internally consistent, of its kind. It provides information about bird
populations and diversity, including longevity in wild bird populations,
differences in migration behavior between species and between sexes and age
groups within species, bird life cycles, weight and plumage changes.

"We're studying birds in all seasons. We could have 100 records of some resident
birds, or just one of various transients or migrants. Others we know return here
to breed, while other species are winter residents that migrate north in the
spring," said Leberman, 64. The field ornithologist was one of the first to use
mist netting, originally imported from Japan after World War II, to do bird
banding and study.

"We field lots of data requests and, as people become aware that the data set is
based on half a million bandings over 40 years, we expect those to increase."

The idea to study songbird migration away from established migration routes
along the East Coast was Leberman's, but he gives credit to M. Graham Netting,
director of the Carnegie Museum of Natural History in the 1950s, for recognizing
its value.

"There's nothing special about Powdermill and that's what you want," Leberman
said. "There's no special concentration or migration route. This is just another
valley in the Appalachians and, as such, gives a truer picture of what's out
there."

Studying migration in detail

The greatest number of species fly through the area this month, but the greatest
number of birds counted and banded occurs in the fall, when avian populations
are swollen with birds hatched in the spring and not yet reduced by
over-wintering mortality.

"Today we'll have vireos, warblers, sparrows and thrushes, among others," said
Leberman, who has authored or co-authored 20 research papers based on the
banding data. "We have a lot of diversity because of our elevation here and
because we are at the ends of northern and southern migration routes."

One of Leberman's research areas involves differential migration -- by species,
sex and age groups.

And six years ago, Mulvihill began a study of the Louisiana water thrush, with
preliminary results showing that breeding density for the species declines
significantly when its stream habitat is degraded by acid mine drainage.

Data collected at Powdermill may also help researchers determine if global
migration is related to and affected by trends in global warming.

Despite sometimes large annual variations in migrant populations long-term
trends do not show significant differences, Mulvihill said.

"The timing of migration is related to mean spring temperature but so far we
haven't been able to show a trend on temperature," he said. "Still, we have
reason to believe that there would be an effect on migration if there is global
climate change."

Also adversely affecting migration and bird populations are urban sprawl and
development, which cause loss of valuable bird habitat, though there is little
evidence of that at rural, wooded Powdermill.

Mulvihill said that fragmented urban and suburban landscapes are bird population
"sinks" that lead to declining bird populations, while rural and wooded areas --
including the vast northern tier and middle sections of Pennsylvania -- are
"population sources."

"We're grateful for the environment around us," Mulvihill said, "but there are
increasing pressures from development and road building even here. And I can say
without qualification that fragmented habitats are negative for biodiversity. By
monitoring for as long as we have we will have benchmarks to check."

Labor of love

At morning's first light, Mulvihill unfurled the mist nets, and five hours later
he is still walking quickly with long strides along the narrow boardwalks that
parallel the nets and keep him from sinking into the marshy land.

"Watch out for that fox scat," Mulvihill said over his shoulder as he jumped
over the small pile at the end of a well-weathered board. "We see bobcat, fox
and coyote visit here. We have to be alert to that type of thing, but we really
have no significant problem with predation."

That those animals would know where to come for an easy meal isn't surprising.
The 50 mist nets, each 7 feet high and 40 feet long and placed in hedgerow gaps
and along habitat edges, must look like a cafeteria line to the predators.

And that the foxes, bobcats and coyotes go away hungry more often than not is a
tribute to the speed, dedication and more than 60 years of experience that
Leberman and Mulvihill bring to their work.

What their work with these birds on the wing still brings to them is excitement.

Mulvihill, who could identify a large number of birds when he was 10 and came to
Powdermill for the first time, remembers it as a life-changing experience.

"I came out here on a visit and realized I could do this," he said. "I was
fascinated by the nuts and bolts of banding and that brought my scientific
curiosity into play."

That fascination and curiosity is reflected in his answer to a question about
his most memorable banding day at Powdermill.

"It was actually two days. One was when we worked to band the largest number of
birds -- 576 in 1982 -- that I ever banded in a day," he said. "The other was
the day we banded the largest diversity of species -- 53. It was a phenomenal
experience to handle that many kinds of birds in one day."

Leberman, who once captured and banded 650 birds in a single day before
Mulvihill worked at Powdermill, said his most memorable day was Sept. 21, 1971
-- he remembers the date with a little help from Mulvihill -- when he found a
Kirtland's warbler in one of the nets. It is the only endangered species ever
captured at Powdermill.

"It was a busy day and there were also 11 yellow-rumped warblers in the net,"
Leberman said. "I knew what it was immediately, but I finished doing the common
birds before I let myself deal with the reality of finding that really rare
species."

The Kirtland's warbler breeds in Michigan and winters in the Bahamas. When
Leberman found one in his net there were only 200 known pairs in the world.

"It wasn't biologically important but that day stands out for me," he said. "You
could never have predicted that out of 400 of those birds in the world, one
would show up in Pennsylvania.

"That's what keeps me going every day. There's always something new in the
nets."

More information about Powdermill and the bird banding program is available on
the Web site: www.clpgh.org/cmnh/powdermill.

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: V.W.H. Campbell Jr./Post-Gazette photos: Sometimes the pursuit
of knowledge can be, well, slightly painful. Field ornithologist Robert
Mulvihill's reward for removing a frightened tufted titmouse from a mist net at
Powdermill Nature Reserve is a sharp snap on the thumb. This bird was previously
banded, so it was taken back to the laboratory for examination and new
measurements.
 PHOTO: (For two photos) ABOVE RIGHT: A variety of tags are used in banding. The
small string at left is for use on songbirds such as bluebirds. The bands are
serially numbered and sent to licensed banders in envelopes from the Department
of Interior's Bird Banding Laboratory in Laurel, Md. The tags on rods to the
right of the envelope are colored and made of plastic. They're placed on a bird
in some unique combination, along with a numbered aluminum band, for behavioral
studies in which researchers need to be able to recognize individual birds in
the wild from a distance. At right is a strand of bands that lock on; they're
used for larger birds, such as owls, that have the beak strength to removed
traditional bands. The pliers are specially machined for safely attaching bands.


 PHOTO: RIGHT: Mulvihill checks the wing length of a blue jay caught in one of
the nets. Other measurements recorded are species, age, sex, fat deposits and
body weight.
 PHOTO: Robert Mulvihill, a field ornithologist at Powdermill Nature Reserve,
holds a brown creeper.
 MAP: James Hilston/Post-Gazette: (Powdermill Nature Reserve)

                       Copyright 2001 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              174 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                     March 12, 2001, Monday, SOONER EDITION

BUSINESS LOBBY ALL SMILES;
BUSH ADMINISTRATION FRIENDLY GROUND FOR PUSHING THROUGH LONG-STALLED PLANS

BYLINE: DAN MORGAN AND KATHLEEN DAY, THE WASHINGTON POST

SECTION: NATIONAL, Pg. A-1

LENGTH: 853 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON --


Buoyed by their headiest week in recent memory, business lobbyists are dusting
off dozens of long-stalled legislative proposals in hopes of cashing in on a new
pro-business climate fostered by Republican control of the White House.

Congress last week quickly did away with workplace safety rules that had been 10
years in the making, and moved on to a bankruptcy reform bill. But even as they
savored these triumphs, business representatives looked ahead to passing a
broader agenda that would pare back environmental and land use regulations,
limit corporate liability for faulty products, rewrite rules protecting the
privacy of patients' medical records, cut red tape blocking new oil refineries
and pipelines, and open the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge in Alaska to oil
drilling.

The emboldened mood suggested a deepening awareness among business groups that
President Bill Clinton's departure had removed a logjam for pro-business
legislation that had piled up in Congress since the GOP won the majority in
1995. While Clinton supported business on issues of trade and investment, he
blocked dozens of initiatives, ranging from environmental riders and tax
revisions for multinational companies to product liability reform and an
overhaul of bankruptcy law.

It was plain last week that the arrival in the White House of President Bush, a
former businessman surrounded by senior administration officials who themselves
have been business executives, had opened up new possibilities.

Adding to the momentum is the desire of Bush and the Republican-led Congress to
quickly reward corporate groups for agreeing to forgo advocating tax breaks in
the president's initial tax cut bill-while reserving the right to press for
special-interest tax provisions later on.

"Since business isn't getting anything in the first tax bill, they're going to
get a lot on the regulatory side," said Lawrence Kudlow, a Wall Street economist
and former adviser to President Ronald Reagan.

That view was reiterated by many corporate lobbyists. "Whereas for the past
eight years the wind has been in our face for things of priority to the business
community, it has now shifted to our backs," said Dirk Van Dongen, president of
the National Association of Wholesaler-Distributors.

Business made a substantial investment in the Republican Party in the recent
election. Corporations and executives contributed $ 146 million in "soft money"
to national Republican Party committees in 1999-2000, compared with $ 81 million
to Democratic groups. Two in three dollars from political action committees
affiliated with companies went to Republican candidates.

The money helped Republicans keep control of Congress, but the coup was the
election of Bush, which eliminated the veto threat from a Democratic White
House.

Last week, Congress took a first, big step toward undoing the Clinton record
when it scuttled a stringent Clinton administration regulation requiring
business to take steps to limit repetitive-stress injuries on the job. Bush has
said he will sign the repeal into law.

Congress is also moving rapidly to revive the bankruptcy reform bill Clinton
vetoed in December. The House passed a similar bill 306 to 108 on March 1. The
Senate could give its approval this week.

Last fall, congressional GOP leaders took control of the final writing of the
bankruptcy bill and consulted closely with representatives of the American
Financial Services Association and the Coalition for Responsible Bankruptcy,
which represent dozens of corporations and trade groups. Another key lobbyist
was Jim Smith of MBNA Corp., the nation's largest credit card issuer.

MBNA and its employees were among the largest donors to the Bush campaign.

The company's president, Charles Cawley, raised money for Bush and was among the
GOP "Pioneers" who contributed at least $ 100,000 to the Republican bid for the
White House.

Although Republicans clearly are the driving force, many congressional Democrats
are also on board the business bandwagon.

Half a dozen Democrats provided the margin of victory for repeal of the Clinton
workplace rules in the Senate last week.

Among Senate Democrats who may vote for the bankruptcy bill are Minority Leader
Tom Daschle, D-S.D., whose state is home to a Citigroup Inc. credit card
operation in Sioux Falls that employs several thousand people. Daschle has
received $ 45,000 in political contributions from Citigroup in the last six
years, according to the Center for Responsive Politics.

The bankruptcy bill, which makes it harder for individuals to use bankruptcy to
wipe out debt, is a vivid example of the connection between business
contributions and legislation, according to consumer representatives.

They say the changes are too harsh and would create hardships for people who
have fallen into financial trouble, divorce, illness, job loss or other bad
luck.

Critics of the bill say they feel out-monied, out-manned and out-maneuvered.
"This is the best bill money can buy," said Frank Torres, a lobbyist for
Consumers Union, publisher of Consumer Reports.

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, PHOTO: Kenneth Lambert/Associated Press: President Bush, a
former; businessman, is surrounded by senior administration officialswho
themselves; were busdiness executives.

                       Copyright 2001 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              176 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                     April 28, 2001 Saturday REGION EDITION

DEMOCRATS NOW FAVOR IMPROVING KYOTO PACT

BYLINE: ERIC PIANIN, THE WASHINGTON POST

SECTION: WORLD, Pg.A-5

LENGTH: 491 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Senate Democrats who criticized President Bush for disavowing a global warming
treaty now say they would support administration efforts to radically alter the
document, including a possible shift from mandatory to voluntary compliance for
reducing emissions of gases that trap heat in the Earth's atmosphere.

U.S. allies in Europe and Asia have said they would oppose a dramatic departure
from the current global warming treaty. But Senate Minority Leader Thomas
Daschle, D-S.D, and Sen. Charles Schumer, D-N.Y., said they would support a
whole new approach, provided Bush takes the lead in reviving talks this summer.

"I'm not averse to looking at voluntary approaches," Daschle said in an
interview this week. "But if you do, there has to be some kind of incentive
program that would cause a change in practice or approach."

The Democrats' shift in tone provides the first indication of an evolving
bipartisan policy on one of the most contentious foreign policy issues Bush has
confronted in his presidency. It will help guide the administration's thinking
as it embarks on a new round of global warming negotiations.

The administration is reviewing a number of alternatives to the treaty
negotiated in 1997 by the United States and its allies in Kyoto, Japan,
including industry proposals for a more flexible, incentive-based approach and
new technologies that would scrap tough emissions caps and deadlines in the
agreement.

"A voluntary approach [to compliance] is a good possibility," said Schumer,
co-author of a bipartisan energy plan released this week, "but since the
president rejected Kyoto, there's some onus on him to come up with some
alternative."

Bush spokeswoman Claire Buchan welcomed the Democrats' comments. "We look
forward to working constructively with Democrats and Republicans alike to
address what the president regards as a very serious issue," she said.

Since denouncing the Kyoto protocol last month as a threat to long-term U.S.
economic prosperity, Bush has come under attack by Democrats, environmentalists
and foreign leaders for undermining what they view as hard-won progress on
global warming. But as the Democrats' more conciliatory statements suggest, the
Kyoto protocol never enjoyed much support in the United States, and Bush may be
turning the issue to his advantage.

A new national survey by the Pew Research Center for the People and the Press
found that only 20 percent of respondents even knew of Bush's decision to
withdraw support for the treaty; fewer than half of those interviewed
disapproved of the decision when told of it.

Daschle and other Democrats have faulted Bush for diplomatic heavy-handedness in
unilaterally abandoning the Kyoto protocol without offering a realistic
substitute. But they suggested he could regain momentum if he can craft a
credible alternative before environmental ministers gather in mid-July in Bonn,
Germany, to resume talks.

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2001 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              182 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                   September 1, 2001 Saturday SOONER EDITION

BLUE LIGHT RED ZONE;
 BIG DISCOUNTERS TURN WARLIKE IN FIGHT FOR CUSTOMERS

BYLINE: ANNE D'INNOCENZIO, THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg.A-9

LENGTH: 704 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


It's looking like all-out war between the nation's big discount
stores..........................  With overall sales sluggish and showing no
signs of improvement, the three largest discounters -- Wal-Mart Stores Inc.,
Kmart Corp. and Target Stores Inc. -- are turning to guerrilla tactics to win
more customers.

They're increasing discounts, grabbing exclusive brands and stealing employees
from their rivals.

The hostilities couldn't come at a better time for consumers, who have their own
ammunition: money from tax rebate checks.

In a move to defend its turf, Target charged Kmart in a lawsuit filed late last
month with lying to consumers in a nationwide advertising campaign that compares
Kmart prices with those of its competitors.

Kmart, which is on a campaign to cut prices, has denied any wrongdoing, and in a
conference call with investors Aug. 23, Chuck Conaway, chairman and chief
executive officer, fired back.

"If our talking about our pricing was an issue now, it is going to be a lot more
of an issue" by the end of the month, Conaway said, when Kmart plans to lower
prices on nearly 50,000 items -- nearly 45 percent of all its merchandise.

Kmart yesterday did say it had removed from its stores the "Dare to Compare"
price promotions that prompted the lawsuit, but Target, while withdrawing its
request for a temporary restraining order that would have required Kmart to take
them down, has not withdrawn the lawsuit.

Wal-Mart, Target and Kmart, which account for 88 percent of the $206 billion
U.S. discount market, have their own distinct identities: Wal-Mart, the world's
largest discounter, has ruled with its "everyday pricing" formula. Target
appeals to a slightly more upscale customer, offering exclusive products like
Michael Graves housewares and Mossimo clothing.

Embattled Kmart wants to focus on being a destination for the shopping mother,
and has expanded its licensing partnership with such brands as Martha Stewart,
its most lucrative label. It also has signed exclusive children's apparel
arrangements with Sesame Street and Disney.

In trying to build more business, the identities are overlapping more.

"They are all looking to gain market share at the expense of the other fellow,"
said Kurt Barnard, president of the Barnard Retail Trend Report, based in
Montclair, N.J. "This is the most intensely competitive climate I have seen in
decades, and it is not likely to abate anytime soon."

"Each is trying to add a new dimension to its offerings and to its way of
operating, which they hope will attract new customers from their competitors, as
well as department stores," Barnard said.

Eyeing Wal-Mart's successful expansion into food and pharmacy, Target and Kmart
are now out to expand these categories by expanding their super centers. Food,
in particular, carries a lower profit margin, but the category is a traffic
driver. Kmart has converted its entire chain of stores to a single food
distribution company, which Conaway said will allow it to cut the company's
costs, as well as the consumer's.

In a bid to capture the youth market, Wal-Mart and Kmart are now trying to copy
cheap chic purveyor Target, stocking up on tiny T-shirts and low-rise jeans.

Kmart hired away Mariana Keros, formerly a director of trend merchandising at
Target, to lead the company's first trend apparel department.

Wal-Mart has scored big with its exclusive licensing clothing deal with preteen
TV twins Mary Kate and Ashley Olsen. The retailer, which started carrying the
line in January, is doubling its orders for fall.

The competitive climate has forced Wal-Mart to step up its discounting, even if
it creates margin pressure in the short term.

"This is the right thing to do for our customer and is driving strong market
share gains," Tom Schoewe, chief financial officer, told investors during a
recent conference call.

Bert Flickinger III, a Westport, Conn.-based consultant, said Kmart had made
some strides in closing the pricing gap. Two years ago, Kmart's prices were 6
percent to 8 percent higher than its discount competitors on 1,000 top sellers
across a variety of categories. Now the difference is only about 2 percent, he
said.


LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ann Heisenfelt/Associated Press: Betsy Gehant, left, and Kim
Larson, both of Chicago, browse Mossimo apparel at a Target in Minneapolis last
month. Target has used name brands to lure a more upscale shopper. But with
competition heating up for consumers' dollars, discounters have resorted to
slashing prices and snapping up rivals' employees.
 Photo: Richard Drew/Associated Press: Chuck Conaway, chairman and chief
executive of Kmart, and home guru Martha Stewart walk through the New York Stock
Exchange trading floor last month. Kmart has secured a long-term agreement to
carry Stewart's merchandise. Kmart also will slash prices in a direct attack on
Target and Wal-Mart.

                       Copyright 2001 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              205 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                   February 20, 2001, Tuesday, SOONER EDITION

LOCAL ECONOMY LEVELING OFF

BYLINE: POST-GAZETTE STAFF

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg. B-8

LENGTH: 162 words


The region's economic slowdown could be nearing a bottom if a local gauge of
activity is any indication.

The National Association of Purchasing Management-Pittsburgh said its Regional
Business Index inched down 0.02 percent last month to 51.08, from 51.09 in
December. It marked the smallest decline in the index since it began trending
down since July, and was still up from January 2000's reading of 50.85.

The index, compiled from a survey of both manufacturing and nonmanufacturing
companies, tracks a range of business indicators, including new orders,
backlogs, price changes and employment. Throughout its recent downturn, the
NAPM's local index has remained above 50 percent, the break-even point between
an expanding and contracting economy.

The index's leveling in January follows a report by West Penn Multi-List, which
tracks home-buying activity in the region, that showed local home sales picking
up in January after an end-of-the-year lull.

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2001 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              214 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                     March 30, 2001, Friday, SOONER EDITION

SECTION: WORLD, Pg. A-3, WORLD BRIEFS

LENGTH: 599 words


EUROPE WARNS BUSH ON ' 97 PACT

BRUSSELS, Belgium -- European officials warned President Bush yesterday that
U.S. relations with the rest of the world could suffer if he sticks by a
decision to pull out of an agreement on reducing global warming.

Bush administration officials said Wednesday that they would not implement the
1997 Kyoto Protocol, under which countries agreed to legally binding targets for
curbing heat-trapping "greenhouse" gases, which are mainly carbon dioxide from
burning fossil fuels. The move reversed a position Bush took during last year's
presidential campaign.

Citizenship for scholar

BEIJING -- China yesterday rebuffed a planned attempt to hasten the release of a
U.S.-based scholar detained on spying charges by giving her American
citizenship.

Supporters of Gao Zhan in the U.S. Congress plan to propose the measure next
week in hopes of raising pressure on China. But China's Foreign Ministry said
yesterday that the measure would have no effect on the case against Gao, a
Chinese-born political scientist at American University in Washington.

She was detained last month as she was leaving Beijing after a family visit. Gao
and her husband are permanent U.S. residents who have applied for American
citizenship. They had completed all but the swearing-in when they were detained.
Their son, Andrew, already is a U.S. citizen.

Famine threatens Sudan

LONDON -- More than 3 million people in Sudan are threatened by famine and
thousands could die by July, the U.N. World Food Program warned yesterday.

A severe drought has added to the misery caused by an 18-year civil war and
previous famines that have left 2 million dead and more than 4 million others
displaced. Food supplies have shrunk as the drought has caused rivers and dams
to run dry. Most Sudanese have cut down to one meal a day.

Nuke waste's trip ends

GORLEBEN, Germany -- Under heavy police guard, a nuclear waste shipment reached
its final storage site yesterday after a tumultuous trip across Germany.

Protesters say dozens of them were injured and that 1,500 were detained as the
train struggled from France through the heaths of northern Germany to the
Gorleben dump. More than 8,000 police kept protesters at bay as trucks hauled
the six containers from a rail depot through a forest on the final 12-mile
journey.

Wagner Festival leadership

BERLIN -- Board members of the famed Richard Wagner Festival yesterday ordered
the 81-year-old director to cede to the post to his estranged daughter.

The nomination of Eva Wagner-Pasquier, great-granddaughter of the German
composer who founded the festival 125 years ago, was meant to end wrangling over
the annual opera gala's future and appease faithful fans and artists alike.

But director Wolfgang Wagner -- Richard Wagner's grandson -- immediately made
clear he won't give up without a fight. He has led the festival in the Bavarian
town of Bayreuth since 1973 and wants his second wife, Gudrun, to succeed him.
The board running the foundation that oversees the festival said after meeting
yesterday that Wagner-Pasquier, 55, is "the suitable successor."

Also in the world . . .

A Japanese appeals court yesterday said the Japanese government does not need to
pay three Korean women compensation for forcing them into wartime sexual slavery
as no serious constitutional violations occurred. The Hiroshima High Court
overturned a 1998 district court ruling that ordered the government to pay a
total of $ 7,260 to the women who were forced to provide sex to Japanese
soldiers during World War II.

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2001 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              217 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                    April 22, 2001 Sunday FIVE STAR EDITION

NOVELISTS MUST BE TRUE TO SELVES, NOT TO HISTORY

SECTION: ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT, Pg.G-10 BOB HOOVER

LENGTH: 811 words


James Fenimore Cooper was, for my generation, one of those novelists you read
about, rather than read.      His fame was secured not by "The
Leather-Stocking Tales," but by Mark Twain's essay "Fenimore Cooper's Literary
Offenses."

It was certainly the first literary criticism that had penetrated my culturally
isolated perch at a suburban high school where we were expected to embrace
without question the traditional canon of U.S. lit.

In that climate, I would sooner be caught on school grounds with a cigarette
than my dog-eared "Lolita" paperback, that's for sure.

Referring to "The Deerslayer," Twain tortured Cooper with his particularly broad
satire, finding him guilty of 18 "violations" of effective fiction, from a lousy
plot to characters so badly drawn that it was impossible to tell the dead ones
from the living.

Written in 1895, the essay was flip and casually dismissive of America's first
popular historical novelist. But, Cooper did lay the groundwork for fiction
writers who have continued to find, despite Hawthorne's grumblings, that their
native land was a fertile one for their novels.

It was the author of "The Scarlet Letter" who declared that there was not enough
history in 1850s America for his imagination, and he left for Europe. Of course,
it's his American novels we usually read.

Cooper wrote 32 lengthy novels set mostly in pre-Revolutionary days before his
death in 1851. His works inspired many, including Henry James, and Cooper's
influence must be weighed in looking at the careers of such popular writers as
Kenneth Roberts, Pittsburgh's Hervey Allen and James Michener.

Historical fiction is an American literary tradition, but one fraught with
problems, dealing mostly with that awkwardly named concept, verisimilitude. Many
readers simply have problems with novelists who change history to suit their
story.

Mark C. Carnes, who teaches history at Columbia University, has taken on the
subject in "Novel History: Historians and Novelists Confront America's Past (and
Each Other)" (Simon and Schuster; $26).

Carnes was author of "Past Imperfect," which examined how Hollywood handled
history, so he's an old hand at this approach.

His concept was to pair historians with historical novels, then ask the novelist
to reply. He managed to connect Gore Vidal, John Updike, Don DeLillo, William
Styron, Jane Smiley, Russell Banks, Charles Frazier and Madison Smartt Bell to
their critics.

Others, such as Annie Dillard and Barbara Kingsolver, declined while Hawthorne,
Fitzgerald, Harriet Beecher Stowe and Wallace Stegner were unavailable for
comment.

"Historians and historical novelists do many of the same things and in much the
same way," writes Carnes. "They research old documents and materials; they work
with words, both as objects of study and implements of their trade; they seek
perspective on the human experience."

The differences between the two, however, are "profound," he writes, because
"they look for different things" among the artifacts.

Certainly aided by their superior writing talents and imagination, the novelists
come off as more interesting than the historians, with Banks offering the most
extensive response to the discussion of "Cloudsplitter" by the excellent Civil
War historian James McPherson.

Pointing out Banks' inaccuracies in his novel about John Brown and his sons,
McPherson concedes that he is "quite willing to recognize -- and learn from --
the novelist's license to reconstruct the past in the interest of a reality
deeper than literal fact."

I think that we as readers must agree with McPherson in his willingness to
suspend the factual framework to allow the writer space to create a new and
completely fictional world, even though some elements are true.

However, McPherson does provide a long list of Banks' mistakes, suggesting that
the novelist was indifferent to the "careful research that should underlie
historical fiction."

Banks disagreed. To him, the fact that he had the date of Brown's execution
wrong was immaterial because he was writing a "story" built from "a cluster of
images obtained solely from words structured and organized in such a way as to
produce a clarifying dramatized vision of the truly human."

Other novelists agreed with Banks, but in their own way. "We shorten, we skirt,
we skim, all to deliver back to the reader his own reality," says Updike.

For Vidal, motivation for the actions of historical characters could be
developed from "a long immersion" in history without discovering specific
reasons for them.

The lesson of "Novel History" is that fiction is about human lives created from
within the writer's imagination, while history is what goes on outside the
writer's window.

In that mysterious process of creation, the writer melds the two into something
entirely his or her own.

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2001 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              228 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                       May 14, 2001 Monday SOONER EDITION

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg.B-1 MARKET MONDAY

LENGTH: 312 words


Today's Guest: Charlie Smith, chief investment officer, Fort Pitt Capital Group,
Green Tree (www.FortPittCapital.com)

Where Are You Putting Your Money? We're still buying stocks, albeit less
aggressively than when we last appeared in the "Market Monday" column in
January. What we described then as "reasonable" valuations became downright
inexpensive in late March, but a 20 percent move off the bottom has since put
the average stock back near fair value. Our key indicator is corporate capital
spending. We see no reason for a rapid rebound given the weak earnings climate,
which we expect to last at least through the third quarter. Fed rate cuts have
helped to revive the debt markets, but corporate America (and tech in
particular) is still playing defense. Scattered names in retailing, specialty
metals, building materials, and aerospace/defense are attractive here.

What Are You Avoiding? Brand-name consumer companies with P/E multiples above
their growth rates. The story on energy, particularly infrastructure companies
and oil service, has become slightly more compelling over the past six months as
the scope of the California power debacle emerges, but we're still generally
bearish on utilities and oil producers due to premium valuations.

What's Your Outlook For The Markets Over The Next Three to Six Months?
Historically, the stock market sniffs out any significant change (up or down) in
the macro economy 6 months ahead of the reality. Right now, the markets are in a
holding pattern trying to discern when things will get better. Our guess is they
really won't until the middle of next year, so the S&P 500 will trade seven or
eight percent on either side of 1250 until Christmas.

What Are Your Top Five Picks? Our five largest holdings are Boeing (BA), Cognex
(CGNX), Texas Instruments (TXN), ITT Industries(ITT) and Alcoa (AA).

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2001 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              230 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                       May 18, 2001 Friday SOONER EDITION

IN THIS MINIVAN, THE ODYSSEY IS A PLEASANT ONE

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg.B-15 WHEELS

LENGTH: 926 words


Got a little wanderlust?

Me too! I find myself glancing at the horizon a bit too longingly these days as
the temperature finally begins to climb to civilized levels around here.

As a result, I've been ready to hit the highways since forever, and like many of
you, I've been wondering what set of wheels might work best for that
long-awaited vacation to the beach next month.

If you're planning on doing a little "odyssey-ing" this summer, there are few
better steering wheels to be behind in the minivan world than Honda's popular --
and hard to get -- Odyssey.

And that's the Odyssey's main drawback. Everybody wants one. One colleague here
at the Post-Gazette told me there was a long waiting list at dealers he
contacted, and most said not to expect delivery much before July -- if then.

Our Odyssey was an attractive silver green color and equipped with most of the
things people want: a third seat, power everything, sunroof, terrific stereo and
air. And of course, it had the ever-popular navigation system. The car had so
much, in fact, that there weren't any options to speak of. The bottom line was
$28,840.

Styling on the Odyssey isn't too bad. While it is the typical boxy look that is
prevalent on minivans, it does tend to look much lower and longer than other
brands, and that big expanse of windshield up front adds to something of a
futuristic look to the car.

So why is it so popular?

First and foremost is the amazing amount of cargo room -- and even the
configuration of the space -- when compared with other minivans. If you leave
all three passenger seats up in the Odyssey, you still have this huge space
behind the back seats for all your gear.

For example, the week we had ours, our oldest son was to appear in a photo shoot
for a bicycle safety advertisement, and there was considerable anxiety over
whether his bicycle would fit in the car without our having to go to a lot of
trouble to strap it to the roof.

Well lo and behold, a typical child-size two-wheeler fit just fine in the cargo
hold of the Odyssey -- with the third row seat up, too. I could imagine that
with the back seat down, and the first two rows of passenger seats up, you could
easily get a set of adult bicycles into the Odyssey with no sweat.

Then, of course, there's the Odyssey's foldable third row seat. There's nothing
like it. You don't have to remove a thing. There's a recessed well in the floor
of the Odyssey into which the third seat fits nicely, leaving you with all that
cargo room. And flipping the seat is easily accomplished with handy handles on
the backs of the seat cushions.

That alone is worth the price of admission for anybody who's ever had to lug a
heavy seat out of a minivan to make room for shipping something.

There are other little, thoughtful features, too. Take the little fold-up table
between the two front seats. A flip of the switch and you have a table where you
can fit four cups along with a flat surface for burgers or whatever.

There are convenient electronically operated rear doors that work with switches
handily located on the dashboard to the right of the steering wheel. And for the
safety minded, there's a little switch that allows you to shut the mechanism off
so you don't have to fret about the doors opening while you drive with the kids
in the back.

The things that I didn't like about the Odyssey are niggling.  The shift lever
felt awkward in my hand, for instance, and it seemed to go too easily past the
gear that I wanted. I also didn't care for the navigation system, which you must
use to adjust the heat and air on this particular model.

I shouldn't have to take my eyes off the road to look at a complicated screen
with a wealth of positions to find the one I need to control the climate. It's
an outright safety hazard in my mind.

The step-on parking brake was a bother, and there were a few times when it was
balky and didn't want to release.

Acceleration was only so-so, with the 210 horsepower, 3.5 liter V-6 taking 10
seconds to go from 0 to 60.

But on the plus side, take a look at the interior. It has a very airy feeling.
And this van feels like a passenger car when you drive it.

Only Chrysler's minivans come close to matching the secure, familiar feeling you
get hopping behind the wheel of the Odyssey. Everything is situated where it
should be and is conveniently at hand. The windows are huge, making for
excellent visibility all around, and the last row of seats with headrests don't
block the view rearward.

I also appreciated the comfy feel of the fabric. It was warm in winter weather,
and the color -- a nice silvery green shade -- was easy on the eyes.

Speaking of that, the interior had nice texture and material and color contrasts
in two shades of green -- a refreshing change from the blah beiges, browns and
grays in other minivans.

Odyssey ranks at the top of its class for crash ratings, and it has a wonderful
new system called Latch -- lower anchors and tethers for children -- that it has
added to its second row of seats. You also get a child safety, seat-top tether
anchor on third-row seats.

The Odyssey also has standard antilock brakes and traction control. Just about
the only downer is that it doesn't come with side impact air bags, and that's
the only thing that makes it a three-bagger instead of a home run in the safety
department.

If you want a minivan that will likely give you years of reliable service, and
one that has lots of practicality, you'll want to check out Honda's Odyssey.

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Honda Odyssey's interior is surprisingly large, as is the
cargo area. For hauling larger items, the last row of seats can easily fold
down.-

                       Copyright 2001 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              235 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                     June 12, 2001 Tuesday ONE STAR EDITION

SECTION: HEALTH, Pg.X-2

LENGTH: 281 words


Travel kit

*Prepackaged antiseptic towelettes, bandages and topical antibiotics.

*Moleskin. This adhesive padding can prevent blisters that are likely to develop
as you trek from site to site.

*Thermometer in a sturdy case.

*Pain killers, Tylenol, Advil or Nuprin. Keep all medicines -- over-the-counter
and prescription -- in their original containers, especially if you're crossing
into other countries to alleviate suspicion at the border checks.

*Hydrocortisone 1 percent ointment or cream. The alien bacteria you may
encounter when swimming can trigger itching or a rash. The cream also can help
relieve poison ivy rash.

*Sunscreen.

*Motion sickness drugs. Dramamine tablets and Scopamine patches can relieve a
lot of discomfort if the boat crossing is rougher than expected or the bus ride
bumpy.

Water purification tablets, packets of oral rehydration salts and Cipro or
Bactrim. Water purification tablets (found in sporting goods stores and
pharmacies) can help prevent traveler's diarrhea. Oral rehydration salts (found
at pharmacies) and antibiotics Cipro or Bactrim are used to treat it. You need a
prescription for the antibiotics.

*Repellents. A mosquito repellent containing DEET (N,N-diethylmetatoluamide) is
the most effective.

*Allergy medicine. If you are an allergy sufferer, take along some
antihistamines; your allergies may not be acting up at home before departure,
but changes in altitude and a different climate at your destination may trigger
even an occasional allergy.


*


Most important: Take all your insurance cards and phone numbers of your primary
care physician, dentist and other medical professionals you visit.

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Sources: Fodors.com, Consumer Reports magazine.

                       Copyright 2001 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              239 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                     June 30, 2001 Saturday SOONER EDITION

CARBON DIOXIDE IN U.S. HIGHER

BYLINE: SETH BORENSTEIN, KNIGHT RIDDER NEWSPAPERS

SECTION: NATIONAL, Pg.A-7

LENGTH: 186 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The United States had the biggest increase last year in carbon dioxide
production since 1996, the Energy Department said yesterday. Carbon dioxide is
the gas chiefly responsible for global warming.

The rise of 2.7 percent more than the year before was triggered by two primary
factors: a chugging economy with a 5 percent growth rate and a more normal
winter, cooler than previous years.

By contrast, carbon dioxide emissions from the United Kingdom, Germany and China
are dropping.

The report on U.S. emissions comes as negotiations on what to do about climate
change near a crucial stage with a meeting in Bonn, Germany, next month. It
could hurt the U.S. negotiating stance in opposing the 1997 Kyoto Protocol that
calls for dramatic cuts in emissions of so-called greenhouse gases.

Carbon dioxide, the gas produced by burning fossil fuels, such as gasoline and
coal, is generated largely by motor vehicles and power plants.

The Energy Department study said that in 2000, the United States produced 1,558
million metric tons of carbon -- up 15.3 percent from 1990's 1,351 million
metric tons.

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2001 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              258 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                    August 22, 2001 Wednesday SOONER EDITION

CITIES' EMISSIONS DISTORT SKY VIEWS

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg.E-4 LET'S TALK ABOUT

LENGTH: 282 words


Picture viewing the sky under a hazy blanket; that is how most people in urban
areas see the stars and nighttime sky.

As people erect buildings, travel, work and populate areas, they often cause
harmful changes to the planet's landscape, ecosystem and climate. Recent studies
show that the amount of light pollution emitted by cities all over the world has
a distorting effect on our view of celestial objects in the sky.

The Air Force Defense Meteorological Satellite Program was designed to observe
clouds illuminated by moonlight. On moonless nights, however, the satellites
pick up light cast off by the world's cities and towns. As researchers studied
the data collected, they learned that nearly two-thirds of the world's
population live under skies polluted by artificial light. The amount of light
pollution in some cities is so great that it provides more luminance than the
moon.

When you travel into rural areas, you can see what appears to be millions of
stars -- actually 2,000, to be more accurate. This is because there is less
population and industrialization. That means fewer buildings, fewer cars, fewer
factories, fewer lights and, consequently, less pollution. In urban areas where
the population increases, so do the numbers of buildings, cars, etc., and,
therefore, the amount of light pollution.

Astronomers and researchers hope to find ways to resolve the light pollution
problem. In Alberta, Calgary, the "Energy Capital of Canada," funding has been
approved to immediately replace all 200-watt residential streetlights with
100-watt lights. Even Pennsylvania has introduced the Outdoor Lighting Control
Act to conserve and control energy and light.

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
LIGHT POLLUTION

                       Copyright 2001 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              260 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                   August 22, 2001 Wednesday ONE STAR EDITION

CITIES' EMISSIONS DISTORT SKY VIEWS

SECTION: ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT, Pg.C-6

LENGTH: 294 words


Picture viewing the sky under a hazy blanket; that is how most people in urban
areas see the stars and nighttime sky.

As people erect buildings, travel, work and populate areas, they often cause
harmful changes to the planet's landscape, ecosystem and climate. Recent studies
show that the amount of light pollution emitted by cities all over the world has
a distorting effect on our view of celestial objects in the sky.

The Air Force Defense Meteorological Satellite Program was designed to observe
clouds illuminated by moonlight. On moonless nights, however, the satellites
pick up light cast off by the world's cities and towns. As researchers studied
the data collected, they learned that nearly two-thirds of the world's
population live under skies polluted by artificial light. The amount of light
pollution in some cities is so great that it provides more luminance than the
moon.

When you travel into rural areas, you can see what appears to be millions of
stars -- actually 2,000, to be more accurate. This is because there is less
population and industrialization. That means fewer buildings, fewer cars, fewer
factories, fewer lights and, consequently, less pollution. In urban areas where
the population increases, so do the numbers of buildings, cars, etc., and,
therefore, the amount of light pollution.

Astronomers and researchers hope to find ways to resolve the light pollution
problem. In Alberta, Calgary, the "Energy Capital of Canada," funding has been
approved to immediately replace all 200-watt residential streetlights with
100-watt lights. Even Pennsylvania has introduced the Outdoor Lighting Control
Act to conserve and control energy and light.

-- By Pam Farrell, intern, Henry Buhl, Jr., Planetarium & Observatory

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2001 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              277 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                   October 10, 2001 Wednesday REGION EDITION

STIMULATE, DON'T SQUANDER SPENDING AND TAX CUTS SHOULD BE TEMPORARY

SECTION: EDITORIAL, Pg.A-16

LENGTH: 494 words


President Bush and both parties in Congress agree that the federal government
should jump-start the economy with a combination of tax relief and new spending.
But in devising a stimulus package to pump $50 billion to $60 billion into the
economy, Congress should be careful not to squander resources that may be needed
when times change.

Encouragingly, Democrats and Republicans who have been negotiating a stimulus
package say they recognize the difference between a "cyclical deficit" designed
to counter a recession and a "structural deficit" that would guarantee red ink
for years.

Precise predictions are perilous; just ask the economic theorists who were
wondering two years ago if America had somehow abolished the business cycle. But
you don't need to be a soothsayer to realize that any additional tax relief
approved by Congress should be targeted and temporary.

"Targeted" tax cuts in this context mean rebates and reductions that are likely
to be recycled through the economy in the form of spending (though even an
increase in savings frees up capital for other people's expenditures). Some
corporate tax relief also passes the stimulus test, such as larger deductions
for new equipment and more generous depreciation schedules.

"Temporary" tax relief should last as long as necessary to revive the economy,
but no longer. That principle is more easily espoused than implemented, but the
bipartisan leadership of the House and Senate budget committees has suggested
that all stimulus measures, on the spending as well as the revenue side, "should
sunset within one year, to the extent practicable."

Bipartisan agreement on the broad outlines of a stimulus package do not, of
course, guarantee concord on the details. Republicans favor an across-the-board
approach to additional tax relief, through a faster phase-in of lower income tax
rates already approved. Democrats would rather put money in the pockets of
low-income workers who pay little or no federal income tax but do pay Social
Security payroll tax.

On the spending side, Congress already has begun to prime the pump with the
relief it has provided to the airline industry. As for other proposed new
expenditures, the parties have different (and familiar) priorities. Republicans
see accelerated defense spending as an economic as well as a national-security
imperative. Democrats are keener to pave their way out of the recession with
spending on highways and other infrastructure.

Given the near-balance of power in the Congress, a final stimulus package is
likely to partake of the priorities of both parties.

What matters is that Congress not lose sight of the importance of fiscal
prudence in the longer term. As President Bush put it: "What is needed is a
[bill] big enough to get the economy moving in the short run, but small enough
so it doesn't affect long-term interest rates." Congress can be responsive to
hard times without being reckless.

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2001 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              281 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                     November 8, 2001 Thursday WEST EDITION

IN ERA OF HOSPITAL CONSOLIDATION, ST. CLAIR STANDS ALONE, EXPANDS

BYLINE: LAURA PACE, POST-GAZETTE STAFF WRITER

SECTION: METRO, Pg.W-4

LENGTH: 1494 words


St. Clair Hospital has embarked on a $34 million construction and renovation
program to meet increased demand for its burgeoning services as an independent
in an age of consolidation.

"Our biggest challenge is capacity," said Dr. Donald P. Orr, St. Clair's
chairman of the board.

An aging population that's living longer and the growing popularity of
surrounding suburbs are credited with taxing an already overcrowded facility.

"It seems like there's always construction going on," said Thomas L. Ague, the
executive vice president and chief operations officer.

Yet the moment construction is complete, the hospital is filled again, said
Benjamin E. Snead, the president and chief executive officer. "People want to be
seen as close to home as possible. More people keep showing up here."

In August, the hospital board set four goals:

* Modernize and increase the number of critical care beds.

* Increase monitoring capabilities on medi- cal/surgical units.

* Increase the number of private rooms.

* Develop an outpatient center.

To achieve them, officials have proposed a four-year plan, including a one-story
cancer treatment center owned and operated by the University of Pittsburgh
Cancer Institute, a 23-bed addition to inpatient nursing floors, an expansion of
the parking garage with an aerial covered bridge to the hospital and a
four-story addition to the physicians' office building and outpatient diagnostic
centers.

The first stage of work, which includes the cancer center and inpatient
expansion, could be done in less than a year. Part of the purpose is to provide
"Downtown care right here," Orr said.

The 23-acre campus, located in Mt. Lebanon with a portion in Scott, serves more
than 200,000 people in Mt. Lebanon, Bethel Park, Upper St. Clair, Scott,
Bridgeville, Dormont, Heidelberg, South Park, South Fayette, Collier, Carnegie,
Castle Shannon, Peters, Library, North Strabane, Oakdale, Clinton, Cecil,
McDonald, North Fayette, Midway, Canonsburg and other towns.

Its campus includes 314 licensed beds, 26 rooms in the emergency department and
26 physicians suites.

There's no mistaking the economic swath the nonprofit hospital cuts with a $126
million budget this fiscal year. It employs 1,750 people and provides a base for
nearly 500 private-practice physicians.

Auxiliary members total 900, and 700 volunteers run the gift shop, escort
patients, answer phones and deliver mail.

Last year, Medical Rescue Team South Authority transported 2,581 patients --
more than 45 percent of its cases -- to St. Clair, said William J. Taylor Jr.,
MRTSA's chief operations officer.

Hospital officials insist they're equal to the challenges they face.

"I think one myth is that a community hospital cannot provide the same quality
of medical care as a university hospital. And that is not true," said Dr. G.
Alan Yeasted, vice president of medical affairs. "There are certainly things a
community hospital doesn't do. But if there's something we do, we will do it as
well as any university hospital in this country."

Last year, the Solucient Leadership Institute of Maryland cited Medicare reports
in listing St. Clair among the 100 top hospitals for its stroke program and
intensive care department.

The hospital has no trauma department, but its emergency room is one of the
busiest in the county, with 43,748 visits last year.

Heart problems are the main reason patients are admitted to St. Clair Hospital,
although births are a close second, with 1,333 newborns first viewing the world
from a St. Clair labor and delivery suite last year.

The hospital has several satellite and off-site programs with offices in
Southpointe, Bethel Park and Bridgeville.

It also focuses on preventative care by being involved in the community. The
hospital donated nearly $70,000 worth of 12-lead electrocardiogram machines to
Medical Rescue Team South. It gave $125,000 worth of free hepatitis shots to
local police and fire departments.The St. Clair Hospital Foundation sponsors
free patient transportation to appointments and treatments 24 hours a day. The
hospital also provides thousands of free flu and pneumonia shots for those at
high risk of illness.

The health care climate has become vastly different since the hospital opened in
1954 with 100 beds. Medicare, mergers and health maintenance organizations have
altered operations, while advances in cancer treatment and cardiac care save
more lives every day.

About 60 percent of the hospital's inpatients are older than 65 years, so
Medicare pays a high percentage of bills, Orr said. Since the hospital is not
permitted to negotiate rates with Medicare, the care must be managed efficiently
and carefully for the hospital to stay solvent.

Nearly five years ago, hospital officials evaluated the benefits and risks of
merging with one of the larger conglomerates.

"A lot of hospitals got caught up in the deal that was on the table," Snead
said.

An internal evaluation found St. Clair was financially sound and could afford to
wait out the mergers and see how other hospitals fared before making a decision.

Instead, the hospital works with other health care organizations whenever
feasible, creating relationships with UPMC, Ohio Valley Hospital and Mercy
Hospital, among others. It has contracts with all major insurers.

Doctors are enrolled in the hospital's future, because a third of its directors
are physicians.

Hospital officials said Dr. Arthur Haines proposed the idea for St. Clair nearly
60 years ago to give residents south of the rivers a community hospital. A
decade-long fund-raising campaign amassed funds for the center, which originally
treated only emergencies. Demand required the hospital expand almost
immediately.

Additions were built in 1959 and 1965, and then the federal government
established Medicare in 1965, prompting even larger demand. A sizable addition
followed in 1978, bringing the number of beds to the hospital's peak of 388.

A flurry of development followed: parking garage construction, emergency room
update and reconfiguration, the family birth center, the heart center, the
fertility center, psychiatric department expansion and professional office
building.

Many thought the advent of HMOs and prevalence of insurance would lighten the
load on hospitals as more people visited doctors regularly. Preventative care
presumably would have kept people from getting sicker and needing
hospitalization.

But Yeasted said more preventative care is catching illnesses quicker, leading
to more outpatient tests and increasing the hospital's volume but decreasing the
need for lengthy hospital stays. In fact, St. Clair has fewer beds now than it
did in the 1970s.

St. Clair was in the news frequently in the early ' 90s, when then-Allegheny
County Coroner Joshua Perper investigated three drug-related deaths at the
hospital. While state Health Department officials found serious problems there
in staffing, departmental procedures and record keeping, it concluded the
hospital corrected those mistakes. In its February 2001 routine checks, the
state Health Department found no problems at St. Clair.

"I think St. Clair had the misfortune of being in a bad public relations
position about 10 years ago relative to a medication error that, truthfully, we
think was just one piece of a bigger problem that exists nationally, but we got
focused on that here," Orr said. "I think we have worked very hard to try to put
a face forward to the community that people could have confidence in us. And I
believe we've accomplished an awful lot in that regard."

Pilot projects for St. Clair have included the use of computerized patient
charts and a new program where doctors put prescriptions into hand-held
computers, eliminating the need to interpret doctors' cryptic handwriting. A
wound care center is in the works for the near future.

Medical professionals said one of St. Clair's greatest benefits is time. A
patient who has a heart attack can be seen immediately and be given medication
to dilate his blood vessels, with a heart surgeon on hand if needed, instead of
losing time driving to a facility in town.

"Time is loss of muscle in the heart," Yeasted said. Yet he noted the hospital
cannot handle every case.

"We're here to provide the best quality care for the people of this community,"
Snead said. "If we can't do it as well as someone else, we'll tell you that and
have you go somewhere else to get your care."

Hospital officials credited just about everyone involved with St. Clair for
contributing to its success, including the board of directors, the staff, the
community and the volunteers -- with one caveat.

"You can't take that for granted," Snead said. "You have to keep working on it
every day to improve it and make sure. You take a little step every day that
you're here, and boy, at the end of the year, you've really done a lot."


LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: INFORMATIONAL GRAPHIC: Valentour English Bodnar & Howe: An aerial view
of St. Clair Hospital's $34 million construction and renovation plan. Hospital
officials expect the first phase of the project to be completed in about nine
months: A. Cancer center; B. Sixth-floor addition to East Wing; C. Enclosed
overhead connection from garage to hospital; D. Parking garage annex vertical
expansion; E. Relocated patient drop-off garage entrace/exit; F. Outpatient
services addition; G. Cancer center expansion (not shown)
 INFORMATIONAL GRAPHIC: By Post-Gazette: (EXPANSION AND MODERNIZATION: A list of
some of the changes at St. Clair Hospital since 1993)
 CHART: By Post-Gazette: (ST. CLAIR STATS)

                       Copyright 2001 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              286 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                   December 12, 2001 Wednesday SOUTH EDITION

MAKE AMARYLLIS THE STAR OF INDOOR WINTER GARDEN

SECTION: METRO, Pg.S-9 MICHELLE MOORE'S GARDENS SOUTH

LENGTH: 1052 words


I don't remember amaryllis being a tough plant to grow when I was a kid. Mom
always had one or two of these spectacular flowering bulbs in our dining room
window where they bloomed their little heads off.

I also don't remember them being finicky when I worked at West Virginia
University's greenhouses a decade or so ago. We watered the pots the same as we
watered everything else in the place, and they, too, grew and flowered with
abandon.

Articles I've read lately, though, make it seem like amaryllis might be one of
those plants best left to accomplished green-thumbers.

I disagree. Amaryllis can be simple enough for even the least experienced of us
indoor gardeners. We just need to satisfy a couple of its needs, and the plant
will give back plenty for our efforts year after year.

These sturdy tropicals produce tall stalks crowned with up to four huge
trumpet-shaped blooms. The flowers can be 6 inches across and range in color
from solid white, pink and orange through striking red. Or, they can have
stripes and splotches.

Even though amaryllis is simple to grow, you will undoubtedly feel a great sense
of accomplishment when your plant begins to bloom. You may even be tempted to
call friends over to admire your horticultural skill. Don't be ashamed to boast
and show off these beauties. They are stars of the winter indoor garden.

Amaryllis, like many other cultivated plants, is commonly known by its nickname.
The true genus name is Hippeastrum. It's a perfectly fine name that has been
lost in the confusion between true amaryllis and the several other genera that
resemble it.

Amaryllis bulbs show up throughout the year in stores' garden departments, but
they are most available in the fall. You'll usually find them sold dormant,
singularly packed up in a box with an outrageously expensive price tag.

Amaryllis can cost up to $10 apiece in discount stores. John Scheepers catalog
lists most of theirs for about $8, and they've got a very nice selection, more
than what you'll ever find in any store.

Dutch Gardens' prices are about the same, but there is less selection. Of
course, with mail order, you have to add shipping costs in with the price of the
bulbs. If you get some of the more exclusive catalogs, like White Flower Farm,
amaryllis can be even more expensive.

One single apricot 'Elvira' plant in a green pot costs $21 plus shipping from
this Connecticut nursery. That's a bit much for me, even if it claims that other
companies' bulbs "bear absolutely no resemblance to the lusty giants we secure
through special contracts with a Dutch grower." Gosh, they better be pretty
lusty for that price.

There aren't any tricks to getting a new amaryllis to flower. The plants have
all the stuff they need to bloom stored up right inside their round, fleshy
bulbs. If the amaryllis you buy isn't already in a pot, plant it in a pot that
is a couple of inches bigger than the bulb itself and make sure there is enough
depth for plenty of root growth -- at least 5 inches.

Plant the bulb so its top half stands out of the soil mix, but with the mix
stopping about an inch below the rim to allow for adequate watering. One of my
pet peeves is having to water plants that don't have enough of a reservoir at
the surface to get plenty of water into the soil.

Amaryllis likes a loose, loamy mix that drains well, so make sure perlite is
part of the formula or add your own. The pot absolutely must have drainage holes
in the bottom so water doesn't stand against the roots. Root rot might be one
factor that causes people to lose their plants and become discouraged with
growing amaryllis.

The bulb will grow best in a warm room with bright sunlight. Water your
amaryllis regularly in the weeks before it blooms, but don't keep it constantly
wet. It needs to dry out a little between waterings, another safeguard against
rotting. I like to use warm water with all my houseplants just to try to
duplicate the rain of their native climates.

You also might run water in a container and let it sit for a day or two so the
chlorine evaporates. I don't have to worry about this with my plants because our
water comes from a spring. I'm not sure it makes much difference with amaryllis,
but it can't hurt to get rid of the chlorine.

As the amaryllis buds swell and begin to open, you might want to shift the plant
to a somewhat cooler, but still bright, spot to help the blooms last longer.
Once the show has finished, make sure that the flower stalk has withered before
you cut it back to about 2 inches in height. The stalk continues to make food.

Now comes the important part. If you want your substantial investment to
continue growing and blooming for years to come, keep the plant in the brightest
sunlight you can find in your house and fertilize it regularly.

Those long, strappy leaves create the food that nourishes the bulb that will
eventually send up the beautiful halo of flowers you originally bought the plant
for in the first place. For that matter, the leaves are attractive and worthy of
tender loving care.

In the future you can either let the plant go dormant after it has been actively
growing for five to six months or just let it continue to grow right along. Your
amaryllis will bloom naturally in early spring.

You can force dormancy at the end of summer by eliminating the fertilizer and
reducing the water gradually, stopping completely after about three weeks. Keep
the pot in a cool, dry place for two to three months.

The foliage of your amaryllis will wither and die. When you want to restart the
growing cycle, just follow the same routine of moving the pot into a bright
window and begin watering again. The plant should start flowering in a month or
two. No need for fertilizer until after the flowering period has finished,
following the same routine.

That's one of the nice things about growing plants: They don't change their
needs. You do the same thing to achieve the desired results time after time.

Now, of course, we're in the midst of the Christmas season. Amaryllis makes a
great Christmas present for a gardener. I'm a gardener, and my husband always
reads my columns before they are printed in the newspaper. I just may have an
ulterior motive when I make these gift suggestions.


LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Michelle Moore is a horticulturist and free-lance writer. She can be reached by
e-mail at mmoore@greenepa.net.

                       Copyright 2001 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              295 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                    April 1, 2001, Sunday, FIVE STAR EDITION

TOUGH BUSH FOREIGN POLICY MAKING MANY UNEASY

BYLINE: ROBIN WRIGHT, LOS ANGELES TIMES

SECTION: WORLD, Pg. A-4

LENGTH: 898 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


America's foreign policy community is increasingly anxious about the Bush
administration's abrupt, tough-guy approach to several of the key challenges
facing the United States. Many also charge that Washington may jeopardize key
initiatives that are shaping the post-Cold War era.

In the latest public appeal, a coalition of top foreign policy specialists
appealed in a letter to President Bush last week for the new administration to
resume diplomatic initiatives with North Korea. But alarm spans the gamut of
issues.

"The foreign policy community is very anxious about Bush policy because it sees
a rising level of rhetoric on China, going from strategic partner to competitor;
refusing to negotiate with the North Koreans; some very tough statements on
Russia; a total rejection of climate control negotiations and an emphasis in
talks with all parties about missile defense," said Lee Hamilton, director of
the Smithsonian Institution's Woodrow Wilson Center and former chairman of the
House International Relations Committee.

"This is all having a very unsettling impact on the international foreign policy
community as well as heads of state," he added.

The White House approach is all the more striking because of the Bush foreign
policy team's pledge to show humility in its dealings with the outside world. In
his only major campaign speech on foreign policy, given at the Ronald Reagan
Library on Nov. 19, 1999, Bush called for a foreign policy that reflected
American character, especially "the humility of real greatness."

And in his debut speech at the State Department last month, the president told
America's diplomatic corps his goal was to turn an era of American pre-eminence
into generations of democratic peace, which would require the United States "to
project our strength with purpose and with humility."

Yet only nine weeks into office, the Bush administration approach to foreign
policy has been described by leading analysts as defiant. James Hoge, editor of
prestigious Foreign Affairs magazine, expressed concern last week about
"schoolyard bellicosity" so early in a new presidency.

"Why are they so interested in saying to Russia that it's mismanaging things,
that it's not that important anymore, that they'll take its views into account
but not treat them all that seriously? I'm mystified by it," he said. "What can
they possibly gain from this kind of schoolyard bellicosity at this stage?"

Bush's supporters argue that realism is needed. On several issues, the United
States has become "flaccid, weak, ineffective and in some cases just wrong,"
said Richard Perle, assistant secretary of defense for international security
during the Reagan administration.

The fault line, he added, was between those who believe Washington should be
assertive on national interests and those who had "subsided into a fuzzy
internationalism."

The president, Perle said, has not spent a lifetime adopting the vocabulary and
mind-set of a professional diplomat; instead he is practical and no-nonsense
president and that's good.

"Twenty years ago, you heard the same things about President Reagan when he
talked about the evil empire," he said.

Former Secretary of State Madeleine Albright joined the debate over the Bush
administration's foreign policy, after initially refraining from comment.

On Macedonia, she told Los Angeles Times editors last week, the United States
has lost critical momentum by not playing a more active role. The administration
was missing an opportunity by not pushing harder for elections in Kosovo so that
ethnic Albanians would see there is a stable future for them in a stable Balkan
region, she said. It should also push harder to isolate Albanian extremists, she
said.

"If you sit around and wait too long, the problems escalate and a lot of things
that you might have been able to deal with earlier kind of escape you," she
said.

Albright called the Bush decision to scrap the global warming treaty a "big
mistake," in part because the United States needs to live up to signed
agreements.

"This does not help in terms of people understanding the signals that are coming
out of Washington at this point," she said.

On North Korea, Albright said the United States is also losing an important
opportunity by not pushing forward with negotiations on Pyongyang's offer to end
production and sale of its long-range missiles.

"Asia generally is the most dynamic area for change in international relations
at the moment and the United States has to be a part of it," she said.

North Korea has become a focus of concern. In the letter to Bush, 30 prominent
foreign policy analysts warned that brushing off South Korea's attempt to
embrace North Korea risks reversing the most successful initiative in defusing
the Cold War's last conflict.

"If Pyongyang is indeed ready to take further steps toward strengthening peace
on the peninsula, then the United States should be fully prepared to respond,"
said the bipartisan independent task force set up by the Council on Foreign
Relations. It includes Morton Abramowitz, former director of State Department
intelligence and research; James Lilley, former ambassador to China; Winston
Lord, former assistant secretary of state for Asia; and Robert Gallucci, chief
U.S. negotiator with North Korea and now head of Georgetown's School of Foreign
Service.

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2001 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              297 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                    April 11, 2001 Wednesday SOONER EDITION

STORES WORRY SHOPPERS HAVE LITTLE SPRING THIS SPRING

BYLINE: ANNE D'INNOCENZIO, THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg.D-1

LENGTH: 811 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


Until earlier this year, Sue Crowgey, a mother of four, was a regular at the
local restaurants and malls. But the slowing economy and volatile stock market
have now scared her into staying at home.

"I rummage through my closets and ask myself, 'What do we actually need?' " said
the Sanford, N.C., resident, spotted checking out $15 sketches on the sidewalk
in Manhattan. "I've given up eating out, and now eat macaroni and cheese and
frozen pizza.

"I'm nervous," added Crowgey, 40. "My [investments] are dwindling, and my oldest
child is going away to college."

Crowgey, who's been spending $300 less per month, has joined a wave of consumers
who -- in an economic climate that's grown weaker -- are either pulling back
even more or just starting to cut back on frivolous purchases.

The financial market's downturn and the rash of company layoffs are hurting
consumers' willingness to spend on discretionary items. And that's causing more
migraines for retailers, who are grappling with a consumer spending funk that's
continuing into spring.

Even discounters, which typically weather economic slowdowns better than
full-priced stores, are getting bruised.

Wal-Mart Stores Inc., the world's largest retailer, has already said same-store
sales in March may fall below the projected 3 percent to 5 percent increase.

Additionally, Target Corp., which operates Mervyn's, Target Stores and Marshall
Field's, said it might miss the expected low- to midsingle sales increases for
the month. Kmart Corp. also is seeing March sales falling below expectations.

Most retailers will report their March same-store sales -- one of the best
indicators of a retailer's health -- tomorrow.

"This is going to be a very dismal year for retailing," said Carl Steidtmann,
chief economist at PriceWaterhouseCoopers.

To stimulate sales, many retailers have ramped up discounting of spring
merchandise, which John Morris, an analyst at Gerard, Klauer Mattison, estimates
is 15 percent higher than a year ago.

Already, Gap Inc. is offering such enticements as $19 cotton shirts, marked down
from $34. And Brooks Brothers is offering $100 off on spring suits.

Still, not everyone is getting pummeled by the souring economy.

Teen retailers such as Hot Topics and Pacific Sunwear of California continue to
generate robust results, as does American Eagle Outfitters, though U.S. Bancorp
Piper Jaffrey analyst Jeffrey Klinefelter recently warned that the
Marshall-based chain may have trouble selling its spring merchandise.

Drugstore powerhouses Walgreen Co. and CVS Corp., among other drug chains,
recently reported strong earnings. Drugstores fare better in slowdowns, since
historically more people tend to get sick.

And Best Buy Inc., the nation's largest consumer electronics chain, turned in a
16 percent increase in fourth-quarter earnings last week, fueled by strong sales
of high-priced digital products.

That's a far cry from the declining profits reported by its rivals RadioShack
Corp. and Circuit City Stores Inc.

Still, many retailers are spooked.

Luxury merchants such as The Neiman Marcus Group and Saks Fifth Avenue believe
that the bulk of their affluent customers still have the means to spend, but are
being put off by the stock market's steep declines.

"The affluent consumer has the wherewithal to continue to shop, but they seem to
be buying less," Burt Tansky, president and chief operating officer of The
Neiman Marcus Group, said last week. "It ties back to the psychology of the
stock market."

Luxury retailers are hoping that more people will be like Mary Ellen DeSerio,
43, of Waccabuc, N.Y., who was examining $4,895 crocodile handbags and $2,550
lizard handbags from designer Darby Scott at Bergdorf Goodman.

"If I really like something, I will buy it," said DeSerio, who said she planned
to buy a handbag or two.

But the less affluent consumer is facing mounting financial hardships.

C. Britt Beemer, chairman of America's Research Group, a Charleston, S.C.,
market research firm, said those in the middle- to upper-middle-income class are
feeling the biggest burden on several fronts: corporate layoffs; higher energy
prices; and the stock market sell-off, which has deflated consumers' 401(k)s and
eroded their confidence.

The lowest-income consumers, who typically don't own stocks, also are getting
hard hit by rising utility bills, he added.

A recent American Express survey of 805 consumers nationwide revealed that the
average American family expected to see its fixed household expenses -- which
include grocery bills, gasoline and the rent or mortgage -- jump 13 percent this
year to $23,545.

Crowgey, the mother of four, has seen her weekly grocery bill zoom to $300 from
$220 -- one of the reasons she's paring back spending on other things.

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
The Post-Gazette contributed to this story.

GRAPHIC: INFORMATIONAL GRAPHIC: Associated Press; America's Research Group: (
Changes in spending)

                       Copyright 2001 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              311 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                     August 10, 2001 Friday SOONER EDITION

JIANG FORESEES IMPROVED U.S.-CHINESE RELATIONS

BYLINE: ERIK ECKHOLM, THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: WORLD, Pg.A-7

LENGTH: 1229 words

DATELINE: BEIDAIHE, China


Jiang Zemin has not met President Bush, but based on their single telephone
conversation last month, Jiang now says, "From his voice, I could feel that he
was a president I could do business with."

Jiang, who is the president, Communist Party secretary-general and military
chairman of China, was optimistic about the future of U.S.-Chinese relations
this week in a rare interview at the leadership's seaside retreat, 170 miles
east of Beijing.

"Both sides share a positive desire for a good relationship," he said,
dismissing as routine background noise the voices in the Bush administration
calling for mobilizing against a "China threat."

"We should try our best to find the common ground between us," he said, almost
rising from his chair as he spoke.

Jiang met Wednesday with the publisher of The New York Times, Arthur Sulzberger
Jr., senior editors, a columnist and China-based correspondents of the newspaper
for an interview that was initially suggested by Chinese diplomats. Jiang's
chief goal appeared to be to emphasize China's desire for smoother relations as
the new U.S. presidency takes shape and as China looks toward playing host to
the Summer Olympics in Beijing in 2008 and braces for major transitions in
political leadership and the economy.

The 85-minute interview took place in a formal meeting hall lined with red
armchairs in a large gardened compound for senior leaders in this fading resort
town. Jiang, 75, appeared cheerful and confident as he defended China's domestic
and foreign policies, sometimes waving his arms and citing proverbs.

While his message was one of friendship, he gave no ground on areas of
difference with the United States, including Taiwan, Tibet and human rights. He
suggested that foreigners did not understand China's goals and why it must adapt
Communist rule to a changing society rather than scrap it altogether, as many in
the West might prefer.

"I lived for three-fourths of the last century," he said when asked about the
prospect of a major political loosening, "and I can tell you with certainty:
Should China apply the parliamentary democracy of the Western world, the only
result will be that 1.2 billion Chinese people will not have enough food to eat.
The result will be great chaos, and should that happen, it will not be conducive
to world peace and stability."

Bursting into English, he added, "And so I tell you very friendly and frankly,
this is my opinion."

The well-guarded compound where the meeting took place, known as West Mountain,
is sprinkled with large two-story, pale-yellow manors. Every summer since the
1950s, leaders from Mao onward have gathered in Beidaihe with other party
mandarins to hash out major issues, and to swim in the Bohai Sea.

The topics and schedules at Beidaihe are secret, but this year a major subject
is said to be the coming changes in party leadership. Over the next two years, a
large share of the central committee as well as Jiang and the other top two
leaders, Prime Minister Zhu Rongji and Li Peng, the Parliament chief, are slated
to retire.

Jiang is expected to give up the post of party secretary-general in 2002, while
his term as president runs out the following year. Asked whether he might
consider retaining an official title after that -- some supporters have floated
the idea of his keeping the military chairmanship or another high post -- Jiang
did not respond, and his ambitions and the realistic possibilities are largely
unknown.

Jiang said he felt confident that the next generation of party leaders would
continue his general approach: opening the economy more widely to global
competition and investment, as China is doing with its entry to the World Trade
Organization, but preserving the monopoly of the Communist Party to protect
national unity.

Just this week, a book of Jiang's speeches was published with great fanfare. In
it, he calls for the party to embrace the new "advanced productive forces" in
society like entrepreneurs and the technological elite. While he has been
criticized for abandoning socialism and destroying a workers' party, he said his
ideas were faithful to "the fundamental tenets of Marxism, applied to the real
conditions in China."

Questioned about democracy and human rights, Jiang insisted that China was
developing its own model and extolled the country's village-level elections,
mistakenly asserting at two points that direct elections are also held for the
much more senior and powerful county-level officials.

But he said it was unrealistic to think of direct elections for provincial or
national leaders, in part because 100 million of the country's 1.26 billion
people are illiterate.

Jiang, in a written answer, defended the crackdown on the Falun Gong spiritual
movement, asserting that the group had "done great harm to people's physical and
mental health" and that no government could sit idly in the face of such an
"out-and-out cult."

He also wrote that the recent arrests and trials of several Chinese-born
scholars, some of them naturalized Americans or permanent residents of the
United States, were justified because they were "members of Taiwanese spy
organizations," a contention that the scholars have vehemently denied.

Though he acknowledged social strains as failing state industries lay off
workers, he was upbeat about the long-term outlook, saying he had told "certain
backward industries" seeking protection that "you have to be brave enough to
swim in the sea -- you have to swim upstream!"

While China will seize the fantastic information potential of the Internet,
Jiang said, he justified the country's efforts to control or block some content,
including online versions of some foreign media, again citing what he says are
China's unique problems of social stability.

On Tibet, one of China's most vexatious international issues, he said his
government had had continuing, indirect communications with the exiled Dalai
Lama. But he said the Tibetan leader had never fully accepted China's conditions
that Tibet is an inalienable part of China and that the People's Republic is the
sovereign government.

Though he repeated China's long-standing goal of peaceful reunification with
Taiwan, he also made clear that Taiwan's formal status as part of China would
never be up for negotiation. If the United States presses ahead with more sales
of advanced weapons to Taiwan, then "I can only say that it would be very
dangerous," he warned. He added that China would never renounce the use of force
in the event that Taiwan moved toward independence.

He also warned that if a proposed U.S. missile defense was perceived as negating
China's small force of nuclear missiles, then "we would keep an appropriate
number of forces to meet our defense needs," but he declined to be more
specific.

Still, Jiang professed to be unworried by what some describe as a hawkish and
anti-China climate in Washington. "At any time, there are all kinds of people
with different opinions," he said, and he quoted a Song Dynasty poem: "People
part and meet, they have sorrow and joy, just like the moon that wanes and
waxes."

He also made a jocular apology, in English, for there being "too many proverbs
in China." Then he ended the interview, and his review of Chinese-American
prospects, by citing this one: "It takes two hands to clap."


LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jiang Zemin

                       Copyright 2001 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              317 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                  September 22, 2001 Saturday ONE STAR EDITION

AFTER ATTACKS, CABLE BUMPS VIOLENT MOVIES

BYLINE: DUSTY SAUNDERS, SCRIPPS HOWARD NEWS SERVICE

SECTION: MISCELLANEOUS, Pg.C-2

LENGTH: 421 words


Add this phrase to your television lexicon: "Due to recent events, programming
schedules are subject to change without notice." And that's not an exaggeration.

Even though the commercial networks are getting back to regular programming in
prime time, news specials are scattered throughout the evening. And, of course,
breaking news could disrupt everything.

And while the networks have been faced with crazy-quilt schedules, cable also
has been forced into a revision mode, mostly in the movies area.

Films that have any hint of terrorist actions are being dropped from the lineups
and replaced with gentler fare.

A prime example is USA Network, never known for its kinder, gentler edge.

Dumped from the prime-time schedule Thursday was "The Siege," which deals with
Arab terrorists whose carefully timed explosion so disrupts Manhattan that the
government imposes martial law and sets up concentration camps for bombing
suspects.

In a bit of understatement, USA Network president Doug Herzog told Daily
Variety: "We've got to be sensitive to what's going on."

Other feature films postponed by USA include two based on Tom Clancy novels --
"Clear and Pres-ent Danger" and "Patriot Games," both starring Harrison Ford;
and "Blown Away" featuring Tommy Lee Jones.

TBS bumped "Lethal Weapon" and "Conspiracy Theory" and replaced them with milder
productions, "City Slickers" and "Look Who's Talking."

TNT, combing through its extensive film library to determine if any scheduled
movies are inappropriate, has a couple of old John Wayne Westerns -- "The
Shootist" and "The Cowboys" -- waiting in the wings.

TNN (formerly The Nashville Network) yanked at least two scheduled movies --
"Martial Law" and "Chrome Soldier" -- and substituted "Star Trek" movies.

Rerun episodes of "ER" and "NYPD Blue," also on TNT, are being closely examined
to eliminate shows that might seem callous in the current terrorist climate.

Even Howard Stern is feeling the programming pressure.


One of his "Son of the Beach" comedy episodes on FX, dealing with a spoof on
terrorist Osama bin Laden, will be removed from the repeat cycle.


One of the many interesting programming developments coming out of last week's
terrorist attack will be viewer response to HBO's "Band of Brothers," the $120
million, nine-week production that premiered Sept. 9.


HBO, which also has invested nearly $15 million in marketing and promotion of
the flick, has withdrawn most of its TV spots because of the attack.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2001 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              318 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                  September 26, 2001 Wednesday SOONER EDITION

FUND INVESTORS ARE ADVISED TO STAY COURSE

BYLINE: LISA SINGHANIA, THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg.B-1

LENGTH: 478 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


Mutual fund investors have learned how to weather economic troubles and falling
earnings, but many have never experienced the kind of political uncertainty
created by the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks.

The thought of cashing in investments or halting 401(k) contributions might be
tempting, especially amid the current anxious climate, but financial advisers
say this may be an ideal time to buy.

"We've had a couple of clients call and ask about stopping their 401(k)
contributions, and we tell them absolutely not," said Stephen Craffen, a
chartered financial consultant in Fair Lawn, N.J. "Stocks and funds are for sale
now at low prices. ... Long-term, you're going to be glad you kept investing."

In the case of mutual funds, some of the industry's biggest names set new
52-week lows last week, providing an ideal entry point and a chance for existing
shareholders to buy more shares at cheap prices.

For example, Vanguard's 500 Index fund closed Friday at $89.08, a 52-week low
and a 33 percent discount from the $134.59 high reached last September. On
Monday, it closed at $92.55.

Fidelity's Magellan fund closed Monday at $90.54, down a third from its 52-week
high of $135.76, and just above the new 52-week low of $87.26 it reached Friday.

There is some thought that funds focusing on blue chips and larger companies,
rather than small companies or business overseas, will do better in times of
economic uncertainty and military buildup. But most financial advisers say that
as long as a mutual fund account or 401(k) is diversified, investors generally
don't need to make too many changes because, over the long term, any losses and
gains even out.

Those with a shorter-term horizon, such as an impending retirement or college
tuition bill, might want to shift toward value or more conservative funds. But
too much concentration in a single sector can make a portfolio more vulnerable
should the market reverse course.

Some investors question whether actively managed funds have an edge over index
funds when there is so much uncertainty.

But sometimes making the decision to buy can be harder than actually picking a
fund.

That was the case in 1988, after the October 1987 stock market crash. During 10
months of that year, more money flowed out of stock funds than in, although the
market was moving higher, according to Don Cassidy, a senior analyst at Lipper
Research.

"When you have a big shock, the fear and hurt lingers on. People have lost
money, and that's a stronger driver emotionally than the desire to make a buck,"
he said.

Luckily for those buying funds through 401(k) plans, there are other incentives:
chiefly, that investors don't pay income tax on such contributions up to a
certain level depending on their income. And many employers also contribute to
their workers' accounts.

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2001 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              324 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                    November 8, 2001 Thursday SOONER EDITION

HEWLETT, PACKARD SONS OPPOSE COMPAQ BUY; REST OF HP BOARD BACKS DEAL

BYLINE: BRIAN BERGSTEIN, THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg.D-8

LENGTH: 737 words

DATELINE: PALO ALTO, Calif.


Carly Fiorina's life just got a lot harder.

For two months, the Hewlett-Packard Co. chairwoman and chief executive has been
fighting hard to persuade Wall Street and shareholders to support her $21
billion plan to acquire Compaq Computer Corp. She essentially has staked her job
on making the deal happen.

Now that the sons of the company's revered founders have blasted the deal and
the company's biggest shareholder is undecided, Fiorina faces the increasing
possibility the acquisition will fall through.

Even if HP shareholders do vote for the deal, her leadership has been severely
challenged at a difficult time.

"For some time I have been skeptical about management's confidence that it can
aggressively reinvent HP culture overnight -- a culture that developed over many
years and was thoroughly tested under all kinds of business conditions," David
W. Packard, the son one co-founder, said in a statement.

"While change is necessary and inevitable, it does not follow that every
innovation is an improvement."

Packard, whose Packard Humanities Institute has 1.3 percent of HP's outstanding
shares, said he agreed with the criticisms made Tuesday by Walter B. Hewlett, a
member of HP's board. Hewlett said Compaq would give HP too much exposure to
low-margin personal computers and dilute its valuable printing franchise.

HP shares fell 3 percent, or 63 cents, to $19.18 yesterday on the New York Stock
Exchange. Compaq shares lost 51 cents, or 6 percent, to close at $7.99.

HP's full board of directors, with the exception of Walter Hewlett, released a
statement yesterday saying it "unequivocally" backed Fiorina.

"The board thoroughly analyzed this transaction and unanimously concluded this
is the very best way to deliver the value our shareowners expect," said Dick
Hackborn, HP's former chairman and executive vice president -- and a member of
the Hewlett family foundation's board.

"Today, I'm even more convinced of the power of this combination, particularly
given the progress of our integration plans."

Compaq's board also reiterated its support.

Some analysts say the deal could be a good long-term move for HP, largely
because it could generate new business in computer servers and high-tech
services.

Even so, it doesn't help Fiorina's cause to have men named Hewlett and Packard
criticizing her approach. History hangs heavier at HP than at most companies.

When Stanford engineering graduates William Hewlett and David Packard began
working together in a Palo Alto garage in 1938, they launched not only one of
the world's premier high-tech companies but also gave birth to Silicon Valley
itself. The garage is a state historic landmark.

Hewlett and Packard retired from active management of the company in the 1980s.
Packard died in 1996, Hewlett, in January.

Although most of HP's 90,000 employees joined the company after Hewlett and
Packard had left, there is still a lot of talk about how "Bill and Dave" ran
things, and about the "HP Way," their worker-friendly management style.

Hewlett and Packard's old offices even are preserved exactly as they were
decades ago, down to the funky yellow floor and the low-tech phones on the
desks.

Fiorina was the first outside executive brought in to lead HP when she was hired
in 1999 and given the task of reinventing the company's culture. HP had missed
out on the first wave of the Internet boom, and the company was considered too
slow and stodgy.

Whipping HP into a tougher force has not been easy, however. When the bad
economy forced HP to cut more than 7,000 jobs this year, Fiorina was accused of
disregarding the "HP Way" and the company's usual avoidance of layoffs.

David W. Packard said he was distressed that at least 15,000 layoffs, "probably
many more," will come with the Compaq integration.

"Bill and Dave never developed a premeditated business strategy that treated HP
employees as expendable," he said.

Fiorina and other members of her management team, including longtime HP
executives, have countered by saying the HP Way was really about encouraging
employees to contribute and challenging them with new ideas -- and not about
guaranteeing lifetime employment.


Analysts say that if Hewlett and Packard family holdings are voted against the
deal, the chances of the deal being approved would drop significantly. A date
for a shareholder vote has not been set.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2001 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              329 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                    December 31, 2001 Monday SOONER EDITION

INVESTORS SEE 2002 AS 'YEAR OF THE TURNAROUND'

BYLINE: AMY BALDWIN, THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg.B-1

LENGTH: 753 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


Investors are experiencing an attitude improvement as they head into 2002: They
feel good, even enthusiastic.

Investors, both institutional and individual, expect the economy to recover,
earnings growth to resume and the market to head back to higher ground.

After a year of sinking stock prices, recession and terror attacks on the
world's financial hub, their optimism is proof of Wall Street's much-touted
resiliency. Still, investors are a long way from feeling the exhilaration of the
late 1990s and early 2000, before the high-flying technology sector fell so
hard.

"I feel more confident than I did going into 2001 when I was hoping for the
best, but expecting the worst to happen. [Then] I almost felt like I was sitting
at a blackjack table," said Robert Volmer, head of a lobbyist firm in
Washington, D.C.

Now, "I see tremendous upside ... I am really optimistic. I am excited about
next year," Volmer said.

Institutions also have grown more bullish: A mid-December research note by
Credit Suisse First Boston is titled, "2002 -- Bring it On!"

CSFB calls for an economic recovery and double-digit growth in profit margins
"as 2002 marks the next up leg of the three-year business cycle."

Hopefulness has been increasing on Wall Street, feeding weeks of buying that
have brought the market's major indexes well above the lows reached Sept. 21
when stocks dropped after the Sept. 11 terror attacks in New York and
Washington.

Of course, new attacks or a discovery that the economy is in worse shape than
now is perceived could change investors' upbeat outlook for 2002. But for now,
there is general agreement that things can't get much worse than 2001, scarred
by a recession, which the economy officially slipped into in March, and the
worst earnings decline in 11 years.

Market analysts estimate that earnings for the Standard & Poor's 500 index will
be down 16.1 percent for 2001, a perfect reverse of its 16.1 percent gain in
2000 and the worst profit decline since 1991, when the average bottom line for
America's largest companies fell 16.7 percent, according to Thomson
Financial/First Call.

While the market doesn't expect business growth to bounce back right at the dawn
of the new year, at least, "The pace of the slowdown is slowing," said Scott
Bleier, chief investment strategist at Prime Charter Ltd.

Expectations for 2002 are more modest than in the late 1990s bull market, when
investors took for granted that the market would increase by as much as 20
percent a year. Analysts surveyed by Thomson Financial expect the market to
advance in the midteens, while Chuck Hill, director of research, said low
single-digit earnings growth is more likely.

"The problem is the first quarter," said Hill, noting that several big
companies, such as Merck and Ciena, have said profits will continue to slump in
the first three months of 2002. "There is a reasonable chance that the second
quarter could be up from the first, but that's not a given. It's the earliest
you could expect an upturn."

Hill's assessment -- cautiously optimistic -- is typical of many investors and
analysts.

"Investors are heading into 2002 with a newfound affinity for stocks, but with
some caution on the side," said Brian Belski, fundamental market strategist for
US Bancorp Piper Jaffray. "The earnings depletion was so severe that it's going
to take time -- quarters -- to build confidence."

Belski's advice is for investors to be patient and to diversify.

That's the approach Susan Stern, a New York public relations executive, adopted
this year following a 25 percent decline in her portfolio due to the beleaguered
technology sector. Stern reduced her portfolio's tech holdings and replaced them
with nontech companies, such as Lowe's, that she believes will fare well as the
economy gains its footing.

"I feel looking at the long term is best," Stern said. "I think more people will
get back to work over the long haul. Businesses are building."

"I think we are in for another growth period, but it will be slow. People have
to be patient. Everything comes back around," she said.

Coming back to positive territory -- no matter how minor -- is what the market
will spend much of 2002 doing, analysts said. There won't be a stampeding bull
market, but the bearish times are ending.

"What investors need to hold onto is: The lows have been made. And, the majority
of bad news is behind the stock market," Belski said. "I'm coining 2002 as the
year of the turnaround."

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Beth A. Keiser/Associated Press: Money managers expect next
year's stock market to fare better than this year's, in part because of the
resilience of the American economy and consumers. Here, a worker carrying the
American flag walks past the New York Stock Exchange on his way to work Monday,
Sept. 17, the day the markets reopened after being shut four days following the
Sept. 11 terrorist attacks.

                       Copyright 2001 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              330 of 351 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                              July 29, 2001 Sunday
                                TWO STAR EDITION

EX-PITT CHANCELLOR DIES;
LONGTIME UNIVERSITY LEADER STRICKEN WHILE SWIMMING IN LIGONIER

BYLINE: BILL SCHACKNER, POST-GAZETTE STAFF WRITER

SECTION: OBITUARY; Pg. A-1

LENGTH: 2843 words


Wesley W. Posvar, a fighter pilot turned college leader who helped transform the
University of Pittsburgh from a struggling regional campus to a nationally known
center for research, died late Friday of a heart attack after swimming with his
grandchildren. He was 75.

An only child from the Midwest whose boyhood dream was to fly, Mr. Posvar rose
through the Air Force ranks to become a brigadier general, serving first as a
test pilot, and later as a strategic planner in the Pentagon, a military academy
professor and a Vietnam combat flier. A Rhodes Scholar and an expert on
international affairs, Mr. Posvar also counseled several White House
administrations on foreign and domestic matters.

But Mr. Posvar was best known locally for his 24 years as Pitt's chancellor, the
second-longest tenure in the university's history.

When he arrived in 1967, the once-private campus was so deeply in debt that its
leaders had sought a state bailout and agreed to become a public campus. Mr.
Posvar put its finances in the black, then set out to identify programs where a
regional university could gain national and international prominence.

In part because Mr. Posvar was fascinated by other parts of the world -- he
visited more than 100 countries during his life -- he resolved that Pitt should
become more global.

He created the Center for International Studies, which gained national
recognition and today supports teaching and research efforts from Latin America
to Asia. He also made hiring decisions that helped put other parts of campus on
the map.

Mr. Posvar lured from the Ivy League Dr. Thomas Detre, a psychiatrist and
administrator who became an architect of Pitt's internationally renowned medical
center and transplant hub. Mr. Posvar's tenure also saw the hiring of Johnny
Majors, who three years later coached Pitt's football team to a national
championship in 1976.

As word of Mr. Posvar's death spread yesterday, he was remembered for his
devotion both to the campus and to the region where he lived. According to his
family, Mr. Posvar had been swimming with his grandchildren in a pool at Rolling
Rock Country Club in Westmoreland County Friday afternoon when he appeared to
suffer a heart attack.

He was resuscitated briefly by lifeguards and paramedics but died en route to
Latrobe Hospital around 6 p.m., said his daughter Lisa Rossi.

Pitt Chancellor Mark Nordenberg yesterday recalled the indelible mark left by
the school's former leader.

"Wes Posvar was an extraordinary university leader, an absolutely devoted
champion of Western Pennsylvania and a warm and caring human being," he said.
"He will be sorely missed by his many friends and admirers all over the world."

In an interview with the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette three months before he died,
Mr. Posvar attributed some of his success to what he called "a competitive
compulsion."

That was evident in his dropping golf, a sport he could not master, and in his
need as a young military pilot to prove himself worthy by performing dangerous
maneuvers the first time he took the controls of a jet.

"If he can't excel in it immediately, he wants no part of it. That includes
bridge, which I adore but don't play because he didn't want to sit down and be
the idiot because he would have to learn," said Mr. Posvar's wife, Mildred, an
internationally known opera singer.

The competitive trait also was apparent in his tendency late in his life to
repeatedly drop into conversations the fact that he was first in his class, both
in high school and at the U.S. Military Academy. He graduated from West Point in
1946 as the top cadet in a class of 875.

"I believe in quality and achievement," Mr. Posvar said. "As a university
president, why wouldn't I?"

The Pentagon and the Ivory Tower are vastly different worlds, and Mr. Posvar
chose a strange time to jump between them. Student unrest and anti-war sentiment
were growing on campuses in 1967, when Mr. Posvar arrived with bright red hair,
thick eyebrows and a background that included 50 combat missions in Vietnam.
Faculty who doubted his academic credentials were struck by this man with a
photographic memory who could engage them in debate on complex topics.

Mr. Posvar had, by his own description, a "radically liberal" streak that gave
him credibility with campus dissenters. He felt deeply about affirmative action,
those who knew him said. Though he was sometimes targeted by campus
demonstrators, Mr. Posvar nevertheless described protest as a legitimate part of
a student's campus experience.

With a laugh, Mr. Posvar recalled how early in his tenure he posted bail for a
group of students who he said were unfairly arrested for creating a disturbance
outside a dormitory.

"I didn't have any cash. I had to borrow it from the police chief," Mr. Posvar
said.

Psychology professor James Holland, who organized campus protests as a young
faculty member during Mr. Posvar's early years, developed an admiration for him.

"He managed always to have a kind of finesse," Holland said.

Not everyone on campus was enamored of his military-honed style of getting
things done.

Mr. Posvar could be blunt and impatient, and he struck some faculty as arrogant
and single-minded. The same person who childhood friends described as outgoing
and friendly to a fault developed a reputation on campus for being reserved and
less than gregarious.

The last months of his tenure were marred by a faculty vote of no-confidence
over his management style. Later, a controversy blew up over his $3.3 million
retirement package, and the matter received the attention of the state
Legislature.

"I've never had anything quite like this before," Mr. Posvar told an interviewer
in 1990, clearly stunned by the faculty vote.

The retirement package included a $1.3 million annuity to which Mr. Posvar
contributed up to 8 percent of his salary, he wrote in a letter to the state
Legislature at the time. Each dollar was matched by a Pitt contribution.

He did not contribute to another $2 million annuity, which he said was given to
him upon retirement in lieu of pay increases he did not receive during his
tenure. The package also included a continuation of a portion of his $285,000
salary, which amounted to $201,000 per year for life.

The controversy about the package and the way it was conveyed made headlines.
But in his interview in May with the Post-Gazette, Mr. Posvar, his hand pounding
the side of an easy chair in his Squirrel Hill home, insisted that his
retirement package was wrongly characterized.

"I contributed from my own savings every year a big proportion of my pay," he
said. "That was all my savings investment."

Still, the controversies could not erase a legacy built up over decades.

"I'm amazed he stayed ahead of the enemy for 23 years," said Alec Stewart, dean
of the honors college that was created during Mr. Posvar's tenure. "It's taxing
to be running a major university. You are always making decisions, and there are
people who see this in terms of winning and losing."

"He understood the difference between being big and being good, and he wanted to
be good," Stewart said. "Excellence is what it was about. You could count on him
to be first out of the foxhole for that kind of a cause."

Away from campus, Mr. Posvar was no less driven.

"He couldn't sit still," remembered daughter Rossi. When he would attend the
symphony or a performance by his wife, Mildred, Mr. Posvar sometimes would slump
in his chair with his eyes closed, or pen notes to himself.

Yet late at night in the chancellor's residence, still in his dress pants, shirt
and tie, a man obsessed by his work would find freedom from it all by cranking
the volume on some classical music.

"He would lie on the floor and just get lost in the music," his daughter said.
"He wanted the music to totally consume him."

Mr. Posvar was no opera buff, his wife said.

"He used to tease me and say that the singing ruined the music," she said. "I
knew he was joking."

"If anything, his greatest passion was the world," she said. "He just wanted to
see and experience every part of every niche of this world."

Wesley Wentz Posvar was born on Sept. 14, 1925, in Topeka, Kan. His family moved
to Kansas City while he was still an infant, and later spent a couple years in
New York City, where Posvar attended kindergarten. Most of his childhood,
though, was in Cleveland.

He was raised during his teen-age years by his mother, Marie Wentz, after his
father, Vladimir Lester Posvar, a newspaper and wire service reporter, lost work
and left Cleveland to find newspaper jobs in Cincinnati and Detroit.

Years later, the couple's marriage soured. Mr. Posvar said he eventually learned
that his father had begun a new family in Indiana after World War II.

Mr. Posvar held out hope as a young man that his father might one day rekindle
the relationship, and those who knew him said he was troubled as a young adult
by the failed marriage. But he spoke in interviews of a loving relationship with
his mother and of an admiration for his father's newspaper work and military
service. A New York Times photo of the three of them, taken during Mr. Posvar's
days at West Point, remained with the younger Mr. Posvar throughout his life.

He visited his father periodically and said they remained close.

"I remember as a small child looking up at his uniforms ," the younger Posvar
said, flashing a hint of a smile. "I admired him tremendously."

As a boy, Mr. Posvar was awed by planes. He recalled scaling airport fencing
with some friends to get a better look at the air races in Cleveland.

Years later, as an Air Force test pilot, Mr. Posvar savored the feelings of
control and independence he got in the cockpit, even as he performed
stomach-turning maneuvers in jets that traveled at 300 mph and swooped as low as
50 feet above the ground.

Mr. Posvar's defining adolescent experience was the Boy Scouts, which
compensated for the absence of his father and instilled in him values such as
achievement and discipline, he said. He also developed strong bonds with older
adults, including a high school economics teacher who served as best man at Mr.
Posvar's wedding years later in Germany.

In high school, Mr. Posvar was brilliant in the classroom, finishing first in
Cleveland's West High Class of 1943 with a near perfect grade score. One
classmate said it seemed that Mr. Posvar worried about being labeled as "a
brain" and tried hard to be one of the guys. He ran track and cross country and
wrestled.

"He had a mind that would sop up things. His mind could work through problems
with such great rapidity he had a great jump on everybody," said schoolmate and
lifelong friend Bob Shackleton. "He was so superior that he could appear to not
be working."

"I knew him because he was president of everything -- the student council and
every club he belonged to," joked Mildred Posvar, who attended high school with
her future husband but did not date him until years later. "I thought he was
going to be president of the United States."

She remembers the first time she saw Mr. Posvar standing outside the school with
his mother.

"If you ever saw Wes and his mother, you'd do a double take. Never has a mother
and son looked so much alike. They were both redheads. The whole face and
everything, they were spitting images of each other," she said.

Had it not been for the start of World War II, Mr. Posvar might have ended up a
math or science student at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, which
offered him a full scholarship. Instead, at 17, he accepted an appointment to
the U.S. Military Academy in West Point, N.Y. He graduated just after the war in
1946 and earned a rating as a pilot.

Mr. Posvar was eventually assigned to the experimental test flight group. His
earliest stints were at the Air Proving Ground stations in Alaska and Florida,
where he managed to "check out" or become qualified as a pilot in many of the 37
kinds of aircraft he flew, including some of the military's earliest jets.

Mr. Posvar flew "just about every plane the Air Force had. He made that a goal
for himself," joked Jack Donahue, who trained with Mr. Posvar as an Air Force
pilot and eventually became chairman of Federated Investors Inc.

In the cockpit, Mr. Posvar had an audacious streak.

At Florida's Eglin Air Force Base, several stunned pilots watched in 1947 as Mr.
Posvar took off in his first flight in a P-80 jet and, at 250 feet above the
ground, performed a slow roll while the plane traveled at 250 mph. The maneuver
was forbidden by the Air Force except during air shows.

"I was astounded, to put it mildly," wrote Donald Lopez, deputy director of the
Smithsonian National Air and Space Museum, who followed in a chase plane that
day and recounted the stunt in his book, "Fighter Pilot's Heaven."

"Wes knew better, but the sheer exuberance of flying a jet for the first time
was too much for his restraint mechanisms," Lopez said.

Mr. Posvar was at Oxford University from 1948 to 1951, studying philosophy,
politics and economics as the first Army Air Force officer to become a Rhodes
Scholar. During that time, he courted and, in 1950, married Mildred, who was
studying and performing in Europe.

He continued to fly, and on a break from school, took part in the 1948 Berlin
Airlift, flying coal and potatoes in a C-54.

After Oxford, Mr. Posvar returned to West Point. For the next three years he
taught as an assistant professor of social science.

Then, in 1954, Mr. Posvar moved to the Pentagon. He was assigned to a
four-member strategic planning group that plotted the Air Force's acquisition
programs into the next decade. The group decided what kind of aircraft and
weaponry would be obtained and in what number.

"We introduced the first jet fighters. And we introduced the first air defense
fighters," Mr. Posvar said. "We also introduced in our planning the first
ballistic missiles, the first long-range missiles."

In 1957, Mr. Posvar began a 10-year stay at the Air Force Academy as its first
professor of political science. He later chaired the department and headed the
social sciences division.

He took a two-year sabbatical and received a master's degree in public
administration and a doctorate in political science from Harvard in 1964.

The next year, he spent three months on special assignment as a pilot in
Southeast Asia. He flew 50 combat missions in Vietnam in a small single-engine
observer plane used to identify Viet Cong locations.

Two years after that, Mr. Posvar came to Pitt, a school close to financial
collapse at the close of Chancellor Edward Litchfield's administration.

Under Mr. Posvar, the school's budget grew sevenfold and the number of employees
swelled from 7,000 to 12,000. Among the prominent buildings that rose during his
tenure were the Law School building, the Biomedical Science Tower and Forbes
Quadrangle, which later was renamed Posvar Hall.

The School of Health Related Professions was created during his chancellorship,
as was the University Center for Social and Urban Research and the College for
Over 60 program.

In 1985, Mr. Posvar signed a preliminary exchange agreement with Cuban
universities during the first visit to that country by an American university
president in 15 years.

Meanwhile, he continued to play a role in national issues.

Mr. Posvar was the founding chairman of the Federal Emergency Management
Advisory Board, where he served for 12 years, and the National Advisory Council
on Environmental Policy and Technology, where he served as a principal advisor
to the federal Environmental Protection Agency.

He led a special commission on the West Point honor code and advised government
officials on foreign intelligence, civil aviation and national emergency
telecommunications.

After he retired as chancellor in 1991, Mr. Posvar continued to teach as a
professor of international politics and kept an office on the 12th floor of the
Cathedral of Learning, overlooking a campus he helped transform. He continued
work off campus too, including his role as president of the World Society for
Ekistics (the study of human settlements) whose headquarters is in Athens,
Greece. Those who watched his tenure as chancellor aren't surprised to see that
he remained visible.

"He was somebody who did things," Holland said. "He was not just a coast-along,
get-along type."

In addition to his wife of 51 years, Mildred Miller Posvar, and his daughter,
Lisa Christina Posvar Rossi, Mr. Posvar is survived by a son, Wesley William
Posvar, and a daughter, Margot Marina Posvar Green, all of the Pittsburgh area;
a half-brother, Jan Posvar of New York City, and seven grandsons.

Visitation

Visitation will be today from 7 to 9 p.m. and tomorrow from 2 to 4 p.m. and 7 to
9 p.m. at H. Samson Inc. funeral home, 537 N. Neville St. in Oakland. Funeral
will be 11 a.m. Tuesday at Calvary Episcopal Church, 315 Shady Ave., in
Shadyside.

A memorial service will be held at Pitt at a time and date to be announced.

In lieu of flowers, donations may be made either to the University of Pittsburgh
Honors College or the Matthew B. Ridgway Center for International Security
Studies at the University of Pittsburgh.

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: WESLEY W. POSVAR / 1925-2001/ Post-Gazette staff writer Mackenzie
Carpenter contributed to this report.

GRAPHIC: hoto: Andy Starnes/Post-Gazette: On May 9, 2000, the University of
Pittsburgh honored its 15th chancellor by renaming the Forbes Quandrangle
"Wesley W. Posvar Hall," and the retired leader was again a center of attention
on the Oakland campus.
Photo: Post-Gazette photos: In March 1991, his final year as chancellor
Photo: Jan. 12 1968, on the Pitt campus
Photo: In Febraur 1970, during a period of intense student activism, the
chancellor took a seat on the floor to listen during a student rally.
Photo: 1991
Photo: 1984
Photo: 1977
Photo: 1968

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              333 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                 February 15, 2001, Thursday, ONE STAR EDITION

DARING DE LA RENTA REACHES BACK CENTURIES

SECTION: METRO, Pg. F-2

LENGTH: 1128 words


Accessory lovers will be delighted with the debut of his accessory collection,
an impressive array of shoes, bags, belts and jewelry, the latter licensed
through Simon Alcantara.

Here's what went down at some other fall premieres yesterday:

Betsey Johnson

You know you're always in for some fun when Ms. Johnson puts on a show.

But you also know you're gonna have to look hard for good fashion beneath all
the spectacle, because it is there.

Johnson's fall collection, "My Closet," was inspired by a large closet in the
middle of her apartment. Seeing it one evening as she contemplated themes made
her decide to do a show about her kind of clothes, clothes that she loves,
colors that she adores, clothes styled the way she would wear them.

So she took her orange closet doors, the old silk turquoise curtain that hangs
there, a favorite handelier, some of her rugs and reproduced them on the runway.

As usual, her pieces exhausted the palette, especially the neons. The ensembles
were like what little girls would put on when going through their mother's
closets -- and lingerie drawers -- to play dress-up.

Brightly colored, coordinated lace lingerie peeked out of every outfit, perhaps
a cheeky response to the fellows who wear saggy, oversized pants and let their
underwear bands show.

Johnson found a pterodactyl print somewhere and apparently took quite a liking
to it. It showed up in nine of the 64 outfits, including an orange cotton tank,
a fuchsia silk taffeta ruffle top, a white silk taffeta dress, blue leather
knickers, a red sweater dress and silk chiffon dresses in lime and pink.

Where was the "real" fashion, the wearable stuff? A funky turquoise striped
denim jacket with matching low-rise pants, a chic raspberry striped corduroy
skirt suit with big pink buttons and a vivid green duchess satin gown with a
giant bow in the back.

Burberry

France has the house of Chanel and Italy has Gucci. This British label, which
has been evolving its classic, universally recognized plaid and expanding its
lines, is positioning itself to become England's premier luxury fashion house.

The men's and women's collections shown during a walk-through at Burberry's
Manhattan showroom featured low-key but stylish and luxurious apparel and
accessories.

The men's London Collection was expanded beyond outerwear to head-to-toe
sportswear. There was, of course, lots of camel, but there were also pops of
other colors: a medium-blue cashmere turtleneck, a mustard corduroy shirt with
epaulets and a shortened waist, a buttery soft dark brown leather trench, and an
olive corduroy sports suit perfect for business-casual.

There are quite a few strong casual and eveningwear looks in the women's London
Collection, such as a long black-and-white shearling coat and matching short
skirt with the enlarged plaid pattern, worn with a cream-colored stretch
cashmere sweater.

Some other great looks were a quilted black leather motorcycle jacket, a
contoured cherry-red trench and a slightly distressed wrap jean skirt with
pleats, part of Burberry's denim debut.

The women's accessory line is expanded, with dozens of new handbag styles such
as sheared beaver and mink, and crocodile in uncommon shapes for ladies who
lunch in the city. There are also new shoe and boot lines, hats, gloves,
jewelry, hair adornments, swimwear, intimates, silk scarves and plush mink wraps
with the Burberry plaid. New accessories for men include handsome red-lined,
black leather briefcases, more casual bags and hats.

With this collection, Burberry thrusts itself beyond the limitations of "Mom and
Dad's raincoat and scarf" and into a wider realm of younger buyers who want
quality, up-to-the-minute fashion. In the words of executive vice president
Robert Vignola, it's "no longer fuddy-duddy English old men's stuff."

Vivienne Tam

Alluring color patterns on eminently wearable clothes characterized Tam's fall
collection. It was a sort of global techno fantasy-meets-urban patchwork
cultures, with jade, black, red and precious metal colors on cracked porcelain,
embroidery, lacquered and beaded textures.

A lot going on? Yes, but not too much. Tam's eye for fit, attention to detail
and instinct about when to say when remain formidable assets in the creative
process.

A cracked look gave ivory patch and jade leather skirts, pants and T-shirts a
vintage feel. Intriguing, tastefully done paint drip motifs dressed up a T-shirt
and knit dress while a lively graffiti print gave a fresh twist to an
asymmetrical dress, bomber jacket, slash dress and a slash T-shirt. And a warm
painted desert design worked wonders on a leather trench and leather pants.

For evening looks, highlights were a royal phoenix embroidered dress, a sexy
black pin-beaded tulle dress and a racy bronze feather beaded dress.

Yeohlee

A breath of fresh air, this collection of breezy pieces was a departure along
the lines of Miguel Androver's line shown earlier this week.

Yeohlee cited a number of inspirations: Moors, Spain, tiles, mosaics and the
geometric forms prevalent in Moroccan and Islamic cultures.

Garments, loose yet tailored and feminine, flowed easily but weren't needlessly
roomy. Proportions followed the trends of high waists and long, lean looks.

There were double skirts with the top layer worn over the head and shoulders as
a shawl. Coats in mohair and alpaca doubled as cozy wraps, and one garment could
function comfortably as a hood, cowl, shawl, head wrap or hip ties.

Looks that stood out were a striped jacquard lace-front tunic with brown pants
and a brown and ivory flecked scarf and a champagne silk satin shawl jacket with
matching skirt.

Douglas Hannant

His was a hard-edged collection, gritty with lots of hip street sensibility.
Inspired by Bauhaus architecture, Hannant used micro-pinstripes, bias cuts and
asymmetrical designs to come up with sensual sportswear translatable from day to
evening.

Leather, suede and silk were primary, with colors along the lines of copper,
ivy, beige and navy blue. Asymmetric cuts, one-shoulder looks and wide, slashed
sleeves exuded a restrained sexual energy, and his first collection of furs were
sheared in complementary geometric patterns.

Hannant's hottest looks were a copper strapless napa leather knot dress, a
natural Russian sable clutch jacket over an indigo olive caviar beaded dress, a
black eelskin jacket with a black cashmere wool knit halter dress and a black
suede one-sleeve asymmetric top with light copper tweed pants.

One of Hannant's most interesting ensembles -- a slinky black bugle-beaded
strapless gown with a chunky black hand-knit cardigan -- proved that fashion at
its best is both form and function, style and substance.

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2001 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              341 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                     July 29, 2001 Sunday TWO STAR EDITION

EX-PITT CHANCELLOR DIES;
 LONGTIME UNIVERSITY LEADER STRICKEN WHILE SWIMMING IN LIGONIER

BYLINE: BILL SCHACKNER, POST-GAZETTE STAFF WRITER

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg.A-1

LENGTH: 2890 words


Wesley W. Posvar, a fighter pilot turned college leader who helped transform the
University of Pittsburgh from a struggling regional campus to a nationally known
center for research, died late Friday of a heart attack after swimming with his
grandchildren. He was 75.

An only child from the Midwest whose boyhood dream was to fly, Mr. Posvar rose
through the Air Force ranks to become a brigadier general, serving first as a
test pilot, and later as a strategic planner in the Pentagon, a military academy
professor and a Vietnam combat flier. A Rhodes Scholar and an expert on
international affairs, Mr. Posvar also counseled several White House
administrations on foreign and domestic matters.

But Mr. Posvar was best known locally for his 24 years as Pitt's chancellor, the
second-longest tenure in the university's history.

When he arrived in 1967, the once-private campus was so deeply in debt that its
leaders had sought a state bailout and agreed to become a public campus. Mr.
Posvar put its finances in the black, then set out to identify programs where a
regional university could gain national and international prominence.

In part because Mr. Posvar was fascinated by other parts of the world -- he
visited more than 100 countries during his life -- he resolved that Pitt should
become more global.

He created the Center for International Studies, which gained national
recognition and today supports teaching and research efforts from Latin America
to Asia. He also made hiring decisions that helped put other parts of campus on
the map.

Mr. Posvar lured from the Ivy League Dr. Thomas Detre, a psychiatrist and
administrator who became an architect of Pitt's internationally renowned medical
center and transplant hub. Mr. Posvar's tenure also saw the hiring of Johnny
Majors, who three years later coached Pitt's football team to a national
championship in 1976.

As word of Mr. Posvar's death spread yesterday, he was remembered for his
devotion both to the campus and to the region where he lived. According to his
family, Mr. Posvar had been swimming with his grandchildren in a pool at Rolling
Rock Country Club in Westmoreland County Friday afternoon when he appeared to
suffer a heart attack.

He was resuscitated briefly by lifeguards and paramedics but died en route to
Latrobe Hospital around 6 p.m., said his daughter Lisa Rossi.

Pitt Chancellor Mark Nordenberg yesterday recalled the indelible mark left by
the school's former leader.

"Wes Posvar was an extraordinary university leader, an absolutely devoted
champion of Western Pennsylvania and a warm and caring human being," he said.
"He will be sorely missed by his many friends and admirers all over the world."

In an interview with the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette three months before he died,
Mr. Posvar attributed some of his success to what he called "a competitive
compulsion."

That was evident in his dropping golf, a sport he could not master, and in his
need as a young military pilot to prove himself worthy by performing dangerous
maneuvers the first time he took the controls of a jet.

"If he can't excel in it immediately, he wants no part of it. That includes
bridge, which I adore but don't play because he didn't want to sit down and be
the idiot because he would have to learn," said Mr. Posvar's wife, Mildred, an
internationally known opera singer.

The competitive trait also was apparent in his tendency late in his life to
repeatedly drop into conversations the fact that he was first in his class, both
in high school and at the U.S. Military Academy. He graduated from West Point in
1946 as the top cadet in a class of 875.

"I believe in quality and achievement," Mr. Posvar said. "As a university
president, why wouldn't I?"

The Pentagon and the Ivory Tower are vastly different worlds, and Mr. Posvar
chose a strange time to jump between them. Student unrest and anti-war sentiment
were growing on campuses in 1967, when Mr. Posvar arrived with bright red hair,
thick eyebrows and a background that included 50 combat missions in Vietnam.
Faculty who doubted his academic credentials were struck by this man with a
photographic memory who could engage them in debate on complex topics.

Mr. Posvar had, by his own description, a "radically liberal" streak that gave
him credibility with campus dissenters. He felt deeply about affirmative action,
those who knew him said. Though he was sometimes targeted by campus
demonstrators, Mr. Posvar nevertheless described protest as a legitimate part of
a student's campus experience.

With a laugh, Mr. Posvar recalled how early in his tenure he posted bail for a
group of students who he said were unfairly arrested for creating a disturbance
outside a dormitory.

"I didn't have any cash. I had to borrow it from the police chief," Mr. Posvar
said.

Psychology professor James Holland, who organized campus protests as a young
faculty member during Mr. Posvar's early years, developed an admiration for him.

"He managed always to have a kind of finesse," Holland said.

Not everyone on campus was enamored of his military-honed style of getting
things done.

Mr. Posvar could be blunt and impatient, and he struck some faculty as arrogant
and single-minded. The same person who childhood friends described as outgoing
and friendly to a fault developed a reputation on campus for being reserved and
less than gregarious.

The last months of his tenure were marred by a faculty vote of no-confidence
over his management style. Later, a controversy blew up over his $3.3 million
retirement package, and the matter received the attention of the state
Legislature.

"I've never had anything quite like this before," Mr. Posvar told an interviewer
in 1990, clearly stunned by the faculty vote.

The retirement package included a $1.3 million annuity to which Mr. Posvar
contributed up to 8 percent of his salary, he wrote in a letter to the state
Legislature at the time. Each dollar was matched by a Pitt contribution.

He did not contribute to another $2 million annuity, which he said was given to
him upon retirement in lieu of pay increases he did not receive during his
tenure. The package also included a continuation of a portion of his $285,000
salary, which amounted to $201,000 per year for life.

The controversy about the package and the way it was conveyed made headlines.
But in his interview in May with the Post-Gazette, Mr. Posvar, his hand pounding
the side of an easy chair in his Squirrel Hill home, insisted that his
retirement package was wrongly characterized.

"I contributed from my own savings every year a big proportion of my pay," he
said. "That was all my savings investment."

Still, the controversies could not erase a legacy built up over decades.

"I'm amazed he stayed ahead of the enemy for 23 years," said Alec Stewart, dean
of the honors college that was created during Mr. Posvar's tenure. "It's taxing
to be running a major university. You are always making decisions, and there are
people who see this in terms of winning and losing."

"He understood the difference between being big and being good, and he wanted to
be good," Stewart said. "Excellence is what it was about. You could count on him
to be first out of the foxhole for that kind of a cause."

Away from campus, Mr. Posvar was no less driven.

"He couldn't sit still," remembered daughter Rossi. When he would attend the
symphony or a performance by his wife, Mildred, Mr. Posvar sometimes would slump
in his chair with his eyes closed, or pen notes to himself.

Yet late at night in the chancellor's residence, still in his dress pants, shirt
and tie, a man obsessed by his work would find freedom from it all by cranking
the volume on some classical music.

"He would lie on the floor and just get lost in the music," his daughter said.
"He wanted the music to totally consume him."

Mr. Posvar was no opera buff, his wife said.

"He used to tease me and say that the singing ruined the music," she said. "I
knew he was joking."

"If anything, his greatest passion was the world," she said. "He just wanted to
see and experience every part of every niche of this world."

Wesley Wentz Posvar was born on Sept. 14, 1925, in Topeka, Kan. His family moved
to Kansas City while he was still an infant, and later spent a couple years in
New York City, where Posvar attended kindergarten. Most of his childhood,
though, was in Cleveland.

He was raised during his teen-age years by his mother, Marie Wentz, after his
father, Vladimir Lester Posvar, a newspaper and wire service reporter, lost work
and left Cleveland to find newspaper jobs in Cincinnati and Detroit.

Years later, the couple's marriage soured. Mr. Posvar said he eventually learned
that his father had begun a new family in Indiana after World War II.

Mr. Posvar held out hope as a young man that his father might one day rekindle
the relationship, and those who knew him said he was troubled as a young adult
by the failed marriage. But he spoke in interviews of a loving relationship with
his mother and of an admiration for his father's newspaper work and military
service. A New York Times photo of the three of them, taken during Mr. Posvar's
days at West Point, remained with the younger Mr. Posvar throughout his life.

He visited his father periodically and said they remained close.

"I remember as a small child looking up at his uniforms ," the younger Posvar
said, flashing a hint of a smile. "I admired him tremendously."

As a boy, Mr. Posvar was awed by planes. He recalled scaling airport fencing
with some friends to get a better look at the air races in Cleveland.

Years later, as an Air Force test pilot, Mr. Posvar savored the feelings of
control and independence he got in the cockpit, even as he performed
stomach-turning maneuvers in jets that traveled at 300 mph and swooped as low as
50 feet above the ground.

Mr. Posvar's defining adolescent experience was the Boy Scouts, which
compensated for the absence of his father and instilled in him values such as
achievement and discipline, he said. He also developed strong bonds with older
adults, including a high school economics teacher who served as best man at Mr.
Posvar's wedding years later in Germany.

In high school, Mr. Posvar was brilliant in the classroom, finishing first in
Cleveland's West High Class of 1943 with a near perfect grade score. One
classmate said it seemed that Mr. Posvar worried about being labeled as "a
brain" and tried hard to be one of the guys. He ran track and cross country and
wrestled.

"He had a mind that would sop up things. His mind could work through problems
with such great rapidity he had a great jump on everybody," said schoolmate and
lifelong friend Bob Shackleton. "He was so superior that he could appear to not
be working."

"I knew him because he was president of everything -- the student council and
every club he belonged to," joked Mildred Posvar, who attended high school with
her future husband but did not date him until years later. "I thought he was
going to be president of the United States."

She remembers the first time she saw Mr. Posvar standing outside the school with
his mother.

"If you ever saw Wes and his mother, you'd do a double take. Never has a mother
and son looked so much alike. They were both redheads. The whole face and
everything, they were spitting images of each other," she said.

Had it not been for the start of World War II, Mr. Posvar might have ended up a
math or science student at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, which
offered him a full scholarship. Instead, at 17, he accepted an appointment to
the U.S. Military Academy in West Point, N.Y. He graduated just after the war in
1946 and earned a rating as a pilot.

Mr. Posvar was eventually assigned to the experimental test flight group. His
earliest stints were at the Air Proving Ground stations in Alaska and Florida,
where he managed to "check out" or become qualified as a pilot in many of the 37
kinds of aircraft he flew, including some of the military's earliest jets.

Mr. Posvar flew "just about every plane the Air Force had. He made that a goal
for himself," joked Jack Donahue, who trained with Mr. Posvar as an Air Force
pilot and eventually became chairman of Federated Investors Inc.

In the cockpit, Mr. Posvar had an audacious streak.

At Florida's Eglin Air Force Base, several stunned pilots watched in 1947 as Mr.
Posvar took off in his first flight in a P-80 jet and, at 250 feet above the
ground, performed a slow roll while the plane traveled at 250 mph. The maneuver
was forbidden by the Air Force except during air shows.

"I was astounded, to put it mildly," wrote Donald Lopez, deputy director of the
Smithsonian National Air and Space Museum, who followed in a chase plane that
day and recounted the stunt in his book, "Fighter Pilot's Heaven."

"Wes knew better, but the sheer exuberance of flying a jet for the first time
was too much for his restraint mechanisms," Lopez said.

Mr. Posvar was at Oxford University from 1948 to 1951, studying philosophy,
politics and economics as the first Army Air Force officer to become a Rhodes
Scholar. During that time, he courted and, in 1950, married Mildred, who was
studying and performing in Europe.

He continued to fly, and on a break from school, took part in the 1948 Berlin
Airlift, flying coal and potatoes in a C-54.

After Oxford, Mr. Posvar returned to West Point. For the next three years he
taught as an assistant professor of social science.

Then, in 1954, Mr. Posvar moved to the Pentagon. He was assigned to a
four-member strategic planning group that plotted the Air Force's acquisition
programs into the next decade. The group decided what kind of aircraft and
weaponry would be obtained and in what number.

"We introduced the first jet fighters. And we introduced the first air defense
fighters," Mr. Posvar said. "We also introduced in our planning the first
ballistic missiles, the first long-range missiles."

In 1957, Mr. Posvar began a 10-year stay at the Air Force Academy as its first
professor of political science. He later chaired the department and headed the
social sciences division.

He took a two-year sabbatical and received a master's degree in public
administration and a doctorate in political science from Harvard in 1964.

The next year, he spent three months on special assignment as a pilot in
Southeast Asia. He flew 50 combat missions in Vietnam in a small single-engine
observer plane used to identify Viet Cong locations.

Two years after that, Mr. Posvar came to Pitt, a school close to financial
collapse at the close of Chancellor Edward Litchfield's administration.

Under Mr. Posvar, the school's budget grew sevenfold and the number of employees
swelled from 7,000 to 12,000. Among the prominent buildings that rose during his
tenure were the Law School building, the Biomedical Science Tower and Forbes
Quadrangle, which later was renamed Posvar Hall.

The School of Health Related Professions was created during his chancellorship,
as was the University Center for Social and Urban Research and the College for
Over 60 program.

In 1985, Mr. Posvar signed a preliminary exchange agreement with Cuban
universities during the first visit to that country by an American university
president in 15 years.

Meanwhile, he continued to play a role in national issues.

Mr. Posvar was the founding chairman of the Federal Emergency Management
Advisory Board, where he served for 12 years, and the National Advisory Council
on Environmental Policy and Technology, where he served as a principal advisor
to the federal Environmental Protection Agency.

He led a special commission on the West Point honor code and advised government
officials on foreign intelligence, civil aviation and national emergency
telecommunications.

After he retired as chancellor in 1991, Mr. Posvar continued to teach as a
professor of international politics and kept an office on the 12th floor of the
Cathedral of Learning, overlooking a campus he helped transform. He continued
work off campus too, including his role as president of the World Society for
Ekistics (the study of human settlements) whose headquarters is in Athens,
Greece. Those who watched his tenure as chancellor aren't surprised to see that
he remained visible.

"He was somebody who did things," Holland said. "He was not just a coast-along,
get-along type."

In addition to his wife of 51 years, Mildred Miller Posvar, and his daughter,
Lisa Christina Posvar Rossi, Mr. Posvar is survived by a son, Wesley William
Posvar, and a daughter, Margot Marina Posvar Green, all of the Pittsburgh area;
a half-brother, Jan Posvar of New York City, and seven grandsons.

Visitation

Visitation will be today from 7 to 9 p.m. and tomorrow from 2 to 4 p.m. and 7 to
9 p.m. at H. Samson Inc. funeral home, 537 N. Neville St. in Oakland. Funeral
will be 11 a.m. Tuesday at Calvary Episcopal Church, 315 Shady Ave., in
Shadyside.

A memorial service will be held at Pitt at a time and date to be announced.

In lieu of flowers, donations may be made either to the University of Pittsburgh
Honors College or the Matthew B. Ridgway Center for International Security
Studies at the University of Pittsburgh.


LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
WESLEY W. POSVAR / 1925-2001 Post-Gazette staff writer Mackenzie Carpenter
contributed to this report.

GRAPHIC: hoto: Andy Starnes/Post-Gazette: On May 9, 2000, the University of
Pittsburgh honored its 15th chancellor by renaming the Forbes Quandrangle
"Wesley W. Posvar Hall," and the retired leader was again a center of attention
on the Oakland campus.
 Photo: Post-Gazette photos: In March 1991, his final year as chancellor
 Photo: Jan. 12 1968, on the Pitt campus
 Photo: In Febraur 1970, during a period of intense student activism, the
chancellor took a seat on the floor to listen during a student rally.
 Photo: 1991
 Photo: 1984
 Photo: 1977
 Photo: 1968

                       Copyright 2001 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              347 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                     October 19, 2001 Friday SOONER EDITION

BYLINE: DAVE MOLINARI AND DEJAN KOVACEVIC

SECTION: SPORTS, Pg.B-10 NOTEBOOK

LENGTH: 899 words


* LW Krzysztof Oliwa was the Penguins' only healthy scratch for their game in
Ottawa last night. They also played without RW Alexei Kovalev (knee), C Wayne
Primeau (heel), D Janne Laukkanen (knee) and D Hans Jonsson (ankle). Ottawa D
Wade Redden, who had been expected to miss the game after getting a bruised left
foot during the Penguins' 5-2 victory at Mellon Arena Tuesday, dressed, but
Ottawa was missing LW Chris Herperger (groin), D Sami Salo, RW Chris Neil and D
Ricard Persson.

* Penguins rookie Toby Petersen was back on Mario Lemieux's right wing last
night, but has no delusions about how long he'll stay there. The conventional
wisdom is that Petersen, who had a hat trick against Ottawa Tuesday, is just
keeping that spot warm for Kovalev, who had arthroscopic knee surgery three days
ago. "We're going to need [Kovalev] back," Petersen said. "I expect him to play
where I am now."

* RW Billy Tibbetts, playing for the Penguins' AHL affiliate in Wilkes-Barre,
was suspended by the league yesterday for three games for leaving the bench to
fight Cleveland Barons LW Eric LaPlante in the second period of a game Saturday
at Gund Arena. Through six games, Tibbetts has the team lead with three goals
and is tied for first with 31 penalty minutes.

* Penguins broadcaster Ed Olczyk, who played for Team USA at the 1984 Olympics
in Sarajevo, is going back to the Games. This time, Olczyk will serve as an
analyst on Westwood One radio broadcasts from Salt Lake City in February. His
partner will be Sam Rosen, who does television play-by-play for the New York
Rangers.

* Ottawa lost its most prominent player when C Alexei Yashin was traded to the
Islanders in June, but he hardly was the Senators' only big-time forward. Fact
is, Penguins D Darius Kasparaitis insists that several other Ottawa players give
him more trouble than Yashin did. "Actually, Yashin never scares me,"
Kasparaitis said. "Guys like [Marian] Hossa and [Daniel] Alfredsson, they're
smaller and faster. Those are the guys you have to worry about all the time.
Yashin was kind of a slower guy, but he was good in the corners. But I know how
to play against Yashin. I feel more comfortable playing against Yashin than
against a guy like [Martin] Havlat. He's pretty good."

* The Penguins are, in some ways, probably still adjusting to the absence of RW
Jaromir Jagr, who was traded to Washington in July, and the Senators are in a
similar situation after dealing Yashin to New York. Still, Senators LW Shawn
McEachern, a former Penguins player, downplayed the effect of being without
Yashin. "I don't know if it's a difficult transition," he said. "I mean, you
lose a player who scored 40 goals, it's going to hurt you. But we've played
without him before, and we have a lot of guys who never played with him. It's
not that big a transition. Plus, we've gotten some really good players for
Yash." The Senators received oversized defenseman Zdeno Chara, winger Bill
Muckalt and the second choice in the June entry draft, which they used to claim
promising center Jason Spezza. "Chara's a big part of our team now, a guy who's
really tough on the other team's big players," McEachern said. "Muckalt's a good
player, too." Neither fills the void created by Yashin's departure, though, just
as none of the three young players the Penguins got from the Capitals for Jagr
can fully compensate for his absence. "I know it's going to be tough for
Pittsburgh without Jagr," McEachern said. "But it's nice for them to be able to
fall back on a guy like Mario."

* The Penguins' roster features Lemieux and two of the top scorers in the NHL
last season, Kovalev and Martin Straka, but that didn't stop the Ottawa Sun from
reporting a few days ago that the Penguins are "desperately searching for
scoring help" and trying to acquire Chicago RW Tony Amonte. That Amonte will be
an unrestricted free agent after this season and is expected to command a salary
of at least $6 million -- which would be about $6 million more than the
Penguins' budget could accommodate -- apparently doesn't matter. General Manager
Craig Patrick confirmed yesterday that he has had no discussions with the
Blackhawks and that Amonte is "not on our radar screen." One team that might
make a serious pitch for Amonte, though, is New Jersey. The Devils were off to a
franchise-worst 0-4 start before playing San Jose last night, and have the
resources needed to acquire Amonte -- and to pay him. The Devils made a similar,
though not identical, move in 2000, when they brought in RW Alexander Mogilny
from Vancouver. He completed that season in New Jersey and played another year
there before signing with Toronto as a free agent a few months ago.

* Although Jason Spezza is a top-shelf prospect, his relations with the Senators
seem a bit strained. Bobby Orr, Spezza's agent, told reporters that he was
displeased with remarks made by several members of Ottawa's front office when
Spezza was returned to his junior team, the Windsor Spitfires. Specifically, he
was upset that Senators GM Marshall Johnston said, "We're not in business of
managing people's feelings," and with Coach Jacques Martin's statement that,
"This is a men's league, and he's still a boy." Orr, considered by many to be
the best defenseman in NHL history, said simply, "They are not great comments. I
don't think they were necessary."

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Petersen
 PHOTO: Kasparaitis

                       Copyright 2001 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              348 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                   November 18, 2001 Sunday TWO STAR EDITION

WINTER FAVORS U.S. SIDE NOW

BYLINE: JACK KELLY, POST-GAZETTE NATIONAL AFFAIRS WRITERS

SECTION: WORLD, Pg.A-17

LENGTH: 623 words


Taliban troops have abandoned Afghanistan's cities and are taking refuge in the
mountains, apparently in preparation for protracted guerrilla war. They'll have
a hard time just staying alive this winter, military experts say.

"Winter affects all military operations. It slows movements and complicates
resupply," said Larry Wortzel, a former Army officer who directs Middle East
studies for the Heritage Foundation in Washington D.C. "I think the Taliban will
be seriously disadvantaged because we are able to move around. We are able to
resupply. And we have sensors that will pick up on al-Qaida attempts to cook or
heat in caves."

If not for the breakthrough at Mazar-i-Sharif in northern Afghanistan and the
subsequent collapse of the Taliban in much of the country, the shoe would have
been on the other foot. Then it would have been Taliban troops who had warm beds
in the cities. Northern Alliance fighters would have been outside in the cold,
and U.S. special forces would have had to operate from bases outside the
country.

Now, the Taliban is in a struggle for survival it almost certainly will lose.

"You are not going to see any serious, coordinated Taliban counterattack," said
retired Army Lt. Gen. William Odom, former head of the National Security Agency.
"They're too disorganized now, and it'll be too cold soon."

A.J. Venter, Middle East correspondent for Janes Defense Review, was in
Afghanistan in September 1994 to make a documentary film about the Afghan-Soviet
war. He remembers being very, very cold. It is colder now.

"[The Taliban] haven't prepared for this," Venter said. "All their focus has
been in the cities. They don't have the food, for one thing. I don't think they
have the clothing."

John Thompson is managing director of the Mackenzie Institute, a Toronto-based
think tank which studies global conflicts. A former Canadian army officer,
Thompson has been on many cold weather training exercises, several above the
Arctic Circle.

"Traditionally, during the war with Russia, the mujahideen would bunker up for
the winter," he said. "Those who could would go to Pakistan. That's because it
is next to impossible to function as a guerrilla in cold weather."

Taliban troops will go through whatever food supplies they have very quickly,
and it will be hard for them to get more, Thompson said.

"You need 6,000 to 8,000 calories a day for an active lifestyle outdoors in
winter. If you are not eating right and you are tired, cold makes it much harder
to stay alert and focused. If you don't have the right clothing and -- literally
-- calories to burn, it's harder to think, it's harder to move, it's harder to
stay alert."

An enormous disadvantage the Taliban will face that the mujahideen did not is
the quality of U.S. sensors. The sensors will work even better once winter
comes, the experts said.

"We're not going to be like the Soviets running around blind," said Odom, now
director of national security studies at the Hudson Institute in Washington,
D.C. "We're going to have much better intelligence, and we figure to have much
better cooperation from the Afghan people."

"Any sense of heat or movement is going to be looked at," Venter said. "With the
one-meter resolution our satellites have, we are going to be able to read the
nametags on their uniforms."

Ordinary visual reconnaissance also will become easier, Thompson said. "Any
idiot can track people in new fallen snow."

Many Taliban may have to choose between being killed by an American bomb with a
heat-seeking sensor or freezing to death.

"If they light a fire, we'll find them," Thompson said. "If they don't ... not
many people can survive for long without heat in sub-zero temperatures."

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
THE WAR ON TERROR

                       Copyright 2001 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              349 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                    December 21, 2001 Friday SOONER EDITION

BYLINE: SCOTT MERVIS/WEEKEND EDITOR

SECTION: ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT, Pg.2 HOT LIST

LENGTH: 1691 words


What a Relief

"Every comedian alive lives for Saturday night."

Buzz Nutley knows of what he speaks. The Pittsburgh comic has spent years
traveling the country doing stand-up. And he's presented a Comedy Relief charity
benefit -- on a Sunday.

That was Comedy Relief III back in April 2000, and the benefit for Greater
Pittsburgh Food Bank was something short of a laugh-riot at the box office. "I
put a lot of work and effort into it," Nutley says, "and it wasn't as
successful. It was a setback, because it was on a Sunday."

Nutley, who this year turned his attention toward fatherhood -- and all that new
dad humor -- wasn't sure when he would do another one, but then his funny
friends all kept calling, saying, "When are we doing another Comedy Relief?"

Nutley got to work, and for Comedy Relief IV, his cast of comics have a Saturday
night at the Funny Bone with sponsors like Pittsburgh Brewing, Fatheads and
WDVE. "This year, we're going to have a full house," he says.

Nutley has two shows planned tomorrow night, the early one a little cleaner
version, the later one a bit more explicit. The 8 p.m. features emcee Sean
McDowell with Rick Kossler, Crazy Joe Lowers, John Miller, Chris The
Crowdpleaser, Eddie Ifft, Melanie Maloy, PJ Williams, Nutley and Brett Pintado,
who won a Funniest Person in Pittsburgh contest to get into the show.

Nutley will emcee the 10 p.m. show, which will feature Chuck Krieger, Joe
Eberle, Mickey Maguire, David Kaye, Bill Scott, Chris Ciardi, Shawn Blackham and
Kevin Whalen, another contest winner.

"It's a big deal for them," Nutley says of the contest winners, because "they're
usually stuck on Tuesday nights playing for 30 people."

And it's a big deal for the Food Bank, which stands to benefit from the laughs
and the $12 cover. Call 412-281-3130.

Pair of players

In an interview last summer talking about how punk rock musicians stormed the
scene in the late '70s and then many of them went back to their day jobs, Henry
Rollins pointed out that "players play." Over the past couple decades, The
Cynics and Karl Mullen have proven to be players -- and we're lucky to have
them. The Cynics, still the masters of the garage, continue to discover new
bands through Get Hip Records and are planning a tour of Spain in January.
First, though, they invade the 31st Street Pub for a two-night stand, tonight
with the Razzels, Irving Klaws and Hi-Frequencies and tomorrow with the Chargers
Street Gang and Human Brains. Both shows are 10 p.m.

Mullen, who predated the Cynics by a few years with punk band Carsickness, has
moved on musically, now sporting an electro-acoustic ensemble with a global
soundscape. Mullen celebrates the Winter Solstice not only with a pair of shows
but also a new four-song Karl Mullen Band EP called "Sugarfloweroxygen." With
songs like "Sugar" and "Oxygen," Mullen continues to become more melodic and
alternative-radio-friendly while maintaining a sharp poetic edge to his work.
How he remains a best-kept secret is anyone's guess. He is joined by New
Invisible Joy, Mark Dignam and Lustre tonight and tomorrow at 9 at Club Cafe.
Tickets are $10.

Blue is back

Rhythm and blues singer Barbara Blue, who originally hit the clubs in 1989 and
even played a Graffiti Rock Challenge, fled the Pittsburgh music scene five
years ago for Memphis and appears to be doing all right for herself. It took her
six years to follow up her debut CD, "Out of the Blue," but she's done it in
style, getting backup from Taj Mahal's Phantom Blues Band on "Sell My Jewelry."
Blue, who was honored to be the tribute singer for the 14th annual Janis Joplin
Birthday Bash in Joplin's native Port Arthur, Texas, in January, shows why on
the 12-song mix of originals and covers such as Joplin's "Turtle Blues" and
Lucinda Williams' "Drunken Angel." A special highlight is "From the Delta to the
Golden Gates," her grinding tribute to the late John Lee Hooker. By the end,
she'll convince you she's a mean, mean woman and Trouble with a capital T, but
she's nice enough to remember her hometown and come up to play a record release
party at Rosebud at 10 tonight. Tickets are $10. Call 412-323-1919.

Blind tourism

On Aug. 10, about 70 people were blindfolded, driven around in vans listening to
tapes of car crashes and then taken to a secret location. Police were not
notified. It was all for the good of art. "It heightened people's sense of
awareness," says Jessica Coup, publicist for the Mattress Factory, which hosted
the event as part of its Music, Improv, Noise, Art series. "Some people were
kind of scared; other people really enjoyed it." But what was it all about? The
artist responsible -- tENTATIVELY, a cONVENIENCE or "Tent" for short -- explains
tonight with the video documentation of "Circumsubstantial Playing & Blindfolded
Tourism." It will be paired with "Think Tank VIII: Automobile: Re:Vision: Saab
Story," a 30-minute documentary also by tENTATIVELY, a cONVENIENCE about a group
who lived in a building without a roof for two weeks and disassembled a Saab to
build musical instruments out of the parts. The artist will then join Daryl
Fleming and Greg Pierce to form the ensemble Guitarists Anonymous. It's at the
Mattress Factory, North Side, from 7 to 10 tonight. Tickets are $5; free for
members. Call 412-231-3169.

Time to 'Burn'

Last call for hell. Squonk Opera takes a final trip into Dante's Inferno when it
drops the curtain on "Burn" at City Theatre this weekend. Squonk Opera, the
Pittsburgh-based performance troupe that started in clubs like Graffiti and
landed on Broadway, has assembled a cutting-edge multimedia production that
might not add up to much narratively, but dazzles with a mix of live action,
rough film footage, a hellish set and music reminiscent of Tori Amos. Shows are
8 tonight; 5:30 and 9 p.m. tomorrow; and 2 p.m. Sunday. Tickets are $21 to $32.
Call 412-431-CITY.

Theater in Zeli

How about Squonk on Main Street in Zelienople? It may happen someday, if the
nonprofit Strand Theater Initiative succeeds in revamping the former movie house
that has been closed for nearly 20 years. In its effort to raise funds for the
project, tonight the Initiative presents "The Big Show," a vaudeville-style
concert with performances by comedian-magician Doc Dickson, comedian Thomas
Smith, blues ensemble The Tara Charles Band and jazz fusion trio Matula
Oblongata. It's at the Seneca Valley Intermediate High School Auditorium in
Harmony at 7 p.m. There will be pre-show activities and a silent auction of a
"Drew Carey Show" script autographed by the cast members. Tickets are $12; $5
for students. Call 724-742-0400.

A jazz anthem

Looking for a way to find consolation immediately following the events of Sept.
11, local jazz vocalist Pat Leone sat down and wrote a song called "Heroes of
America." He presented it to two powerful colleagues in the jazz community,
pianist Frank Cunimondo and WDUQ host Tony Mowod, who decided to help him
produce the song. Bill Purse, chair of guitar and music technology at Duquesne
University, signed on as recording coordinator and the university offered its
studio for 12 hours for more than 80 musicians to create a blend of R&B, gospel
and jazz. Joining in were luminaries Maureen Budway, Dwayne Dolphin, Ken Karsh,
Mark Koch, Jeff Mangone and Lori Russo, along with the choir of the Covenant
Church of Pittsburgh in Wilkinsburg. "I think the story here, more so than just
a song," Leone stated, "is how an entire music community could come together, so
quickly, with one spirit and one voice." The song was released in November, but
this week the ensemble will offer the first live performances at the "Red, White
and Blue Christmas" at the Covenant Church at 7 tonight, 2 and 7 p.m. tomorrow,
and 7 p.m. Sunday. Admission is free. The CD is $5 with proceeds going to the
victims of Sept. 11. To buy the CD, call 412-767-9911. For concert details, call
412-731-6221.

Angels and Stars

The herald Angel known as Johnny also sings this weekend. Johnny Angel, the
popular oldies star, and his Halos stir up a little heaven for oldies fans with
a Christmas Show at 8 p.m. tomorrow at Jimmy G's in Sharpsburg. Admission is
$17. Call 412-781-4884.

Little Wretches, Hooray for Everything, owensring and Logan Wish team up for
Bright Star Jam, a benefit for New York Police & Fire Widows' and Children's
Benefit Fund, at 8 tonight at Southminster Presbyterian Church, 799 Washington
Road, Mt. Lebanon. Admission is free, but donations will be accepted.

Holiday send-off

What do you think, is this zoo weather? Of course not, that's why kids under 13
are being admitted for free through Dec. 30 as part of the Winter Kids Zoofari
at the Pittsburgh Zoo and Aquarium. Santa Claus will be there through the
weekend to hear last-minute requests, and there will be puppet shows, children's
activities courtesy of the various museums, holiday music, ice carving and
animal enrichment activities to keep the natives busy. It all happens between 10
a.m. and 2 p.m. through Dec. 30. The Zoo will take a well-deserved day off on
Christmas Day, though, and there's not much happening Christmas Eve either. For
details, call 412-665-3640.

Speaking of the weather, as worried retailers have noted, it was so warm all
month, people were fooled into thinking this was October. But it isn't! And time
is running out not only for shopping but also for chances to soak in the
Christmas spirit. So here's a final fast dash through the highlights: The
Carnegie Museum has the big musical trees, the Carnegie Science Center has the
gigantic Miniature Railroad, Hartwood has the gorgeous Eckerd Celebration of
Lights and Phipps Conservatory and Botanical Gardens has a lovely glow for its
Candlelight Evenings, one of which is Christmas Eve. Also, the Cultural District
is alive and festive with the PBT's "Nutcracker," the CLO's "A Musical Christmas
Carol," the Pittsburgh Symphony's Holiday Pops and the stunning new ice rink
waiting for you at PPG Place. Wow. We hope you can make the most of it and do it
all merrily.

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
WEEKEND MAG

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Shawn Brackbill: The Cynics -- Michael Kastelic (front and
frontman) with Tom Hahn, Smith Hutchings and Get Hip founder Gregg Kostelich --
turn the 31st Street Pub into their garage tonight and tomorrow.
 PHOTO: Buzz Nutley gives the Greater Pittsburgh Food Bank some Comedy Relief.
 PHOTO: Barbara Blue brings her blues back to Pittsburgh.

                       Copyright 2001 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              351 of 351 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                    September 24, 2001 Monday SOONER EDITION

FLAG MEANS MANY THINGS TO US;
 A SHARED DISPLAY BRINGS ON DIFFERING MOTIVATIONS

BYLINE: PAUL SHEPARD, THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: NATIONAL, Pg.A-9

LENGTH: 1462 words


Not once in his 38 years, Alvin Ray says, did it occur to him to wear the red,
white and blue of his country -- much less raise Old Glory at his home in
Petworth, a black neighborhood in Washington, D.C.

But there it is -- a perfectly uncreased 8-foot-high, 4-foot-wide beauty that
seems big enough to wrap his small gray home like a Christmas present.

No doubt about Ray's sense of citizenship and duty -- he's a Washington police
officer, after all. But putting out a flag? As a black person seeing the flag
through the lens of slavery and discrimination, he had to think. Still, up it
went.

"I'm not a 'rah-rah USA USA' kind of guy," said Ray. "But since Tuesday, I've
felt violated. They attacked us here at home."

Gripping the fabric, Ray nodded.

"It looks nice here," he said, "and it makes a statement."

Americans everywhere are raising Old Glory, but they don't all mean the same
thing when they do.

The Sept. 11 terrorist attacks brought people together in grief, fear and anger
-- and honoring those who died is the basic message of those hoisting the flag.

"Every time I do it, I consider what it represents," says Mario Vega, who cried
when he lowered the flag to half-staff in front of the Harvest Time Church in
north Houston shortly after the attacks.

But there are other thoughts, too. Baby boomers recall protests during the
Vietnam era when flags, along with draft cards, burned. Some raise the flag to
say thanks to a loved one. Some are commemorating a personal loss.

The flag's meaning is in the eye of the beholder, said John Bodnar, chairman of
the Indiana University history department and expert on patriotism and its
symbols. The peacenik and the warmonger, standing side by side, can wave the
same flag and hold diametrically opposed views of the world, Bodnar said.

"For some people, the flag expresses a desire for a safe and secure home," he
said. "For others, it's a plea for peace and still others can view a flag
display as a command to go out and destroy evil in the world."

Just as the commemorative music in the past week differs -- "God Bless America"
for listeners to pop music stations, James Brown's "The Big Payback" for urban
contemporary listeners -- so does the flag raising.

The simple act, performed millions of times across the country in the wake of
the attacks, has put the Stars and Stripes up on front porches, in apartment
windows, atop car antennas, on jacket lapels.

But it's not such a simple act, after all, the flag-raisers will tell you.

Representing peace

Putting out a tattered flag from her third-story San Francisco apartment window
clashed, in Margaret Schultz's mind, with the pacifist, left-leaning political
fires that she said burn deep within her.

"I would see myself lighting candles, and going to a march or a gathering, or
giving money, but not a flag," said Schultz, a 37-year-old management
consultant. "Because again, I equate usually the flag as being blindly
supporting the president or military."

But Schultz decided with her roommate and boyfriend to hang Old Glory just the
same.

Brought up by a Jewish atheist psychiatrist mother and a Presbyterian
documentary filmmaker father in New York City, Schultz said she fears for her
adopted brother in Atlanta, who is black and has converted to Islam. His name
alone, Shakir Taleb-din Schultz, is a testimony to the American melting pot.

Schultz still harbors some misgivings about the message her flag might send to
her neighbors and friends. But she shoves them aside. She hopes those who know
her understand.

"I don't want to put the flag up in a nationalist way, but more in a global way.
To say 'We're OK, we're together on this.' I think the flag ... it doesn't
usually represent peace, but it can. A place united."

A grateful survivor

A paper flag, cut from a local newspaper, is the testament of a survivor.

Mary Jane Ellis, 71, of Mullens, W.Va., lost her home when 10 inches of rain
fell on July 8, causing record floods that killed two, destroyed 1,500 homes and
damaged 3,500 others in southern West Virginia.

Among possessions she lost was the big, beautiful cloth flag that graced her
home for years on holidays.

So now, a flag printed in her local newspaper will have to do.

Taped to the window of the mobile home she moved into last week, the flag now
serves notice that Ellis was dealt one of life's cruelest blows -- and survived
it.

"It's made out of paper, but it still shows we're all in this together. Just
like in the floods, we have to help each other," she said. "The flood is like a
death. You lose everything you own and you have to start all over again.

"This [Sept. 11] tragedy is like a death to us all."

Tribute to comrades

A small fabric flag affixed with surgical tape to the bumper of Ladder Truck No.
1 of the Barre City Fire Department in Vermont is a remembrance for fallen
comrades and the sad possibilities of the job.

Around 9 a.m. on Sept. 11, the Barre company was at a senior citizens home
responding to a false alarm. As Chief Douglas Brent, 47, and others left the
building, an elderly woman stuck her head out the window and said: "You guys
should be glad you're not in New York today."

The department put flags on all its trucks after the attacks.

In front of the firehouse is a modest shrine of patriotism and firefighter
loyalties. Beneath another flag and a red, white and blue wreath are two
firefighting boots with red and white carnations and signs reading, "Fill The
Boot, FDNY."

Brent wears a black sash over his badge.

"I think it's made people revisit their values and look at this place and say,
'Hey, it may have problems, but I'm damn proud of it,' " said the nine-year
veteran of the 15-member department in the town just south of Montpelier.

"People gotta have a way to show their grief, people gotta have a way to show
their support," he said.

A nation's pride

A cotton flag, folded in a triangle, sat in the bottom of a chest for the past
25 years. Now the flag has been passed down to Joe Curran from his godparents
and is being called into service.

This past week, Curran nailed it to the front of his Warner, N.H., barn with a
mix of anger, pain and sorrow, but mostly pride in the nation.

"The people here are kind and we get the job done," said Curran, a 38-year-old
Desert Storm veteran, noting that passing drivers honked as he stood on a ladder
to put up the flag.

Warner, a town established in 1774, sent men to fight in the Revolutionary War
battles of Lexington and Concord, and Bunker Hill. The terrorists' assault on
America is mobilizing people again, Curran said.

"We all are realizing we are all so much in common that we're getting closer
together," he said.

Honor the victims

The placement is a bit odd. The flag hangs vertically from a pole attached at a
right angle to a corner of the brick house in Sioux Falls, S.D. Fritz Thiner
tried two years ago to put up a traditional flagpole on his property. An
ordinance forbade it.

No matter. To him the 2-by-5-foot flag means honor.

These days, Thiner can't stop thinking about the stories his father tells of his
service in the U.S. Army during World War II.

How unexploded shells bounced off his tank.

How the ovens used to exterminate Jewish prisoners were still warm to the touch
when his company entered a German death camp near the war's conclusion.

Those thoughts and more flooded the mind of the 39-year-old meat cutter when he
put up the flag at his home Wednesday.

"The pride for my dad and what he went through," said Thiner, a soft-spoken
husband and father of two.

Raising the flag meant two things. Honor the victims. Honor U.S. Army Sgt. Paul
J. Thiner.

A sense of kinship

The reds are more pinkish these days and the blues long ago surrendered their
brightness on Ryan Adamec's well-worn flag.

But none of that matters for the Morgantown, W. Va., man who is displaying the
3-by-5-foot Old Glory on the outside deck of his apartment.

Nothing was going to stop him from showing pride in his country and the
heartache of knowing the terror strike means life here will never be the same.

The threadbare flag doesn't even belong to him. "I went to my parents and stole
one," said Adamec, a nurse at West Virginia University Hospital.

For him, the flag symbolizes "the ability to do as we please, up until now. A
feeling of safety, part of that which has been taken away."

If anything positive can be salvaged from these awful days, Adamec said it is a
sense of kinship.

"I look at people differently over the last week. Even though I don't know you,
I for some reason feel close to you. I hope some of that sticks around after a
few months pass," he said.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
THE WAR ON TERROR EDITOR'S NOTE -- Contributing to this story were Associated
Press writers Michael Graczyk in Houston, Michael Warren in San Francisco,
Allison Barker and John Raby in West Virginia, Mike Eckel in Vermont, Lori
Ayotte in New Hampshire and Steven Barrett in South Dakota.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Larry Downing/Reuters: President Bush and first lady Laura Bush
watch a U.S. Marines honor guard raise the American flag to full staff yesterday
at presidential retreat Camp David.

                       Copyright 2001 P.G. Publishing Co.
