
                               7 of 305 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                   January 17, 2004 Saturday ONE STAR EDITION

SUN, WIND AND CORN CUT UTILITY BILLS

SECTION: LIFESTYLE, Pg.X-2

LENGTH: 1034 words


homeowners to sell surplus electricity generated back to local utilities,
spinning the electric meter backward and accruing credit.

August's huge blackout across the Northeast and the widespread power outages in
the mid-Atlantic after Tropical Storm Isabel and other storms have added to the
impetus.

Solar contractors in the region say business is booming despite steep upfront
costs of at least $15,000.

"We really are seeing an increase in business, a lot of it driven by the
problems the utilities have had in the last year or two, with more outages and
longer outages," said Isaac Opalinsky, a sales manager at Aurora Energy in
Annapolis, Md. "Once you've bought the system, you've negotiated a 30-year,
fixed price for renewable energy. That price won't fluctuate, unlike the power
from the utility.

"This has been our biggest year," said Jeff Gilbert, a principal partner at
Chesapeake Wind and Solar in Columbia, Md.

Experts say technological improvements that increase solar panels' output would
help make solar systems more mainstream.

"What really has to happen is more efficient products have to get out in the
field," said Steve Rosenstock, manager of energy solutions at Edison Electric
Institute. "That will help drive down costs. It's all a matter of price and
convenience."

At Tidwell's house in the historic district of Takoma Park, 36 solar panels on
the back of the roof power the lights and everything else that uses electricity,
from appliances to the computer. A single, larger solar panel heats water.
Inside, a corn-burning stove in the living room sends warm air wafting through
the two-story, seven-room house all winter.

The 2-year-old system supplies about 70 percent of the family's power year
around and virtually all during the summer, since the house is not
air-conditioned.

The family also gets electricity indirectly from wind power, buying wind
certificates equivalent to the amount of electricity it needs to make up any gap
in nonsolar-generated electricity. The certificates are a subsidy to wind power
producers, which then add the same amount of wind-generated power to the
nation's electric grid.

"It's not obvious that it's a renewable-energy household," said Tidwell, who
offers periodic tours that draw as many as 300 people. "When they hear about it,
some people think that it must be a geodesic dome in the Arizona desert."

Tidwell, executive director of the Chesapeake Climate Action Network, began
laying plans to retrofit his home after reading a January 2001 scientific report
on global warming and the need for clean energy sources.

"I became completely freaked out by the climate change," he said.

A solar contractor advised the family to cut electric consumption as much as
possible before deciding how many solar panels to install. That meant turning
off unneeded lights, buying an energy-efficient refrigerator, replacing
incandescent light bulbs with compact fluorescents, line-drying clothes outdoors
on sunny days and using power strips on appliances. Those steps alone reduced
their usage by 55 percent.

"If we had tried to go solar with our old electricity patterns, there wouldn't
have been enough room on the roof," Tidwell said.

Next, he and his wife, Catherine, investigated ways to tackle costs; the solar
system alone carried an estimated price tag of $17,000. A $3,600 grant came from
the Maryland Energy Administration. A U.S. Energy Department program provided a
50 percent discount on the solar panels, and Tidwell handled the installation,
bringing the cost to $3,700. They bought a used solar hot water system for
$1,000.

A home equity loan of $7,500 covered the solar electricity and hot water, as
well as the new refrigerator, corn-burning stove and some fluorescent light
bulbs.

Solar- and wind-generated electricity and hot water were one thing, but when
Tidwell first proposed using a corn-burning stove, his wife was skeptical. She
envisioned corn popping all over the living room.

But the stove, installed in one corner of the living room and vented out the
wall, turned out to be convenient. It keeps the house warm and humidified and
has become a focal point for the living room. His son likes to sit near it, and
the cat likes to sleep on it. The stove burns about 75 pounds of nonpopping
kernels a day.

Tidwell estimates his family has saved $800 over two heating seasons by not
having to turn on the gas furnace. The stove, he points out, "uses
Maryland-raised fuel, and I don't have to buy natural gas or burn oil from Saudi
Arabia." And corn, which costs Tidwell about $400 per year, "is a lot cheaper
than natural gas."

A state grant also helped Dick Lahn of Crofton, Md., pay for 18 solar panels he
had installed on the garage roof of his two-story Colonial last January.
Combined with a tax credit, it sliced his cost from $17,000 to $12,000.

"I knew back in the ' 60s I was going to do this, but it was too expensive then.
The price has come down a lot," said Lahn, who retired in 2000 as a project
manager for the Justice Department.

He estimates that solar power provides 25 percent to 30 percent of his household
needs. Even that amount is worth it, said Lahn.

"I'd rather do whatever I can to get off the grid, so I don't have to burn coal
or oil to live," Lahn said. "I feel good when the meter goes backward."

For Dimitris Spiliadis, a fire that gutted his Baltimore row house two years ago
provided a starting point.

Spiliadis did much of the reconstruction himself, rebuilding the roof so it
slanted toward the south. He had 12 solar panels installed as well as a dozen
skylights, to allow more natural light into the home. He switched to an
energy-efficient washer and dryer, installed a radiant-heat system and plans to
add a solar hot water system and plant grass on his roof to increase insulation.

Through such measures and by reducing his use of electricity, Spiliadis hopes
renewable sources will eventually power about 75 percent of the home.

"I had no choice but to make something of it," Spiliadis said of the fire. "I
took it as an opportunity to articulate my ideas about alternative energy."

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2004 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              16 of 305 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                      April 26, 2004 Monday SOONER EDITION

CHANGING WING SHAPES TO ADJUST TO FLYING SPEED

SECTION: SCIENCE, MEDICINE & TECHNOLOGY, Pg.A-8 SCIENCE NOTEBOOK

LENGTH: 636 words


A bird can change the shape of its wings. The cloth-covered wings of the Wright
Brothers' famous 1903 Flyer could warp to control its flight. Now, Penn State
University engineers have devised a way to morph the wings of today's metal
airplanes.

The wing, with an internal cellular truss structure and an outer segmented skin
similar to the scales on a fish, could change shape to increase efficiency over
a range of flight speeds. High speeds require small, swept wings, while slow
speeds require long, narrow wings.

Aerospace engineer George Lesieutre presented the concept last week at an
aerospace structure and materials conference in Palm Springs, Calif. The project
is supported by grants from NASA and the Defense Advanced Research Projects
Agency.


A devilish problem on Mars

NASA and university researchers have found that dust devils in the deserts of
Arizona and Nevada have surprisingly large electric fields in excess of 4,000
volts per meter and can generate magnetic fields as well.

Dust devils are like miniature tornadoes ---- swirling winds about 10 to 100
meters wide that swirl around a hot column of rising air. On Mars, however, dust
devils can be greater than 500 meters in diameter

That could cause problems for missions to Mars, said William Farrell of NASA's
Goddard Space Flight Center, lead author of the study published last week in the
Journal of Geophysical Research. Electrified dust devils could cause dust to
adhere to space suits and other equipment, interfere with radio communications
and cause arcing in the Martian atmosphere.


Ancient necklace found

Archaeologists have found what they think is the oldest known evidence of
jewelry -- a cache of shells that our ancestors apparently strung together as
primitive beads, perhaps for a Stone Age necklace.

A team of fossil hunters discovered 41 pea-sized snail shells, all with holes
that appeared to have been carefully bored into the same spot on each one and
bearing wear marks that indicate that they were hung together as beads.

The shells, unearthed at an archaeological dig in the Blombos Cave on the coast
of the Indian Ocean in South Africa, date back 75,000 years, a period known as
the Middle Stone Age, the researchers reported recently in the journal Science.
That makes them about 30,000 years older than the oldest previously identified
personal ornaments -- 13 ostrich eggshell beads found in Kenya that were dated
to about 40,000 years ago.

It's possible the newly discovered shell beads may have been used for other
purposes, such as a primitive counting device. Whatever their use, the discovery
provides more evidence that early humans began engaging in complex social
behaviors much earlier than had been thought, the researchers said.


A chill in the air?

A new Ice Age has been a favorite sci-fi weather theme for years, mentioned in
works ranging from Jules Verne's "20,000 Leagues Under the Sea" in 1870 to a new
film "The Day After Tomorrow," debuting at the end of May.

The common theme has been the idea that some force, most recently global
warming, will disrupt ocean circulation patterns, particularly the Atlantic
Ocean's Gulf Stream, producing catastrophic climate changes around the world.

Now, a new study by NASA scientists, published in the journal Science, confirms
that a key part of the North Atlantic's swirl of currents is slowing, perhaps
because of global warming. But researchers say it's too early to tell if this
portends a future shutdown of the conveyor system of warm water that keeps the
eastern United States and northern Europe temperate.

Even if the deep exchange of warm dense salty water with colder fresher water
eventually stalls, most experts say it won't abruptly throw the North Atlantic
basin into a deep freeze.



LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2004 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              31 of 305 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                      July 19, 2004 Monday REGION EDITION

LACK OF FUNDING IS DOOMING CLIMATE SATELLITE

BYLINE: GUY GUGLIOTTA THE WASHINGTON POST

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg.A-4

LENGTH: 447 words


WASHINGTON -- NASA is allowing a highly successful satellite to fall out of
Earth's orbit by refusing to fund it for as little as $28 million, dismaying the
scientists and forecasters who use its unique abilities to study climate change
and track hurricanes.

NASA officials said engineers did not order a planned firing of its rockets in
early July to hold the Tropical Rainfall Measuring Mission satellite in orbit
241 miles above Earth. Without periodic assists from its thrusters, atmospheric
drag will send the satellite's remains to a watery grave in six to nine months.

Engineers said the satellite, a joint venture with the Japanese Aerospace
Exploration Agency, is working perfectly and could still be saved, but NASA
officials said neither the Japanese nor other U.S. agencies were willing to
contribute to the estimated $28 million to $36 million needed to keep the
mission operating for as long as two more years.

The satellite is a unique space platform whose instruments have proved
invaluable not only to researchers studying global change, but also to
meteorologists who use its one-of-a-kind "rain radar" to probe deep into cloud
cover to determine whether the makings of a cyclone lurk there.

In 2002 a NASA study determined the potential lifesaving value of the satellite
was great enough to justify keeping it aloft until it ran out of fuel and
tumbled unguided back to Earth, possibly killing or injuring someone.

The decision instead to use a "controlled de-orbit" for the satellite, known by
its initials TRMM, was announced quietly on Tuesday in an internal NASA memo,
and came at a time when NASA's Earth observation budget is shrinking as the
agency begins to focus on President Bush's plan for human exploration of the
moon and Mars.

NASA officials said the agency decided to de-orbit TRMM because the money saved
could be put to better use on a next-generation satellite scheduled for launch
in 2011.

The Bush administration is already facing harsh public criticism for its
decision to cancel space shuttle servicing of the Hubble Space Telescope, and
congressional critics of the Bush initiative have publicly warned NASA not to
rob Hubble or other valuable programs -- especially in earth science -- to fund
the new undertaking.

But congressional sources said lawmakers do not necessarily see TRMM's dilemma
as the harbinger of cuts to come: "TRMM would be a problem regardless, because
it's an unanticipated expense," and not part of the NASA budget, said a
knowledgeable Republican congressional staffer who refused to be identified.
"NASA may even deserve credit for being willing to ante up" some of the money.

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2004 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              40 of 305 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                            December 13, 2004 Monday
                                 SOONER EDITION

TO BROADEN YOUR PERSPECTIVE, GO ABROAD;
IT'S MORE IMPORTANT THAN EVER FOR AMERICAN STUDENTS TO STUDY IN A FOREIGN
COUNTRY

BYLINE: Swanee Hunt

SECTION: LIFESTYLE; LIFE SUPPORT; Pg. B-4

LENGTH: 722 words


Sometimes the best gifts don't fit under a tree. In fact, they're halfway around
the world. With holidays approaching, college students across the country will
be heading home to visit their families and snuggle into the familiarity of worn
and warm traditions. But a small, lucky group will be heading home to say hi and
goodbye, then leave for a life-changing semester abroad.

The current administration's policies have made it increasingly difficult for
many foreign students to get visas to come to the United States. That's why it's
so important that more than 160,000 Americans study overseas annually, and even
more are packing their bags every semester.

In fact, according to the Institute of International Education that number has
better than doubled in the past 12 years. Some campuses send more than 80
percent of their students to foreign countries. Learning abroad has become so
popular that the Abraham Lincoln Study Abroad Fellowship Program Commission was
created to look at overseas opportunities for U.S. colleges. Its goal is to
establish fellowships allowing half a million young people per year to take
their studies abroad.

Such experiences aren't limited to college students. Many organizations offer
summer study adventures for high schoolers. Putney Student Travel, a family-run
organization with alumni in 50 states and abroad, sends kids to all corners of
the world on trips ranging from cultural exploration to language learning to
community service.

Happily, many of the programs have scholarship funds. But it's easy to find
reasons not to leave. Students get scared and homesick. They worry they're
missing out on extracurricular or athletic activities with their friends. Still,
it's easier to find compelling reasons to go abroad. The Institute for the
International Education of Students (IES) surveyed alumni from their programs of
the past 50 years. Almost all said their experience increased self-confidence,
helped them better understand their own cultural values and biases, and had a
lasting impact on their world-views.

Time abroad is a dramatic and defining period in a young person's life.
First-hand accounts say it best: "It was so interesting talking to Spaniards and
hearing their stories, whether a family member from my home stay, a Spanish
friend, someone working in a shop or even the students in our group. I gained a
wider perspective on people from around the world," describes Molly Schaffner.

Eliza Leavitt, another Putney alumna, offers, "Looking back on this summer I
have an overwhelming number of happy memories. The people of Dominica gave me
the gift of their island. I gained a higher confidence as a person. I have been
forever affected by their beliefs and lifestyles, and I will always consider
Dominica a part of who I am."

When exploring various programs, it's smart to look into home stays, or at least
apartments or dormitories with local students instead of Americans. Data from
IES show that twice as many students who lived with a family still use that
language today, compared to those who stayed in apartments with other Americans.

The same holds for preparation. A high schooler going to France this summer
would do well to spend a few minutes each day surfing the Internet -- with
delectable and classy keywords like "foie gras" or "impressionism." A few hours
at home, sipping Diet Coke and munching Oreos, will translate to days of
enjoyment roaming the Tuileries with a warm crepe in hand.

An increasing number of college and high school students studying abroad means
an increasing number of Americans with a global outlook. Given the arrogance of
our go-it-alone foreign policy, we need to cultivate our sense of being citizens
of the world. Diplomacy for the next few decades begins with our current young
people.

It's not enough to read about a clash of civilizations, and how life is
different across continents and cultures. Living abroad fosters a true respect
for others. With it comes a whole new way of thinking -- and an understanding of
how one decision ripples throughout the entire world.

Here's my advice for a new year: Get out of your comfort zone. Fall in love with
the arts. Savor nuances of a different culture. Struggle with grammar of a new
language. Stay awake all night after an eye-opening experience. Go abroad. Come
home a better American.

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Swanee Hunt lectures at Harvard's Kennedy School of Government. She is
the former U.S. ambassador to Austria, and can be reached at
response@swaneehunt.org

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              53 of 305 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                    October 23, 2004 Saturday SOONER EDITION

EPA CHIEF DEFENDS BUSH RECORD ON ENVIRONMENT

BYLINE: Michelle K. Massie, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: NATIONAL, Pg.A-7 THE ROAD TO THE WHITE HOUSE

LENGTH: 516 words


U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Michael Leavitt defended the
Bush administration's record during a keynote address yesterday morning to the
Society of Environmental Journalists conference at Carnegie Mellon University.

The Bush administration's environmental record has been heavily criticized by
many environmental advocacy groups, but Leavitt highlighted what he considered
several major achievements.

They included stricter ozone standards, upholding rigorous federal standards for
fine particulate pollution, reducing mercury emissions from power plants,
investigating environmental concerns in the Great Lakes region and international
issues.

"This administration has implemented the most stringent ozone standards in our
nation's history," Leavitt said.

The new ozone standard of 0.08 parts per million averaged over eight hours,
replaced the previous one-hour ozone standard. The eight-hour rule was actually
issued in 1997, but was postponed by a lengthy legal battle that eventually
wound up in the Supreme Court.

While Leavitt said he was eager to discuss the mercury issue, even jokingly
encouraging audience members to ask him a question about mercury; many
environmentalists are critical of the EPA's stance on the issue.

The Clean Air Act of 1990 requires the reduction of mercury emissions from all
coal plants by 90 percent by 2007. The new EPA proposal under Bush would scale
back those efforts by reducing pollution by only 70 percent by 2018.

Leavitt invited the journalists in the audience to visit the EPA and meet with
the scientists who are working on the mercury issue in order to have a better
understanding of the subject.

"I need for the public to understand the complexity of this issue," Leavitt
said.

He also called attention to the fact that the administration is taking action to
cut sulfur levels in diesel fuel to promote cleaner air. Leavitt called the
policy "an aggressive and bold move."

During a question-and-answer session, one of the more contentious questions
posed to Leavitt was whether the administration believes global warming is a
real problem.

"We are engaged in that area right now," Leavitt answered. "We do in fact see it
as an area we have to focus on. The surface temperature of the Earth is
increasing. Human behavior contributes to it. The increase in the accumulation
of greenhouse gases contributes to it. But from there, there are a lot of
unanswered questions ... Let's go beyond the fact there is disagreement on the
Kyoto Act."

Under the Kyoto Protocol adopted in 1997, the world's major powers agreed to cut
emissions by an average of 5.2 percent below 1990 levels by 2012. The Bush
administration opposed the treaty, saying it exempted 80 percent of the world,
including China and India, from compliance, and would have a negative impact on
the U.S. economy.

Yesterday, Russia's lower house of parliament ratified the Kyoto Protocol, all
but ensuring that the pact will go into effect after years of delay.

Leavitt said the EPA will study the climate change issue further.

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Michelle K. Massie can be reached at mmassie@post-gazette.com or 412-263-2533.

                       Copyright 2004 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              58 of 305 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                     July 4, 2004 Sunday FIVE STAR EDITION

ROD AND GUN VOTE TARGETED BY BUSH, KERRY;
 50-MILLION STRONG GROUP IS RICH PRIZE, PARTICULARLY IN BATTLEGROUND STATES

BYLINE: JULIET EILPERIN, THE WASHINGTON POST

SECTION: NATIONAL, Pg.A-9

LENGTH: 629 words


Jim Martin, the conservation director for the largest fishing tackle company in
the United States, is a registered Republican who, like many sportsmen, had high
hopes when President Bush took office. But he now eyes the administration more
warily, worried about its push for oil and gas development on public land and
its position on global climate change.

"They should not assume because we're registered Republicans we'll vote for
Bush," said Martin, who works for Pure Fishing. But he added that Democrat John
F. Kerry still has to prove he deserves the loyalty of hunters and fishermen.
"Neither side should assume they have this vote wrapped up," Martin said.

In the next few weeks, the Bush and Kerry camps will be rolling out their
campaigns to win over what is often called the "hook and bullet" crowd.
Numbering about 50 million strong and living in swing states such as
Pennsylvania, Ohio, West Virginia and Arkansas, the men and women who hunt and
fish in this country have become significant players in the presidential
campaign.

These voters are attractive for a number of reasons. They tend to be politically
active; 93 percent of registered hunters voted in the 2000 presidential
election, according to a Congressional Sportsmen's Foundation survey conducted
by Roper Starch Worldwide, well above the national average. Although they lean
Republican -- 46 percent, according to the CSF -- nearly a third are independent
and 18 percent are Democratic, leaving ample room for political appeals.

"This is not a monolithic community," said Chris Wood, vice president for
conservation at Trout Unlimited.

Before the Democratic primaries, Kerry displayed his hunting credentials by
shooting two pheasants in Story County, Iowa, with just two shots. Bush has
wooed conservation group leaders at his Crawford, Texas, ranch and at the White
House over the past six months.

The number of American sporting and fishing enthusiasts has declined slightly
over the past decade: A U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service survey reported hunters'
numbers dropped from 14 million in 1991 to 13 million in 2001, with fishing
aficionados declining from 35.5 million in 1991 to 34.5 million a decade later.
But they constitute a huge voting bloc that often judges candidates on
sportsmen's issues, and, as consumers, spent $70 billion in 2001.

In 2000, according to most accounts, hunting advocates judged Bush and
Democratic nominee Al Gore primarily on their gun control stands. Seventy-eight
percent of hunters surveyed by Roper Starch said gun control issues were "much"
or "somewhat" more important to them in 2000 than in previous elections.

To Wayne LaPierre, executive vice president of the National Rifle Association,
sportsmen and sportswomen have an easy choice this fall. The NRA has given Kerry
a congressional scorecard rating of F since 1984, and LaPierre said he views the
senator from Massachusetts "as the quintessential two-faced candidate. He votes
one way, and now that he's running for president, he says he's another."

The Kerry camp takes issue with this assessment. The fact that Kerry has hunted
for years sends a powerful message to voters that "this is not a typical
national Democrat you see at the top of the ticket," Kerry regional director
Jonathan Epstein said.

"Since he was a kid, John Kerry has hunted. He's owned guns," Epstein said.
"It's a group he's going to fight incredibly hard for once he gets to the White
House."

Still, gun rights groups are backing the Bush administration. As Merle Shepard,
the Safari Club International's head of government affairs, put it, "They're
easy to access." The administration's decision to allow hunting on about 50
wildlife refuges, for example, pleased Shepard and others.


LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2004 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              59 of 305 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                     July 11, 2004 Sunday TWO STAR EDITION

GLOBAL WARMING HURTS RICE GROWTH

BYLINE: GEOFF KOCH, DALLAS MORNING NEWS

SECTION: SCIENCE, MEDICINE, TECHNOLOGY, Pg.A-4

LENGTH: 212 words


Global warming may spell bad news for rice, the most important global food
staple.

A 1 percent increase in average nighttime temperature reduces rice yields by 10
percent, scientists reported last week. The result, based on 12 years of data
from a research farm in the Philippines, was one of the first based on direct
observations of climate change's effect on crop growth.

Worldwide, average air temperatures increased by almost 1 degree Fahrenheit in
the 20th century. Evening temperatures showed the most pronounced increase.

In the Philippines study, published in the Proceeding of the National Academy of
Sciences, average nighttime temperatures increased by more than 2 degrees
Fahrenheit from 1979 to 2003. Daytime temperatures increased by 0.63 degrees
Fahrenheit.

Higher evening temperatures might increase rice's nighttime respiration, wrote
the scientists, from the Philippines, China, California and Nebraska. If so,
this would decrease the amount of energy that might otherwise be used for
growth.

More than 3 billion people -- half the world's population -- consume rice daily.
Global production of the cereal crop must increase by 1 percent annually because
of expected population growth and economic development, a 1995 study suggests.


LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2004 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              64 of 305 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                      May 27, 2004 Thursday SOONER EDITION

RECIPE FOR DISASTER;
 WITH SPECTACULAR EFFECTS AND MULTIPLE CATASTROPHES, 'DAY AFTER TOMORROW'
UPDATES A CLASSIC GENRE

BYLINE: BARBARA VANCHERI, PITTSBURGH POST-GAZETTE

SECTION: ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT, Pg.C-1

LENGTH: 1563 words


You never forget your first disaster -- film, that is.

Paul Dergarabedian remembers sitting with his dad in the legendary Grauman's
Chinese Theatre and watching 1974's "Earthquake" in Sensurround. The auditorium
wasn't rocking and rolling but subwoofer speakers made it seem that way, and
netting was draped from the ceiling to catch falling plaster. Or maybe that was
just a great, cheap special effect, especially to a 12-year-old boy.

This weekend, all of the pricey pyrotechnics will be on the screen in "The Day
After Tomorrow," a $125 million disaster movie about a catastrophic shift in
climate that leads to a new Ice Age. From Roland Emmerich ("Independence Day"),
it stars Dennis Quaid, Sela Ward and Jake Gyllenhaal.

In the movie, a chunk of ice the size of Rhode Island breaks off an Antarctic
ice shelf. Soon, grapefruit-size hail is battering Tokyo, hurricanes are
pounding Hawaii, snow is falling in New Delhi and tornadoes are gnawing through
Los Angeles.

Unlike the disaster films of old -- one catastrophe per film, please -- this
embraces them all, and it could be a nightmare for theater operators if
moviegoers don't flock to it. It's been a lackluster year at the box office,
except for "The Passion of the Christ," "Shrek 2" and scattered hits such as "50
First Dates."

The effects in "The Day After Tomorrow" won't let them down, predicts
Dergarabedian, who tracks the box office for Exhibitor Relations Co. and saw the
movie a couple of weeks ago.

"The special effects are absolutely amazing and, to me, when you're talking
about the genre of disaster films, unless you're doing a parody of them, the
special effects better be top-notch. Because, in order to sell the disaster to
the audience, you have to make it look authentic. Audiences can spot a fake a
mile away," he says.

Disaster movies come in cycles, with some of the classics made in the 1930s,
1950s and 1970s, and a new wave arriving in the late 1990s with "Twister,"
"Titanic," "Independence Day," "Deep Impact," "Armageddon" and, more recently,
"The Perfect Storm" and "The Core."

They typically focus on a force of nature that's been disturbed or unleashed and
aren't dependent on A-list stars, although they never hurt.

Like any genre, they have their fans and detractors.

"I'm not a huge fan of disaster movies. I once heard Irwin Allen, the master of
disaster, observe that people slow down on the highway to look at car accidents.
Of course he's not wrong," says Leonard Maltin, whose many jobs include
co-hosting the syndicated TV show "Hot Ticket," airing here Sunday afternoons on
KDKA.

"I just wish disaster movies weren't so dumb," he adds. "My favorite publishing
event of recent years was when they actually issued the shooting script of
'Twister.' Why would anybody want to read 'Twister'? The last thing that
mattered there was what was on the printed page." What mattered were flying cows
and tanker trucks and wizardry by special effects geeks.

Producer Allen's credits were, indeed, a cavalcade of calamities: "The Towering
Inferno," "The Poseidon Adventure," "Flood!" "Fire!" "Cave In!" "The Swarm,"
"Beyond the Poseidon Adventure" and "When Time Ran Out ..."

Maltin jokingly calls that last one, about a volcanic eruption on a resort
island, "When Ideas Ran Out." However, he singles out "The Poseidon Adventure"
as rising above the pack.

"That's about courage and perseverance and survival and the human capacity to
rise to the occasion, the will to live and all those things.  That's kind of a
subgenre. So, you have something to root for, you have people to root for, a
reason to root for them," Maltin says.

"Whereas in 'Towering Inferno,' they're so random in the way they kill off cast
members. Jennifer Jones is just hurled out of that glass elevator for no reason
at all, other than David O. Selznick wasn't alive to protect her anymore."
Jones, widow of powerhouse producer Selznick, starred alongside Paul Newman,
Steve McQueen, Richard Chamberlain, Faye Dunaway, William Holden, O.J. Simpson
and others.

Maltin, who had not seen "The Day After Tomorrow" at the time of the interview,
isn't sure the tenor of the times is right for a disaster picture.

"I think it's eerily uncomfortable right now. ... I kind of liked 'The Core' in
the spirit of an old, tacky B movie." In that sci-fi film, released in March
2003, the world's most gifted scientists journey to the center of the Earth to
jump-start its inner core.

"I thought some people who disliked it took it too seriously, but even I was
uneasy with some of the shots of familiar cities around the globe experiencing
strange happenings. Somehow, in the wake of 9/11, to state the obvious, it's
hard to take the same fanciful attitude toward things like that."

The preview for "The Day After Tomorrow" shows New York ravaged by the rapid
climate shift, with the Statue of Liberty nearly swallowed by water and then
encrusted with ice.

"Before 9/11, we would have labeled events of that kind unthinkable. Now we've
actually seen them with our own eyes, for real, not in a movie, and it's
impossible to erase those thoughts," Maltin says.

The fact that "The Day After Tomorrow" goes to such extremes may work in its
favor. "I think even today we can, theoretically, look at a movie such as this
as fantasy, as make-believe, but it's certainly a more tangible make-believe
than it used to be," he says.

"Of course, this is not about terrorism," but global warming, not the sexiest of
topics but the trigger for a movie that may be critic-proof.

"This is another of these preordained blockbusters that I don't care for because
they create pseudo-events and kind of defy you not to go," Maltin says. "If it's
good, I'm all for it."

If "The Day After Tomorrow" scores with moviegoers, it will be a throwback to
the past. The disaster flicks of the 1970s, such as "Airport," were among the
biggest-grossing films of those years.

"This was in sort of a simpler, kinder, gentler world where people really found
that to be escapism," Dergarabedian says. "Today, I think they still will find
it to be escapism because a natural disaster almost seems to pale in comparison
to a lot of the worldwide reality, political or otherwise."

Maybe a tidal wave and ice aren't as terrifying as what splashes into our homes
each night on the television screen.

Stephen Keane, author of the book "Disaster Movies: The Cinema of Catastrophe,"
says that while catastrophic events and mass destruction have long been a staple
of Roman and Biblical epics or sci-fi B movies, they differ from what we now
call disaster movies.

"The 'disaster movie' was a term first used specifically in relation to a
definite cycle of films released in the 1970s ... which revolved entirely around
disaster and attempts at survival," says Keane of Leeds, England.  They were set
in the present and took place in modern settings such as planes, ships,
skyscrapers and cities.

"They represent the fear of modernity, of large and enclosed spaces, and have
either a human, natural or technological cause," Keane says. "Whatever the spark
or storm, they begin by punishing hubris, and the typical disaster movie sees a
thoroughly decent leader figure -- pilot, reverend, architect, fireman -- take
charge and lead a squabbling yet ultimately worthy group of survivors toward
safety."

That was the case with "Poseidon Adventure," in which Gene Hackman's renegade
preacher leads a shrinking band of passengers to rescue. In between arguing with
Ernest Borgnine, an earthy cop married to a former hooker, Hackman delivers
motivational exhortations such as "There's nobody alive but us! And nobody's
going to help us except ourselves!"

"Stars were a big draw of 1970s disaster movies, and actually a good way of
drawing people away from reruns on television to see how stars like Paul Newman
and Steve McQueen might fare alongside Charlton Heston, Fred Astaire and Jimmy
Stewart," Keane says.

"Stars bring instant identification from other films and were part of the
reason, in fact, why disaster movie characters tended to be so sketchy ...
because the parts relied on personas. You could rely on the 'cool' Newman and
McQueen and could all but hope that they'd lead the Old Hollywood stars to
safety."

Today, disaster movies use up-and-comers and dependable, medium-range actors
such as Quaid or Bill Pullman to fill the everyman role. "Maybe this makes them
more believable and we're less distracted by their overpowering star status,"
Keane says.

Hollywood has reinvented the genre, always a showcase for special effects, and
now produces what the Brit calls hybrids. "Like the sci-fi/disaster hybrid
'Independence Day' or the action/disaster hybrid 'Armageddon,' 'Titanic' could
be regarded as two-thirds Romeo and Juliet romance and one-third disaster."

"The Day After Tomorrow" is the first major disaster film of the new millennium,
"at once bucking the trend for 20-year cycles and shattering the silence after
9/11," Keane says.

Everyone seems to agree that disaster films can provide catharsis. And such
movies beg to be seen on the big screen.

In addition to the effects, Dergarabedian says, "The Day After Tomorrow" has a
"love story,     and there's the whole father-son thing and, of  course,
the end-of- the-world thing."

What more could you want?

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Post-Gazette movie editor Ron Weiskind contributed to this report. Barbara
Vancheri can be reached at bvancheri@post-gazette.com or 412-263-1632.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Statue of Liberty and the New York City skyline sit in a
deep freeze in the wake of a catastrophic climatic shift in Twentieth Century
Fox's "The Day After Tomorrow."
 PHOTO: Twentieth Century Fox: "The Towering Inferno," which had an all-star
cast, was typical of the 1970s disaster movies.

                       Copyright 2004 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              65 of 305 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                    September 5, 2004 Sunday REGION EDITION

EXPERIMENT FORCES TREES INTO THE FUTURE

BYLINE: KARI LYDERSEN THE WASHINGTON POST

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg.A-3

LENGTH: 1114 words


RHINELANDER, Wis. -- There is something slightly eerie about the rings of white
pipes and wooden crosses that loom up suddenly here in the lush northern forest.

So it seems only natural to hear the scientists who work here describe the
rings, each more than 30 yards across, as "time capsules." They are using them
to try to mimic the conditions scientists expect to see in nearly 50 years, when
the atmosphere is likely to be filled with higher levels of carbon dioxide and
ozone.

From May to October, pumps blow carbon dioxide, ozone and normal air from the
30-foot-high notched pipes that form the perimeter of each of the 12 rings,
bathing the stands of young aspen, birch and sugar maples inside each ring in
varying mixtures of the gases.

Three of the rings have elevated levels of ozone, three have elevated carbon
dioxide, or CO2, and three have high levels of both. The other three serve as
controls, blowing normal air onto the trees, which were planted at the start of
the experiment in 1997.

Most scientists say it is inevitable that levels of carbon dioxide and ozone
will rise because of the burning of fossil fuels and vehicle emissions. What is
not well known is how these changes will affect the ecosystem and the climate.
This experiment, known as Aspen FACE, is trying to come up with an answer.

It aims to measure the various effects of elevated CO2 and ozone on northern
forest ecosystems and, by extension, other ecosystems with similar vegetation.
The project costs about $2 million a year to run and will likely continue for
about a decade.

The Department of Energy, one of the sponsors of the project, runs a number of
FACE (Free-Air Carbon Dioxide Enrichment) experiments around the country, but
Aspen FACE is the only large-scale outdoor experiment, measuring the combined
effects of ozone and CO2. The experiment is also one of the few that operates
outdoors in a realistic ecosystem, not indoors or in a covered chamber.

"As scientists, we tend to want to look at one thing at a time," said Art
Chappelka, a professor of forest biology at Auburn University. "But every breath
you take contains lots of things. These multiple-factor studies in a real world
environment are very important."

Nancy Grulke, a plant physiologist with the Forest Service Pacific Southwest
Research Station near Riverside, Calif., agreed.

"Chamber environments always seem to modify the environment of the plant and
thus alter the plant's response," she said.

To keep the experiment going, huge canisters of liquid CO2 are delivered twice
daily, and vaporizers on the premises heat the liquid until it turns to gas. An
ozone generator fires powerful sparks -- which David Karnosky, the Michigan
Technological University's Ecosystem Science Center professor spearheading the
experiment, compares to lightning strikes -- through a supply of pure oxygen to
rearrange the usual two-atom molecules into a three-atom form: ozone. At ground
level, ozone is a pollutant that forms by the interaction of nitrogen oxides and
hydrocarbon emissions with sunlight.

Stainless steel and copper pipes carry the gases to the designated rings to
raise the concentration of carbon dioxide there to 560 parts per million -- 200
parts per million higher than the natural atmosphere here -- and ozone to 60
parts per billion, 1.5 times the usual level.

On the ground, wire baskets collect the "leaf litter" for analysis. Some
branches are encased in black bags for studies of insect development. Other
ground-level plants are draped in white netting knotted on top, making them look
like squadrons of little ghosts. Aluminum foil covers electrodes on trunks that
measure sap flow. White tubes pounded into the ground have miniature cameras
that snap time-lapse photos of root growth and turnover.

After seven years, the rings of trees exposed to elevated CO2 are noticeably
taller and leafier than the other groups. The ground is also relatively barren
in these plots, because little light breaks through the rich leafy canopies. It
is not surprising that CO2 increases plant growth, because it is a crucial
component of plant respiration.

The trees exposed to elevated levels of ozone, by contrast, are stubby and
sparse, and the ground is covered by a thick mesh of brush several feet tall.

The control rings, and those with both elevated ozone and CO2, look fairly
similar, with moderate tree size and weed densities.

In a nutshell, the excess CO2 "fertilizes" the trees and speeds their growth
while the ozone stunts and inhibits them.

"Ozone is highly oxidative; it reacts quickly ... to break down the cell walls
and chlorophyll," Karnosky said. "It causes premature leaf drop."

In combination, the two gases cancel each other out to some extent, a finding
that has eased fears of massive forest destruction. But sugar maple trees show
decreased growth and reduced ozone resistance -- negative effects -- in the
excess CO2 rings.

"We're seeing some evidence of the canopy changing," Karnosky said.  "Those
canopy changes could affect the micro-meteorology of the whole forest."

Besides causing trees to have shorter, narrower trunks and thinner, sparser
leaves, the ozone also appears to change the leaf surface, degrading the waxy
micro-structures that are the first line of defense against insects and
diseases.

Early results also indicate that while elevated CO2 helps the trees' growth in
the short term, it might lead to an increase in pests that could be harmful in
the long run. Extra CO2 also seems to be more conducive to a harmful fungus,
called venturia, that causes leaves to turn black and drop.

"It's a very complex picture," added Neil Nelson, a plant physiologist who
oversees the site for the U.S. Forest Service.

Along with studying the effects of climate change on trees and forests, the
project aims to explore ways forests can be used to reduce atmospheric carbon
dioxide by sequestering carbon.

The researchers are measuring how much carbon is sequestered in the trees'
leaves and root systems and whether trees grown under elevated carbon levels are
better carbon "sinks."

Though the project has no specific policy aims, the results likely will be used
in formulating national environmental policy, including setting emissions
standards and clean-air goals.

Some results already are part of federal "ozone criteria documents," a body of
peer-reviewed literature used to determine whether current ozone standards are
adequately protecting vegetation and human health.

"We're not in the policy game, but this could have important implications for
policy," Nelson said. "We let the data speak for itself."

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2004 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              71 of 305 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                     April 10, 2004 Saturday SOONER EDITION

CARNEGIE SHOWCASES SCULPTURES OF INFLUENTIAL AMERICAN INDIAN ARTIST

BYLINE: MARY THOMAS, PITTSBURGH POST-GAZETTE

SECTION: ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT, Pg.B-14

LENGTH: 1193 words


The larger-than-life bronze sculpture of a dancing "Spirit of the Mountains" by
the late American Indian artist Allan Houser towers silently, stopped in motion
and in time, exuding both power and grace.

It's one of nearly 20 sculptures and 17 works on paper in the exhibition "The
Sculptures of Allan Houser" at Carnegie Museum of Natural History.

Houser, a Warm Spring Chiricahua Apache who was the first child born after his
tribe was released from U.S. Army captivity in the early 20th century, became
one of the most important and influential American Indian artists of that
century. When the Smithsonian's National Museum of the American Indian opens on
the Mall in Washington, D.C., in September, one of the inaugural exhibitions
will be a Houser retrospective. "Spirit" was completed in 1994, the year of his
death.

Born Allan C. Haozous on June 30, 1914, on his parents' farm near Apache, Okla.,
Houser grew up with a keen awareness of the humiliation and suffering members of
his tribe had endured for resisting European settlement of their lands,
including being held as prisoners of war for 27 years.

When Geronimo, his great-uncle, surrendered to the Army in the border state of
Chihuahua, Mexico, in 1886, Houser's father was among the captives sent by
cattle-car to a prison in St. Augustine, Fla. His mother was born in an Alabama
prison camp. Surviving Chiricahuas were later relocated to Fort Sill, Okla.,
remaining there for 23 years before the majority joined Mescalero Apaches on a
New Mexico reservation. Houser's family was among the few who chose to remain in
Oklahoma.

As a child, when not occupied with farm labor, Houser drew and carved, once
getting into trouble for turning a special bar of his mother's soap into an
artwork.

From 1934 to 1938, he studied painting at the Santa Fe Indian School with the
legendary Dorothy Dunn, and by 1939 he was exhibiting at the New York World's
Fair, the San Francisco Golden Gate International Exposition, the National
Gallery of Art in Washington, D.C., and the Art Institute of Chicago, and had
received a commission to paint murals for the Department of the Interior
Building in Washington.

An early sculpture commission was completed in 1948 for the Haskell Institute in
Lawrence, Kan., to honor Native American students who had died in World War II.

Since then, Houser has received national and international acclaim.

Among major collections he's represented in are the Metropolitan Museum of Art,
the Centre Georges Pompidou in Paris, the Smithsonian Institution, the White
House, the British Royal Collection in London and the U.S. Mission to the United
Nations in New York, as well as prominent museums in Santa Fe, Albuquerque,
Tulsa and Denver.

The Allan Houser Art Park was dedicated in 1993 at the museum of the Institute
of American Indian Arts in Santa Fe, where Houser was teacher and head of the
sculpture department from 1962 until 1975, when he left to become a full-time
studio artist.

In 1992, Houser became the first American Indian to receive the National Medal
of Arts, the nation's highest honor for artists, presented by the elder
President Bush. It was one of many prestigious awards, including induction into
the Oklahoma Hall of Fame in 1985, that marked a life of artistic achievement
and dedication to generating support for and understanding of Indian culture and
causes.

The Allan Houser Foundation, where the current exhibition originated, is the
repository for his archives and ethnographic and fine arts collections. Located
near Santa Fe, the collection of more than 12,000 objects, visitor center and
10-acre sculpture garden are open to research scholars and for tours by
appointment (1-505-473-0088 or http://allanhouserfoundation.org).

Houser was accomplished in a variety of techniques and media, including stone,
cast bronze, welded steel, wood, charcoal, pastel and tempera.  In the 1950s, he
illustrated children's books about Southwest Indian tribes. Influenced by
prevalent Native American subject matter and formal conventions as well as by
global contemporary figures such as Constantin Brancusi, Henry Moore and Jean
Arp, Houser developed his own style.

The sculpture in this exhibition is mostly figural, realistic and divided
between ritually costumed dancers and naturalistically portrayed Apache women
and children. Figures are idealized rather than individuated, and project the
dignity and humanity Houser sees as inherent in Native American culture.

Chiricahua Apache Mountain Spirit Dancers are imposing with their masks,
brandished knives and traditional, symbol-laden regalia. The Spirits, petitioned
during healing and other ceremonies, were adopted from Pueblo Indian religion
and are referred to as "Ga'an" by the Apache.

Smaller sculptures are refined and exquisitely detailed, while life-sized
figures have immediacy and muscular presence. "Abstract Crown Dancer I" of 1991
is particularly mystical in appearance, its lines dissolving into an intangible
space of belief and ancestry. On the wall, the five steel silhouettes of "Ghans
Dancers" hover like night shadows.

In contrast, the women and children are calm and tranquil, a balance of inner
strength and outer control. "Resting at the Spring" is a study in textures, the
faces of mother and clinging child sensual and polished; the mother's hair
comprising flat, parallel lines; the water jug rough.

Abstract sculpture includes a soaring "Spirit of the Wind" that belies its sheet
bronze heft, and a couple of 1980s figural forms.

More interesting are the abstract sculptures that appear in an illuminating film
about the artist's life and work running continuously in the gallery, "Allan
Houser (Haozous): The Lifetime Work of an American Master," which was screened
at the 1998 Sundance Film Festival.

The two-dimensional works demonstrate, in a variety of media, Houser's
accomplishment as a draftsman, and range from sketches to a graphically bold
tempera painting on black paper of a "Ga'an Dancer" that calls to mind American
Indian sand paintings.

In the last year of his life, Houser presented "May We Have Peace," his 11-foot
bronze sculpture of an American Indian holding a peace pipe aloft, "to the
American people of the United States from the First Americans." Given on behalf
of all American Indian Congress tribes, it was accepted by first lady Hillary
Clinton and will reside on the Mall in Washington.

"Human dignity is very important to me. I feel that way toward all people, not
just Indians," Houser is quoted as saying on an exhibition label, adding that
it's what he strove for in his work.

The sculpture in the exhibition confirms his success at achieving that goal.
Having the characteristic in such high dosage himself probably didn't hurt his
attempts.

The exhibition continues through Aug. 15. Museum hours are 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.
Tuesday through Saturday and noon to 5 p.m. Sunday. Free with museum admission:
$10, seniors $7, full-time students and children $6, children under 3 and
members free. For information, call 412-622-3131 or visit
www.carnegiemuseums.org/cmnh.


LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Tony Tye/Post-Gazette photos: "Spirit of the Mountains," on
display at the Carnegie Museum of Natural History, was completed by Allan Houser
in 1994, the year of his death.
 Photo: "Apache Ga'an Dancer" was done with felt-tip pen and charcoal on paper.

 Photo: Alan Houser's "Watercarrier" (1986)is made of bronze.
 Photo: Internationally acclaimed sculptor Allan Houser with Warm Springs
Apache.
 Photo: "Apache Cradleboard," (bronze, 1994) by Allan Houser, at the Carnegie
Museum of Natural History.

                       Copyright 2004 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              77 of 305 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                    December 28, 2004 Tuesday SOONER EDITION

GREENHOUSE GASBAGS;
IT'S TIME FOR U.S. TO GET AHEAD OF KYOTO-STYLE EMISSION CONTROLS, WHICH SURELY
ARE COMING

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg.D-14 Joseph Otis Minott

LENGTH: 773 words


Lately, it seems like we are being inundated with new information about the
negative impact of global warming. The polar ice caps are melting, polar bears
may become extinct, sea level rise will inundate island nations and coastal
areas, and some have even suggested this year's hurricanes were yet another
manifestation of "global climate change."

Whatever you call it, the impact and evidence seem to be penetrating our
SUV-driving, gas-guzzling consciousness -- everyone's that is, but Congress'.
The reality is that policies limiting the greenhouse gases that cause global
warming are all but inevitable. The only question that remains is whether the
United States will move quickly enough to shape those policies to its fullest
advantage.

Even though U.S. citizens have been showered with science confirming global
warming, it hasn't been reflected in the country's political awareness. With
Americans' furious combustion of coal and oil, the United States is the world's
most egregious contributor to global warming.

The electric utilities, auto industry and some shortsighted politicians fear
that reining in the nation's 25 percent contribution to the world's greenhouse
gas pollution could risk our economic growth.  Their view is that we should save
our own financial hide whatever the environmental cost. What they neglect is
that the nation's own financial self-interest will be better served by getting
in early on the carbon-cutting action.

In February, an international agreement known as the Kyoto Protocol will go into
force, limiting the greenhouse gas emissions of its industrialized signatory
nations.  Most of the 128 nations party to the treaty, such as Canada, Great
Britain, Russia and Japan, are both U.S. allies and major trading partners.  As
they implement Kyoto, two things are likely to happen: The United States, as the
world's biggest greenhouse gas contributor, will come under increasing
international pressure to join in a global carbon cap and trading system; and,
secondly, U.S. corporations will suffer from competitive disadvantage until it
does so.

A global carbon trading market is already emerging, led by Europe and Japan, in
which the U.S. government and American businesses have no say. Furthermore, U.S.
companies with operations in Kyoto-participating countries will be required to
curb their greenhouse gas pollution, but won't be able to count reductions
achieved at their U.S. operations.

All of this points to one conclusion. A carbon dioxide emissions cap in the
United States is coming; it's a matter of when, not if.

Pennsylvania ranked fourth nationally in 2002 for coal production. More than
half of the country's electricity is produced by burning coal. For years, some
members of Congress have resisted limits on carbon emissions, thinking that coal
industry jobs would be jeopardized if carbon emissions caps were to encourage
power plants to switch to cleaner burning fuels such as natural gas.

The more realistic scenario, however, is that coal-burning utilities would get
the market signals they need to modernize their power plant fleet so that it can
burn coal without polluting the atmosphere with excess carbon. Many experts
predict that even with carbon capture and sequestration in place, coal will
still be the cheapest electricity generating option.

If Pennsylvania's coal industry is to thrive in the face of carbon restraints,
our elected officials should be aggressively pursuing policies that will
reposition the state's economy for the future. The Climate Stewardship Act,
sponsored by Sen. John McCain. R-Ariz., would set an overall cap on the nation's
carbon emissions, while allowing companies to buy and sell carbon pollution
credits.

The legislation gained 43 votes in the Senate in 2003, and McCain has vowed to
bring it back again and again until it passes. Pennsylvania's senators voted
against the bill in 2003, but should reconsider. Creating a carbon trading
scheme in the United States will help the state's coal industry to grow in the
most cost-effective manner possible.

With a patchwork of state carbon regulations beginning to emerge and the Kyoto
Protocol taking effect in February, it may eventually be U.S. corporations that
persuade the federal government to implement a national carbon policy. As global
warming pollution reduction requirements become a new business reality, they can
no longer afford to give up their seat at the negotiating table.

Luckily, Pennsylvania's congressional members will have another opportunity to
secure our coal future by voting for Sen. McCain's bill next year.

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Joseph Otis Minott, of Wyndmoor, Montgomery County, is executive director of
Clean Air Council, a statewide environmental organization.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING: Ted Crow/Post-Gazette:

                       Copyright 2004 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              78 of 305 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                      May 9, 2004 Sunday TWO STAR EDITION

WORLD MAY BE DARKENING

BYLINE: ROBERT S. BOYD, KNIGHT RIDDER NEWSPAPERS

SECTION: SCIENCE, MEDICINE, TECHNOLOGY, Pg.A-3

LENGTH: 519 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Scientists call it "global dimming," a little-known trend that may be making the
world darker than it used to be.

Thanks to thicker clouds and growing air pollution, much of the Earth's surface
is receiving about 15 percent less sunlight than it did 50 years ago, according
to Michael Roderick, a climate researcher at Australian National University in
Canberra.

"Global dimming means that the transmission of sunlight through the atmosphere
is decreasing," Roderick said.

"Just look out the window when you fly into New York or to California -- it's
dimmer," said Beate Liepert, a climatologist at the Lamont-Doherty Earth
Observatory of Columbia University in New York.

Researchers say global dimming, also known as solar dimming, partially offsets
the global warming that most scientists agree is produced by "greenhouse gases"
such as auto exhaust and emissions from coal-burning power plants.

The solar dimming effect is "about half as large as the greenhouse gas warming,"
said James Hansen, the director of NASA's Goddard Institute for Space Studies in
New York.

In global warming, gases in the atmosphere, such as carbon dioxide, trap some of
the sun's heat and keep it from radiating back out to space, thereby raising the
Earth's temperature. Clouds and air pollution, on the other hand, block a
portion of the heat energy that's coming from the sun, just as it's cooler
sitting under a beach umbrella than under a bright sky.

Although global warming has been widely accepted, global dimming remains
controversial. The theory has been advanced in recent years by a handful of
researchers who measure the decline of solar radiation at hundreds of sites
around the globe.

Liepert, Roderick and several other scientists will discuss their findings at an
international geophysical conference in Montreal later this month.

"Initially, people were very skeptical, but now there's other pieces of evidence
that all fit together," Roderick told a radio interviewer last December.
Reductions in sunlight of 10 percent to 20 percent have been observed in many
places over the past 50 years, he said.

"We still face a lot of controversy, but it's getting accepted," Liepert said in
a telephone interview. "We've found it in the United States, Europe, Israel and
Asia. Already, major research institutions are changing their point of view."

NASA, the Scripps Research Institute in La Jolla, Calif., and the National
Center for Atmospheric Research, a university-sponsored organization in Boulder,
Colo., are showing interest in global dimming.

Support for the theory comes from two types of data collected in recent decades:

* Radiation meters -- black metal plates that absorb the sun's rays -- aren't
heating up as rapidly as they previously did.

* The rate at which water evaporates from special measuring pans placed in the
sunlight has slowed over the years.

The measurements indicate the amount of energy from the sun -- solar radiation
-- is shrinking about 3 percent per decade, according to Gerald Stanhill, a
biologist at Israel's Agricultural Research Organization.

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2004 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              88 of 305 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                    January 4, 2004 Sunday TWO STAR EDITION

MEMO TO: DAN ONORATO

SECTION: EDITORIAL, Pg.B-1

LENGTH: 2870 words


FROM: WILLIAM PEDUTO Member of Council, City of Pittsburgh

Leadership is needed to end the city vs. suburb battle that is forcing us to
compete against each other instead of Minneapolis, Charlotte and Portland.
Moving forward means breaking the political, social and economic barriers of the
past century and creating new alliances to transform Allegheny County into a
21st-century metropolitan region.

We must begin by merging duplicative government services. Creating a single
unified economic development agency should be part of an enhanced countywide
planning department. The greatest detriment to development remains the
fractionalized efforts to plan for our future. By creating a countywide plan for
future growth, we can assure that new development does not create additional
infrastructure, which leads to additional taxes. We can begin to reward
development that adheres to true economic growth for our region and deter
projects that simply move jobs from established areas to greenfields -- a
process that only benefits the developer.

Economic growth is contingent on improvements in transportation. The old economy
relied on a system that brought product to market; we must create a system that
brings people to jobs. The first step is to modernize our present roadway system
and to enhance it through a countywide light-rail system.

Courage, communication and compromise will be needed to make these changes
reality. I look forward to working with you to make it happen.


FROM: F. MICHAEL LANGLEY CEO, Allegheny Conference on Community Development

On behalf of the Allegheny Conference on Community Development and its
affiliated organizations, congratulations on your recent election. You take
office at a pivotal moment in the history of the region. Yes, there are
immediate challenges to overcome, including the city of Pittsburgh's fiscal
crisis, and the critical negotiations and actions required to maintain and
enhance the reliability of regional air service at Pittsburgh International
Airport.

But there are real opportunities as well: As you follow through on your plan to
seek ways to consolidate services between the county and city, you can help to
save taxpayers millions of dollars, and provide more responsive and competitive
government services that will encourage job growth and new capital investment in
the region.

In partnership with the nine surrounding counties of the Pittsburgh region, you
can begin to address critical infrastructure and land use issues
(transportation, water and sewer, industrial site preparation) that currently
prevent the region from realizing its full potential. Our priorities for
marketing and improving the region are consistent with your stated goals, and we
are ready and willing to partner with you and your administration to build a
leading region in a globally competitive economy.


FROM: LYNN CULLEN Radio talk show host, WPTT-AM

Hang onto your faith, your family and your sense of humor. You're going to need
them. In the rancorous political climate you're bound to inhabit, I figure you
can pretty well forget about pleasing just about anyone.

My advice? Don't even try.

I voted for you, Dan, and you had me spitting mad before you even took office.
What the heck were you thinking when you canned Calvin Lightfoot?!? You won't
find a finer, more capable man to run that jail and you know it. Sure, you had a
little disagreement with him and came out on the losing end, but firing
Lightfoot was heavy-handed and wrong-headed. It had the odor of petty political
payback and there's too much of that around here already.

Speaking of petty, watch your back. Some of those ossified Democrats standing
behind you are probably more perilous to your success than the Republicans.
Don't be afraid to take them on. We're all looking forward to the row over the
row offices and we're expecting you to win.

You are now the official head of one fractious, dysfunctional family. I hope you
will prove to be what the present occupant of the White House said he was but
clearly isn't: a uniter, not a divider. If Allegheny County ever needed such a
man, it is now. Good luck, Dan.


FROM: JOYCE ROTHERMEL CEO, Greater Pittsburgh Community Food Bank

Some have said the measure of the quality of good governance is the measure of
the quality of life of a community's most vulnerable citizens. Based on this
principle comes the following counsel:

* Demonstrate a valuing of our most vulnerable populations: children (our human
capital of the future), seniors, people with disabilities, the economically
disadvantaged. With each decision, ask how it will impact them.

* Value the role of human service providers; we play a strategic role in
addressing the basic needs of our neighbors.

* Affirm the importance of strengthening the public/private partnerships between
government and nonprofit human service providers. Together we can provide a
reliable safety net for those unable to meet their basic needs.

* Encourage young people and the newly retired to make service to those in need
a regular part of life. Human services agencies can provide many opportunities.

* Supplement with county resources the funding needed to address local hunger
and food insecurity. Hunger and food insecurity have risen dramatically in
Pennsylvania. (Current resources come from federal and state sources, not the
county budget.)


FROM: ESTHER L. BARAZZONE President, Chatham College

Please pay serious attention to doing what it will take to keep young people in
this region. The colleges and universities are doing a great job getting them
here. The nine institutions in the county educate nearly 90,000 students
annually. However, we lose them once they receive their degrees. Despite the
draw of our institutions, we are one of the worst of the Rust Belt cities in
retaining and attracting the young.

A large number of people worked on a report for the Allegheny Conference
regarding this problem. I hope you will read the report to get the full
analysis. However, one thing came through clearly: the absence of diversity in
the leadership of this region is one of the greatest problems we must confront.
People of color, women and internationals must be given positions of real
responsibility, and in greater numbers than they currently are.

In the case of gender equity, this region seems not to even be aware that there
is an issue of gender inequity. The wage gap is greater for women here and very
few sit on boards of leading corporations or local economic development
organizations, despite the presence of many talented women in our community.
Women need to be present in significant numbers and to occupy leadership
positions, not just a seat.

Young people must see people like themselves in leadership positions if they are
to be persuaded to stay, and to make a better community for us all in the
future. The talent is here; please use it.

Good wishes for your successful tenure.


FROM: JAKE HAULK President, Allegheny Institute for Public Policy

From my perspective, the commitments you made during the campaign and the
statements you have made since the election form the basis of a very
constructive agenda.

Consolidation of row offices, reductions of taxes and spending, opposition to
local tax dollars for a new Penguins arena, opposition to a car rental tax to
bail out the convention center, and the need for the city to merge services with
the county and cut spending before any new taxes are considered are all policy
positions the Allegheny Institute heartily endorses. We hope you will
concentrate on this agenda.

There is one key issue where we might disagree. It is vitally important for the
future of Allegheny County that any plans to deal with US Airways and the
airport keep two crucial factors in mind. First, no public dollars should be
used in a way that preferentially benefit US Airways to the competitive
detriment of other carriers. Second, any plan must look at least five years into
the future and envision the most desirable situation for the airport.

I recommend strongly that the fortress hub strategy at the airport be abandoned
in favor of more carriers and more competition. Our unusually heavy dependence
on one carrier with its market power to beat back competitors has proven to be
very poor public policy. It is time to adopt a better vision and strategy.


FROM: BISHOP DONALD WUERL Catholic Diocese of Pittsburgh

One of the great strengths of Pittsburgh and Allegheny County is the many
neighborhoods with their rich history of service to people. They speak of the
style of life and the quality of our community.

I feel comfortable that our new county chief executive will recognize these
neighborhoods and the potential for good that lies within them. Schools,
churches, homes and shops are woven together with our government, community
programs and social outreach in our local neighborhoods, whether it is the South
Side of Pittsburgh, Munhall, Homestead or Wexford.

When you drive through this wonderful county, you find churches, synagogues and
places of worship that reflect the deep faith that generates the spiritual bonds
of our community, rooted in these neighborhoods. They nurture the family bonds,
personal ties and the devotional life of people young and old. All of these are
intangible but real treasures of Allegheny County.

What we do to build up these neighborhoods will only strengthen Allegheny County
as a whole. If these neighborhoods and the people who live in them are at the
top of your agenda, we will be a good way along in solving the problems we face.

I wish God's blessings on you, your staff and all who serve in public life to
make our community a better place to live for all.


FROM: MIKE ENGLISH Executive Director, Pittsburgh Urban Magnet Project

Dan Onorato, you should act your age. At 42, you are young, and our county needs
the energy and optimism of youth to meet our many long-term challenges. These
challenges include regionalism, economic development and diversity in
leadership.

First, work toward the future consolidation of the governments of Allegheny
County and the city of Pittsburgh. This is an intimidating challenge that we
must approach incrementally. In the short-term, fulfill your promises to reform
county row offices and share government services with the city.

Second, you should take a long-term approach to economic development.  Plan very
carefully and target wealth-creating industries such as the technology sector in
order to take advantage of the skills that are cultivated by our local
universities.

Finally, I urge you to appoint young people to Allegheny County boards. The
energy and creativity that young people offer will benefit the attitude of this
County's leadership in the years to come. Involving the young is the best way to
assure that public policy works to attract the young. Allegheny County can be
young and prosperous again if our leaders are not afraid to tackle big problems.
Mr. Onorato, lead the way.


FROM: ESTHER L. BUSH President and CEO, Urban League of Pittsburgh

Congratulations and counsel must accompany your election to the seat of chief
executive of Allegheny County. As the county transitions into a new
administration, we hope the priorities for the county will not shift as well.
The Urban League of Pittsburgh shares many of your goals and we are confident
that these issues will remain priorities.

The Urban League stands for a segment of the community that is underrepresented.
For this reason it is important to us that you reaffirm your commitment to the
issues that have a strong bearing on our underrepresented citizens such as
quality health care, equal employment, fair housing and civil rights. A true
demonstration of this commitment will be to leverage resources within the county
to support these areas and programs that address those needs.

One valuable resource for social change and empowerment in the county has been
having African-Americans in key decision-making positions as both employees and
volunteers. We look forward to your new appointments and hope that you will
continue this commitment to diversity in hiring at all levels. It is in the
county's best interest to continue to support equality and parity for all
residents within our community.


FROM: TEDDY XIDAS President, Association of Flight Attendants, Local 40

I believe the next couple of months in the US Airways negotiations will be
trying. I trust that you and the state delegation will do what's in the best
interest of Pittsburgh and Pennsylvania and thus labor. You are all we have now,
as this new management has forsaken the employees here, and we depend on the
county chief executive to do the right thing, whatever that may be, even if we
end up losing the US Airways hub in Pittsburgh.

The hard-line approach is, in my opinion, the best way to approach the talks
with US Airways management. I was in negotiations with these folks on the first
restructuring agreement of summer 2002, every day for five weeks.  I can tell
you it was nothing short of a nightmare.

I have been employed by US Airways for 22 years and I want US Airways to stay,
but, again, it must be for a "fair exchange" and equal risk. If it is only for
the presence of MidAtlantic Airways, a poverty-wage employment division, then
that would not be helping Pittsburgh's economy in the long run, and thus the
employees of US Airways' mainline.

I submit to you that I wear the hat of labor and am a born-and-bred resident of
Pittsburgh whose father operated a family restaurant here for 40 years. I have
thought of this matter in a global sense and realize that in the long run, the
conditions must be right for Pittsburgh, and risk must be equally shared by the
parties.

We employees are humble and committed and have built this franchise of US
Airways with our sweat and dedication. We have the ability to be the greatest
airline around -- we just need the opportunity to prove it.


FROM: DAN ROONEY Chairman, Pittsburgh Steelers

Allegheny County saw drastic change in the 20th century. 1950: steel was king,
most men had jobs, the Pennsylvania Railroad was very influential. By 2000 steel
was gone, the railroad no longer existed, the city of Pittsburgh's population
was down to 334,000.

Suburban people do come to the city for culture or games, but shop at malls. The
county must change barriers in mind and action. You have the energy to
accomplish your goals.

You must develop a plan. To say Pittsburgh caused the problems is nonsense. It
is everyone's problem. Problems exist because people moved from the city; now
half pay for the services. Everyone must pay more taxes. City and county
services must be combined. Labor must do its share -- negotiate new contracts.

The planning committee should include capable architects to design the physical
structures needed.

The business community's leadership stands for what is good for the area.

Carnegie Mellon and the University of Pittsburgh use their knowledge to develop
new products -- and join business to bring new companies here and sell those
products internationally. Jobs are No. 1 to keep people here.

The committee should include religious leaders to guide our moral integrity.
Allegheny County has a diverse people which gives a special emphasis for the
best of all minds to be a part of our culture.

Begin to believe that we can make it happen. Bring the folks from all parts of
southwestern Pennsylvania together. It is a team. Like the Steelers -- many
different individuals personality-wise, ability-wise and emotionally come
together. Everyone's ability makes us better. Dan Onorato is the quarterback --
you have to motivate and traverse through the obstruction and stay with the
plan.

Allegheny County can return to the glory days! Dan, make it happen.


FROM: PETER KOPE & MICHELE DE LA REZA Co-directors, Attack Theatre

The arts in this region generate over $40 million in revenue for the city of
Pittsburgh and Allegheny County. As artists, we export our region's reputation
throughout the country and the world. Ultimately, the role of the arts is to
reach and move people, and to encourage them to look at their surroundings with
fresh eyes and a new enthusiasm.

The jobs of Attack Theatre and the county chief executive are really quite
similar: We collaborate with people who are talented, free-spirited, dedicated
and opinionated, and lead them on a journey that has a positive impact on those
who experience the end result. Both jobs must choose what course of action will
have the desired outcome on the audience, constituent or citizen.

We should not undervalue the benefit of bringing hope to a constituency through
art and performance. We cannot miscalculate the improvement to our quality of
life that occurs when someone looks from a fresh perspective at their world.
When what we create affects others' points of view and helps them search for a
new solution -- that is leadership.

You have an opportunity to lead. Please remember that part of your job is to
inform, entertain and inspire your audience.

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing: Stacy Innerst / Post-Gazette

                       Copyright 2004 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              93 of 305 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                     October 22, 2004 Friday REGION EDITION

YOU SAY YOU WANT A REVOLUTION;
ROCKER STEVE EARLE PUTS POLITICS AT THE FOREFRONT OF HIS LATEST RECORD

BYLINE: Ed Masley Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT, Pg.WE-24

LENGTH: 2789 words


Steve Earle has been a liberal -- and an outspoken one at that -- since long
before the word was demonized by a nation of right-wing talk-radio hosts who
take home paychecks every week from the "liberal" media. It should have come as
no surprise that Earle's response to 9/11 would include an empathetic song he'd
penned from the perspective of John Walker Lindh, a U.S. citizen who'd joined
the Afghan army to defend the Taliban. But when "John Walker's Blues" turned up
two years ago on Earle's "Jerusalem," you would've sworn the man had pledged
allegiance to the Dixie Chicks.

His latest effort, rush-recorded to get to the voters before the election, is
every bit as revolutionary, if a shade less controversial. In the title track,
"The Revolution Starts... Now," Earle incites the masses to rise up, shake off
their fear and start a revolution "in your own back yard, in your own hometown."

In several story-songs, he views the "Rich Man's War" from the perspective of
the poor kids forced by circumstance to do the actual fighting. And in "F the
CC," a spirited rocker that spares no f-word defending our freedom of speech
post-Nipplegate, he blasts talk radio, where people "moan about the immigrants
but don't say nothin' about the president" while those who do speak out are
branded traitors or, God forbid, liberals.

"A democracy don't work that way," he sings. "I can say anything I wanna say."

And that's exactly what he's doing on a swing state-heavy tour that brings the
revolution -- and quite possibly a cover of the Beatles' "Revolution" -- to the
Rock Club less than two weeks shy of an election Earle feels could bring regime
change to the home front.

When you sing about the Revolution starting now, what sort of revolution would
you like to see?

What the song is about is that the Revolution begins when we wake up and realize
it goes on with us or without us. There's been a revolution in progress since
the end of the monarchies in Europe. We've been trying to find a way to govern
ourselves. And there have been some missteps along the way, but I think mostly
the progress has been forward. In a good part of the world. It's just I think
we're kind of at the center of a very huge step backwards right now that
requires everybody to wake up and get more involved. 'Cause it's not about them.
There's always been a them. It's about us. We went to sleep. The country was
headed in a different direction back when I was growing up.


You think it goes back that far?

Sure. It's about power. Some people are gonna end up more powerful than other
people. And it's about whether we think it's important or not to insure that the
average person has some power and some way to determine their own destiny. Power
in the hands of a few people, if it turns out that they're good guys, then
everything's fine. If it turns out they're not, then you're in the position
we're in right now. They don't have the power to imprison everyone who thinks
differently than they do, but they have managed to intimidate people into not
speaking up about what they believe and not expressing their fears. They're
ruling by fear. And we allow that. By opting for being afraid. That's what this
kind of art is about. It's about empathy and letting people know they're not
alone, letting people know that there's somebody else out there that sees that
the emperor is nekkid.


Do you get the impression that people are feeling a little less intimidated now
about speaking their mind than, say, a couple years ago?

Absolutely. I think the difference between the response to this record and the
response to 'Jerusalem' is about the climate, not the record. I'm real proud of
both of them. I don't think this is a better record than 'Jerusalem' is, but
it's gotten on the radio easier than 'Jerusalem.' And the reviews ... it's not
as though I get a lot of bad reviews. But there was much more coverage on this
record. I get the usual unintelligible reviews from Village Voice. Nobody can
understand those reviews, but it's been pretty positive.


I would think the Village Voice would like you.

It's a weird deal. They've sort of out-hipped themselves into a corner now when
it comes to their music coverage. The Village Voice is not where I look to find
out who to go see play. I kind of live in New York part-time now. I'm there a
lot. I've got an Air America radio show, and I'm pretty heavily involved in
theater, and that's moving more and more to New York for me all the time, which
is natural. And I'll probably buy a place there at the end of this tour. I mean,
I'll keep a place in Nashville, but I'm sort of headed in that direction. But
the Voice, if I want to find out who's playing, it's easier to look in Time Out
and not have to deal with a really incredibly mean-spirited snotty opinion.
They're really hard on young bands.


You were talking about 'Jerusalem.' Did you expect to be demonized the way you
were for the John Walker Lindh song?

Well, look at who it was that took offense. Talk radio and television and the
New York Post. If I'm not [ticking ] them off ... But this time, I think they
got a little smarter. They've been kind of quiet, and I think they realized they
were probably hurting themselves and helping me more by going off like that. So
it's been really quiet from those quarters this time.


With all these artists weighing in on recent records, do you think pop music
records can turn the tide in an election like this?

Well, I think it definitely helps. And what it does is empathy. I think art in
general, what it does is it lets us know we're not alone. If somebody's writing
about it, making art about it in any form, then it lets you know that you're not
the only person who feels that way. I think music helped stop the Vietnam War. I
was there. Music had a lot to do with that.


How would you compare the role that music plays in today's society to the role
it played back then?

Music was more important then. Pop music was. Because pop music had just become
an art form. Pop music was probably officially recognized as an art form at
least by the release of 'Sgt. Pepper.' And by Woodstock, it was recognized in
the United States as a huge commercial force. That's what it took, because
record labels were kind of retarded. They had to see 400,000 kids in a cow
pasture to realize that there was a market there. Mitch Miller didn't know how
to make a Jefferson Airplane record, so they had to trust the kids to sort of
make their own record. So there was this surge in creativity that went on for a
while that was pretty amazing, I think. And that was all going on during the
Vietnam War.

Now, there's so much money in it, and there's a lot of music that's made for no
other reason than to make money. And that's fine. But as long as the war goes on
... I mean, I was trying to make a broader record that was about all the issues
involved in this election, but I ended up making an anti-war record. For me,
it's about the war, stupid. Until we get that out of the way, I don't know how
we can confront a lot of problems.

Of course, that being said, my main area of activism is the death penalty and I
do think that it'll go back to being that as soon as we're out of Iraq. I think
a country that didn't have the death penalty would never have attacked Iraq in
the first place.


Right. Well, that makes you kind of a natural Bush opponent...

I'm opposed to stupid, mean-spirited people having that much power, sure
(laughs).


How do you feel about people who mock or belittle the idea of rock musicians
informing the public's political views?

Well, it's a relatively new idea. And we're not trying to inform anybody's
anything. We're citizens and artists. And commenting on the society around us,
[expletive], I thought that was our job. I'm not sure I'm all that interested in
what Britney Spears has to say about music either.  But you know what? I ain't
Britney Spears. I've published a collection of short fiction, written a play and
put it up, written 500, 600 poems. You know, I'm pretty [bleeping] smart. And
there's other people that make rock records that I think are really smart, and
I'm interested in what they have to say.


There's actually a guy I know who's pretty far off to the right, and he's been
kind of making fun of political artists and people who listen to what they say,
and I was trying to explain to him that Springsteen and Jessica Simpson are not
the same person. They both do pop music, but it's not the same thing.

Right. But on the other hand, I'm sure he doesn't have any problem with Toby
Keith. And that's not even about politics. That's about pandering. That's about
selling records. It's appealing to all our worst instincts at a time when
everybody's hurt and angry. To sell records, which is pretty despicable when you
get right down to it.


As an artist who's clearly drawn on country traditions in his music, do you feel
disheartened when you see the way that country music has...

It's just one of those things. And I totally defend Toby Keith's constitutional
right to be a [bleeping] idiot. I would come pretty close to laying my life down
to defend his right to do that.


Are you feeling optimistic that a change is gonna come in two weeks?

It's gonna come slow. I do think Kerry's gonna win. That being said, there were
500,000 of us in the streets of New York during the Republican National
Convention on that Sunday. I was in the front of that march. And what we need is
500,000 people in Washington, D.C. on Jan. 20 when Kerry is inaugurated to let
him know we're serious about this.


So the work isn't done at that point.

It can never be done. In a democracy, it will never be done. And that's the part
of it I think we missed. I think a lot of us thought that democracy would take
care of itself as we got older and started having kids. We went to sleep. And we
can't ever do that again. If we're asleep again and these guys don't go to
sleep, the outcome is predictable.


So then, if Kerry wins in two weeks, you'll still be singing these songs?

Oh ... yeah. I'll just be singing them to him. Don't get me wrong. I'm gonna
vote for him, and I completely and totally support his candidacy. It's much
easier for me to vote for John Kerry than it was for Bill Clinton. I voted for
Bill Clinton twice, and he's the only Republican I've ever voted for twice. John
Kerry is much more the kind of candidate I can support than Bill Clinton was.
But that being said, it's about what the Democratic Party has become. And the
Democratic Party has become what it is because we become who we are. I'm not a
Democrat. I stop short of that. I'm an independent who's never voted any other
way but Democratic. I didn't drink the Nader Kool-Aid. I don't like Ralph Nader.
I think he's every bit as addicted to being right as George W. Bush is in his
own way. Nothing against the Greens. I work with the Greens all the time in
Europe. I just don't like Ralph Nader.

And it's a drag, because you know what? I agree with Nader about almost
everything. But I think he's kind of nuts.


Did you call Clinton a Republican?

Yeah, I did. The only Republican I've ever voted for twice.


That's what I thought you said. I just wanted to make sure. So you do think
Kerry's more in line with what you believe?

I'm OK with a Massachusetts liberal.


Have you heard from any fans who take exception to the political slant of your
recent material?

I think what happens in that case is that you don't hear from them. In my
business anyway. I've been doing this for long enough and there's been enough of
a political component to what I do all along that I don't think anybody is that
surprised. I'm a fairly well known pinko so it doesn't really shock anybody.

And not everyone who buys my records agrees with me right down the line. But
they are people who are willing for us to have that dialogue. And I'm pretty
proud of that. I'm pretty proud of my audience.


Having said that, do you think you're changing minds or rallying the troops when
you go out and play?

I don't know that as far as this goes but I do know that I lost count years ago
of all the people who came up to me and said something you wrote or something
you said changed my mind about the death penalty. And you won't find a more
divisive emotional issue than that. So I can't rule it out.


I was surprised that you weren't one of the performers on that Vote For Change
tour. Were you approached?

Because I had a record coming out, I just couldn't really afford it. I don't
sell as many records as those guys, and I couldn't afford to lose the markets. I
needed to be able to go and play those same markets myself.  That's what I'm
doing. I'm concentrating on Ohio, Pennsylvania and Michigan between now and the
election. So if I'd gone in with Vote for Change, it would have wiped those
markets out. And I just couldn't afford that, quite frankly. You do what you can
do.


But wouldn't you say this tour you're on is as much about spreading the message
of the record as it is about selling the record?

Well, yeah, it is. I wouldn't have made a record this year. But I'm still trying
to sell records. I'm supporting half the women in Tennessee, and I've got mouths
to feed. If I put a record out, I have to tour to make it work. But there are a
couple of dates on this swing where I took less money than I normally take just
to make sure that I got the number of plays in Pennsylvania and Ohio that I
wanted to. And it's still not enough. But it was what makes sense. There are
some realities I have to deal with because I've written 'Rich Man's War' and
I've written 'The Revolution Starts Now,' and I wanted them heard before the
election.


I saw a newspaper article about the glut of recent anti-Bush releases and your
name was in there and they used the term limousine lefties or something.

I probably was at one time, in the sense that yeah, in my early opposition to
the death penalty, I rolled up in a limo sometimes and played at a rally and
left in a limo. That happened sometimes. But the way I do activism now and the
way I have for the past 10 years, mainly since I've been clean, I do events
where I sleep in churches and wash dishes and pick people up at the airport.
People do what they can do. And I think it's kind of funny when people criticize
... Conservatives feel really betrayed when someone with a lot of money embraces
a cause that isn't a right-wing cause. And keep in mind that limousine lefty is
a talk-radio term. That's who coined it. And so as soon as you see that term,
you can pretty much discount whoever's using it.


I actually don't pay much attention to talk radio, so it was a new term for me
when I saw it.

I've heard it, and I've had it directed at me. I'm sitting here in a bus that
costs more than most people's houses. But you know, I don't own it. I lease it.
I make an embarrassing amount of money doing something that I really enjoy
doing, and it's an especially embarrassing amount of money for a borderline
Marxist. But I do try really hard to put something back, simply because I've got
so much and I've been so lucky. That's part of why I do what I do.


A lot of people are supporting Bush because they say he's the more likeable
candidate. Do you yourself see anything likeable about him?

I don't. But I understand where that comes from. I think part of that is that
the media calls him likeable and people are like, 'Oh yeah, he is kind of
likeable. He's more like me.' I understand that, for the same reason Garth
Brooks sells a lot of records. I mean, Garth Brooks was not particularly
good-looking, couldn't really sing, but there was something people seized on.
And, unfortunately, I'm not sure that's how we want to choose the quote leader
of the free world.


Right. You're not actually going to have a beer with him.

Yeah. And he's not gonna have a beer with you, either. Even if he still drank.
That's the most important part. I find a lot of his rhetoric offensive because
it's exclusive of people who don't have very much, it's exclusive of people of
color, it's exclusive of people that aren't Christians, which I think is really
dangerous in the age we live in. We have a fundamentalist who thinks he can wage
a war on fundamentalism and win.  That will cost us our children and our
grandchildren. Mark my words.

Ed Masley can be reached at emasley@post-gazette.com or 412-263-1865.


I totally defend Toby Keith's constitutional right to be a [bleeping] idiot. I
would come pretty close to laying my life down to defend his right to do that.

Steve Earle

"

"

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Glen Rose
Glen Rose

                       Copyright 2004 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              95 of 305 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                     November 5, 2004 Friday SOONER EDITION

HOLIDAY SALES OUTLOOK BRIGHTER FOR U.S. RETAILERS

BYLINE: Anne D'innocenzio, The Associated Press

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg.C-9

LENGTH: 928 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


The outlook for the holiday season brightened yesterday as many of the nation's
retailers reported an improvement in sales in October. Discounters, however, had
another month of lackluster results as their customers cut back their spending
again.

Many mall-based apparel stores, including Limited Brands, Abercrombie & Fitch
Inc. and Gap Inc., saw a rebound in spending, helped by cooler weather. Wal-Mart
Stores Inc., Big Lots Inc. and ShopKo Stores Inc. were among the merchants who
extended a sluggish streak that began in June.

"There was definitely more broad-based growth across the apparel group. But the
low-end consumer continues to be hurt on two fronts -- jobs and wage growth and
higher energy prices," said Ken Perkins, an analyst at RetailMetrics LLC, a
research firm in Cambridge, Mass.

"This is a little more encouraging as we head into the holiday season, though it
is not a harbinger for a stellar shopping season."

John Morris, senior retail analyst at Harris Nesbitt, noted that "there was
pent-up demand for apparel coming at a time when weather was more seasonable,"
but he warned that the question remains whether that buying can be sustained
during the holiday season. "The average consumer seems to be pinched," he said.

Even in more secure economic times, it's hard to tell from October sales how the
holiday season will fare -- whether consumers will shop enthusiastically from
the start or put off buying until late December and force retailers to slash
their prices. With the current uncertainty about jobs and energy bills, many
storeowners are uneasy about the holidays, especially after the Conference Board
reported last week that consumer confidence fell to a seven-month low in
October, marking its third consecutive monthly decline.

It's clear shoppers will be looking for value. One of the retailers that did
well last month was Target Corp., considered an upscale discounter. Target
reported a 6 percent gain in sales from stores open at least a year, known as
same-store sales. Analysts surveyed by Thomson First Call had expected a 5.6
percent gain.

The International Council of Shopping Centers-UBS same-store sales tally of 75
retailers rose 4.1 percent in October, better than the 3 percent to 4 percent
gain forecast. That was the best performance since May, when retailers recorded
a 5.7 percent gain, according to Michael P. Niemira, chief economist at the
International Council of Shopping Centers. In September, the tally rose 2.4
percent. Same-store sales are considered the best indicator of a retailer's
performance.

Niemira predicts same-store sales increases of 3 to 4 percent for the holiday
period. That compares with a 4 percent increase in 2003.

The National Retail Federation projects total retail sales, which exclude
restaurant and auto sales, will increase 4.5 percent for the November-December
period, below the 5.1 percent gain of a year ago.

The good news is that stores seem to be in good shape when it comes to
inventories -- estimated to be up 5 percent compared to a year ago. That should
enable retailers to have more merchandise sales rather than gift card sales,
Niemira said. While retailers get instant cash from gift cards, they don't
record the sales until the cards are redeemed -- usually in January or later,
draining sales away from holiday tallies.

Richard Hastings, a retail analyst at the Bernard Sands credit advisory firm,
said he's encouraged that stores are getting smarter about discounting, and not
just slashing prices across the board. So he's optimistic that they won't need
heavy markdowns this holiday season.

But retailers are worried because there's no must-have item that will bring
throngs of customers to the stores -- although there are plenty of electronics
items such as flat-screen TVs and miniature iPods that are expected to do well.

In other economic news yesterday, initial claims for unemployment benefits
plunged last week by a seasonally adjusted 19,000 to 332,000, the Labor
Department said. A portion of the decline reflected fewer hurricane-related
claims in Florida, but even so, the better-than-expected figures offered
encouragement that the job recovery may be gaining momentum.

But job and other economic worries still weigh heavily on the lower-end
consumer. Wal-Mart recorded a 2.8 percent increase in same-store sales, just
under analysts' 3 percent forecast. ShopKo recorded a 3.1 percent decline in
same-store sales; analysts had expected a 1 percent gain.

And Big Lots Inc. reported sales were unchanged from the year-ago period -- a
bit better than the 1 percent decline that analysts expected, though Chief
Executive Officer Michael J. Potter remarked that customers remain "challenged
in this difficult economic climate. Based on recent trends, there does not
appear to be an external catalyst for increased traffic in the short-term."


Fuller bags

Same-store sales show the change from a year ago in stores open at least one
year. The second column shows total monthly sales, in millions, and the third
the change.



SAME-STORE    ALL STORE
STORE     CHANGE    SALES   CHANGE
Wal-Mart......2.4%..... $21,042......10.4%

Penney......2.1%......$1,171......2.4%

Target......6%......$3,311......12.6%

Sears......1.9%..... $1,897......0.1%

Federated......4%......$1,098......3.8%

May......-2.3%......$1,090......22.9%

Kohl's......6%..... $958.2......16.4%

Saks......4.4%......$489.6......5.5%

Eagle......29.2%......$133.6......39%

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2004 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              102 of 305 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                    April 28, 2004 Wednesday SOONER EDITION

BUSH SIGNS ORDER ON BIOTERRORISM

SECTION: NATIONAL, Pg.A-22 NATIONAL BRIEFS

LENGTH: 716 words


WASHINGTON -- President Bush, who has made national security the centerpiece of
his re-election campaign, has signed a directive to help protect Americans from
biological attacks.

The presidential directive, which Bush has signed and is being announced today,
aims to plug gaps in the nation's defense against terrorists who might use
biological agents.

Specifically, it works to coordinate what the government already is doing to
protect food and water supplies, for example. A classified version of the
directive instructs agencies on how to best carry out their biodefense work.

The administration declined to publicly release the directive yesterday, but
memos on the Web site of the Association of Metropolitan Water Agencies, said
the directive "has a strong emphasis on the water sector."

/ Medicare card ads

WASHINGTON -- The Bush administration is spending $18 million on a new round of
taxpayer-funded television advertising to promote the Medicare discount drug
card, the Medicare administrator said yesterday.

A Democratic senator criticized the ad as deceptive.

Enrollment for the card begins next week, the first widely available benefit
from the new Medicare law that has been steeped in controversy.

Seeking to avoid criticism that surrounded the first Medicare ad, in February,
the latest offering makes few specific claims and is focused on introducing the
cards and the $600 subsidy available for low-income Medicare recipients.

/ Internet tax ban

WASHINGTON -- Senators failed to reach a compromise yesterday on renewing an
expired ban on taxing the services that connect consumers to the Internet.

Republicans split over the ban's potential effect on state and local
governments. Democrats found no consensus among themselves, either.

Some said the ban opens a loophole that would allow telecommunication companies
to evade taxes. Others said it simply levels the playing field for all
technologies.

/ Abortion files

NEW YORK -- In a reversal, Justice Department lawyers defending the new federal
law that bans a type of abortion voluntarily withdrew a subpoena for abortion
records from a Manhattan hospital.

The move resolved the last outstanding question about whether the government
should have access to confidential medical records, even in edited form, at
civil trials under way in New York, San Francisco and Lincoln, Neb.

Similar subpoenas were served on Planned Parenthood in Pittsburgh and San
Francisco but blocked by a federal judge in California.

/ L.A. hits 102

LOS ANGELES -- California temperature records fell as the mercury soared again
yesterday, with Downtown Los Angeles hitting 102 degrees at 11:37 a.m., the
weather service said.

That shattered the April 27 mark of 94 set in 1881.

Dozens of other records were broken up and down the state as the heat wave,
which began building during the weekend, unleashed another fiery blast. San
Francisco hit 86 to tie its 1921 record.

/ Offshoring junket

SAN JOSE, Calif. -- American technology workers riled by a congressional
delegation's $165,000 trip to India say it amounted to little more than a junket
promoting offshore outsourcing.

Nine congressmen, mainly pro-labor Democrats from California, New York and
Georgia, took the all-expenses paid trip to India in January. Most took along
spouses or legislative aides, and some individual tabs exceeded $10,000.

The Confederation of Indian Industries, a trade group that helps craft India's
economic policies and fosters relationships between U.S. and Indian companies,
paid for hotels, meals and transportation.

/ Also in the nation

A judge yesterday rejected a gay teenager's bid to campaign for student body
president with posters billing himself as the "Queer Guy for Hunt High." Jarred
Gamwell had enlisted the help of the American Civil Liberties Union after the
principal of James B. Hunt High School in Wilson, N.C., removed the posters last
week....A Texas jury awarded $1 billion yesterday to the family of a woman who
once took the Wyeth-made diet drug Pondimin, part of the now-banned weight-loss
combination fen-phen. The New Jersey-based drug company immediately said it
would appeal the jury's huge award, which included $900 million in punitive
damages./

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2004 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              103 of 305 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                      June 1, 2004 Tuesday SOONER EDITION

CINEMA VERITE;
 A HOKEY DISASTER FLICK WITH A SOMBER WARNING

SECTION: EDITORIAL, Pg.A-12

LENGTH: 329 words


There's a consensus among scientists that if current levels of fossil fuel
consumption don't decline dramatically, greenhouse gases will do to life on
Earth what errant asteroids have occasionally done to the planet.  It's a
sobering prediction with policy implications that will be expensive and painful
to implement.

Those who scoff at the notion of global warming insist that such dire
predictions are more in line with science fiction than scientific fact, and the
nations and industries whose fortunes would be hurt by major curbs in industrial
emissions keep asking for a second opinion.

Meanwhile at the multiplex, an environmental disaster film has brought the
debate about global warming to the masses in a way that a thousand sober PBS
documentaries never could.

"The Day After Tomorrow" is the first big-budget movie that attempts to show the
cataclysmic effects of unchecked global warming. Like many Hollywood films, it
plays fast and loose with the facts, but the underlying danger it illustrates is
real. It telescopes into days what most scientists believe will unfold over
centuries as a result of gradually rising ocean temperatures.

Despite the Bush administration's skepticism about global warming, some
lawmakers have responded with appropriate urgency. Sens. John McCain, R-Arizona,
and Joseph Lieberman, D-Conn., have co-sponsored legislation that would mandate
steep cuts in the emissions of heat-trapping gases. The senators plan to bring
the bill to the floor before the July 4 recess. Opposition in the
Republican-controlled Senate is expected to be stiff.

"The Day After Tomorrow" puts into fanciful cinematic form an issue that
political leaders of both parties are reluctant to deal with. Each day that
passes brings the world closer to the tipping point of environmental distress. A
concerted effort to avert it must begin sooner, not later.

If we don't act, the only appropriate name for a movie sequel will be "Too
Late."

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2004 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              104 of 305 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                     August 23, 2004 Monday SOONER EDITION

SATELLITE INFORMATION HELPS PREDICT HURRICANES

BYLINE: DAN MALERBO, HENRY BUHL JR. PLANETARIUM & OBSERVATORY

SECTION: ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT, Pg.C-6 LETS TALK ABOUT

LENGTH: 294 words


Every year during the hurricane season, from June to November, meteorologists
get critical information from satellites and instruments managed by NASA and the
Jet Propulsion Laboratory (JPL) in Pasadena, Calif. The satellite information
helps forecasters determine if conditions are right for creating a hurricane.
Additional data can help determine how strong a hurricane may be.

In the 1970s, meteorologists were unable to see the ingredients in hurricane
formation. Satellites could provide only still pictures of the hurricane. Today
satellites use visible and infrared sensors, along with microwave and radar
pulses, to enhance forecasts.

An important ingredient needed in the formation of a hurricane is sea surface
temperature of at least 82 degrees. Satellites using microwave scanning can
detect sea temperature. The information can help determine if a tropical storm
is likely to strengthen. Satellites can even measure sea surface height, a key
measurement of ocean energy available to encourage and sustain hurricanes.

Satellites can provide an early notice of developing storms by measuring
rotating winds over the ocean's surface. Their measurement of temperature and
humidity can provide an earlier notice of developing storms.

Measurements from space of rainfall intensity can determine if young tropical
systems can develop into more powerful storms. Satellites can see towers or
vertical columns of rapidly rising air that indicate strong thundershowers.
These towers are like powerful pistons that convert energy from water vapor into
a powerful wind- and rain-producing engine. Once a storm develops, forecasters
can get an inside view of how organized and tightly spiraled the rain bands are,
a key indicator of storm intensity.

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
WEATHER FORECASTING

                       Copyright 2004 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              111 of 305 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                            November 9, 2004 Tuesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

'FRONTLINE' INTERESTING; NEW FOX, SPIKE SHOWS BLAND

BYLINE: Rob Owen Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT; Pg. B-1

LENGTH: 774 words


Surely you've noticed the cluttered ad environment on TV with those pop-up
promos that distract from the TV show you're watching. Why are they there?
Simple. Interrupting programming is yet another way to grab viewers' attention.
Yet every effort to break through the advertising clutter actually ends up
adding more clutter.

Leave it to "Frontline" on noncommercial (OK, make that less commercial) PBS to
explore this world of "The Persuaders."

The 90-minute documentary explores new efforts at guerrilla marketing, product
placement in TV shows and the many uses of market research, including in the
recently concluded presidential race.

If you're completely unfamiliar with modern marketing techniques, the entire 90
minutes may be revelatory. Those in the know may grow a little weary of the
program, particularly the segment on product placement, which has already been
well-documented.

The market research segment is particularly amusing, as viewers see one
consumer's confused reaction to questions about how he feels when eating white
bread. The interviewer wants to know if the man feels "accepting," "curious,"
"apprehensive," "trusting," "lonely" and "afraid" among other emotional
responses.

"The question was, when you eat bread do you feel lonely? Have you found people
that say yes when they eat bread they feel lonely?" the consumer asks.

"Not a lot on this one," the questioner replies.

The political section of "The Persuaders" is pretty interesting, too, although
it made me wish the program had aired in advance of last week's election. The
show details efforts by one political consultant to employ language in the
selling of an idea. Frank Luntz suggested Republicans begin referring to "estate
tax" with the more emotionally charged term "death tax." He turned "Tax cuts"
into "tax relief." "Global warming" morphed into "climate change," and Luntz
recast "the war in Iraq" as "the war on terror."

If nothing else, this "Frontline" entry persuaded me it's worth paying attention
to the marketing of the message -- maybe even more than the message itself.

'THE REBEL BILLIONAIRE'

On Sunday night Fox premiered "My Big Fat Obnoxious Boss," a spoof of NBC's "The
Apprentice" and the whole subgenre of office-set reality competition shows.
Usually a parody is the final nail in the coffin, and yet here is Fox trying to
do an "Apprentice" rip-off with "The Rebel Billionaire: Branson's Quest for the
Best" (8 tonight).

In the first of two back-to-back hourlong episodes tonight, Branson claims the
winner of the competition will win a $1 million salary and the chance to run
Branson's entire business empire. But he doesn't say for how long.

"Quest for the Best" is pretty much a cross between "The Apprentice" and "Fear
Factor." In the premiere, Branson asks his players to perform two high-flying
stunts: First they have to walk across a metal beam between two hot air balloons
at 10,000 feet altitude (the contestants all wear safety wires) in a short time
period. Those players who don't make it across have to do another even more
extraordinary stunt.

Branson is certainly a charismatic figure, far more likable than "The
Benefactor's" Mark Cuban, but aerial acrobatics aside, who needs another reality
show in an already burned out genre?

'I HATE MY JOB'

You know what I said in the last sentence about how the reality business show
genre is played out? "I Hate My Job" is Exhibit B.

Premiering tonight at 9 on Spike TV, "I Hate My Job" takes eight guys who hate
their jobs (such as handyman, casino dealer, pool table tech, lawyer, preschool
teacher) and gives them the chance to land a dream job (cartoonist, hockey
coach, stuntman, comedian) if they complete various tasks related to their
desired occupation put to them by the show's host, the Rev. Al Sharpton.

The most humiliating task has the guys performing their dream job on a stage in
front of Sharpton. It's pretty pathetic because they prove particularly
ill-suited to their dream jobs, especially the wannabe actor.

Sharpton is a charismatic figure, but his verbose pep talks are surprisingly
earnest. He's a lot funnier on "The Daily Show."

"Good luck, I hope to see you on the rebound," he tells the four guys he kicks
off at the end of the first hour.

"I Hate My Job" isn't funny enough to be a good comedy, and it's not interesting
enough to be good drama. And it's not obnoxious enough to inspire hate. It's
just a bland, boring show.

"THE REBEL BILLIONAIRE"

* Whem: 8 tonight on Fox.

* Starring: Richard Branson.

"FRONTLINE: THE PERSUADERS"

* When: 9 tonight on WQED.

* Correspondent: Douglas Rushkoff.

"I HATE MY JOB"

* When: 9 tonight on Spike TV.

* Host: The Rev. Al Sharpton.

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: TV editor Rob Owen can be reached at rowen@post-gazette.com or
412-263-2582. Ask TV questions at www.post-gazette.com/tv under TV Q&A.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: WGBH Boston: "Frontline" correspondent Douglas Rushkoff explores
marketing ploys on the PBS documentary "The Persuaders."

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              119 of 305 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                     October 25, 2004 Monday SOONER EDITION

TURZAI IS TERRIFIC

SECTION: EDITORIAL, Pg.A-14 LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 241 words


Leadership often requires that individuals stand out from the crowd and make
tough recommendations and decisions. My experience in discussing the business
climate in the city of Pittsburgh, as well as the city's financial difficulties,
with Rep. Mike Turzai, R-Bradford Woods, has shown him to be a creative thinker
and decisive leader helping the city solve its fiscal crisis. That's why I am
surprised that the Post-Gazette did not endorse his skills and record of
accomplishments in your Oct. 14 editorial ("Cline for the House: The Challenger
Has an Eye Toward Regional Reform").

Mike has gained my respect for boldly calling for a change in the paradigm that
threatens the business environment and jobs in the city and region. For example,
he has been the leader calling for the privatization of various city services,
and he has consistently requested that city assets be sold or be put back on
property tax rolls to reduce the city's massive debt.

Mike Turzai's bill, establishing an oversight board for the city of Pittsburgh,
passed by a wide margin with bipartisan support and was signed into law by Gov.
Ed Rendell. We cannot stay on the same old course and expect to make the region
and city vibrant and successful again. Our region needs leadership from
representatives like Mike Turzai, whose efforts should be endorsed by voters in
the upcoming election.

THOMAS R. DONAHUE

CFO, Federated Investors, Inc.

Downtown

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2004 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              122 of 305 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                    November 6, 2004 Saturday REGION EDITION

MAYOR'S;
REVISED;
BUDGET;
OK'D SPENDING PLAN SEEN;
AS KEY TO TAX REFORM

BYLINE: Timothy McNulty Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg.A-1

LENGTH: 986 words


The fiscal oversight board assigned to help Pittsburgh out of its budget
problems unanimously approved a revised city spending and revenue plan for 2005
through 2009, which they will use as a blueprint in seeking tax reform from the
Legislature.

The approval came after Mayor Tom Murphy presented a new long-term budget that
contained several expense cuts the board requested, largely to elected offices
and infrastructure improvements.

The further cuts mean the city will need smaller amounts of new tax revenue to
bridge its budget shortfalls, possibly making tax reform an easier, but still
difficult, sell in Harrisburg.

The budget approval by the bipartisan board also signaled, for the first time,
an effort by all of the city's fiscal overseers to agree on a single plan for
the city's financial recovery.

Murphy, the board and the separate, state-appointed Act 47 recovery team all
signed on to the budget Murphy forwarded yesterday, and they all sang the same
tune in comments about the plan: Working together, they said, they are
presenting a workable solution to the city's deep fiscal problems, which will
keep the city solvent in the short-term and promote economic growth in the
future.

Without the reforms, they said the city could go broke in December or January.

"This consensus comes not a moment too soon. Pittsburgh's time is running out.
Quick and decisive actions are required now, not only on the part of the city
but particularly the Commonwealth," said the state's budget secretary, Michael
Masch, a nonvoting member of the oversight board.

"I want to say to the people of Pittsburgh, I believe that we are just about at
the turning point, where this long struggle is about to end and we can look
forward to a brighter future," Masch continued.

The state's Department of Community and Economic Development secretary, Dennis
Yablonsky, also hailed business tax changes being contemplated by the board,
saying they could help the city's long-term economic climate.

"It's not just about balancing today's budget but growing the city economically,
going forward," Yablonsky said.

The approval of Murphy's five-year plan, which includes a $425 million operating
budget for next year, clears the way for the plan to be presented Monday to City
Council, which also must approve it by the end of December.

It also clears the way for the oversight board to support the city's effort to
get the state Legislature to approve new city revenue sources. The board is
supposed to issue its recommended tax package to the Legislature next week, with
the hope members will approve it before adjourning Nov. 30.

The package will likely include increases to the existing $10 yearly worker tax
and a new employer payroll tax, matched with decreases to, or the elimination
of, the city's existing business privilege and mercantile taxes.

The new $425 million operating budget cuts $8 million in spending out of the
budget Murphy forwarded in September. Like every operating budget, it sets city
tax rates and pays salaries of city workers.

The new budget contains the same 34 percent property tax increase as Murphy's
other plans, in order to stay balanced. If the state approves the tax reform
package, it would erase that property tax hike. The city could also petition
Common Pleas Court for new commuter taxes, available under the Act 47 recovery
plan.

The five-member, state-appointed fiscal board rejected Murphy's previous $433
million budget on Oct. 18, asking him to cut more expenses and add gambling
revenues into his budget predictions, two moves that would shrink the city's
budget hole. Murphy did both yesterday.

Murphy cut spending by his office, City Council and the city controller by an
additional 10 percent since his last budget, which already cut them 15 percent.
He cut $1.8 million in spending by other city departments and dropped
infrastructure spending by $5.5 million.

Murphy's long-term spending plan adds $17.6 million in gambling revenues by
2007, when it should receive $10 million for hosting a casino and $7.6 million
in sales taxes that are currently used to support the Pittsburgh Development
Fund. The slots legislation approved this summer uses slots license fees to
liquidate the fund.

Murphy also proposes increasing deed transfer taxes by 0.5 percent next year,
from 1.5 to 2 percent. All told, the gambling and deed transfer taxes are
estimated to bring in $20 million in new revenues by 2007.

Murphy's plan also keeps the current 50 percent parking tax in place, though it
contemplates dropping the tax in 5 percent increments in future years,
eventually settling at 35 percent.

It also contains the spending cuts that have long been part of Murphy's budgets,
including: $10 million cuts in the fire bureau, salary freezes, increased health
care payments by personnel, and the continued closure of 19 outdoor pools and 10
recreation centers.

The oversight board was named by the governor and the four party leaders in the
state House and Senate. The Act 47 team was named by the governor after the city
was declared economically distressed in December, under the Municipalities
Financial Recovery Act.

The board approved Murphy's budget unanimously, but with conditions: the city
cannot increase expenditures; neither Murphy nor council can amend the plan;
council has to agree to legal changes to fully implement the Act 47 recovery
plan; and the state must approve some form of tax reform.

Council approved the overall Act 47 recovery plan in June but has been waiting
on follow-up legislation to enforce its details. The follow-ups -- which were
issued to council yesterday and will be introduced Monday -- include new fees
and charges for city services, the elimination of the Engineering and
Construction Department and changes to overtime and vacation rules.

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Tim McNulty can be reached at tmcnulty@post-gazette.com or 412-263-1542.

                       Copyright 2004 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              131 of 305 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                     February 2, 2004 Monday SOONER EDITION

BE OUR VALENTINE

SECTION: LIFESTYLE, Pg.B-2 SEEN

LENGTH: 408 words


Be Mine was the message Friday evening when the River City Brass Band went
wooing with the sweet sounds of its horns. And who could resist? For 22 years
this gem of an orchestra has been making music right here in River City, and a
ton of other places on the road when it tours. Amazingly, not everyone has heard
them, though their local dates are frequent and their venues geographically
diverse. But one concert is enough to melt the most hardened heart - from "In
the Mood" to an excerpt from the opera "Turandot," RCBB swings with style and
substance.

Guests were invited to "Be Our Valentine" at the Duquesne Club and benefit the
orchestra at the same time. RCBB board chair Mike Barbarita and his wife,
Debbie, co-chaired the event with Steve and Bev Elliott, and their respective
companies, Marsh and Mellon Financial, underwrote the evening. It began with
cocktails, hors d'oeuvres and a silent auction and continued with the perfect
winter dinner in the wood-paneled dining room. Cream of mushroom soup, Virginia
Spots and filet mignon and a pretty Valentine dessert. Just when everyone was
warm and toasty, the heat was turned up high with "Boogie Woogie Bugle Boy," the
opening number in a short concert designed to dazzle. Thomas Douglas performed
the vocals, but the highlight of the evening was when music director Denis
Colwell plucked Mike Barbarita from the audience and handed him a whistle
("There's someone other than you playing," Colwell had to remind him).

There was much applauding for cornet player Lou Casini, who received the first
Robert Bernat Award, and interim executive director Dennis Huber, who just
turned the reins over to new executive director Kweilin Nassar. Among those
ogling a diamond bracelet donated by Kishor Pokhara of Global Diamonds were
supporters like board vice-chair Ed Nicholson with Kathie, Peter and Kathy
Berner, Gary and Connie Brandenberger, Faye Simpson, Ralph and Ruth Anne Papa,
Mark Pasquerilla, Bill and Laura Dawson, John and Kathy Connelly, Brian and
Karen Teaman, Beth Wainwright and Russ Kemmerer, Dennis and Annie Hanna Cestra,
CAPA VP Carolyn Tuminella, Scott and Penny Holden, Herb and Becky Torbin, Randy
and Heather Hillier, Steve and Peggy Snavely, Don and Jennifer Fussilli, state
Rep. Harry and Carol Readshaw, Carol and Mel Rex, Bill and Gayle Simpson, Art
Crivella and Martha Boak, Jim and Jamie Graham, Scott and Patty Barnyak, Melanie
Colwell and many more.

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
MARYLYNN URICCHIO'S SEEN

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: John Heller/Post-Gazette photos: Dennis Huber
 PHOTO: Penny Holden
 PHOTO: Co-chairs Mike and Debbie Barbarita
 PHOTO: Co-chairs Steve and Bev Elliott
 PHOTO: Kweilin Nassar and Denis Colwell
 PHOTO: Connie and Gary Brandenberger

                       Copyright 2004 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              132 of 305 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                   February 15, 2004 Sunday TWO STAR EDITION

THE BEST AND BRIGHTEST ARE RIGHT HERE

SECTION: EDITORIAL, Pg.E-3 OUT AND ABOUT

LENGTH: 369 words


Four outstanding young graduate students at the University of Pittsburgh want to
study in Africa this summer. That brought sunshine to my life on a cold,
uninspiring Pittsburgh morning with chunks of dirty, slippery ice strewing the
streets. I systematically suppress the thought that they want to go to Africa to
find warm weather.

One wants to work in an orphanage in Mozambique. Another wants to find the roots
of man in rural Kenya. A third wants to study the AIDS situation in South
Africa. The fourth wants to examine the South African media.

There is unfortunately only one scholarship up for grabs, offered by the African
Heritage Room Committee of the Nationality Rooms program at the University of
Pittsburgh. I am one member of a panel assigned the task of choosing among them.

The choice is made enormously more difficult and the array of candidates even
more inspiring by the fact that each of them also shows on her resume a record
of service to people of this world, including America, who have not had the
privilege of American higher education that they have had.

One spent two years in the Peace Corps in rural Guinea, one of the poorest
countries on Earth. Another taught high school English in an inner-city
Pittsburgh school. Two worked in community service organizations in Darien, Ga.,
and Bloomfield and Garfield.

We interview them, discuss their relative merits, rank-order them. Each gets at
least one first or second-place vote. The one who wants to bury herself and dig
in a far corner of Kenya -- the ex-Peace Corps volunteer who also speaks fluent
Malinke, a West African language -- wins the prize.

The others may find money for their projects elsewhere. The world will be richer
for all of their future contributions. If they stick to their game plans, one
will be a global health activist, another a teacher and media researcher, a
third a paleoanthropologist and the fourth a writer of creative nonfiction.

Whatever creative nonfiction and paleoanthropology are, these four are
definitely the best and brightest. I will think of them the next time I am
shaking my head over some new piece of young American greed and vanity. They
must outnumber the others.


LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
dsimpson@post-gazette.com

                       Copyright 2004 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              139 of 305 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                     July 25, 2004 Sunday TWO STAR EDITION

BEATING THE MOTIVATIONAL DRUM;
 DRUMMER FOR CHER, OTHERS HOPE TO CRACK INTO THE ELITE RANKS OF MOTIVATIONAL
SPEAKERS

BYLINE: ALANA SEMUELS, PITTSBURGH POST-GAZETTE

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg.C-1

LENGTH: 1389 words


Cher's drummer is standing on a chair in a corporate conference room in
southwestern Pennsylvania.

"I exist!" he shouts.

"I exist!" the audience yells back.

He leaps down from the chair, yelling "Yeeah!" and clapping, muscles bulging
through tank top, wireless headset on his gelled blond hair.

A woman in row three lets out a murmur of excitement, which the crowd drowns
with applause. They have come as far as Wisconsin so that Mark Schulman can
teach them lessons how to succeed in life and in the business world.

Schulman, 42, is on a quest to help everyday Americans by using his "16 years of
global success" in the music industry. And his recent performance near
Bridgeville was a landmark in the Los Angeles resident's storied tour history --
his first corporate gig.

After battling testicular cancer and touring with singers Cher, Stevie Nicks,
Richard Marx and Sheryl Crow and the band Foreigner, Schulman is joining the
thousands of people around the world trying to make it as a motivational
speaker. But in this multibillion-dollar-a-year arena, not even celebrities can
bypass the sometimes tedious chore of breaking into the speaking circuit, which
means Schulman is starting where most others have -- at the bottom.

Tagg Goulet's been there herself. She considers herself an expert on breaking
into motivational speaking based on five years' experience, which led her to
write a "How-to" book on the subject and to found fabjob.com.

She anticipated that Schulman's celebrity status may attract people, but she's
not so sure the corporate market will quickly warm to the drumming that's
pervasive in his seminars. "There are a number of companies whose corporate
culture would be a bit conservative for something like that," she observed.

Goulet recommends that budding speakers get as many gigs as they can, tape
themselves and collect testimonials from satisfied audiences. Eventually,
talented speakers get picked up by speakers bureaus, which, like getting a book
publisher or an agent, is a sign that you have made it big.

But not everyone who follows her 10 simple steps can become the next Anthony
Robbins. "You have to offer something that people want," she said, adding that
helping people profit is the most popular topic.

There is a motivational speaker out there for almost every topic.  The listings
under "Motivational Speaking" on the Web site of the Premier Speakers Bureau
Company reads like a list of characters from a Saturday night live skit.

One woman gives "a Dynamic Seminar on 'Who Moved My Cheese?' " Another
specializes in "Healing Body/Mind/Spirit with Guided Imagery." And then there's
the "World's Only Practicing Clergyman Doing Stand-up Comedy ... Intentionally."

Most beginners barely cover expenses. Goulet's guide lists sample beginner fees,
from $1,000 for a keynote speech to $2,000 for a full-day seminar. Well-known
speakers can charge much more. Former Steeler great Rocky Bleier is in the
$10,000 to $20,000 range, while cycling superstar Lance Armstrong earns more
than $100,000 for a keynote.

Even so, most speakers are not in the business for the money, Goulet insists.
"People speak because they have a burning desire to be heard. They want to make
a difference in the world."

Bleier, who started speaking as a Steeler and extended it into a business upon
retiring, doesn't really like to be considered an expert in "motivational
speaking." To him, just the words alone conjure up images of comedian Chris
Farley and televangelists. He's not out to change the world; he does it to make
money.

Yet with his national stage, Bleier realizes that he reaches people anyway. "I
don't have this great message that I want to get out to people," he said. "But
you do have an impact on people's lives."

He first realized this when a man thanked him for saving his life by pulling him
out of depression with a speech.

Bleier, a Vietnam veteran who was injured in combat but went on to become a key
part of the Steelers' championship teams, said that his experiences overcoming
obstacles and succeeding qualify him to be a motivational speaker, just as
Schulman gained fame by being a member of a band.

But for Schulman to parlay his experiences and become a successful speaker, it
is all about putting on a good show for the audience, Bleier added. He advises
Schulman to "take his dedication and commitment that allowed him to learn licks
and drum rolls, and use that as a prop to talk about those things in life."

For Schulman, the goal is to lend his hand to despondent corporate employees.

Although he formerly gave drum lessons to kids in detention camps and jails, he
thinks a lot of people are simply tired from the daily rigors of life and need a
little pick-me-up in the form of, well, Mark Schulman. "A woman just came up to
me and said she'd been in such a slump and that I helped lift her up to another
level.

"I just want to change the world one by one," he said after his recent two-hour
show. "I can touch people at a greater level here than I can by just going out
and playing drums."

And touch he does, spending much of his time walking through the audience,
kissing middle-age women on the cheek while their miffed husbands look on. He
hugs the men, too, answering their questions about life success with carefully
selected mantras.

"You need to know why you're doing it. 'Why are you doing it?' " he asks a man
who wanted advice about how to maintain his energy level while selling the same
drug supplements year in, and year out.

Schulman hopes to market his philosophy that every company, family, church group
and nuclear unit is essentially a band. And the band's strength depends on each
member playing with all his heart.

"Be a rock star in everything you do!" Schulman periodically shouts, and it is
this rock star theme that he thinks makes his shtick unique. After all, what
other motivational speaker features drum lessons, inspirational stories about
Stevie Nicks, and images of Cher and her dancers clad in futuristic silver space
outfits?

He encourages his audience to believe in themselves, then out of the blue asks,
"... So, you want to hear another song?" Not deterred by the silence from the
audience, Schulman rushes to the drum set, as quick as Cher's sudden
reappearance on the international music scene.

As the loud cracks of his drums echo through an audience of 40, Schulman plays
along to a multimedia presentation, jamming as decades of pop history flash
across the screen, including several scenes of Cher.

That's only appropriate, since it was a performance with Cher at Mellon Arena in
July 2002 that ultimately launched Schulman on his latest career path. Jeff
Wallace, a longtime fan of Schulman's drumming who runs his own marketing
business, e-mailed the drummer beforehand to suggest a lunch.

When the pair met, they hit it off immediately, recalls Wallace, who lives in
South Fayette. "He was talking about how he had been doing these drum clinics
and wanted to take it to another level," said Wallace, who saw the potential
marketing value in the success stories of famous people.

"When he heard my concept and saw that it fit with his concept, we saw a great
plug. And our energy levels were similar -- you know what I mean?" Wallace said.
Since then, Wallace has been devoting much of his time to getting what's called
the Make It Happen tour off the ground.

The tour's first performances were earlier this year at colleges in Los Angeles
and Boise, Idaho. The Bridgeville show, Schulman's first to be sponsored by a
company, Entrenet Nutritionals, was "to motivate our sales force," said Entrenet
president and owner Judy Hannan.  And what did she learn? "Don't let anything
stop you from your goal."

Schulman's gig as Cher's drummer makes his schedule somewhat unpredictable, but
Wallace tries to set up performances where she goes. "Our short-term goal for
the next two years is to break into the corporate market," Wallace said, hoping
that a few big companies sign on so that Schulman can "hit the masses."

They ultimately want to obtain grants from corporations and bring the show to
at-risk youth and schools.  "If the companies are receptive to him and let him
in the door, he can make the lives better of everyone there."


LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Alana Semuels can be reached at asemuels@post-gazette.com or 412-263-1928.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mark Schulman -- "I just want to change the world one by one."

 PHOTO: Cher drummer Mark Schulman bangs away at a recent motivational speaking
seminar.

                       Copyright 2004 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              147 of 305 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                     October 25, 2004 Monday REGION EDITION

FORGET FLORIDA,WE'RE GOING TO MEXICO GROWING NUMBER OF RETIREES HEADINGSOUTH OF
THE BORDER TO LIVE

BYLINE: Seth Sutel The Associated Press

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg.D-17

LENGTH: 930 words


Robert Fulton traveled to Mexico many times during his career in manufacturing
and as a contractor, but never thought of it as a place to retire. Nonetheless,
he and his wife settled in a little village on the shores of Lake Chapala called
Mirasol, where they found a thriving community of retirees, many from the United
States.

After two years, "it's going wonderfully," said Fulton, a 69-year-old native of
DeKalb, Ill.

Fulton said he chose to spend his retirement in Mexico because life there is
less expensive and less complicated than back home. "I never found another place
where I was as comfortable," he said.

The Fultons are part of what some demographers believe could be a growing trend
in migration. While the United States is usually seen as a magnet for young
migrants seeking opportunity, Latin American countries could become an
increasingly popular destination for Americans in coming years as an attractive
place to retire.

Part of the reason is lifestyle -- beaches, warm weather -- but another part is
economics. Many of the more than 70 million baby boomers approaching retirement
age don't have enough money saved for a comfortable retirement in the United
States, but they might be able to move south of the border.

Fulton and his wife bought a house with an indoor pool for far less than it
would cost back home, and live less than an hour from good medical care and
other services in Guadalajara, Mexico's second-largest city. And while some
villagers still get into town on horseback, they can do their shopping at a
nearby Wal-Mart.

But Fulton also acknowledged that moving far away for retirement isn't for
everybody: "It takes a certain kind of person to live outside the United States,
so your personality has to accept certain things. ... If you're really going to
live here and enjoy it, you're going to have to immerse yourself somewhat in the
country."

The areas around Lake Chapala, along with Baja California and the scenic town of
San Miguel de Allende north of Mexico City, have been popular with U.S. retirees
in the past, as have some areas in Central America like Costa Rica and
Guatemala. But migration experts say this trend may be accelerating, especially
as modern communications and transportation make it easier to stay in touch and
come home for visits.

"This is a different type of migration, and there is not much track of it," said
Viviana Rojas, an assistant professor of communications at the University of
Texas at San Antonio who is studying the movement of U.S. retirees to Mexico.
"Usually economic migrations come from a less developed society in search of
social mobility and a better life, but in this case people go there for the
amenities and the weather."

In Ajijic, a town on the shore of Lake Chapala where Rojas collected data on
U.S. retirees, longtime resident Cristina Potters conducts weekly seminars for
people who are considering moving there. Potters, who speaks fluent Spanish,
cautions prospective residents that not having a language ability can be one of
several challenges for a newcomer.

"Most of the retirees who come here have little or no Spanish," Potters said.
"It's an issue, because you can't read the road signs, you can't tell what the
clerk is telling you. It has become two communities here, living side by side
with very little interaction."

It's hard to say exactly how many people have moved from the United States to
Mexico and other Latin American countries for retirement, as the U.S. government
does not keep close track of how many people leave the country or where they go.

But in one indication that more Americans are moving overseas for retirement,
according to figures from the Social Security Administration, the number of
retired workers receiving Social Security benefit checks in other countries has
been rising steadily over the past decade, reaching 242,000 in 2002, up from
188,000 in 1992.

And it's not just Americans who are doing it. Kevin Kinsella, a demographer at
the Census Bureau who specializes in international population aging, said there
is growing evidence that retirees in Europe, for example, are also moving to
warmer climates and cheaper lifestyles in nearby countries.

"You're also seeing people from Germany retiring to Turkey, and people from the
United Kingdom go to places like Malta," Kinsella said. "It's going to be
global."

In addition, many Mexican-born U.S. residents and citizens are likely to
consider retiring in their native country, where they can be closer to family
and live a better lifestyle for less money than they could in the United States.

"These people will continue to migrate because they will want to enjoy the
fruits of the labor in the country they came from, and as they get older and
sick they will seek medical care in their home country," said Alberto Palloni, a
professor of population and health at the University of Wisconsin-Madison.

As for the sun-seeking Americans, Don Bradley, a sociologist at East Carolina
University, predicts these migrants will have an increasing impact on the places
they move to, just as major U.S. cities are being reshaped by growing
populations of people from Latin America.

"There will be pioneers who go first, who have facility in the language and
continue to work down there. Then, the places will eventually become more
hospitable to newcomers," Bradley said. "Some areas in Mexico have morphed such
that retirees can have all their needs met and can be very comfortable. ... The
foreign-ness of Mexico isn't so foreign any more."

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Associated Press
Robert Fulton, a manufacturing and construction retiree, enjoys a walk in Ajijic
on the shores of Lake Chapala in Mexico. He and his wife settled in a little
village on the shores of Lake Chapala called Mirasol, where they found a
thriving community of retirees, many from the United States.

                       Copyright 2004 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              148 of 305 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                   November 13, 2004 Saturday REGION EDITION

BRACING FOR THE BILLS HOMEOWNERS TAKING PREVENTIVE MEASURES TO DEAL WITH
EXPECTED HIGH WINTER HEATING COSTS

BYLINE: Brad Foss The Associated Press

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg.C-10

LENGTH: 487 words


Bob Sadlowski wants to stay warm without going broke this winter and so, with
apologies to home decorating mavens, he's insulating the windows of his home in
Easthampton, Mass., with plastic sheeting.

Similarly motivated, R.J. Moore of Kansas City, Mo., will bundle up indoors
rather than cranking up the thermostat.

Although oil prices have fallen nearly $8 a barrel from their October peak,
homeowners are bracing for sharply higher winter fuel bills. The Energy
Department this week estimated that bills for heating oil customers will be 37
percent higher than last year, while homeowners relying on natural gas can
expect to pay 15 percent more.

The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration is predicting a normal
winter in the Midwest and Northeast, cooler-than-normal temperatures in the
South and Middle Atlantic states and warmer-than-normal conditions throughout
the West.

Unless temperatures are warmer than expected over the next five months, "there
isn't a lot of reason for us to think that prices will fall a lot," said Dave
Costello, an economist at the Energy Information Administration, the statistical
wing of the Energy Department.

And so people such as Sadlowski are taking last-minute steps to make their homes
more energy efficient. "I know it doesn't look good," Sadlowski said about the
plastic around his windows that flaps in the wind. "You have to ask yourself if
you'd rather be paying an extra $100 a month for (heating) oil."

The 33-year-old cook also installed a digital thermostat for more accurate
temperature control and -- in what now looks to be a savvy financial decision --
he locked-in his heating oil costs for the winter at $1.26 a gallon. As of this
week, Massachusetts residents were paying an average of $1.96 a gallon,
according to Energy Department data. The nationwide average for heating oil is
$2.03 per gallon, compared with about $1.39 a gallon a year ago.

The other concern is the high price of crude oil, from which heating oil is
refined. While crude futures prices are down from late October highs above $55 a
barrel -- they closed yesterday at $47.32, they are still about 50 percent above
year ago levels due to surprisingly strong demand, a thin global supply cushion
and market fears about the war in Iraq, labor strife in Nigeria and other
tensions in oil producing nations.

The cost of crude oil accounts for about half the retail price of a gallon of
heating oil. The remainder is due to refining and marketing costs, taxes and
profits.

The strengthening economy has helped push natural gas futures up 50 percent from
a year ago to roughly $7.20 per 1,000 cubic feet. But many brokers say
speculation played an outsized role in the rapid rise of natural gas futures
this fall, since there is plenty of fuel in storage ahead of winter, and they
expect prices may drift down in coming months.

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Denver resident Barbara Vuletich, 78, right, shown with her 85-year-old
friend, Lillian Callender, is concerned about rising natural gas prices but
remains philosophical, too. "It doesn't make sense, but it's not about what you
want," she said "It's what you get."










David Zalubowski/Associated Press

                       Copyright 2004 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              150 of 305 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                          September 30, 2004 Thursday
                                 SOONER EDITION

GREEN TOMATOES ARE ESSENTIAL TO FAMILY'S MINCEMEAT TRADITION

BYLINE: MARLENE PARRISH, PITTSBURGH POST-GAZETTE

SECTION: FOOD; Pg. B-1

LENGTH: 1030 words


The kitchen fills with spicy aromas as the kettle bubbles in Susan Barclay's
modest kitchen in Point Breeze. She is making the family's traditional recipe
for green tomato mincemeat for her holiday pies.

"We have loved this old-fashioned recipe for a long time," says Barclay,
assistant vice president, Mellon Financial Global Cash Management. "My
grandmother, Zetta Townsend Honsaker, made it, and our family seems to think
Grammy found it in a woman's magazine called Pictorial Review many years ago. My
mother, Rebecca Barclay, 81, has made it for at least 20 years. Now the
tradition has passed to me. Last year was the first time I made it myself for my
mother."

Originally, English mincemeat was so named for the very logical reason that it
contained minced meat. This method of preserving meat, or retarding the growth
of bacteria causing spoilage, has continued since the early years, when cooks
first found that meat could be kept for a number of months if it were mixed with
enough spices, suet and sugar. In these days of jarred and prepared mincemeat,
most American mincemeat is made without a scrap of meat or suet. Only the oldest
of recipes still use it, and the mince is almost always made into a pie.

"Our recipe calls for ground meat as a substitution for ground suet and ground
beef," says Barclay, whose heritage is mostly English with a bit of German and
Scottish in the mix. "We put it up in canning jars, and the recipe makes about
nine pints, enough for six pies. You have to be deemed worthy to receive a gift
of our mincemeat -- usually, in the form of a pie since we don't trust anyone
else to make the pie right. It's all about proportion. We use three cups of
mince for each pie because you need to have the right ratio of mince to crust so
that you get the right balance of flavors. If there's too much mince, it's too
sweet."

Barclay uses a Betty Crocker pie crust recipe that uses oil for shortening.
However any crust that bakes up crisp and a bit salty is a good balance to the
sweet-tart flavors of the mincemeat.

"The bakers in my family have a special way of finishing the top crust," says
Barclay, flashing her trademark smile. "My mother says she does it this way
'because it's so easy.' We flute the edge of the bottom pie crust before the
filling is added, then we add the mince. When the top crust is rolled out, we
lay a plate with a smaller diameter than the pie pan on the dough, using it as a
pattern, cut around it with a knife, remove the plate and excess dough leaving a
disk of dough. Then we make two slits in the disk and turn it onto the mince.
The top crust sort of floats on the filling."

Getting from green tomatoes and meat to mincemeat is an easy, three-step deal,
but timing is important. Here's how.

* Buy, prepare and freeze the green tomatoes when they are in the markets.

* Make and cook the mincemeat and store it in sterilized jars some time before
Thanksgiving.

* Make the pies as needed or requested.

When we tested this recipe, we combined steps one and two. It took only two
hours to chop ingredients, cook them and finish the job.

"Mother doesn't give a timetable," says Barclay. "She makes mince whenever she
gets around to it, as long as it's before Thanksgiving. Last year I made it over
Veterans Day weekend, two weeks before. We usually have a jar or two left to
carry over to the next year. We thought last year's pies were the best ever."

GREEN TOMATO MINCEMEAT

3 pounds green tomatoes, 6 to 7 large

1 1/4 pounds ground beef (80 percent lean, 20 percent fat)

3 pounds cored and quartered, but unpeeled, crisp, fall apples, 6 to 7 large

2 pounds (2 boxes) golden seedless raisins

4 pounds (8 cups) light brown sugar

1 cup cider vinegar

2 tablespoons salt

2 tablespoons cinnamon

2 teaspoons cloves

2 teaspoons nutmeg

Prepare the tomatoes: Rinse and core the tomatoes. Cut them into chunks and
transfer them to a food processor fitted with the steel blade. Pulse until
tomatoes are fairly fine but not pureed. Drain in a colander. Transfer to a
saucepan and cover with water. Bring to a boil and simmer hard for 5 minutes.
Drain again. You will have 4 cups of prepared tomatoes. The mixture can be
frozen at this point until ready to use.

Make the mincemeat: In your largest heavy kettle or canning pot, combine the
prepared tomatoes and raw beef. Place the apple sections in the food processor.
Whirl until coarsely chopped and chunky, but not minced. Add them to the kettle.

In a large bowl, combine the raisins, brown sugar, vinegar, salt, cinnamon,
cloves and nutmeg. Mix to combine. Add spice mixture to the kettle and stir.

Place the kettle over medium-high heat. When it comes to the boil that cannot be
stirred down, reduce the heat and cook slowly for 30 to 45 minutes, stirring
occasionally, or until thick. (My canning pot is very wide, and the mince was
thickened at 30 minutes.)

While the kettle remains on very low heat, ladle the mince into sterilized, hot
canning jars. Twist the two-part lids tight to seal. Immediately turn the jars
upside down. When they are cool, turn them right-side up, and store in a cool
place until ready to use.

Makes 9 pints (18 cups) or enough for 6 pies.

Note: To come out even, fill 6 pint jars and 6 half-pint jars.

GREEN TOMATO MINCEMEAT PIE

If you make the pie pastry in advance and freeze, this pie goes together in a
jiffy. Just open jars of mincemeat. Use a metal pie plate, but do not use a
deep-dish pan. Try to save a sliver for breakfast, and serve it warm with melty
cheddar cheese on the side and a mug of coffee as a chaser. It's a perfect mix
of sweet, tart, salt, bitter and umami -- deliciousness.

Pastry for a 2-crust pie

3 cups green tomato mincemeat (1 1/2 pints)

Preheat the oven to 425 degrees. Prepare pie pastry, your own or from a mix.
Line a 9-inch metal pie plate with pastry. Spoon in the mincemeat. Sprinkle 2
teaspoons of water over the filling; this helps to make sure the mince doesn't
get too thick. Moisten the outer edge of the bottom dough with water. Add the
top crust, and press the edges together. Crimp decoratively. Make 2 small
slashes in the top crust.

Bake until the crust is nicely brown and the filling is bubbly, about 40-45
minutes. Makes 1 9-inch pie.

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Marlene Parrish can be reached at mparrish@post-gazette.com or
412-481-1620.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Lake Fong/Post-Gazette: Susan Barclay displays her green tomato
mincemeat pie.
PHOTO: Martha Rial/Post-Gazette: Green tomato mincemeat is jarred for holiday
recipes.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              156 of 305 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                     January 19, 2004 Monday SOONER EDITION

RETREAT OWNER CALLS IT A NIGHT;
 FAYETTE DESTINATION HOSTED SWINGERS, ENRAGED NEIGHBORS

BYLINE: CINDI LASH, PITTSBURGH POST-GAZETTE

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg.A-1

LENGTH: 1329 words


After living for most of his 68 years in Fayette County, Thomas Wajda is tired
of snow and ice and cold winters.

He's tired of cutting grass and wood, of washing linens and tending the pool and
all of the other chores that come with running a 23-acre haven of hospitality.

Most of all, he's tired of some of his neighbors, the folks he calls the
"phonies and hypocrites," who spent years and thousands of dollars fighting to
close him down. Their battles have abated, but still he said he'd rather spend
his retirement in a place where the air and the atmosphere are warmer.

For more than a decade, Wajda has been the owner and innkeeper at the Mountain
Retreat bed and breakfast off Route 40, welcoming a clientele that sought
something more than just an antique four-poster and home-cooked French toast.
Now he's planning to move on, and he's advertising for a buyer to take the place
off his hands.

No more dips in his sapphire in-ground pool or rippling hot tub. No more gazing
out from his rustic hilltop lodge at his spectacular view.

No more nude sunbathing or clothing-optional soirees. No more of the
"alternative lifestyle," adults-only gatherings that neighbors, pastors, county
officials and community groups unsuccessfully fought to stop.

"This was not a bad place for an old bachelor to hang out. But I'm too old to
work anymore," Wajda said. "I'm going to sell my place and I'm going to retire,
honey. I want to move to a warmer climate and die in warmer weather."

Since the early 1990s, the Mountain Retreat has been a destination for
"swingers," or adults who are interested in casual or group sex.

No "For Sale" signs are posted on the rural property in the village of Brier
Hill, east of Brownsville. But advertisements for an adult bed and breakfast
appeared in the Adults-Classified section of the weekly City Paper and on at
least one real estate web site.

Wajda said he hasn't listed the property with a Realtor or advertised in local
daily newspapers because "those guys charge an arm and a leg." He won't say
where else he's advertised, or how he's describing his establishment to
potential buyers, but said he's asking $950,000 for "everything but me, my guns
and my clothing."

Apparently Wajda figures he'll need his clothes once he sells the rolling green
property and its two-story log lodge with sprawling porch and deck. The lodge
houses two spacious bars, paneled lounges with stone fireplaces and large-screen
TVs, a party room, a dance floor with sound system and a workout room with
exercise equipment.

Then there are private bedrooms -- two with air conditioning -- and the
mattress-lined "lovebird lofts," where Wajda's visitors do what they've come
there to do after they've danced and mingled at weekend BYOB "socials" or
weeknight private parties. Couples and single women who visit -- single men are
frowned on -- find the unmarked Mountain Retreat through word of mouth or
through magazines or Web sites aimed at swingers.

Wajda wouldn't discuss current rates, although past ads indicate that he's
charged $40 per couple for weekend-night admission. Some patrons schedule in
advance, while others "just show up," he said. He said he doesn't have a liquor
license, monitors BYOB drinkers, permits no drug use and cautions patrons not to
pressure others into encounters they don't want.

The retreat is zoned for agricultural use, which permits the operation of bed
and breakfast inns. Its zoning or permitted uses will not change if it is sold,
county zoning board head Dave Bukovan said.

That means that a new owner who intends to pick up where Wajda left off is
unlikely to confront the kind of legal opposition he faced after county
residents discovered they'd had a sexually oriented club operating quietly in
their midst.

Wajda grew up in the nearby village of Republic, then attended beautician
school, served in the Army and traveled, but returned to Fayette County to work
in a steel mill and coke yard. He also did construction work, and in the 1970s,
operated a beauty shop in Republic. He never married, saying "I never took that
gamble."

In 1989, Wajda bought property that had been used as growing land for a nursery
from his brother, Francis, for $1, according to county records. He lived quietly
until 1995, when the Uniontown Herald-Standard newspaper informed Fayette County
readers that he'd been operating a club for swingers there for four years.

"A couple of people talked to me about [opening] it," he said. "I thought it
might be kind of interesting. It was."

When zoning officials investigated, they found he'd never obtained the zoning
permit required to operate a business in an agricultural area. So Wajda applied
for a special exception to the county zoning ordinance that would have allowed
him to run a commercial recreational facility -- a status usually granted to
bowling centers, movie theaters, roller rinks, golf courses and other large
facilities.

A coalition of neighbors, ministers and others mobilized to oppose him in court
and at public prayer services, saying his business was an affront to community
standards. That set off a legal fight pitting Wajda against owners of adjacent
properties and the Citizens for Decency and Safety in Southwestern Pennsylvania,
which predicted the club would bring dire social and health problems to the
county.

The dispute raged for nearly three years, bouncing between the county zoning
hearing board, the county Common Pleas Court and the state Commonwealth and
Supreme Courts. Fayette County commissioners also weighed in, revoking a
certificate issued by the zoning board that allowed Wajda to instead run a bed
and breakfast inn.

Finally, in 1998, attorneys for Wajda and the citizens group reached an
agreement that called for him to drop his request for the zoning change that
would allow him to operate a recreational facility. In exchange, the citizens
group dropped its opposition to Wajda operating a bed and breakfast inn.

Wajda also sued the commissioners in U.S. District Court, arguing that they
violated his rights by illegally revoking his B&B certificate. The suit was
later settled in Wajda's favor, although Wajda and his former attorney, James
Carroll, would not disclose the terms.

Since then, Wajda has had no other clashes with his neighbors, and he's tried
hard to maintain the below-the-radar profile that his customers prefer. State
police, who patrol the area, say they've had no calls to the Mountain Retreat
and no reason to go there because patrons may be having sex but aren't breaking
any laws.

Wajda's guests seldom pull into his neighbors' driveways, knock at their doors
by mistake or seek directions at the nearby Jackson Farms convenience store, as
they did in the retreat's early days. That makes it easier for his neighbors to
forget that he's there. Some are resigned, or even amused, by him. Others just
ignore him.

"It's over and done with," said Margaret Defino, who with her husband, Michael,
was among those who opposed Wajda in court. "What happened, happened, and that's
all behind us."

Still, Wajda said he worries that his planned sale might stir up more unwanted
controversy, and he makes no secret of his resentment over his legal troubles
and social status.

He noted that Susanne Teslovich, a former county commissioner who was in office
when his zoning troubles began, was herself later convicted of running an escort
service. Two of the former commissioners who revoked his zoning permit, Sean
Cavanagh and Harry Albert, also attracted public attention for fighting with
each other in the courthouse in 1997.

"All that time and taxpayers' money to close my place? Who's the credit to the
county?" he said. "[The business] did allow me to meet interesting people who
weren't hypocritical and lived their own lives. But I never knew it was going to
cost me all the money it did. If I had, I'd have never gotten into it."

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Cindi Lash can be reached at clash@post-gazette.com or 412-263-1973.

                       Copyright 2004 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              166 of 305 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                      July 8, 2004 Thursday SOONER EDITION

COLORS, SPICES OF HER NATIVE AFRICA WARM HIGHLAND PARK WOMAN'S COOKBOOK

BYLINE: ERVIN DYER, PITTSBURGH POST-GAZETTE

SECTION: FOOD, Pg.D-1

LENGTH: 2250 words


Splashes of sensations greet visitors to Zainabu Kpaka Kallon's Highland Park
home.

Yellow and pink roses, bathed in a bright evening sun, frame the front porch.

The Sierra Leone native opens her door adorned in an ankle-length cotton dress.
The soft patterns -- colored lemon and lime -- and the flowing fabric waltz
along with each of her graceful steps.

A matching traditional West African head wrap covers her hair.

But something else strikes the senses in her quiet, dimly lighted home.

It's the aroma of ginger and peanuts and chicken and coconuts. All waft from the
kitchen to embrace visitors at the door.

Kallon is the author of "Zainabu's African Cookbook," chock-full of recipes and
tales of life and lore from her West African homeland.

When she was born, her country was a British colony. Kallon remembers 1961, when
freedom came, and the drumming and dancing that followed the event.

It was not long after that she began to lust to tell the stories she had lived,
not just those that were imported.

"Growing up, most everything I looked at had nothing to do with African
culture," she says. "I knew more about England and London then I did about my
own country."

That's not true anymore. To dine with Kallon is to sample her recipes and her
stories.

There is peanut brittle as an appetizer; akara, a banana bread; a coconut stew
with chicken and vegetables over a rice dish called Ngeh Ngeh Pahnwah; and a
tall glass of gingerbeer.

The peanut brittle, Kallon recalls, was a treat made when her siblings came home
from boarding school, which was a special time. She made her first peanut
brittle in the 10th grade. The village women would sell it at the markets.

The homemade, non-alcoholic gingerbeer, simply made -- boiled ginger, cloves and
a touch of lemon -- is light and refreshing. For many Sierra Leoneans, it is a
daily treat.

Banana akara, which is rolled into a ball, is like a finger food, much like a
sweet bread. In Sierra Leone, it is made with rice flour; here you can
substitute wheat flour. Kallon's mother would make it for her to eat on the way
to school. It is usually served with chicken or fish.

Ngeh Ngeh Pahnwah is a rice dish that in Sierra Leone is made from the leaf of
the ngeh ngeh plant. It adds an emerald tint to the rice, which is laid next to
cooked white rice to create a checkered display. "For cooks in Sierra Leone,"
says Kallon, "it is important that food is colorful." There is no ngeh ngeh leaf
in the United States. To approximate the same color and taste, cooks must used a
combination of spinach and okra.

"I was fond of this dish at home," says Kallon. "My mom would cook it a lot
because my dad liked it."

A coconut stew is the main dish. It is a jumble of chicken, tomatoes and
mushrooms. It is seasoned with a little lime, rind of lemon, pepper, a little
curry, garlic and sweet peppers.

But Kallon, a gracious woman quick to laugh, takes diners beyond the culinary.
With her, culture is also on the plate.

"Africans love spicy foods," she adds, "because it makes them perspire and has a
cooling effect."

Along with a little ginger, the coconut stew is all boiled in sauce made from
coconut milk.

"I like to make my own coconut milk," says Kallon from the kitchen while
checking the stew. She learned the task as a young girl, when it was a daily
chore.

For cooks brave enough to attempt making their own coconut milk, Kallon offers
tips on picking a fresh coconut. It should have three eyes, or indentations, on
its top. Never pick a moldy one. If it is cracked, it is no good.

To make the milk, you remove the meat and grate it. Add hot water and you're on
your way to coconut milk.


Warm/cool people

There are two kinds of people in the world, according to Kallon: Those from warm
climates who wear cotton, eat fresh fruits and vegetables and sing songs that
inspire dancing, and those from cooler climates who wear wool, eat meat and
potatoes, sweets and desserts and whose songs are cool and calming.

Sierra Leone, a small, sunny nation on the coast of West Africa, is bounded by
Liberia and Guinea. For more than a decade it has been battered by a civil war.
But as a child, for Kallon, it was a sweeter place. Her grandmother's village,
Liiyah, was a paradise of white sands. At night, they fell asleep to the lullaby
of the Atlantic Ocean, falling coconuts and her grandma's soft voice, telling
her stories.

Sierra Leone is a country known -- some say exploited -- for its mineral riches.
Kallon says when it rained heavily, "we could pick diamonds off the ground."

She was born in the Kailahun District near Liberia.

Her father, Ansumana Kallon, a respected village elder, owned coffee and cocoa
orchards. He had three wives and raised his 19 children in a compound amid the
mango and papaya trees.

Sierra Leone in the 1950s was a man's world. Men led the village and owned the
land, and only boys went to school. But Kallon's dad was progressive. He sent
all of his children to school.

From his example, she says, people started sending their girls to school.

Her father is now deceased but she recalls him as someone who "wanted his
children to have opportunity and if they didn't make it, to not blame him for
their lot in life."

All of the children completed high school.

Family gatherings were special because after middle school, all the children
were sent away to boarding schools to complete their educations, so it was
unusual to have everyone home all at once. In the summer and during school
vacations, her dad dispatched them to the orchards to harvest.

Kallon was raised a Muslim, but influenced by her school leaders, she became a
Methodist. After two years in Bible school, she studied to be a midwife,
teaching nutrition, sewing, cooking and Christian living to village people. She
sometimes walked 20 to 30 miles a day to share with women.

In the mid-1960s, she came to America as part of a program to expand Methodists'
understandings of other cultures.

She soon found her way to the University of Wisconsin, where she was a nursing
student. Trying to escape the cold weather, she took the road to Pittsburgh,
where she finished her studies and became a registered nurse.

There is a happy ending, but there were bumps along the way.

America's food culture was difficult to bridge. The concept of fast food was
unappealing and, she believes, puts the health of children in jeopardy.

"When I cook, I like to know what's in the food. I don't like to feel like I'm
going into a lab," she chuckles.

For busy families, she admonishes: "Get a Crock-Pot."

Kallon likes to remind readers that the African diet, rich in nuts, vegetable
and whole grains, is exactly what some physicians are saying people should eat
more of today.

Her early efforts to re-create her African dishes in America were trying. In
some communities, most people didn't even know what a mango was.

"Now you can get many things," she adds, including tilapia or ngokah, a fish
abundant in the Nile.

In Pittsburgh Kallon bore her children, a son and a daughter.

When they were toddlers, she was told her son's speech problems would make it
difficult to speak two languages. So, the family gave up speaking Mende, her
indigenous language. She regrets the decision.

Some of Kallon's fondest remembrances are of gathering in the village and
hearing the interplay of languages. Most people spoke several, she says, and
within a conversation would easy float between languages. Her son, because he
did not grow up speaking Mende, struggles to pronounce his mother's middle name.

"I've learned it is important to tell our stories," says Kallon, who dedicates
her book to black women around the world. "No one story is better than the
others, but we must tell our stories through our own eyes."

"Zainabu's African Cookbook: With Food and Stories," $14.95, can be found at
local Barnes & Noble and B. Dalton stores, Amazon.com, and Kaufmann's 9th Floor,
Downtown. Kallon will sign books at Bradley's Bookstore, Station Square, from 11
a.m. to 3 p.m. tomorrow.


BANANA AKARA

In Africa, banana akara is made with bananas and kpangula rice flour. Whole
wheat flour is used in this dish because it is readily available. It turns out
that the result is a better quality akara in appearance and taste. As you know,
whole wheat flour is more nutritious than rice flour, an extra bonus.

3 medium ripe bananas, mashed (about 1 1/2 cups)

2 2/3 cups or more whole wheat flour

1/3 cup white flour

2 teaspoons baking soda

1 large egg

3/4 cup or more water

Fresh ginger, chopped, to taste

3/4 cup sugar or to taste

1 teaspoon salt or to taste

Oil of choice for deep frying

Put all ingredients, except oil, in a mixing bowl. Mix well to the consistency
of a creamy, pouring batter (adding a little more water or flour as needed).

Heat oil (about 3 inches deep) to 375 degrees in a skillet.

Put batter by spoonfuls in hot oil and fry until golden. (If the ratio of liquid
to dry ingredients is right, each akara will turn itself when it is ready to
turn.) Remove from hot oil, drain well, and serve hot.

Akara can be served like a bread, by placing in a basket lined with a towel and
served hot. Or it can be served like a sweet; just combine 1/2 cup
confectioners' sugar, cinnamon to taste and powdered ginger in bowl and mix
well. Sprinkle each akara with the mixture and serve.

"Zainabu's African Cookbook"

/ CHICKEN AND COCONUT SAUCE

1 1/2 pounds to 2 pounds of chicken, cut into bite-size pieces

1 white onion, chopped

5 white mushrooms, sliced

1 sweet bell pepper, chopped

Fresh hot peppers, chopped to taste

2 cloves of garlic, crushed

3 3/4 cups coconut milk

2 cups uncooked white rice (long or short grain)

Fresh ginger, chopped, to taste

Salt to taste

Sliced fresh coconuts for garnishing

Chopped fresh parsley for garnishing

Saute chopped chicken, onion, mushrooms, peppers and garlic in a skillet.

Put coconut milk in a heavy pot and bring to a boil over medium heat (do not
allow to boil over.)

With a wooden spoon, stir in rice and bring to an active boil. Add the chicken
and the remainder of the ingredients, except coconut slices and parsley. When it
comes to a good boil, reduce heat, cover and cook until rice is done.

Arrange rice and chicken in a serving platter and put some sauce over it.
Garnish with coconut slices and chopped parsley in that order.

Serve rest of sauce along with rice and chicken.

"Zainabu's African Cookbook"

/ NGEH NGEH PAHNWAH RICE

(Green Check Rice)

Ngeh ngeh is an African leafy vegetable. When cooked, it is a brilliant green
like spinach and slimy like okra. The Vai women in Liberia and Waajama Mende
women in Sierra Leone enjoy cooking with it. When added to cooked rice, ngeh
ngeh changes it into a bright spinach-green with white specks. If done
correctly, the dish should like a green-white checkerboard. Ngeh ngeh leaves are
not readily available outside of Africa. So, in the United States, okra and
spinach are used. The result is not only good, it is better than the real thing,
because the okra and spinach combined are more nutritious than ngeh ngeh leaves.

Helpful hints: Use frozen spinach and okra; for the rice to mix well with the
sauce, cook firm, not soft, rice.

2 cups uncooked white rice (long or short grain)

3 1/2 cups water

Bring water to a boil in a heavy, rice-cooking pot over medium heat.

Add rice and mix. Increase heat and bring water to a quick boil.

With a wooden spoon, mix, cover and cook on reduced heat until rice is done.

Remove all rice from pot and put into a mixing bowl, then add sauce (recipe
follows) and mix.

"Zainabu's African Cookbook"


NGEH NGEH PANHWAH SAUCE

8 frozen okra

1/2 cup water

1/2 pound frozen spinach (thaw before use)

Pinch of baking soda

In a pot, bring water to a boil over medium heat. Add okra to water. Cover and
cook 10 to 14 minutes or until okra is tender. Drain all of the water except
about 1/4 cup.

Mix spinach and baking soda. Add spinach to cooked okra. Mix and cook on low
heat for 8 to 10 minutes.

Remove from heat and put in a mixing bowl. Mix with a wooden spoon into a smooth
sauce or plasas (Creole for sauce) while it is still warm.

Add mixture a spoonful at a time to rice that is already in a mixing bowl, and
mix. Repeat until you get a desired shade of green.

"Zainabu's African Cookbook"

/ SPICY GINGERBEER

Gingerbeer can be served ice cold on a hot day or boiling hot on a cold day. One
may double the recipe or make a fraction as desired.

1/4 pound fresh ginger (1 large piece)

8 to 10 cups water

5 whole cloves

Fresh juice of 2 lemons or to taste

Sugar to taste

Wash ginger and cut it into smaller portions without removing skin. Crush it in
a blender. Add 2 cups water.

Put mixture in a pot and add cloves and water. Bring to a boil over medium heat,
uncovered. Stir and cook over low heat for 10 minutes, making sure mixture does
not boil over.

Stir in lemon juice and sugar and cook 3 to 5 more minutes. Turn off heat and
allow to cool while on stove. Run mixture through a strainer that is lined with
two layers of clean cheesecloth. Return cloves to liquid and serve cold, hot or
at room temperature. You may also reheat and serve hot.

Note: Spicy gingerbeer mixed with fruit juices makes a refreshing and delightful
punch. Use a 50-50 ratio.

"Zainabu's African Cookbook"


LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ervin Dyer can be reached at edyer@post-gazette.com or 412-263-1410.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: John Heller/Post-Gazette: Zainabu Kpaka Kallon arranges a
platter of Green Check Rice.

                       Copyright 2004 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              170 of 305 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                     August 10, 2004 Tuesday SOONER EDITION

FAIR TELECOM PRICING NEEDED

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg.C-16 LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 199 words


The piece, "Varied, Changing Telecommunications Industry Needs No FCC
Engineering" on July 20, missed the boat where the status of competition in
Pennsylvania is concerned.

Competition is growing at a snail's pace and now faces complete elimination with
the dissolution of the Telecommunications Act of 1996. If the industry is to
move toward a "market-oriented telecommunications policy" as the author
suggests, all players need to be willing to initiate fair and pro-competitive
pricing. This hasn't been the case in the past 10 years with the ever-litigious
Verizon, and there are no indications that anything will change in the future.

Jobs have been lost and the telecommunications industry has suffered, but not at
the hand of regulation. Rather, mixed messages from Washington have allowed a
telephone monopoly to grow larger at the expense of ratepayers.

Indeed, the climate surrounding telecommunications choice in Pennsylvania is
ripe for change. Let's hope that regulators are serious about making sure
Pennsylvanians are able to benefit from real telephone choice, real competitive
pricing and real access to technology that isn't segregated by geographic
location.


LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2004 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              173 of 305 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                   September 2, 2004 Thursday SOONER EDITION

PITT TO OFFER SAME-SEX HEALTH BENEFITS

BYLINE: BILL SCHACKNER, PITTSBURGH POST-GAZETTE

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg.A-1

LENGTH: 1016 words


The University of Pittsburgh will offer health benefits to domestic partners of
gay and heterosexual employees starting in January under a policy change hailed
yesterday as a major breakthrough in an eight-year legal fight.

Pitt said the decision, announced yesterday, was not influenced by a 1996
lawsuit filed by seven gay and lesbian employees claiming discrimination.
Rather, it was the result of competitive pressures, given how many employers now
provide the benefit, including most elite research campuses with which Pitt vies
for faculty and staff.

Pitt Chancellor Mark Nordenberg disclosed the change in a campus-wide memo
yesterday afternoon. Though it's unclear how conservative state legislators who
staunchly oppose the benefit may react, the decision drew immediate praise from
the plaintiffs and their lawyers, as well as from faculty and students who waged
years of lobbying for the benefit, including protests and a hunger strike.

It also drew support from Gov. Ed Rendell, a Democrat. A spokesman has said
Rendell would not support any legislation punishing a university for enacting
such a benefit.

"It's a great day for civil rights and a great day for human rights at the
University of Pittsburgh," said Bruce Venarde, 41, associate chair of Pitt's
history department and one of seven plaintiffs in the suit, who was on the phone
for much of yesterday afternoon. "The first call, of course, was to my partner."

Last year, Temple University became the state's first public university to offer
the benefit. Under a pact with union workers under, gay couples will pay the
premiums themselves. Penn State University said a private employee assistance
fund endowed by an anonymous donor has allowed a number of its employees to sign
up for domestic partner benefits.

Temple's decision to offer domestic partner benefits was criticized at the time
by Reps Daryl Metcalfe, R-Cranberry, and Jeff Coleman, R-Apollo, neither of whom
could be reached yesterday. Both had suggested the move could cost Temple state
funding.

"I think people view a move such as Temple's as a move toward allowing same sex
marriages," Coleman said at the time.

Yesterday, state Rep. Jake Wheatley, D-Hill District, offered a sharply
different view. "The decision is a strong statement by the university that it
respects the rights of all of its employees."

In his memo, Nordenberg said Pitt will be the first of Pennsylvania's
state-related universities to subsidize the benefit. He pointed to the rapidly
changing employment climate in which Pitt must operate.

"Within the Association of American Universities, our principal peer group,
nearly 80 percent of the members now offer domestic partner benefits,"
Nordenberg wrote. "This includes all of the private AAU universities and, in
sharp contrast to the situation that existed just a few years ago, a majority of
the public AAU universities."

Nationwide, 179 university campuses offered domestic partner benefits as of last
year, up from 57 when the lawsuit against Pitt was filed, reported the Human
Rights Campaign, a Washington, D.C.-based gay rights group. During the same
period, the number of employers offering domestic partner benefits grew from 315
to 5,721.

Nordenberg said those employers include two-thirds of the Fortune 100 companies
and, in Pittsburgh, such names as Bayer, Mellon, PNC, Carnegie Mellon
University, the Carnegie Museums, Chatham College, the city of Pittsburgh, WQED
and major law firms.

Pitt employees can sign up for coverage during an enrollment period to be
announced this fall and must sign an affidavit of domestic partnership,
Nordenberg wrote. Pitt defines that as "a committed and sustained relationship
between two adults" characterized in such ways as intermingling of financial
resources and responsibilities, including joint ownership of residential
property and designation of a partner as principal beneficiary of a life
insurance policy or will.

"Eligible Pitt employees choosing these benefits will share the additional
premium costs with the university on the same apportioned basis as employees
choosing coverage for a spouse," Nordenberg wrote.

Officials with the American Civil Liberties Union, who represent plaintiffs in
the Pitt lawsuit, plan to hold an 11 a.m. news conference today outside Pitt's
Cathedral of Learning in Oakland that is likely to include discussion of whether
the case needs to continue or will be dropped.

"In our euphoria, we haven't had a chance to sit down and talk to our clients,"
said Witold Walczak, litigation director for the ACLU's Pittsburgh chapter. "Any
way you slice it, it's a marvelous development. It's not only good for our
plaintiffs, it's good for the university.

"To say the case is over would be premature," Walczak said.

Pitt spokesman Robert Hill said it is not clear how many of the university's
12,000 employees might seek the benefit. He reiterated Pitt's position that it
never discriminated, but he added: "We believe the marketplace does cry out for
us to be in step by offering the benefit."

The lawsuit, which spawned a challenge to Pittsburgh's gay rights law, has been
closely followed by gay-rights groups across Pennsylvania. It was first filed in
1996 before the Pittsburgh Commission on Human Rights on behalf of Deborah
Henson, a former legal writing instructor who said she was wrongly denied the
benefit for her partner.

That commission found probable cause that Pitt had discriminated, but in a pair
of rulings, including one in January, Allegheny County Common Pleas Judge Robert
Gallo enjoined the commission from hearing the case, saying he found no evidence
that Pitt intentionally discriminated.

He did not address Pitt's challenge to the validity of Pittsburgh's gay rights
law itself, a move that triggered campus protests and criticism from gay rights
groups when Pitt first raised it in 1998.

Christie Hudson, a graduate student and Pitt employee who took part in that
protest, called yesterday's development remarkable, if a long time in coming.
"I'm thrilled," she said.

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Bill Schackner can be reached at bschackner@post-gazette.com or 412-263-1977.

                       Copyright 2004 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              180 of 305 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                    February 24, 2004 Tuesday SOONER EDITION

FREDERICK MORGAN;
 POET AND EDITOR OF PRESTIGIOUS HUDSON REVIEW

BYLINE: ROBERT D. MCFADDEN, THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: OBITUARY, Pg.B-4

LENGTH: 629 words


Frederick Morgan, a founder and for 55 years the editor of The Hudson Review,
one of the nation's most prestigious literary journals, and the author of more
than a dozen books of poetry, died Friday in New York City hospital. He was 81
and lived in Manhattan.

The cause was respiratory failure, said his wife, Paula Deitz, who continues as
editor of the quarterly. Mr. Morgan had suffered from a blood disease for four
years and contracted pneumonia six weeks ago, but continued to edit manuscripts
from his hospital bed in recent days, Deitz said.

In 1948, in an era when many educated people knew the classics, recited poetry
from memory and dined on literature, music and art, Mr. Morgan and two other
Princeton graduates founded a magazine to publish established and unknown
writers, review books and cover news of music, theater, dance and the visual
arts.

The magazine, The Hudson Review, had no academic affiliation, political ideology
or backing beyond its founders' bank accounts. But Mr. Morgan and his partners,
Joseph Bennett and William Arrowsmith, had eclectic tastes and were willing to
experiment. The first issue featured an essay by R.P. Blackmur on Dostoyevsky
and poetry by Wallace Stevens and E. E. Cummings.

In 1950, Mr. Morgan, to the dismay of many colleagues, visited the poet Ezra
Pound in a mental hospital, where he had been confined after being accused of
treason for broadcasting propaganda for Mussolini during World War II. At
Pound's urging, Mr. Morgan began to publish more international literature and
translations.

Thomas Mann and John Dos Passos and the early work of the poets A.R. Ammons and
W.S. Merwin and the novelists Joyce Carol Oates and Herbert Gold appeared in the
review. Over the decades, it evolved with the literary climate, publishing
Robert Graves, T.S. Eliot, Anthony Hecht, Sylvia Plath, Theodore Roethke, Dylan
Thomas, Eudora Welty and other formidable writers and poets of the 20th century.

While circulation never climbed much over 4,000, the magazine survived on
advertising, corporate and government grants, and private contributions, Deitz
said. Mr. Morgan, too, survived as editor for 55 years. Arrowsmith left around
1960 and Bennett in 1966.

Besides editing the review, Mr. Morgan began writing poetry at the age of 50.
His first volume, "A Book of Change," grew out of his attempts to deal with
tragedies in his life. His first wife, Constance Canfield, died at the age of
40, leaving him to care for their six children. His second marriage, to Rose
Fillmore, ended in divorce, and his oldest son committed suicide in 1968.

A dozen volumes followed "A Book of Change," including "Poems: New and
Selected," in 1987, and "The One Abiding" (Story Line Press), which appeared
last year.

"Poems for Paula," in 1995, was a paean to his third wife, a critic of art and
architecture who joined the review in 1967, became associate editor in 1976 and
stepped up to editor in 1998, when Mr. Morgan relinquished day-to-day duties and
took the title founding editor.

Walking from his book-lined apartment on the Upper East Side to his
manuscript-cluttered office in Midtown, Morgan seemed to step out of another
century with his tweed overcoat, beret and walking stick. He was tall and
baldish, with a nimbus of white hair and a gentle face lined with literary
decisions. His voice was soft but took on power in a poetry reading or a
discussion of literary merits.

Mr. Morgan was the editor of two anthologies of works originally published in
the review, "The Modern Image" (Norton, 1965) and "The Hudson Review Anthology"
(Vintage Books, 1961). His own poetry appeared in many periodicals, and he often
gave readings at museums, universities, churches, poetry societies and other
forums.

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2004 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              199 of 305 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                            October 31, 2004 Sunday
                               FIVE STAR EDITION

MAUNA KEA HOTEL IS TOPS IN BIG ISLAND LUXURY

BYLINE: Eric Noland, Los Angeles Daily News

SECTION: TRAVEL; Pg. K-1

LENGTH: 1868 words


This might have been Rockefeller's perspective 44 years ago as he lounged
chest-deep in these warm, aquamarine waters of Kaunaoa Bay, gazing east.

What he saw was a desolate hillside of lava rock, studded with scrubby kiawe
bushes, and a snow-capped volcanic peak soaring in the distance. What he
envisioned was a secluded resort of understated elegance, one that blended
easily with an environment of perpetual sunshine and gentle trade winds.

The Rockefeller in this case was Laurance S., one of five grandsons of oil
tycoon John D. Rockefeller. Laurance died in July at age 94, but a glimmering
jewel of his legacy is the Mauna Kea Beach Hotel, which set the standard for the
many Hawaii luxury resorts that would follow.

Rockefeller certainly chose well for the site. Kaunaoa is one of the most
alluring crescents of creamy sand that you'll find in the islands, and it is
punctuated at both ends by black-lava points. Weather instruments on this
northwest coast of the Big Island routinely log a mere 7 inches of rain per
year, with 245 sunny days and the mildest of breezes.

The Mauna Kea Beach Hotel will celebrate its 40th anniversary next year, and
although competing resorts now string south along the Kohala Coast like puka
shells in a bracelet, it still maintains a marvelous sense of seclusion. Worn to
a frazzle by your job? You'll feel as if you've gotten far away from it here.

Rockefeller was enchanted by the climate and culture of the South Pacific and
specified that his hotel showcase both.

The outside is invited in here. The lobby is entirely open-air (though there is
a motorized skylight if the weather gets inclement). All guest rooms open onto
an atrium, and doors are composed of wooden louvers, so that breezes can vent
through freely. Many of the dining and bar options are on airy terraces.

The hotel also brims with Asian and Pacific art, much of it from the ancient
world. There are more than 1,600 works in all, displayed throughout the grounds.
Take a casual stroll in search of morning coffee and you might find your
attention repeatedly diverted by a dragon statue from Thailand, a pink-granite
Buddha from India or a vivid quilt from Hawaii.

The works are not labeled, "because Rockefeller felt you wouldn't have
identifying cards next to objects in your home, so he didn't want them here,"
said Patti Cook, who leads an art tour of the hotel every Thursday morning. (A
brochure for a self-guided tour is also available free at the front desk.)

The art is simply incorporated into the decor -- to the extent that it can
become an afterthought. Walking down a hallway one afternoon, I noticed that a
housekeeper had leaned a mop against a wood-carved New Guinean canoe paddle
displayed on a wall.

Simplicity might be among the Mauna Kea Beach Hotel's greatest strengths. This
310-room resort is at the top end of the Hawaiian scale -- make no mistake about
that -- but without ostentation.

For example, you won't find an artificial jungle with imported plants, tumbling
waterfalls, leaping dolphin sculptures and man-made, sand-bottom lagoons --
components that are de rigueur at Hawaii's newer luxury hotels. Here there are
just some ponds and palms in the atrium, a small terrace swimming pool, a grassy
expanse in front of a newer wing ... and that beach.

This is where the guests inevitably gravitate. The water is shallow for a good
distance offshore, allowing for waist-deep wading in clear, warm water that is
placid most of the year. (It can get a little rough in the dead of winter.) The
snorkeling is decent at both ends of the crescent. Food and bar service is
available at the edge of the sand. And the umbrella-shaded loungers on the beach
are ideal for getting lost in a novel.

Guests stretch out here on bright-orange towels.

That's right. A tangerine orange so intense it will hurt your eyes. Remember
that the Mauna Kea Beach Hotel opened in 1965, an era when housewives yearned
for Formica kitchen counter tops in such brilliant hues. The shade of orange has
since become an eccentric trademark, and it fairly glows from the hotel's
plumeria logo, the elevator doors and the complimentary flip-flops in the rooms.

The hotel's loyal following wouldn't have it any other way.

"If we change the slightest thing, we have people who tell us about it," said
spokeswoman Aven Wright-McIntosh over breakfast one morning.

She cited the 18 months of renovations undertaken 10 years ago, during which the
hotel was shut down for upgrades in plumbing, electrical, air conditioning and
disabled access. "Afterward," Wright-McIntosh said, "we decided to update the
orange. We changed the beach towels to a beautiful teal blue. Guests came back
and said, 'What have you done?!' "

The orange returned.

Some changes have been inevitable through the years, though.

Rockefeller specified that the rooms not be equipped with televisions or radios.
They were added eventually, along with CD players. Ours even came with a CD of
gentle Hawaiian music. We enjoyed it so much, we inquired about buying it when
we checked out but were disappointed to learn it wasn't available.

Rockefeller also abhorred air conditioning and didn't want it in the rooms, but
those breezes can die out at times, and he relented to allow air conditioning in
the original construction. We never turned ours on, though, and found that the
louvered door, the screened lanai and the ceiling fan ensured that the room
stayed pleasantly cool.

Our room, though 1960s-small, was comfortable without a hint of opulence. The
floor was of sandstone-type tile, such that you didn't think twice about walking
in with a wet bathing suit. We also appreciated a small refrigerator, a room
safe, a bathroom of marble and granite surfaces, Aveda soap and toiletries,
plush Irish-cotton bath towels, lightweight robes -- and even those
bright-orange flip-flops.

Just inside the double doors of the lanai were two padded wicker chairs facing
the bay below. In humpback whale season (roughly Christmas to Easter), this
would be a great spot to settle in with a pair of binoculars.

There aren't a lot of signs on the grounds of the Mauna Kea Beach Hotel -- by
design. It is hoped that guests will amble here and there, making little
discoveries. And indeed, there's much to experience, including:

* Golf. At the hotel's inception, the legendary Robert Trent Jones Sr. was
commissioned to carve an 18-hole championship course out of a lava field.
According to Cathey Tarleton, the Mauna Kea's de facto historian, Jones crushed
some of the porous aa lava (meaning "rough lava" in Hawaiian) with a hammer and
determined that it would make a rich soil base. Then he configured the course
along the natural contours of the land, and the result was a beautiful and
challenging layout that plays to more than 7,000 yards.

The signature hole is No. 3, which requires players to drive their tee shots
over an ocean inlet that bites deeply into the edge of the course. It's 210
yards from the black tees -- and over that water, it looks like 350.

* Tennis. Hawaii's newer resorts shunt their tennis courts off to a
less-than-prime location, atop the parking structure, perhaps. But tennis was a
big deal in the 1960s, and the Mauna Kea's 13 courts are literally strung along
a small bluff that overlooks the ocean. The view is so stunning that you'll have
difficulty concentrating on the ball during a serve.

* Luau. This is the rare luau program that includes Hawaii's ancient hula -- in
which the dance is accompanied only by chants and drums, not the steel guitars
and "Little Brown Gal" songs that would be introduced by immigrants. Those
hapahaole songs do make an appearance later in the show, along with other
elements of the standard hotel luau: Tahitian boogie numbers, a Samoan fire
dance and the requisite audience participation.

The setting is divine -- on a point overlooking the Pacific, lit primarily by
tiki torches. And the array of food, presented in a buffet, is overwhelming.
There is kalua pig, of course, but also dishes that reflect the diet
sensibilities of today: a very good kalua turkey, two kinds of fresh island fish
and a lot of fresh fruit, vegetables and salads. Desserts showcase such tropical
ingredients as guava, lillikoi, ginger, macadamia nuts, coconut and bananas.

* Batik. Thai curries are the specialty of chefs Piet Wigmans and Robert Suenaga
at the Mauna Kea Beach Hotel's fine-dining restaurant, housed in a terraced,
romantically lit room with windows all around. But it seems a sacrilege to come
to Hawaii and not partake regularly of the bounty of local fish. The kitchen
scored nicely in this category, too, offering extensive seafood selections, from
starters to main courses. We chose well with a Pacific red snapper with Kona
mushrooms and lobster ragout -- savory accents for a cut of fish that can be
bland on its own.

The menu also featured some tasty local greens, and the wine list was a pleasant
surprise, offering a number of reasonably priced bottles. In a corner of the
room, a duo quietly played pop standards on piano and upright bass, setting a
sultry mood.

* Copper Bar. The strum of guitars and the lilting harmony of Hawaiian voices
reached us from the Promenade level each afternoon of our stay, piquing our
curiosity, but our timing was always off. We were rushing off to a prior
engagement, or savoring an end-of-the-day swim in the ocean. Finally, on our
last evening, we settled into the open-air Copper Bar for some music and
refreshment.

No wonder this is one of the most popular traditions of the Mauna Kea Beach
Hotel.

The slack-key music begins at 5:30, and the gentle melodies are calming at day's
end. Shortly, a hula dancer began to perform. But this was no dose of Hawaiian
kitsch. The dancer wore a long, white dress and moved elegantly across the shale
paving stones.

We sipped mai tais and nibbled shrimp potstickers. We sat hypnotized by the view
across Kaunaoa Bay. The ocean waved back with a soft breeze. The sun dipped into
the water behind a black lava point.

It was a moment fit for a Rockefeller.

IF YOU GO: Mauna Kea Beach Hotel

* GETTING THERE:

The Mauna Kea Beach Hotel is a 24-mile drive north of the Big Island's Kona
International Airport on the Queen Kaahumanu Highway (No. 19). There are no
signs on the highway alerting you that the hotel is coming up in a half-mile or
so. There is not even a highway sign telling you where to turn. There is just a
heiau-shaped rock cairn with the words "Mauna Kea" -- it's such an institution
here, it warrants no further identification. The hotel is a 55-mile drive from
Hilo International Airport around the north side of the island on Highway 19.

* ACCOMMODATIONS:

Published rates from $360 per night, though a number of packages are available.
With the Splash Package, for example, the nightly rate of $360 includes a daily
credit of $100 toward golf, tennis, dining or spa treatments -- you effectively
get the room for $260. The Mauna Kea Beach Hotel's sister resort, the Hapuna
Beach Prince Hotel, is one cove away to the south, and all 350 of its rooms
feature ocean views. Rates from $360. Guests of either hotel have privileges at
the other.

* INFORMATION:

1-808-882-7222; www.princeresortshawaii.com. Reservations: 1-800-882-6060.

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Christopher Reynolds/Los Angeles Times: The Mauna Kea Beach
Hotel, which set the standard for the many luxury resorts that would follow in
Hawaii, will celebrate its 40th anniversary next year.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              200 of 305 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                   October 13, 2004 Wednesday SOONER EDITION

SUBARU MODELS GET RAVE REVIEWS

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg.F-9

LENGTH: 582 words


You know that things have changed for Subaru when performance-minded car
magazines are taking notice.

Not that Subarus weren't good cars. Quite the contrary. They always have been
durable, rugged cars with a reputation for being great winter rides.  But few
thought of them as sporty rides.

From Car and Driver to Road & Track, the buff magazines have been raving about
the new 2005 Subaru Legacy and Subaru Outback.

Anxious to see what all the fuss was about, I put in several hours behind the
wheel. In fact, these Subarus unlike any that you have driven before. They are
beautiful, fast and are great handlers around corners and curves.

My test car was a 2005 2.5 Legacy GT sedan powered by a 250 horsepower
inter-cooled, turbocharged 2.5 liter "boxer" engine, which will rocket you to 60
in less than six seconds flat. That's BMW territory.

Response was instantaneous, and it cornered flat and predictably under all
circumstances. Even the burbling of the exhaust system told me I was driving a
sporty sedan. All in all, I found little to criticize on the new Legacy other
than the fact that better tires are needed for true high-performance driving--
which the Legacy GT certainly encourages.

All that power is backed up by a new five-speed electronically controlled
automatic that allows you to shift manually, or you can also get a manual
transmission. Front seat side impact air bags and side curtain air bags are
standard equipment for all models, and dual stage front air bags also are
standard equipment.

As for the interior, the gauges have the LED lighting that gives a beautiful
glow. The controls are easy to decipher and operate and there's more than
adequate room.

Prices for the Legacy start at $20,995 for the 2.5 i, $24,445 for the 2.5 i
Limited, $25,995 for the 2.5 GT and $28,495 for the 2.5 GT Limited. Fuel economy
ratings range between 19 and 30 miles per gallon in the city and 25 to 30 on the
highway, depending on power train and model.

The Outback also got a complete overhaul, and appears headed upmarket.  The
interior design, particularly in the L.L. Bean model, is quite classy.  The
grade of leather, contrasting shades of the materials, the lavishness of the
wood trims and brushed aluminum accents look terrific.

The new Outback has all of the pluses of the Legacy, plus it has additional
ground clearance for better off-the-road performance, up to 8.4 inches for all
but the 2.5 XT models, which have 8.7 inches of clearance.

There are several models to choose from including the Outback 3.0 R sedan, the
3.0 R L.L. Bean Edition, the 3.0 R VDC Limited Wagon, the Outback 2.5 i and the
2.5 i Limited Wagon.

Standard features on the Outback include eight-way power driver's seat, an
All-Weather package with 4-stage heated front seats, heated exterior mirrors and
windshield wiper de-icer, and automatic climate control system.. The Limited and
3.0 R models have leather trimmed upholstery and a moon roof.

Prices for the Outback start at $23,995 for the Outback 2.5 i to $32,195 for the
3.0 R LL Bean Edition version. Fuel mileage ranges between 19 and 25 in the city
and 24 and 28 miles per gallon on the highway.

Other news for Subaru includes a new L.L. Bean Edition for the Forester small
SUV, with two-tone paint, leather interior, moon roof, alloy wheels, and
self-leveling suspension. Changes on the rest of the line, including the
Impreza, WRX and WRX STi, are minimal.


LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
2005 CAR AND TRUCK BUYERS' GUIDE

                       Copyright 2004 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              202 of 305 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                    December 14, 2004 Tuesday REGION EDITION

GROUP;
HOPES;
TO LASSO;
BREEZES WINDMILLS MULLED;
IN CAMBRIA COUNTY

BYLINE: Paula Reed Ward Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg.B-1

LENGTH: 876 words


EBENSBURG, Pa. -- When a 6,300-acre piece of property was purchased earlier this
year, it's only use was going to be for recreation -- for riders of snowmobiles
and all-terrain vehicles, horses and mountain bikes.

Now, the Rock Run Recreation site in Cambria County may also play host to dozens
of windmills -- generating clean electrical energy -- all while people ride the
trails around them.

"It's all green energy," said Philip J. Herbert, the managing director of
Freedom Wind Energy, the company selected to develop the wind park. "We're
substituting wind for traditional fossil fuels."

The plan was announced yesterday at the Cambria County Courthouse. Though
developers from the Butler company are only in the early stages, the test phase
of the project is about to begin as three 165-foot-tall meteorological towers
are installed at Rock Run, in Patton, over the next several weeks.

Wind data will be collected for a year to learn if their plans are plausible. To
be viable, there must be winds of 14 to 16 miles per hour for at least 32
percent of the year, said Kennan Dandar, one of the founders of Freedom Wind
Energy.

With enough wind, and pending state and county approval, there could be up to
200 wind towers on the property. It would be, by far, the largest wind park in
Pennsylvania.

Across the state, wind towers generate 135 megawatts of electricity. If
developers get state and county approval for a full 200 towers, the park at Rock
Run could generate up to 400 megawatts -- enough electricity to power 135,000
homes, Dandar said.

As with other co-generation plants in the area, the electricity generated from
the wind park would go into a power grid and likely be used by consumers along
the East Coast, in New York, New Jersey and Eastern Pennsylvania.

No matter how many towers are installed, though, the priority at the Rock Run
area will still be recreation, since that's why the property was initially
purchased.

The Cambria County Conservation and Recreation Authority purchased the former
coal-mining site out of bankruptcy for about $1.8 million, with a grant from the
Department of Conservation and Natural Resources. Both of those organizations
will have to approve any wind towers to be built on the land.

Tom Strittmatter, the chairman of the authority, spent years working in power
generation and immediately recognized the value of the property when he toured
it for the ATV park. He saw the ridge lines and figured they'd be perfect for
wind power.

After talking with officials at DCNR, the authority sought proposals from
developers to build a wind park there. They accepted the one from Freedom Wind
Energy.

The amount of greenhouse gases those turbines could reduce would be equivalent
to planting 100,000 acres of trees, Herbert said.

Freedom Wind Energy also is involved in the development of three other projects
-- one in Somerset, another in Cambria County and one in upstate New York.

Financing for the Rock Run project would likely come from a combination of
sources, including private money, foundation dollars and government funds,
Herbert said. Construction on the project won't start for at least two years.

If the developers build 200 towers, that would be a $400 million investment,
said Ron Budash, the executive director of the Cambria County Industrial
Development Corp.

There isn't much tax revenue or job creation associated with the wind park -- it
might result in 40 permanent positions -- Budash said, but there are other
benefits.

A Spanish company that makes blades for windmills, Gamesa, has expressed
interest in establishing a manufacturing plant in Cambria County, which would
bring with it 180 jobs initially, with the potential to grow to 400.

The plant, along with the wind park, could help Cambria County set itself apart
in Pennsylvania.

"If this comes to fruition, this will give us a distinct identity as "Power
Alley," of the Laurel Highlands," he said.

There are 30 towers already on three sites in Somerset County, which was on the
leading edge of the technology a few years ago.

Recently, however, reaction to the wind towers has become mixed, said Nick
Felice, executive director of the Somerset County Economic Development Council.

People are happy to be producing cleaner energy, but now aesthetic issues have
come up -- tall towers blocking the view of the horizons, and the potential
danger to birds. There has been debate on how many towers to allow, and
currently there is no regulation in Somerset County, other than requiring that
the towers are built several hundred feet from any occupied building.

"How many is too many?" Felice asked. "No one seems to know the answer to that
question."

He knows of at least another 50 towers in development in Somerset.

Though some may consider them unsightly, the towers don't generate much in the
way of noise -- a slight hum from the generator, and whoosh when the blades of
the windmill pass the tower, Felice said.

He calls wind towers the "double-bladed sword of capitalism." Environmentalists
want to produce more clean energy, but they don't want to look at the hulking
towers in their community.

"You can't have it both ways."

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Paula Reed Ward can be reached at pward@post-gazette.com or 412-263-1601.

                       Copyright 2004 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              204 of 305 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                   December 18, 2004 Saturday REGION EDITION

RENDELL OPTIMISTIC;
ABOUT TRANSIT HELP GOVERNOR EYES FEES;
TO FUND AGENCIES

BYLINE: Timothy McNulty Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg.A-1

LENGTH: 748 words


Gov. Ed Rendell said he is "guardedly optimistic" he can announce short-term
plans next week to help fund the Port Authority and other mass transit systems
that are facing budget shortfalls, fare increases and service cuts.

But he governor said he has little power, or available funding, to bail out the
agencies for the long term and will need the Legislature's help to solve the
funding shortage.

The Port Authority on Thursday approved a plan to raise its base fare by 25
cents, to $2, and cut service by 12 percent. It warned of further changes in
July if there is no state help.

"There is nothing more important I'm working on, period," Rendell said
yesterday.

He said he would not use federal highway funds to solve the $30 million
shortfall facing Port Authority or the $62 million shortfall facing
Philadelphia's Southeastern Pennsylvania Transportation Authority. Instead he
wants the Legislature to approve new state fees, for obtaining drivers licenses
and other services, to fund the agencies.

Republican state legislators have suggested using the highway funds instead of
raising taxes or fees, but Rendell said the state needs the funds for road and
bridge projects. Using the highway money to hold off mass transit cuts would be
like "throwing it out the window," he said at a news conference in the State
Office Building, Downtown.

Until the Legislature returns to session in late January, Rendell said he could
tap "small pockets" of economic development funds and other discretionary money
to help fund the agencies. But he said he does not have enough appropriations
power to unilaterally stanch the red ink for mass transit systems. He said he
would work with aides over the weekend to develop a funding plan and announce it
next week.

If the transit systems are not funded, Rendell warned, it would hurt
Pennsylvania jobs and ultimately its business and economic development climate.

"This isn't a game. Too much of Harrisburg is about gamesmanship. This is about
people's lives," he said.

Rendell called the press event to talk about his accomplishments during the year
-- such as slot machine legalization, which is supposed to deliver property tax
relief by 2008 -- and about his agenda for 2005. He will deliver his state
budget early next year, which he said would not call for tax increases.

In the next year he will also work on environmental and education initiatives,
and try to cut government spending.

Rendell also commented on US Airways, the city's budget package and Pitt
football.

Noting that Pittsburgh is competing with North Carolina cities to hold on to
maintenance and reservation facilities, he called on officials from North
Carolina and Virginia (where US Airways is headquartered) to band with
Pennsylvania on a fiscal package to help the near-bankrupt airline.

"Nobody in the long run benefits if US Airways goes down," he said.

Rendell also said he would be willing to forward the airline money to help with
debt service at the Pittsburgh and Philadelphia airports, even before $150
million in relief from slot machine revenues is due to start flowing by 2006.
The state would first need commitments that the airline would not shut down
after receiving the relief, he said.

Rendell also said there is "unfinished business" to complete on the city's
budget, which received state-approved payroll and occupation tax increases in
November. The budget package left the city's 50 percent parking tax in place
until 2007, when it will start dropping in 5 percent annual increments. Rendell
said the tax will hurt business.

"If we don't [find a way to lower the tax] we are hamstringing Pittsburgh's
ability to get a fiscal recovery," he said.

The governor said he unsuccessfully tried to get lawmakers to accept a $78
annual occupation tax, instead of the $52 tax ultimately authorized, which he
said would have generated enough revenue to lower the parking tax.

Regarding Pitt, which plays Utah in the Fiesta Bowl Jan. 1, Rendell said he made
a bet with Utah Gov. Olene S. Walker, using travel and tourism as a wager. If
the Panthers win, a Pitt student gets a free trip to Utah and a Utah student
gets a ticket to Pennsylvania if the Utes prevail.

Rendell said he tired of his usual bets, which often involved cheesesteaks. "I'm
sick and tired of betting food," he said.

Rendell plans similar year-end talks with reporters in Harrisburg and
Philadelphia.

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Tim McNulty can be reached at tmcnulty@post-gazette.com or 412-263-1542.

GRAPHIC: Steve Mellon/Post-Gazette
Gov. Ed Rendell, right, laughs with Etna Borough Council President Peter Ramage,
left, and Etna Mayor Tom Rengers shortly after the governor presented checks for
nearly $2 million in disaster assistance yesterday.  Story, Page B-10

                       Copyright 2004 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              216 of 305 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                     January 30, 2004 Friday SOONER EDITION

GUILTY PLEA ENTERED IN 'WRESTLING' DEATH

SECTION: NATIONAL, Pg.A-8 NATIONAL BRIEFS

LENGTH: 586 words


FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla. -- The teen whose life sentence for killing a playmate
stirred national debate over Florida's treatment of juvenile criminals pleaded
guilty to second-degree murder yesterday, finalizing his release after three
years in prison.

Lionel Tate, 16, who was 12 when he beat 6-year-old Tiffany Eunick to death
almost five years ago, declined to speak but offered through his attorney to
meet with the girl's mother.

Tate had claimed he accidentally killed the girl while imitating professional
wrestling moves he had seen on television.

/ Air pollution report

WASHINGTON -- Despite progress in cleaning the air over the past three decades,
the federal government could do more by cracking down on groups of pollutants
and letting companies trade rights to foul the sky, scientific experts said
yesterday.

They also said air quality standards should take into account climate change
whenever possible.

The Environmental Protection Agency, which sponsored the study by a committee of
the National Academy of Sciences, puts the cost of compliance at as much as $30
billion a year.

/ Bounty for e-virus creator

WASHINGTON -- Microsoft Corp. promised yesterday to pay $250,000 to anyone who
helps authorities find and prosecute the author of a fast-spreading computer
virus.

The cash reward is the third so far under a $5 million program Microsoft
announced in early November to help U.S. authorities nab authors of unusually
damaging Internet infections aimed at consumers of the company's software
products.

The "MyDoom.B" virus, spread by e-mail, causes victims to launch an electronic
attack starting Tuesday against Microsoft's own Web site, and prevents victims
from visiting the Web sites of leading antivirus companies. The virus poses as
an authentic-looking error message.

/ Clergy abuse case accord

BOSTON -- The Boston Archdiocese has reached a settlement in one of the most
notorious cases to emerge from its clergy sex abuse crisis -- a priest who
fathered two children with a woman, then fled when she died from an overdose of
drugs.

The amount of the settlement was not disclosed. The Rev. James Foley was sued
for wrongful death and the archdiocese was put on notice that it would be added
to the complaint.

As part of the settlement deal, Cardinal Bernard Law, former archbishop of
Boston, has agreed to meet privately with the woman's four children.  Foley met
them last year.

/ Humiliated teen a hero

CLEARWATER, Fla. -- A high school freshman who walked out of a football
weightlifting session after being called a weakling became a hero minutes later
when he saved a man who had driven into a pond.

Justin Gregorich, 14, was one of three people who jumped into the water
Wednesday to pull Raymond J. Kane from his sinking Lincoln Town Car.

/ Also in the nation

San Diego Mayor Ron Gonzales, head of California's third-largest city, suffered
a mild stroke during his annual state of the city address and was in fair
condition yesterday. Gonzales, 52, stumbled while walking toward a podium
Wednesday night and had difficulty reading a TelePrompTer. Vice Mayor Pat Dando
told the audience of about 5,000 the mayor had fallen ill and the rest of the
program was canceled . . .  A gunman walked into a real estate office in
Seminole, Fla., yesterday and opened fire, killing one person and wounding
another before apparently killing himself. The unidentified gunman was found
dead inside the ERA Professional Realtors office.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2004 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              228 of 305 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                      April 11, 2004 Sunday REGION EDITION

NATIVE TREES;
 A NATURAL FOR YOUR LANDSCAPE

BYLINE: SANDY FEATHER

SECTION: LIFESTYLE, Pg.N-7

LENGTH: 1248 words


Native trees are well adapted to our climate and soils. The fact that they have
evolved with native insects and diseases gives them an edge over non-native
species, providing they're planted on a site that meets their cultural
requirements.

Native trees also provide food and nesting sites for songbirds and small
mammals. Using native species in residential landscapes creates larger corridors
of habitat that help wildlife thrive in spite of increasing urban sprawl. Best
of all, there are a number of native trees that possess outstanding ornamental
characteristics and bring year --round beauty to your yard.

One of the loveliest trees for fall color is the red maple (Acer rubrum). Red
maples tolerate moist, even wet soils that would kill most other trees. Another
common name for them is swamp maple.

The tree also tolerates urban conditions such as compacted clay subsoils. In
their native range, red maples may grow in moist bottom lands as well as in
upland areas. Although fall color ranges from scarlet to golden yellow,
cultivars that reliably color to red are available. 'Red Sunset' and 'Autumn
Flame' are two favorites.

They are also one of the first trees to bloom in late winter or early spring.
Although the flowers are small, they are quite numerous and showy.

The trees perform best in full sun. While they prefer slightly acidic, moist
soils, red maples tolerate a wide range of soil conditions. Slightly acidic soil
does prevent chlorosis or leaf yellowing. The trees grow 40 to 60 feet tall with
a comparable or slightly smaller spread. The red maple is an excellent shade
tree.

Another great shade tree for suburban yards is cherry or sweet birch (Betula
lenta).

Birches are generally associated with the exfoliating white bark of our native
paper birch or the European white birch.  Since its bark is reddish-brown to
almost black, cherry birch is not as well known. However, it is resistant to
bronze birch borer, a life-threatening insect pest of white-barked birch trees.
This makes cherry birch a much better selection for gardeners who prefer not to
make regular pesticide applications.

The bark on young trees resembles that of a cherry tree (Prunus spp.) Grouse
feed on the catkins, buds and seeds, and songbirds also enjoy the seeds.

Cherry birch performs best in full sun and moist, acidic, well-drained soils,
but is often found on drier, rocky sites in the wild. The trees grow 40 to 55
feet tall.

Black gum or black tupelo (Nyssa sylvatica) is another good shade tree.  In the
wild, black gum is found on dry upland sites as well as cold mountain
swamplands.

Black gum has glossy green summer foliage followed by outstanding scarlet fall
color.

The small flowers in late spring are not particularly showy, but they are
important nectar sources for honeybees and other pollinators in the spring. The
trees also produce small blue fruits that are attractive to many species of
birds.

Black gum performs best in full sun to partial shade and in moist, acidic,
well-drained soils, but will tolerate drier sites as long as the soil is acidic.
They grow 40 to 50 feet tall with a 20- to 30-foot spread.  Young trees have a
strongly pyramidal growth habit that matures to an irregularly rounded,
spreading crown.

Sassafras (Sassafras albidum) can also be a good shade tree. It tends to sucker
(produce upright shoots from the root system) and form colonies, so it can take
careful pruning to maintain a single trunk. Sassafras blooms in early spring,
before the leaves, with yellowish-green, slightly fragrant flowers. The foliage
is a clean medium green through the summer, and leaf shapes can vary from a
simple oval shape to three lobes to left and right mitten shapes, all on the
same tree.

Sassafras also produces small, dark blue fruits, held on red stalks (pedicels)
that are attractive to birds. Sassafras bears male and female flowers on
separate plants, so trees of both sexes are required to get fruit. The bark from
sassafras roots is used to make sassafras tea, perfume and soaps.

Sassafras performs best in full sun to partial shade and moist, acidic,
well-drained soils, but is a pioneer species that often colonizes disturbed
soils along roadsides. Sassafras grows 30 to 60 feet tall with a spread of 25 to
40 feet.

Serviceberry (Amelanchier spp.) is one of the first trees to bloom in early
spring. In the wild, it often grows at the edge of woodlands and along stream
banks. It is also found on dry, rocky upland sites, often in full sun.

It's a superb ornamental tree for almost any landscape, and offers four seasons
of interest. In early summer, it produces small fruits that ripen to red. They
are delicious, if you can beat the birds to them. The dark green summer foliage
gives way to a virtual rainbow of yellows, oranges and reds in fall. This tree
even offers a wonderful silvery bark that adds light to winter's gray. It
frequently grows as a multi-stemmed tree, although it can be trained to a single
trunk.

Serviceberry performs best in full sun to partial shade in moist, acidic,
well-drained soil, but tolerates heavy clay and shale. Although adaptable to
soil type, it's not extremely tolerant of air pollution. Serviceberry grows 15
to 25 feet tall with a similar or slightly smaller spread.

Musclewood or ironwood (Carpinus caroliniana) is commonly found in Pennsylvania
woodlands as an understory tree in the moist, rich soils adjacent to streams and
rivers.

Birds and squirrels feed on the seeds, buds and catkins of this species. Summer
foliage is a dark, lustrous green, followed by yellow, orange, red and purple
fall color that is very showy. Ironwood performs best in partial shade and
moist, acidic, well-drained soil, but can tolerate less ideal soil conditions.
It often grows as a multi-stemmed tree, which provides more of that wonderful
bark to enjoy. Ironwood grows 20 to 30 feet tall with a comparable spread.

Hawthorns (Crataegus spp.) are widely distributed in North America. Crataegus is
a large and often confusing genus because the trees tend to hybridize freely
among themselves. Even botanists cannot always agree on a particular tree's
identity. However, they are very adaptable small trees with multiple seasons of
interest. They boast spring flowers, attractive fruits and good fall color, and
many have interesting bark that stands out in the winter landscape. Most do have
sharp thorns, and should be planted with that in mind. Their dense, thorny
character makes them an ideal nesting site for birds. Many species of birds
depend on the fruits, including cedar waxwings, sparrows and grouse.

Two of the most outstanding hawthorns for landscape are Washington Hawthorn
(Crataegus phaenopyrum) and 'Winter King' green hawthorn (Crataegus viridis).
Washington hawthorn grows 25 to 30 feet tall with a similar spread.

They have a broadly rounded growth habit, with dark, glossy green leaves in
summer that change to orange, scarlet and purple in fall. Their white spring
flowers give way to brilliant scarlet fruits in late summer.

Those fruits stand out vividly against the silvery gray bark. 'Winter King'
green hawthorn grows 20 to 35 feet tall with a similar spread.  Green hawthorn
has interesting bark that exfoliates to reveal orange-brown inner bark as the
tree matures. Hawthorns prefer full sun and tolerate a wide range of soil
conditions as long as they have good drainage. They tolerate pollution and urban
conditions well.

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Steve Sanchez/Associated Press
A robin feeds on a hawthorn berry. The dense, thorny character of hawthorn trees
makes them an ideal nesting site for birds.

                       Copyright 2004 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              235 of 305 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                     June 2, 2004 Wednesday SOONER EDITION

ASK A WORKING WOMAN, GET AN EARFUL

SECTION: LIFESTYLE, Pg.A-9

LENGTH: 674 words


If you think working women seem cranky these days, here's another way of looking
at it: they'd be justified in being a whole lot crankier.

According to the Ask a Working Woman Survey of 2004, members of this group are
working harder for less reward and more anxiety than they did six years ago,
when the report was first issued.

Nearly half of the employed females 18 and over said that either they or someone
in their family has been out work in the last year.  Respondents were keenly
aware that basic benefits are eroding, that industries with good jobs are
shrinking, and that most of the growth is in low-wage jobs lacking such benefits
as sick leave, pension or paid vacation. Therefore, finding and keeping a good
job was the leading concern across all subgroups.

Some 62 percent of those surveyed contributed between half and all of their
household's income. Overwhelmingly, they were worried about the rising costs of
health care (92 percent), the increased number of white collar jobs moving
overseas (79 percent), overtime pay being eliminated and losing their jobs
altogether (71 percent each).

For the vast majority, their workplace afforded no child care assistance (79
percent), no control over their work hours (64 percent) and no paid leave to
care for their families (58 percent).

Respondents said they didn't trust corporate America, were strongly in favor of
limiting CEO compensation, and wanted more effective laws against job
discrimination and in favor of equal pay.

The Ask A Working Woman Survey is sponsored by the AFL-CIO, but its pool of
respondents is not skewed toward organized labor. The results are based on a
national random sample phone poll of 1,450 working women, conducted by Lake
Snell Perry & Associates. This makes it a useful tool for taking the female
population's temperature in election years.

One thing the report measures is the gap between women's priorities and those
reflected in the current economic and political climates. This year's findings
(available at www.aflcio.org) show the gap is a wide one -- wide enough that, if
translated into votes, it could spell regime change in Washington.

Just last week, a leaked memo from the Office of Management and Budget warned
federal agencies to brace for post-election slashes to all manner of domestic
programs -- a direct outgrowth of George W. Bush's budget-busting tax cuts
coupled with billions for the war in Iraq.

Many of the cuts would come from programs Bush has been extolling on the
campaign trail: Head Start (slashing would be bad for low-income women lacking
child-care assistance); nutrition for women, infants and children (bad for those
already forced to choose between food and rent as health care eats up more and
more of their income); and even homeland security (just to heap some generalized
anxiety about red alerts on top of the specific anxieties about job security and
retirement).

The memo bears out what critics have been saying all along: Bush's tax cuts were
primarily designed for the wealthy, and would force domestic cuts that far
outweigh any benefit from lower taxes for about 80 percent of families.

This soak-the-rest approach is hurting men and women alike. But as the primary
caretakers of children and the elderly, women have always been especially
vulnerable to bad economic policy.

"These are the problems of an unrestrained business community continuing to
shave labor costs over several decades, but now more than ever," said Karen
Nussbaum, assistant to AFL-CIO President John Sweeney. "The jobs out there are
so stripped down, we're moving backwards, and the diminished expectations are
really sad."

There are ways to slow the downward spiral: build labor standards into trade
agreements, raise the minimum wage, and -- now here's a revelation -- unionize
more workers.

"It's got to come to an end because working families are at the end of their
rope," Nussbaum said.

If that rope stretches to the ballot box in November, look out, because cranky
people vote.

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Sally Kalson can be reached at skalson@post-gazette.com or 412-263-1610.

                       Copyright 2004 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              242 of 305 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                      June 18, 2004 Friday REGION EDITION

SECTION: ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT, Pg.WE-22

LENGTH: 1668 words


Around the World in 80 Days*1/2

A new version of the classic Jules Verne tale about a race around the globe
stars Jackie Chan, Steve Coogan and Jim Broadbent. Rated PG for action violence,
some crude humor and mild language. 130 min.


Carmike, Cheswick, Cranberry, Dependable, Destinta Bridgeville & NV, Loews,
Showcase E, N, W, South Pike, Squirrel Hill, Washington Mall, Southland,
Wynnsong.

Control Room ***

A documentary that chronicles the war in Iraq from an international perspective,
with footage from Al Jazeera. Not rated, but themes of war and war footage. 84
min.

Denis, Squirrel Hill.


Dodgeball: A True underdog story**

A team of misfits enters a big dodgeball tournament in hopes of saving their
small gym from being overrun by a corporate fitness chain. Vince Vaughn,
Christine Taylor and Ben Stiller star. Rated PG-13 for rude and sexual humor,
and language. 105 min.

Carmike, Cranberry, Dependable, Destinta Bridgeville & NV, Loews, Northway Mall,
Showcase E, W, South Pike, Washington Mall, Waterworks, Southland, Wynnsong.

The Terminal

***


Steven Spielberg directs Tom Hanks and Catherine Zeta-Jones in a romantic drama
about an immigrant forced to live at the airport when his country is ravaged by
war. Rated PG-13 for brief language and drug references. 140 min.


Cheswick, Cranberry, Destinta Bridgeville & NV, Galleria, Loews, Manor, Norwin,
Showcase E, N, W, South Pike, Washington Mall, Waterworks, Southland, Wynnsong.

Love Me If You Dare

**

French writer-director Yann Samuell makes his feature debut with this story of
children-turned-adults who engage in an escalating series of dares, even as they
try to deny they're made for each other. Rated R for language and some
sexuality. 93 min.

Denis, Manor.



Since Otar Left ****

Acclaimed French film about three generations of women from the former Soviet
republic of Georgia dealing with tragedy and loss.  Not rated.  103 min.


Harris.



Bon Voyage

****


As the Germans are about to occupy Paris, an unlikely bunch of movie stars,
spies, government officials and jailbirds converge upon a Bordeaux hotel in this
bustling farce from France starring Gerard Depardieu, Isabelle Adjani and Peter
Coyote. PG-13 for some violence. 114 min.


Destinta Bridgeville, Regent Square.


Chronicles of Riddick **

Science-fiction thriller starring Vin Diesel as his character from the movie
"Pitch Black," fighting for his freedom and his life against a despotic invader
of a distant world. With Thandie Newton. Rated PG-13 for intense sequences of
violent action and some language.


Carmike, Cranberry, Destinta Bridgeville & NV, Loews, Showcase E, N, W, South
Pike, Squirrel Hill, Washington Mall, Southland, Wynnsong.

Connie and Carla***

Nia Vardalos of "My Big Fat Greek Wedding" and Toni Collette portray
dinner-theater performers who witness a mob hit and hide out by posing as drag
queens. PG-13 for thematic elements, sexual humor and drug references. 108 min.


Penn Hills.



The Day After Tomorrow**1/2

Climate changes caused by global warming result in catastrophic weather that
threatens the future of humanity. Starring Dennis Quaid and Jake Gyllenhaal.
PG-13 for intense situations of peril. 124 min.


Carmike, Dependable, Destinta Bridgeville & NV, Loews, Showcase E, N, W, South
Pike, Waterworks, Southland, Wynnsong.

Garfield**1/2

The big fat hairy cartoon cat becomes a computer-generated movie feline with
Bill Murray's voice. Breckin Meyer plays his hapless owner, Jon Arbuckle. Rated
PG for brief mild language.


Carmike, Cheswick, Cranberry, Dependable, Destinta NV, Loews, Northway Mall,
Norwin, Showcase E, W, South Pike, Star City, Washington Mall, Waterworks,
Southland, Wynnsong.

Harry Potterand ... Azkaban ***

The boy wizard returns, with Gary Oldman as his antagonist. PG for frightening
moments, creature violence and mild language. 136 min.



Carmike, Cheswick, Cranberry, Dependable, Destinta Bridgeville & NV, Loews,
Manor, Northway Mall, Norwin, Showcase E, N, W, South Pike, Washington Mall,
Waterworks, Southland, Wynnsong.

Hidalgo

***


An aging cowboy and his steed are invited to enter a survival race across the
Arabian desert in this movie based on a true story. Viggo Mortensen and Omar
Sharif star. PG-13 for adventure violence and some mild innuendo. 136 min.

Maxi-Saver, Star City.


JOHNSON FAMILYVACATION**1/2

A family takes a long road trip during which everything goes wrong.  Cedric the
Entertainer stars with Vanessa Williams, Lil' Bow Wow and Solange Knowles. PG-13
for some sexual references, crude humor and brief drug material. 96 min.


Penn Hills.



Man on Fire

**1/2

Denzel Washington plays a burned-out military agent hired to protect a rich
Mexican couple's daughter during a rash of kidnappings. With Dakota Fanning,
Christopher Walken, Marc Anthony, Radha Mitchell. R for language and strong
violence. 155 min.


Clearview, Penn Hills, Star City.



Mean Girls

***


A girl raised in the wilds of Africa by her zoologist parents learns about
survival of the fittest when she returns to civilization and falls for the
ex-boyfriend of the most popular girl in school. Written by Tina Fey and
starring Lindsay Lohan. PG-13 for sexual content, language and some teen
partying. 97 min.


Clearview, Destinta NV, Galleria, Loews, Northway Mall, Showcase E, Star City.


New York Minute**1/2

Mary-Kate and Ashley Olsen play teenagers whose plans go awry when they
innocently get caught in the middle of a music piracy scheme. With Andy Richter,
Darrell Hammond and Andrea Martin. PG for mild sensuality and thematic elements.
91 min.

Maxi-Saver, Star City.


The Passionof the Christ

*1/2

Mel Gibson's epic film about the last 12 hours in the life of Jesus. Starring
Jim Caviezel as Jesus and Monica Bellucci as Mary Magdalene. R for sequences of
graphic violence and adult situations. 126 min.


Star City.



Raising Helen

***


A glamorous fashion model (Kate Hudson) must adjust her lifestyle drastically
when she becomes responsible for her sister's three young children. With John
Corbett and Joan Cusack. Directed by Garry Marshall. PG-13 for thematic issues
involving teens. 119 min.

Dependable, Destinta NV, Galleria, Loews, Northway Mall, Showcase E, Star City,
Wynnsong.

Saved!

***


Mandy Moore and Mary-Louise Parker star in this dark comedy about a teenage girl
who becomes ostracized in her Baptist high school when she becomes pregnant.
Rated PG-13 for strong thematic issues involving teens, sexual content,
pregnancy, smoking and language. 92 min.


Denis, Destinta NV, Loews, Northway Mall, Showcase W, Squirrel Hill, Star City.


Scooby-Doo 2: Monsters Unleashed**

The cartoon canine and human friends Freddie Prinze Jr., Sarah Michelle Gellar,
Matthew Lillard and Linda Cardellini return to catch a masked villain trying to
unleash a gaggle of monsters. PG for some scary action, rude humor and language.
91 min.


Clearview.



Shrek 2

***


Mike Myers as the voice of the not-so-jolly green ogre, Cameron Diaz as Princess
Fiona and Eddie Murphy as Donkey. It adds Julie Andrews and John Cleese as
Fiona's parents and Antonio Banderas as Puss-in-Boots. PG for some crude humor,
a brief substance reference and some suggestive content.

Cheswick, Cranberry, Dependable, Destinta Bridgeville & NV, Galleria, Loews,
Manor, Northway Mall, Norwin, Showcase E, N, W, South Pike, Washington Mall,
Waterworks, Southland, Wynnsong.

Soul Plane

*


A man wins a huge monetary settlement from an airline and forms his own ideal
fleet of flying machines featuring sexy stewardesses, funky music and an onboard
dance club. Comedy stars Kevin Hart, Method Man, Snoop Dogg and Tom Arnold. R
for strong sexual content, language and some drug use. 100 min.

Loews, Penn Hills.



Spring,Summer, Winter ... ***

South Korean drama traces the life of a Buddhist monk from childhood through old
age. Directed by and starring Ki-Duk Kim. R for some strong sexuality. 103 min.


Denis.



The Stepford Wives**1/2

Remake of the 1975 satire about a community of perfect housewives and how they
got that way. Nicole Kidman, Matthew Broderick, Bette Midler and Christopher
Walken star, directed by Frank Oz. Rated PG-13 for sexual content, thematic
material and language.


Cheswick, Cranberry, Dependable, Destinta Bridgeville & NV, Galleria, Loews,
Showcase E, N, W, South Pike, Squirrel Hill, Washington Mall, Waterworks,
Southland, Wynnsong.

Super Size Me***1/2


Morgan Spurlock stars as himself in this documentary where he eats nothing but
fast food for 30 days straight. Not rated, 96 min.


Squirrel Hill.


13 Going On 30***

A freshly minted teenager wishes she were an adult and wakes up the next day as
a 30-year-old woman. Jennifer Garner, Mark Ruffalo, Judy Greer. PG-13 for some
sexual content and brief drug references. 110 min.

Clearview.


Troy

**1/2

Epic tale of the Trojan War, with Brad Pitt as Achilles, Orlando Bloom as Paris,
Diane Kruger as Helen and Eric Bana as Hector. Directed by Wolfgang Petersen. R
for graphic violence and some sexuality/nudity. 162 min.

Clearview, Destinta Bridgeville & NV, Loews, Northway Mall, Penn Hills.

Van Helsing**1/2


A great vampire hunter goes on the trail of Dracula and other legendary monsters
in this special-effects extravaganza starring Hugh Jackman and Kate Beckinsale.
PG-13 for nonstop creature action violence and frightening images, and for
sensuality. 132 min.


Clearview, Penn Hills, Star City.



Young Adam**1/2

Ewan McGregor, Tilda Swinton and Peter Mullan star in this dark drama about a
drifter who goes to work on a barge and carries on a passionate affair with the
woman who runs it with her husband. Meanwhile, the two men find a corpse in the
water. Rated NC-17 for some explicit sexual content. 93 min.

Melwood.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  U.S. Customs and Immigration Officer Thurman (Barry Shabaka Henley),
left, looks on as airport official Frank Dixon (Stanley Tucci) explains to
stranded traveler Viktor Navorski (Tom Hanks) that he won't allow Viktor to
enter the United States in the Steven Spielberg comedy "The Terminal." Merrick
Morton

                       Copyright 2004 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              243 of 305 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                     June 20, 2004 Sunday TWO STAR EDITION

UNASSUMING EXEC GIVES ALMA MATER $1.5 MILLION REASONSTO SMILE

BYLINE: CORILYN SHROPSHIRE, PITTSBURGH POST-GAZETTE

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg.C-1

LENGTH: 1214 words


Donald Trump he's not.

Pittsburgh-native Ed Fritzky, the former Immunex chief executive officer who led
his Seattle company to the biggest merger in pharmaceutical history -- a $16
billion buyout by behemoth Amgen Inc. in 2002 -- lacks Trump's ego, bravado,
hubris ... and the orange-hair comb-over.

Many CEOs are portrayed with those Trump-like characteristics, the hair thing
aside. Some would even argue that they are essential to survival in the often
Machiavellian corporate climate.

Not Fritzky, who in April granted Duquesne University with a $1.5 million gift
to endow a chair in biotechnology.

He might even be Trump's antithesis -- elusive, mild-mannered, soft-spoken,
thoughtful ... a far cry from the bombastic mogul-turned-television-star.

Publicity, and the glare of the limelight, seem to embarrass Fritzky, 53, who
grew up in Sheraden and graduated from Duquesne in 1972.

Former Immunex Executive Vice President Doug Williams recalled Fritzky
negotiating the Amgen deal by his ailing mother's bedside in Pittsburgh. I
thought, "This is a pretty quiet, unassuming guy. Not the sort of big time ego
that you would envision," said Williams.

The quiet, seemingly introspective retired executive demurely refuses to take
full credit for his donation, used to fund the Edward V. Fritzky Endowed Chair
that will meld a number of the school's research initiatives with the intent of
developing Duquesne into a regional biotech and development player.

"The four of us decided as a family to focus on education," Fritzky said in an
interview last month, noting that his donation also came from his wife, Karen,
who lives with him in the Seattle suburb of Bellevue, Wash., and his college-age
children, Ryan and Lisa.

Fritzky comes from modest means, having been raised by a single mother during
his pre-teen and teenage years. One of his earliest memories of what he wanted
to be when grew up was a "good person who is well respected in the community"
much like his father, Frank, a barber who died when Fritzky was 10.

Though not picture-perfect, his childhood wasn't atypical.

His mother, aunt and extended family rallied around him and his older brother,
Bob, to make sure they had what they needed. Fritzky loved electronics and
developed a circle of friends who were just as crazy about hand radios and
circuit boards as he was. They played baseball and ran around their working
class neighborhood like most kids do.

At Holy Innocents High School, Fritzky served as a deejay and, with childhood
buddy John Rudzinskas, drank coffee at the Eat'n Park in McKees Rocks to powwow
on plans for the future.

"Ed was laid back and unassuming," said Rudzinskas.  "He had the ambition ... an
inner type of steeliness and determination."

You'd never know it by looking at him.

To hear the slightly built, sometimes glasses-clad Fritzky tell it, a glowing
career in pharmaceuticals could have just as easily been anything else --
particularly journalism, which he studied while a student at Duquesne in the
late '60s.

By the time he graduated in 1972, Fritzky entered the Army for a brief stint as
an officer. By the next year, it was time to look for a job.

"It was easy getting the interviews," he said.  Many companies were looking for
college graduates with military experience.

One of those interviews was with a pharmaceutical company and Fritzky did what
he knew best -- he went to the library and pulled every book he could find on
the drug industry.  He got the job, at Searle Pharmaceuticals, selling medicine
for high blood pressure.

Fritzky worked his way up Searle, eventually being named president and general
manager of Searle Canada Inc. and vice president of marketing for Searle in the
United States.

Fritzky's notion on what it takes to succeed in business is, not surprisingly,
old-fashioned but tried and true: "My view is really work hard. Really try to
accomplish what you're doing," he said.  "I always felt that if you did that,
people would ultimately recognize you for it."

Of course, walking through those wide-open doors of opportunity doesn't hurt.
And like the rest of us, he looked to those who'd already "made it."

"I remember reading this newspaper piece with interviews of people who were
successful in business. Virtually everybody interviewed said all I did was take
advantage of opportunities when they came up," he said.

So Fritzky didn't shirk the chance to take the helm at Immunex, despite its
reputation as a an insular, science-geek's fantasy island.

He was facing a difficult task. Brought in to focus on commercialization,
Fritzky's challenge was to turn Immunex's well-regarded scientific research into
commercially viable drugs. Over half of Immunex had recently been sold to
American Cynamid, and Fritzky was hired with the charge to turn it into a
biotech powerhouse.

Fritzky had his work cut out for him, said Williams, a scientist who led the
company's science group. "Here comes Ed, sort of viewed by other people as this
marketing guy. He was in a hole because of that."

Daunted or not, Fritzky worked himself out of the trench by being accessible,
easy to talk to, without pretense.

Plus, he knew what he was doing.

Williams recalled Fritzky's pitch in 1996 to get Immunex's stock up to $98 in
1998.  "98 in '98' was the slogan, to the dismissal of his executive team. The
cynics at Immunex wrote it all off to a marketing guy coming with a marketing
ploy," said Williams.

Two years later, one executive had a cake baked in the shape of a crow for
Fritzky's staff to eat.  As predicted, in 1998, Immunex's stock skyrocketed as
high as $127 before the stock's 2-for-1 split.

Four years later, Fritzky was named "Best Boss in America" by Forbes Magazine
for generating the highest annual shareholder return over a six-year span.

Fritzky, according to Duquesne President Charles Dougherty, is not unlike most
Pittsburgh born-and-bred Duquesne graduates.

"They are typically first generation college graduates. They remember their
humble roots. Many are the children or grandchildren of steelworkers and
immigrants and they see Duquesne as the door through which they moved to a much
better future."

Humility might be an enduring theme in Fritzky's life despite his
accomplishments.

"I've probably made every mistake in the world," he said. "I'm always thinking
about how I change something for the better.  You learn tremendously from the
people who work with you.  I think you learn from your own experiences and
failures.  "

Friends and colleagues said they weren't surprised to hear of Fritzky's generous
contribution to Duquesne, given his steadfast ties to home.

Now semi-retired, Fritzky spends his time hanging out with his family and
zipping back and forth between his home in suburban Seattle and Pittsburgh to
care for his mother, Irene, now in her 80s. He serves on the corporate boards of
four public companies and manages to find time to explore whatever piques his
interest, including his continued philanthropic endeavors in leadership and
literacy.

" I do have a natural curiosity for things," he said.  "I'm curious about the
world and people and why they do what they do.  I'm interested in learning all
the time."

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Corilyn Shropshire can be reached at cshropshire@post-gazette.com or
412-263-1413.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Darrell Sapp/Post Gazette: Edward Fritzky, former CEO of
Immunex, is endowing a chair in biotecnology at Duquesne University. Fritzky
returned recently to Pittsburgh to endow an economic development.

                       Copyright 2004 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              249 of 305 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                    August 21, 2004 Saturday SOONER EDITION

CALLING HARRIS DOCTOR IS BORDERLINE MALPRACTICE

SECTION: SPORTS, Pg.B-1

LENGTH: 734 words


There might not be a man in college football with more responsibility than Walt
Harris, who, until this week, was Pitt's head coach, offensive coordinator and
quarterback coach. On most football teams above the high school level, it takes
three men to fill those duties.

Amazingly, though, Harris has taken on additional responsibility. Now we can
call him Walt Harris, head coach, offensive coordinator, quarterback coach and
MD.

Yep, today it's Dr. Harris, medical practitioner.

What else can you call a man who tells his players to get back on the field and
practice because they're not as badly hurt as they think? Only the most skilled
physician, after the most thorough of examinations, would even consider telling
an athlete such a thing.

But that's what Harris so much as did Thursday with sophomore wide receiver Greg
Lee. The coach/doctor was upset that Lee, who started some last year and who
figured to be Pitt's best deep threat this year, has spent more time in the
training room than on the field in preseason practice.

In doing so, Harris is walking a fine and dangerous line.

Concerning Lee, Harris said: "I can say whatever I want to, but the bottom line
is that you've got to push through the pain and get healthy when you are
injured. What is the definition of injury and what is the definition of pain?
It's different with them than it is with me."

The truth is that no one, not even Dr. Harris, knows how another man's pain
feels. What is pain for one man might be torture for a second and little more
than discomfort for a third.

If Harris was attempting to send a message to Lee, he picked the wrong venue.

Suppose Lee responds to Harris' challenge and resumes practice. Then suppose he
does further damage to his injury, which had been described as in the hamstring
and/or quadriceps area. What does Harris look like if, say, Lee's hamstring is
torn and he is lost for the season?

A talk in the coach's office would have been a more prudent approach. Nothing
was gained by publicly embarrassing Lee.

Harris' stance is particularly puzzling because of what has transpired in
football in recent years. Too many players are dying on the field, usually
because of the heat, and too many programs are being blamed because of the way
they treat their players. Lee's injury is not life-threatening. But if the
deaths of Kory Stringer of the Minnesota Vikings and Rashidi Wallace of
Northwestern have taught us anything it is that coaches and trainers need to be
sensitive to the condition of the athletes in their charge.

In this climate, suggesting an injured player is healthy enough to practice
should be the last thing a coach would want to do.

This is nothing new for Harris. He has a bad habit of saying the wrong thing.
Early in his career, after a defeat, he too often would say of his players,
"They're not doing what they're coached to do."

It made it sound like he was exonerating himself and his staff and placing all
the blame on the players -- who, if they only did what they were told, would
play better.

That wasn't his intention and over the years he has tempered that criticism and
more than ever is willing to take his share of the blame.

This is another instance of Harris not thinking. He meant no harm to Lee and
certainly doesn't want the kid to rush back too soon from a legitimate injury.
As he was in defeat, he was frustrated. A coach of his age and experience should
know better.

This isn't the first time Harris has taken on additional duties. In 2001, after
the Panthers fell to 1-5 with a loss to Boston College, Harris usurped the
duties of revered strength and conditioning coach Buddy Morris.

"One of the changes we have made since the Boston College game is, I have taken
over the conditioning phase of our football team," he said.

He waited until late November, by which time the Panthers had won four in a row,
to make public his new duties.

He also added, incredibly, "This is not being disrespectful to coach Morris." Of
course, it was disrespectful to Morris, who had been the greatly respected guru
of strength and conditioning to some of the greatest players in Pitt history.
Morris, a Pitt alumnus, was gone before the next season.

Pitt faces a lot of problems this season. It doesn't need a coach who thinks
he's a doctor and a coach who can't handle the every day frustrations of his
job.


LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Bob Smizik can be reached at bsmizik@post-gazette.com or 412-263-1468.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Lake Fong/Post-Gazette: Pitt coach Walt Harris criticized
several of his players for spending too much time on the sideline with injuries.

                       Copyright 2004 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              256 of 305 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                    October 3, 2004 Sunday TWO STAR EDITION

PHILIP ROTH UNCOVERS WHAT LIES BENEATH IN A FICTIONAL AMERICA, CHARLES LINDBERGH
IS ELECTED PRESIDENT AND A JEWISH FAMILY STRUGGLES WITH THE CONSEQUENCES

BYLINE: BOB HOOVER, PITTSBURGH POST-GAZETTE

SECTION: ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT, Pg.B-4 BOOK REVIEW

LENGTH: 543 words


"THE PLOT AGAINST AMERICA"

By Philip Roth

Houghton Mifflin ($26)


Despite the cast of larger-than-life historical characters in Philip Roth's
powerful new novel, the heroes are members of an ordinary American family.

They are the Roths, Herman and Bess and sons Sandy and Philip of Newark, N.J.

Philip, 7 when the book opens, is a boy much like the author but living in a
fictional America that barely resembles the pleasant, comforting land of a
nostalgic 1940s childhood.

"Fear presides over these memories, a perpetual fear," the novel begins.

"Of course no childhood is without its terrors, yet I wonder if I would have
been a less frightened boy if Lindbergh hadn't been president or if I hadn't
been the offspring of Jews."

Defeating Franklin Roosevelt in 1940, the hero aviator Charles Lindbergh has
kept the nation neutral in World War II, befriended Nazi Germany and set in
motion an all-American pogrom against the Jews.

Back in Newark, the Roths were a close-knit family proud of their country and
Roosevelt and secure in their friendly, Jewish neighborhood.

"I pledged allegiance to the flag of our homeland every morning at school,"
remembers Philip. "I sang of its marvels with my classmates at assembly
programs. I eagerly observed its national holidays. ... Our homeland was
America."

After the election, the lives of the Roths and other Jews begin to change. Along
with entertaining Nazis at the White House, President Lindbergh instigates
programs to disperse Jews around the country, diluting their political clout and
exposing them to even more bigotry and eventually violence.

It's a terrifying vision, the destruction of an American way of life that was
built on the promise of "life, liberty and justice for all."

Roth adds a bizarre twist to the story: Gossip columnist Walter Winchell, an
outspoken foe of Lindbergh in real life, is assassinated running for president,
touching off anti-Jewish riots around the country.

Somehow, throughout it all, the Roth family survives and Philip learns the
meaning of compassion and loyalty as he is forced to care for others whose lives
have been damaged by the climate of fear.

Although much of this novel is really an affectionate picture of urban Jewish
society on the eve of World War II, its ability to capture uneasiness and
creeping paranoia is brilliant and disturbing.

Roth's Lindbergh is a man of few words and no compassion. Following a rash of
deadly riots, he can only say, "Our country's at peace. Our people are at work.
Our children are in school. ... Now I'm going back to Washington to keep things
that way."

Lindbergh's uncomplicated view of America is little comfort to its Jews and
other minority citizens.

Roth's enduring theme has been the struggle of Jews to become full-fledged
Americans, and that battle has taken its toll on the lives and souls of his
characters.

This time, however, his creations bend but do not break. The Roths emerge from
terror stronger and closer. At its heart, his novel is a family story.

All is not optimistic, though. Roth believes that there are dark forces lurking
below the surface of our democracy, and all it takes is one misguided leader in
a time of peril to call them forth.


LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Post-Gazette book editor Bob Hoover can be reached at bhoover@post-gazette.com
or 412-263-1634.

GRAPHIC: Drawing: Anita Dufalla/Post-Gazettephoto illustration: The chilling
concept of Philip Roth's new novel is that Charles Lindbergh becomes president
in 1940 and keeps America out of World War II.

                       Copyright 2004 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              260 of 305 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                    October 6, 2004 Wednesday SOONER EDITION

THE CASE FOR A STRONG KREMLIN;
 THE TRUTH IS THAT AMERICA IS BETTER OFF WITH PUTIN MORE FIRMLY IN CONTROL IN
RUSSIA

SECTION: EDITORIAL, Pg.A-19

LENGTH: 969 words


It is no surprise that in the wake of last month's Beslan school attack,
President Vladimir V. Putin is pulling in the reins of government in Russia more
tightly.

Put another way, he has taken that assault on security -- what more poignant
than an attack on a school with 338 people, half of them children, killed -- as
a reason to take steps that serve to some degree to curb liberty. An attack on
another country of our immediate knowledge in 2001 led to a similar phenomenon
there.

The question for the United States now is whether that development in Russia is
from the American point of view positive, negative or neutral. Further, assuming
that the United States could do anything to influence it, if it wanted to,
should it?

It is the case that Russia is and has been for any ruler a hard country to
govern. It stretches from Eastern Europe to the Pacific Ocean with an area
nearly twice that of the United States. Its population of 143 million is not
homogenous at all, divided by language, ethnic group and religion, including
Muslims. It is also basically poor; the last description that could be applied
to its population is that they are fat, happy and content -- or, easy to rule.

One interpretation of Russian history has been the efforts of Moscow -- usually
in the form of an individual ruler -- to consolidate, maintain or enlarge some
sort of control over the whole amalgam that makes up Russia, or, from 1917 to
1991, the Soviet Union.

That problem is particularly difficult at this point in Russian history. The
country is currently made up of some 89 administrative elements with varying
degrees of autonomy. A certain number of these political entities have
separatist aspirations, prompted by a range or combination of historic, cultural
and economic motivations. All of them witnessed the break-up of the old Soviet
Union, when some 14 republics peeled off, out from under Moscow's control.

All of them also perceive the difficulty that Moscow is having in dealing with
the Chechen insurgency. That problem is a result of a combination of the
Chechens' stubborn, virtually suicidal militancy and the degraded nature of a
Russian military starved of resources and demoralized in a post-Soviet era where
they no longer have first call on the nation's resources.

Thus, a Chechnya with a population of a million is able not only to hold out
against an active Russian military campaign but its rebels are able to carry the
war to Moscow itself in the form of terrorist attacks that Putin's government
can do little to stop or prevent.

Putin's response has been to use his increasingly absolute control of government
in Russia to reduce the autonomy and independence of action of the constituent
pieces of government. Coupled with his bridling of the big businessmen, the
oligarchs, who ran loose in the store during the Boris Yeltsin period, looting
what was left of the resources of the old Soviet Union, and a virtual shutdown
of media opposition to the actions of his government, Putin begins to look more
and more like a dictator. His KGB background doesn't help.

President Bush's having looked into his soul and found him to be a good fellow
to work with adds scant comfort.

The basic question now is whether Russia as a tighter ship is better or worse
for the United States. The brisk, bright, giddy march to democracy and freedom
that looked like it was happening in Russia after Gorbachev was replaced by
Boris Yeltsin, accompanied by an apparent flowering of free enterprise to
accompany it, looked very good at the start. Americans do have an awful tendency
to believe their own propaganda.

But what is the answer to the question now? Answering it from the Russian point
of view, most of them at this point prefer strong hands on the wheel, a more
controlled economy, a greater imposition of order, in particular fewer bombs in
Moscow and fewer soldiers committed to and dying in Chechnya, or anywhere else.

To look at the question from the American point of view, even though to say that
the Russians are better off with less freedom is heresy in the United States, it
is probably the truth that we, too, are better off with Putin more firmly in
control in Russia and with fewer people running around there doing what they
like, for monetary or any other reasons.

From the point of view of the United States, the gravest problem in Russia now
is the existence of large amounts of nuclear weapons-usable material that could
easily serve as the raw material to carry out a limited nuclear attack by
terrorists inside the United States. It could come loose either because some
Russian or Russians sold it, lost control of it, or simply lost track of it. The
amount required is the size of a football. Once loose, it would be easy to get
it into the United States, the technology of assembling such a weapon is not
difficult, and it would not be difficult to set it off almost anywhere in the
United States -- a mall, a school, a bridge, or a tunnel.

Now, are we better off faced with that problem with Russia under tighter or
looser control? The answer to that seems easy to me.

Recent moves on the part of Putin's government indicate that he is also capable
of using his increased power to take constructive actions in other domains.
Russia seems on the verge of ratifying the Kyoto Protocol to the U.N. Framework
on Climate Change, thus pushing it over the top into worldwide effect, at least
in the 120 countries that accept it, the United States excluded.

For whatever combination of reasons, even though it would certainly make better
U.S. global pronouncements if Russia were becoming more rather than less
democratic, it seems that the United States is at a point where we must face
reality and count whatever blessings are inherent in it.

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Dan Simpson, a retired U.S. ambassador, is a Post-Gazette associate editor
(dsimpson@post-gazette.com).

                       Copyright 2004 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              261 of 305 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                    October 7, 2004 Thursday SOONER EDITION

DEBATE SHOWS THE ADMINISTRATION'S STORY ON IRAQ IS FALLING APART

SECTION: EDITORIAL, Pg.A-23

LENGTH: 781 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


When you spend so much time torturing the truth, it's hard to keep your story
straight -- or even remember what you just said.

The most remarkable moment in Tuesday's debate between Vice President Cheney and
Sen. John Edwards came when Cheney issued a blanket denial of the obvious.

Edwards, who proved both his value and his loyalty to Democratic nominee John
Kerry, declared that "there is no connection between Saddam Hussein and the
attacks of September 11. Period. The 9/11 Commission has said that's true. Colin
Powell has said it's true. But the vice president keeps suggesting that there
is."

What Cheney said next was, literally, incredible: "I have not suggested that
there's a connection between Iraq and 9/11."

This is the same Cheney who, just minutes before, in the very same debate, had
defended the attack on Iraq by declaring flatly that Saddam Hussein "had an
established relationship with al Qaeda." Hello? If that is not a ''suggestion"
of a connection, what is?

Well, this: On Sept. 14, 2003, Cheney called Iraq "the geographic base of the
terrorists who have had us under assault now for many years, most especially on
9/11."

If the Cheney-Edwards debate made nothing else clear, it is that the central
issue in this presidential election is becoming the administration's lack of
credibility and its tendency to say whatever is convenient to make whatever case
it is trying to make.

Day by day, we learn more and more about how the administration led the nation
into war by distorting intelligence and twisting facts. A president who once
condemned a mentality that declared "if it feels good, do it" has now embraced a
related principle: "If it sounds good, say it."

Last Sunday, The New York Times published an extensive report showing that in
its public statements before the war, the administration "repeatedly failed to
disclose" divisions in the intelligence community over the alleged nuclear
threat posed by Iraq.

In September 2002, Cheney declared that high-strength aluminum tubes that Saddam
had imported, allegedly to build uranium centrifuges, constituted "irrefutable
evidence" that he was reconstituting his nuclear weapons program. It turned out,
as the Times reported, that "the government's foremost nuclear experts seriously
doubted that the tubes were for nuclear weapons." The evidence, in other words,
was not "irrefutable."

But nothing -- even our knowledge that Iraq did not have those weapons of mass
destruction -- stops Cheney from making the same scary case now that he was
making before the war. "The effort that we've mounted with respect to Iraq
focused on the possibility that this was the most likely nexus between the
terrorists and weapons of mass destruction," he said during the debate. "The
biggest threat we face today is the possibility of terrorists smuggling a
nuclear weapon or a biological agent into one of our own cities and threatening
the lives of hundreds of thousands of Americans."

Note the double use of the word possibility and that other phrase, most likely.
Quite a contrast to the "irrefutable" certainties the administration was
peddling before the war. But we're supposed to ignore the fudge words. The words
"nuclear weapon" and "biological agent" are supposed to frighten us into voting
for Bush and Cheney -- just as we were frightened into war.

But the administration's lack of trustworthiness is making it ever harder for
the president and vice president to shroud their failures behind alarming
rhetoric.

Cheney's soliloquy about nukes and bioweapons came in response to a question
from moderator Gwen Ifill about former Iraq administrator L. Paul Bremer's
statement on Monday that the United States did not have enough troops on the
ground to prevent "an atmosphere of lawlessness" from taking hold in Iraq.

A Washington Post story quoted an earlier Bremer speech in which he said that
"the single most important change -- the one thing that would have improved the
situation -- would have been having more troops in Iraq at the beginning and
throughout" the occupation.

Not a single word of Cheney's answer was responsive to Ifill's question. He
couldn't defend the administration's strategy. He didn't even mention the word
"Bremer."

The political take on the debate will see Cheney as a more skillful, more
informed debater than Bush, and Edwards as Cheney's equal. But the substantive
point is more important: The administration's story is falling apart. Bush and
Cheney mercilessly attack their opponents and promote a climate of fear because
they are finding it increasingly difficult to defend the choices they made and
the words they have spoken.

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
E.J. Dionne Jr. is a syndicated columnist for The Washington Post
(postchat@aol.com).

                       Copyright 2004 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              276 of 305 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                   December 1, 2004 Wednesday SOONER EDITION

U.S. WON'T CLEAR DAMS TO AID FISH

SECTION: NATIONAL, Pg.A-5 NATIONAL BRIEFS

LENGTH: 604 words


WASHINGTON -- The Bush administration yesterday ruled out the possibility of
removing federal dams on the Columbia and Snake rivers to protect 11 endangered
species of salmon and steelhead, even as a last resort.

In an opinion issued by the fisheries division of the National Oceanographic and
Atmospheric Administration, the government declared that the eight large dams on
the lower stretch of the two rivers are an immutable part of the salmons'
environment.

Endangered fish, the opinion said, can be protected by a variety of measures,
including carrying fish around dams and building weirs -- a new technology that
works like a water slide -- to ease young fishes' journey through dams as they
swim downstream to the ocean.

The decision is a departure from the Clinton administration, which in 2000
adopted a policy that allowed for dam removal, although only if all other
measures had failed to protect the fish.


Ads for legalized marijuana

BOSTON -- A federal appeals court has ruled that Boston's mass-transit agency
violated free-speech rights by refusing to display advertisements from a group
that wants to legalize marijuana.

The Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority rejected three ads submitted by
the group Change the Climate in 2000, claiming they encouraged children to smoke
pot. The transit authority argued that it has the right to protect riders from
offensive or illegal messages.

But the 1st U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals found Monday that the MBTA, a
quasi-government agency, does not have the right to turn down ads based on its
viewpoint. Doing so violates the First Amendment, the court ruled.


Death row reprieve urged

HUNTSVILLE, Texas -- The Texas parole board yesterday recommended delaying the
state's first execution of a black woman to give her lawyers more time to
investigate her claims of innocence.

Gov. Rick Perry can agree with the board's 5-1 vote or allow the execution of
Frances Newton, 39, to go ahead as scheduled today. There was no immediate
comment from the governor's office.

Prosecutors said Newton killed her husband and two children to collect $100,000
in insurance benefits.


Students oppose co-ed plan

AUBURN, N.Y.  -- Claiming they were deceived about attending a women's school,
two Wells College students are suing to prevent the school from admitting men
until after this year's freshman class graduates in 2008.

The suit also seeks undetermined punitive damages from the school, founded in
1868 as a women's liberal arts college.


Cost of visitor center rises

WASHINGTON -- The cost of the new Capitol Visitor Center could run as high as
$559 million, more than double the estimated cost when the construction project
broke ground in 2000.

The Government Accountability Office, the investigative office of Congress, also
predicted in an analysis that the opening of the three-level underground
facility, originally scheduled for the end of 2005, would be further delayed.
Even current plans to open in the summer of 2006 were optimistic, it said.


CIA fills operations post

WASHINGTON -- The CIA has appointed the chief of its Near East division, Robert
Richer, as the associate deputy director for operations, according to U.S.
officials.

He becomes the number two official in the directorate, which is charged with
stealing secrets, recruiting spies and carrying out covert operations overseas.

In an unusual move, Richer's newly appointed boss, the deputy director for
operations and former director of the CIA's Counterterrorism Center, is still
undercover and therefore not being named.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2004 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              286 of 305 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                    August 15, 2004 Sunday TWO STAR EDITION

BUSH DROPS 5 SAFETY RULES FOR EACH ADOPTED

BYLINE: AMY GOLDSTEIN AND SARAH COHEN, THE WASHINGTON POST

SECTION: NATIONAL, Pg.A-13

LENGTH: 710 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Tuberculosis had sneaked up again, reappearing with alarming frequency across
the United States. The government began writing rules to protect 5 million
people whose jobs put them in special danger. Hospitals and homeless shelters,
prisons and drug treatment centers -- all would be required to test their
employees for TB, hand out breathing masks and quarantine those with the
disease. These steps, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration
predicted, could prevent 25,000 infections a year and 135 deaths.

By the time President Bush moved into the White House, the tuberculosis rules,
first envisioned in 1993, were nearly complete. But the new administration did
nothing on the issue for the next three years.

Then, on the last day of 2003, in an action so obscure it was not mentioned in
any major newspaper in the country, the administration canceled the rules.
Voluntary measures, federal officials said, were effective enough to make
regulation unnecessary.

The demise of the decade-old plan of defense against tuberculosis reflects the
way OSHA has altered its regulatory mission to embrace a more business-friendly
posture. In the past 31/2 years, OSHA, the branch of the Labor Department in
charge of workers' well-being, has eliminated nearly five times as many pending
standards as it has completed. It has not started any major new health or safety
rules, setting Bush apart from the previous three presidents, including Ronald
Reagan.

The changes within OSHA since George W. Bush took office illustrates the way
that this administration has used the regulatory process to redirect the course
of government.

All presidents have written or eliminated regulations to further their agendas.
What is distinctive about Bush is that he quickly imposed a culture intended to
put his anti-regulatory stamp on government.

Unlike his two predecessors, Bush has canceled more of the unfinished regulatory
work he inherited than he has completed.

He has also begun fewer new rules than either President Bill Clinton or
President George H.W. Bush. Since the younger Bush took office, federal agencies
have begun roughly one-quarter fewer rules than Clinton and 13 percent fewer
than Bush's father.

President Bush's closest advisers and sharpest critics agree that the shift in
regulatory climate since he took office in January 2001 has been profound.

But they disagree over whether that shift represents a harmful turn away from
federal protections to benefit business or a useful streamlining of costly
government rules.

Sally Katzen, who oversaw all federal regulation for five years under Clinton as
deputy budget director for information and regulatory affairs, said new
regulations were, in those days, embraced as a means to improve the quality of
water, of air -- in short, of people's lives. "Bush, or at least the people
around him, are skeptical, if not hostile to that notion," she said.

John Graham, who holds the same job in the Bush White House, said regulations
are "a form of unfunded mandate that the federal government imposes on the
private sector or on state or local governments."

A president, he said, should not be judged solely by the number of regulations
he starts or cancels.

This White House, Graham said, has initiated regulations when the benefits
clearly outweigh the costs -- for example, a decision last year that eventually
will require labeling of trans fatty acids in food. "We've just been much more
selective about expensive new regulatory requirements than previous
administrations have been," he said.

At OSHA, the administration's regulatory philosophy has translated into a
smaller staff to develop new standards, less reliance on the views of organized
labor and an enlarged role for businesses.

Labor Secretary Elaine Chao instructed the entire department to comb through the
regulatory work Clinton's aides had left unfinished and find items to eliminate.
Chao explained the order in a letter in 2001 to John Sweeney, the AFL-CIO
president.

The list of incomplete work left over from the Clinton days, she wrote, "had
swollen to unmanageable size, containing many items that had been moribund for
years, making it an inaccurate and effectively useless document."

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2004 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              289 of 305 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                    October 24, 2004 Sunday TWO STAR EDITION

UNCERTAINTY OVER THE ELECTION ANOTHER OBSTACLE TO MARKET GAINS

BYLINE: Meg Richards, The Associated Press

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg.F-4

LENGTH: 483 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


Add election chaos to the list of worries plaguing Wall Street. With just over a
week to go before the country heads to the polls, all the major stock indexes
are in negative range for the year, and pricey oil may not be entirely to blame.

A repeat of the 2000 recount would almost certainly send stocks tumbling, and
some analysts say that possibility already is being factored into share prices.
The thought that terrorists might try to disrupt the electoral process has also
crossed traders' minds. And, as is the case in any tight race, some professional
investors are making sector bets in an attempt to game the outcome. If Sen. John
Kerry manages to unseat President Bush, the thinking goes, businesses in heavily
regulated industries are likely to face a tougher climate.

But with lawyers from both parties descending on swing states in anticipation of
a contested result on Nov. 2, some market watchers think litigation is
inevitable. In an already difficult market pressured by decelerating earnings,
rising interest rates, lofty energy prices and terror fears, the prospect of a
protracted struggle for the White House has given investors plenty of reason to
avoid risk.

"It may be that one of the reasons the market hasn't done well lately is it is
discounting the possibility of real uncertainty following the vote," said Greg
Valliere, chief strategist at Schwab's Washington Research Group. "From what I
see, there's a two in three chance we'll know by Wednesday morning who won. But
you know, if someone told me there's a one in three chance the flight I'm taking
tomorrow is going down, I'm taking the train."

Valliere said one of the most likely controversies could come out of Colorado,
where voters are considering a measure to change the way the state parcels out
its nine electoral votes, scrapping the current winner-takes-all system in favor
of splitting them up proportionally, based on the popular vote.

Legal challenges also are pending over various issues in Florida, and there's
potential for recounts in a handful of other states where polls show close
races, including New Mexico, New Hampshire and Wisconsin.

"I don't think it would surprise anyone to wake up on the third (of November)
and not know who's president," said Howard Silverblatt, market equity analyst
with Standard & Poor's.

During the six weeks it took to determine the outcome of the 2000 election, the
markets gyrated wildly. The Standard & Poor's 500 shed 9.59 percent from
Election Day to the end of November, its lowest point during the period. By the
time the Supreme Court issued its decision on Dec. 12, the S&P had recovered
somewhat, but was still down 4.24 percent. Settling the matter didn't help the
market go higher, though. The S&P continued its slide all the way through 2001,
extending a bear market that began in March of 2000 after the tech bubble
peaked.


LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2004 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              298 of 305 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                             October 3, 2004 Sunday
                                TWO STAR EDITION

PHILIP ROTH UNCOVERS WHAT LIES BENEATH;
IN A FICTIONAL AMERICA, CHARLES LINDBERGH IS ELECTED PRESIDENT;
AND A JEWISH FAMILY STRUGGLES WITH THE CONSEQUENCES

BYLINE: BOB HOOVER, PITTSBURGH POST-GAZETTE

SECTION: ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT; BOOK REVIEW; Pg. B-4

LENGTH: 529 words


"THE PLOT AGAINST AMERICA"

By Philip Roth

Houghton Mifflin ($26)

Despite the cast of larger-than-life historical characters in Philip Roth's
powerful new novel, the heroes are members of an ordinary American family.

They are the Roths, Herman and Bess and sons Sandy and Philip of Newark, N.J.

Philip, 7 when the book opens, is a boy much like the author but living in a
fictional America that barely resembles the pleasant, comforting land of a
nostalgic 1940s childhood.

"Fear presides over these memories, a perpetual fear," the novel begins.

"Of course no childhood is without its terrors, yet I wonder if I would have
been a less frightened boy if Lindbergh hadn't been president or if I hadn't
been the offspring of Jews."

Defeating Franklin Roosevelt in 1940, the hero aviator Charles Lindbergh has
kept the nation neutral in World War II, befriended Nazi Germany and set in
motion an all-American pogrom against the Jews.

Back in Newark, the Roths were a close-knit family proud of their country and
Roosevelt and secure in their friendly, Jewish neighborhood.

"I pledged allegiance to the flag of our homeland every morning at school,"
remembers Philip. "I sang of its marvels with my classmates at assembly
programs. I eagerly observed its national holidays. ... Our homeland was
America."

After the election, the lives of the Roths and other Jews begin to change. Along
with entertaining Nazis at the White House, President Lindbergh instigates
programs to disperse Jews around the country, diluting their political clout and
exposing them to even more bigotry and eventually violence.

It's a terrifying vision, the destruction of an American way of life that was
built on the promise of "life, liberty and justice for all."

Roth adds a bizarre twist to the story: Gossip columnist Walter Winchell, an
outspoken foe of Lindbergh in real life, is assassinated running for president,
touching off anti-Jewish riots around the country.

Somehow, throughout it all, the Roth family survives and Philip learns the
meaning of compassion and loyalty as he is forced to care for others whose lives
have been damaged by the climate of fear.

Although much of this novel is really an affectionate picture of urban Jewish
society on the eve of World War II, its ability to capture uneasiness and
creeping paranoia is brilliant and disturbing.

Roth's Lindbergh is a man of few words and no compassion. Following a rash of
deadly riots, he can only say, "Our country's at peace. Our people are at work.
Our children are in school. ... Now I'm going back to Washington to keep things
that way."

Lindbergh's uncomplicated view of America is little comfort to its Jews and
other minority citizens.

Roth's enduring theme has been the struggle of Jews to become full-fledged
Americans, and that battle has taken its toll on the lives and souls of his
characters.

This time, however, his creations bend but do not break. The Roths emerge from
terror stronger and closer. At its heart, his novel is a family story.

All is not optimistic, though. Roth believes that there are dark forces lurking
below the surface of our democracy, and all it takes is one misguided leader in
a time of peril to call them forth.

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Post-Gazette book editor Bob Hoover can be reached at
bhoover@post-gazette.com or 412-263-1634.

GRAPHIC: Drawing: Anita Dufalla/Post-Gazettephoto illustration: The chilling
concept of Philip Roth's new novel is that Charles Lindbergh becomes president
in 1940 and keeps America out of World War II.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              301 of 305 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                            November 8, 2004 Monday
                                 SOONER EDITION

VENUS;
EARTH'S 'SISTER' PLANET HAS FIERY REPUTATION

BYLINE: Dan Malerbo, Henry Buhl Jr. Planetarium & Observatory

SECTION: HEALTH SCIENCE MEDICINE AND TECHNOLOGY; LET'S TALK ABOUT:; Pg. B-6

LENGTH: 298 words


Venus, the second planet from the sun, is often referred to as Earth's sister
planet because of similarities in size, mass, density and volume. But that is
where the similarities end. Venus is closer to the sun than Earth, so it has
been transformed into an extremely hostile world; far different from the Roman
goddess of beauty and love it was named after.

Venus has a heavy toxic atmosphere made up mostly of carbon dioxide with clouds
of corrosive sulfuric acid and no water. The atmospheric pressure is 90 times
greater than Earth's. The pressure on the surface is so strong that heavy metal
spacecraft were crushed only a few hours after landing.

The surface of Venus is the hottest in the solar system, at a scorching 900
degrees Fahrenheit. This high temperature is caused by what scientists call the
"greenhouse effect." The planet's thick carbon dioxide atmosphere allows the
sun's heat in but doesn't allow it to escape. The trapped heat builds up, so the
planet grows hotter and hotter. Scientists believe that at one time in the past
Venus had oceans of water before the surface temperatures grew too hot and the
water evaporated.

Its blanket of clouds has kept much of Venus a mystery until studies with
ground-based radar and space probes explored the planet.

Radar first revealed that Venus spins backward on its axis. If you could see the
sun through the thick cloud cover, it would rise in the west and set in the
east. Scientists also discovered that a day on Venus (243 Earth days) lasts
longer than its year (225 days.)

Radar images from the Magellan spacecraft revealed that Venus might have active
volcanoes, which periodically vent molten rock and gas into its atmosphere. It
also imaged vast lava flows, which created long channels and mountains higher
than any on Earth.

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 P.G. Publishing Co.
