
                              18 of 294 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                              June 2, 2017 Friday
                                 SOONER EDITION

TRUMP'S VIEW OF PITTSBURGH REGION OUTDATED, SOME SAY

BYLINE: Don Hopey, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. A-8

LENGTH: 951 words


Donald Trump said the voters of Pittsburgh, unlike the citizens of Paris, don't
want to be bound by the climate accord signed in that city.

Some here disagree.

"He is sadly misinformed if he thinks we are nostalgic for the smoky city days
of the past," said Rachel Filippini, executive director of the Group Against
Smog and Pollution, one of Pittsburgh's oldest environmental organizations. "The
Pittsburghers I know want clean air and water, good jobs in a green economy, and
a sustainable and healthy future for their children."

Mr. Trump did get support from some elected officials in Western Pennsylvania.

U.S. Rep. Mike Kelly, R-Butler, called the president's decision "a victory for
our economy, our sovereignty, and our Constitution."

"I have complete confidence in our country's ability to protect both our economy
and our environment at the same time, and I applaud President Trump's strong
commitment to this goal," he said. "As elected leaders, the laws and policies we
craft must reflect the needs of our constituents, not the demands of a global
ideological trend."

U.S. Rep. Keith Rothfus, R-Sewickley, similarly hailed the pullout, noting that
the Paris agreement "was never a legitimate deal."

"It was never submitted to the Senate for ratification because the Senate would
never have ratified it," Mr. Rothfus said. "The Paris agreement is not about
climate. It is about control. It certainly is not about growth; it is about
redistribution. ... I stand with Western Pennsylvania manufacturers,
boilermakers, power plant workers, railroad workers, truckers and miners in
opposition to the Washington and global elites who want to concentrate power in
their own hands."

The battle lines were mostly drawn along party lines.

U.S. Rep. Mike Doyle, D-Forest Hills, said Mr. Trump's decision to withdraw from
the agreement was "foolhardy," showing that he doesn't understand the science of
climate change, its economic impacts, or the strides toward a greener economy
underway here.

"Times have changed, and so has Pittsburgh," he said. "Our air and water quality
have improved dramatically, and Pittsburgh is becoming a leader in carbon-free
energy sources and energy-efficiency technologies. "

Gov. Tom Wolf said: "I am disappointed President Trump has chosen this path and
abdicated America's leadership role in the world on climate change. This
decision hurts our economy and Pennsylvania residents."

Larry Schweiger, a sixth-generation Pittsburgher and president and CEO of
Citizens for Pennsylvania's Future, a statewide environmental organization, also
made the point that the president's reading of what Pittsburgh and Pittsburghers
want fails to take into account not only its recent greening but also its
historic leadership in the battle for clean air and water.

"The thing he's missing here is that addressing the causes of climate pollution
is not a job killer, it's a job creator. Pittsburgh has always led the way on
these issues, from smoke control to green energy, and to retreat into the dark
days of the past just isn't going to work. That's not the Pittsburgh I know," he
said.

United Steelworkers International president Leo W. Gerard said the president's
decision to exit the climate agreement was "an inexcusable blow to the U.S.
economy."

He said the country has been a leader in innovation and technological advances
to combat climate change and its withdrawal cedes leadership to China and is a
signal to domestic technology and manufacturing industries that the U.S.
government won't support them.

"The diplomatic and trade impacts of withdrawing will be felt for many years, as
the United States joins the only two other countries who are not part of the
agreement - Syria and Nicaragua," he said, urging the president to reverse his
decision.

If Mr. Gerard waits until next Thursday, he may be able to lobby for that
reversal himself because Mr. Trump might attend a cookout at Jennerstown
Speedway Complex to mark the opening of the new Acosta coal mine in Somerset
County.

"A big opening of a brand, new mine," the president said Thursday while
announcing his decision on the Paris pact. "It's unheard of. For many, many
years that hasn't happened. They asked me if I'd go. I'm going to try."

The new mine, an underground facility, will take advantage of the recent bright
spot for metallurgical coal - the kind used in steel making. Run by
Canonsburg-based Corsa Coal Corp., the mine promises to add 70 to 100 full-time
jobs here.

Met coal, which is a small portion of all coal production in the U.S., has seen
its price recover over the past year. While thermal coal from this region, which
is burned in power plants, is selling for about $45 a short ton, met coal is
fetching at least three times as much.

Last year, Corsa sold half of its coal to domestic steel makers and the other
half abroad. But in 2017, with the opening of Acosta, it projects that 85
percent of its output will be shipped overseas.

In West Virginia, a state still heavily reliant on coal mining, Robert Duval,
interim associate dean in West Virgina University's Department of Health Policy,
Management and Leadership, said leaving the Paris agreement is the wrong
move.The departure will likely result in scaled-back efforts to mitigate climate
change, will impact the state's ability to transition to a cleaner economy that
is less reliant on coal.

"We will probably burn less and less of it over time, but I've been on the
record for about 25 years saying that in order for policy makers to do what is
right for West Virginia, they need to aid sectors of economies in terms of
retraining, finding new industries to bring in and mitigating the circumstances,
not trying to hold back the tide," Mr. Duval said.

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Staff writers Anya Litvak, Andrew Goldstein and Alex Weidenhof
contributed.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              26 of 294 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            July 12, 2017 Wednesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

NATURAL CHANGES

BYLINE: BRUCE KARGER

SECTION: EDITORIAL; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR; Pg. A-6

LENGTH: 247 words


I am writing in reference to L. Ray Roberts' letter "Extreme Heat Blasts" (July
3) and how he relates the weather and climate change to the impact of humans.

I grew up in Eastern Ohio, just 40 miles from Gateway Center. As a product of
public education, I took Ohio history and learned that much of Ohio was covered
by glaciers over a period of several million years. However, I also learned that
the most recent glacier was the Wisconsinan Glacier that retreated from Ohio
only about 14,000 years ago. These glaciers had a dramatic impact on the
topography of Ohio with some areas being almost flat but others just a few miles
away being blessed with hills and valleys. An even greater impact was the flow
of rivers and creeks. The glaciers changed the flows from north to south to
south to north. To this day, we see signs on the turnpikes defining the divides
of the watersheds.

"Climate change" has been going on for a very long time. And whether several
million years ago or just 14,000 years ago, the natural course of nature's own
climate change was not impacted by humans or their modern-day conveniences. The
climate change was impacted by natural forces.

This isn't just from a small-town person from Ohio. There are many geographic
regions around the U.S. that had similar geological and climate history long
before humans lived, from the former ocean that used to cover almost all of the
Midwest to the changing of river flows and directions over many years.

BRUCE KARGER

Hampton

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              36 of 294 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                          November 15, 2017 Wednesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

THE WORLD MOVES ON WITHOUT US;
DONALD TRUMP IS LETTING AMERICAN LEADERSHIP LAPSE

BYLINE: Dan Simpson

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A-11

LENGTH: 782 words


If you think American exceptionalism is not that America is a world leader but
that it basically is out of the game, then your view was confirmed by President
Donald J. Trump's just-concluded trip to Asia, which was a clear manifestation
of this new status quo.

President Barack Obama's administration worked long years to build the
Trans-Pacific Partnership into a multinational trade organization designed in
part as a counter to China's growing hegemony in Asia. Mr. Trump, upon coming to
office, promptly pulled the United States out of the TPP - which now is
organized and functioning, with 21 member countries cutting deals as the United
States sits on the sidelines.

Meanwhile, as their collective clout grows, Mr. Trump's efforts to
negotiate"better" bilateral trade relationships with individual TPP members are
going pretty much nowhere.

An even more glaring example of American self-exclusion has to do with climate
change. With Nicaragua and even decimated Syria signing on to the 2015 Paris
agreement over the past few weeks, the United States now is the only country
still out of the game, thanks to Mr. Trump and his merry band.

Because the United States won't formally exit the Paris agreement until 2020, it
now is discussing climate change with the other nations of the world in Bonn,
Germany. The Trump administration sent a team to pitch, brace yourself, coal.
Its presentation predictably was met by a half-full house and demonstrations.

An unofficial U.S. delegation in Bonn was led by former Vice President Al Gore
and former New York mayor Michael Bloomberg (who financed a U.S. pavilion to the
tune of $1 million) and included California Gov. Jerry Brown. They pledged that
the United States will meet its climate-change commitments no matter what the
Trump administration does.

In the meantime, carbon emissions have accelerated after several years of
decline. This apparently is not due to Trump administration-directed burning of
coal or documents, but rather to the widespread burning of coal in China and
India. For the most part, even intelligent skeptics who question whether global
warming is caused by human activities have yielded to the concept that we had
better do what we can about it, even as we continue to study the phenomenon. The
increasing number of severe storms hitting the United States itself is catching
the attention of the American public.

Other evidence of the rest of world adopting a "we got along before we met you"
attitude in the Trump era includes the European Union busily developing its own
military force alongside NATO, and, perhaps down the road, in place of NATO. Mr.
Trump has taken some cracks at the alliance, indicating that he and his
administration might not fight in defense of fellow NATO members if they are
attacked, particularly if they haven't paid their "fair share" of NATO expenses.

There always has been a decent argument that NATO members should assume more
responsibility for their own defense. But the idea that they might be doing so
now because they no longer trust the United States, under the leadership of Mr.
Trump, is not a happy development. It isn't even good for the United States in
terms of a matter near and dear to Mr. Trump's heart, U.S. arms sales, which he
promoted shamelessly during his Asian trip.

Finally, there is the question of how America's increasingly being disregarded
in the world plays at home. From one point of view, it would not be a bad thing
for our country if it meant that we now will employ our resources to fix some of
our domestic problems.

We are told that we face a $300 billion bill to fix our water and sewer pipes
over the next decade - that is, unless we all would like to experience the types
of water contamination that recently have afflicted Pittsburgh and Flint, Mich -
not to mention the problems of Toledo, Ohio, with its algae-clogged Lake Erie
waters. Three-hundred billion dollars sounds like a lot unless one notes that
the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq, now trailing into their teenage years, have
cost American taxpayers trillions.

The argument remains valid that America is strongest overseas when it is
strongest at home. But there is nothing necessary about America backing off from
its leadership role in collaborative trade, mutual defense or climate change to
concentrate on problems at home. We can do both.

What this requires is intelligent leadership, at home and in the international
realm, without excessive reliance on military sales and strength. I don't think
that is too much to expect from our nation's leaders.

We can hope that Mr. Trump reviews the bidding at this point and adjusts his
policies accordingly. But we might have to just wait him out.

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Dan Simpson, a former U.S. ambassador, is a Post-Gazette associate editor
(dsimpson@post-gazette.com, 412-263-1976).

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              40 of 294 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                               May 5, 2017 Friday
                                 SOONER EDITION

PROTECTING THE GREAT LAKES IS VITAL FOR THE ECONOMY

BYLINE: DANA SILER

SECTION: EDITORIAL; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR; Pg. A-12

LENGTH: 269 words


Thank you for the informative article on April 27 covering how the Trump
administration's plans to repeal environmental rules will impact the Great Lakes
region ("Efforts to Repeal Environmental Rules Face Hurdles"). The Great Lakes
are an important economic engine, an important ecological resource and a source
of fresh drinking water for many cities.

Protecting the Great Lakes region is going to be made even more challenging by
climate change. As the article notes:"It's made more difficult by climate
change. Warmer waters are an issue," said Lana Pollock, U.S. chair of the
International Joint Commission. She mentioned heavier downpours that push
algae-forming nutrients into the water and biological changes brought by zebra
mussels and quagga mussels.

The vast majority of scientists say greenhouse gas emissions, primarily from
fossil fuel use, are the cause of the climate change and extreme weather.
Extreme weather helps to drive algal blooms by washing nutrients from farmland
into the lakes. These algal blooms can cause cities along the Great Lakes to
lose access to drinking water.

Moreover, the vast majority of scientists and economists say the best way to
lower emissions is with a national, revenue-neutral carbon tax that would reduce
emissions in all sectors of our economy efficiently and equitably. If Congress
requires that the tax be rebated to households, then consumers can be protected
from price increases.

If energy costs go up a little bit, consider it a small price to pay to protect
the fresh water, tourism and livelihoods of those who depend on our Great Lakes.

DANA SILER

Squirrel Hill

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              45 of 294 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            October 16, 2017 Monday
                                 SOONER EDITION

IN FIGHT AGAINST CLIMATE CHANGE, FLOOD-PRONE MILLVALE TAKES STEPS TO STAY DRY

BYLINE: Julian Routh, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. A-1

LENGTH: 982 words


The second of two parts.

In the next few decades, Zaheen Hussain's hometown of Dhaka, the capital of
Bangladesh, could be underwater - victim to a rising sea.

Now he's in Millvale to make sure the borough fronting the Allegheny River stays
above water.

The 29-year-old has been the borough's sustainability coordinator since late
2015, tasked with continuing its EcoDistrict plan - a community-wide
collaboration to prepare for a more sustainable future. Mr. Hussain is on the
front line of Millvale's effort to be resilient against whatever the climate
brings, a fight that started about 10 years ago after its second huge flood in a
few years.

In August 2007, engineers descended into Girty's Run - the 6-mile stream that
runs through the borough's main business district on its way to the Allegheny
River - to clear 20 years of debris and shore up the edges, restoring it to its
original depth level. To borough officials, the effort was a few years too late.

In 2004, Hurricane Ivan ravaged Millvale, flooding hundreds of homes and
drenching its central business district with enough water to rise above the
parking meters on North Avenue. It was only a matter of time before it would
happen again, and it did. One week in 2007 brought back-to-back heavy rains to
the town of about 3,700 residents, and another rush of stormwater to basements
and businesses.

Since Millvale amped up its fight against the storms, its creek hasn't flooded.
Its business district, once damaged by flooding, is revitalized. While
surrounding communities battle flooding, rain comes and goes in Millvale without
incident, an immediate reward for the community's effort to prepare for an
uncertain future.

"In probably a dozen communities in Allegheny County - when there's high volume
rains in a short amount of time - the creeks that run through them start
overflowing their banks and affecting their residents and business districts,"
says James Machajewski, Millvale council president and deputy fire chief. "We
would have been in the same boat."

What was once a culpable fear of being at the end of the Girty's Run watershed
is now an opportunity. The borough installed rain gardens and bioswales, helping
to absorb the runoff and slow the amount of rainwater that gets into the storm
sewer system. It passed a floodplain ordinance tightening guidelines on
construction. And it's pursuing a grant to collect air quality data in town,
with the goal of connecting it to a water tower as a public display of how safe
it is to be outside.

Allegheny County is in the top 2 percent nationally of instances of cancer
caused by air pollutants from industry, energy production and diesel vehicles.
Millvale has a higher cancer rate per 100,000 residents than Allegheny County.

The library and community center are both 100 percent solar-powered. With 96
solar panels producing about 35,000 kilowatt hours of energy per year, the
community center could serve as a safe haven during a catastrophic weather
event.

"One day, we hope to be able to create a network in which there's ever a
disaster scenario, where the grid goes down, we'd be able to unplug from the
grid," Mr. Hussain says, "and from the community center, run fully off solar and
provide basic shelter services and municipal operations."

For Millvale officials, climate change isn't the main motivator behind its
sustainable practices - at least not publicly. Mr. Hussain said residents have
bought into green infrastructure, renewable energy and sustainability because it
is simply good for the economy and for public health. Businesses in the town's
main corridor - once fearful of flooding - are now prepared; Millvale has 17
sustainable businesses designated through the state's Sustainable Business
Designation Program, the second most of any municipality in Western
Pennsylvania.

In connecting sustainability practices to the future of the economy, Millvale
officials also aim to create jobs in a town that has a youth poverty rate of
nearly 50 percent and 12.8 percent unemployment. When the borough installed the
community center's solar panels, it ran a fellowship program to teach teenagers
about job opportunities in renewable energy. Mr. Hussain says he wants to run
fellowships for all of Millvale's environmental projects, and connect adults to
jobs in the field.

"People think that growing out of previous industries, it's an
environment-versus-jobs debate," Mr. Hussain says, "when, really, it's an
environment and jobs debate. The more we can show that to people, the better it
is for our community, our economy and our country."

But in a town that is downstream like Millvale, collaboration with upstream
communities is imperative. A stormwater study found 90 to 95 percent of water
flowing through Girty's Run into Millvale is from outside the town's borders.

"It's not just Millvale's problem. It's larger," says Louise Comfort, director
of the Center for Disaster Management at the University of Pittsburgh. "Right
until that problem is recognized as such, whatever little steps Millvale does is
just going to be trying to avoid the next major flood."

But avoiding the next major flood has united the community and kick-started
collaboration. A few years after the floods, the borough's leadership council
turned over, replacing members who were on the board for more than two decades.
The new council formed better relationships with the North Hills Council of
Governments, and collaboration with Ross and Shaler townships forged a better
understanding of how Girty's Run could be managed.

"People here, politically, are pretty conservative," Mr. Hussain says. "But
because there are so many people who suffered through the '04 and '07 floods,
everyone understands the importance of sustainable development by virtue of the
shared trauma everyone experienced back then.

"Here it's not political. Here, sustainability is about the survival of the
town."

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Julian Routh: 412-263-1952 or jrouth@post-gazette.com, Twitter
@julianrouth.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Andrew Rush/Post-Gazette: Zaheen Hussain, Millvale's
sustainability coordinator, looks out over Girty's Run watershed, which streams
through the town and tests the borough's flood infrastructure. To read more on
climate change, visit post-gazette.com \
PHOTO: Julian Routh/Post-Gazette: James Machajewski, Millvale's council
president and deputy fire chief, stands next to a flood marker that notes the
levels Hurricane Ivan reached in 2004. \

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              49 of 294 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                             April 30, 2017 Sunday
                               FIVE STAR EDITION

WHILE DESPAIR LOOMS, HISTORY OFFERS COUNSEL;
WHEN A WAR IS RAGING, WE CAN'T IMAGINE PEACE. BUT RESOLUTIONS ALWAYS EMERGE

BYLINE: David M. Shribman

SECTION: EDITORIAL; MY POINT; Pg. D-3

LENGTH: 1068 words


BUFFALO

A quarter-century ago, only the most wild-eyed, optimistic, maybe slightly crazy
visionary could have imagined the Buffalo of today: a modern, tech-oriented city
that has transformed rubble into revitalization, taken a tired waterfront and
made it a breathtaking walkway, and watched its museums grow from local
treasures into major national attractions. This weekend a forbidding
145-year-old mental institution reopens as a glittering hotel. With its General
Mills plant and its colleges, Buffalo is more than ever a city of grain
elevators and brain elevators. Optimism, along with the smell of Cheerios, is in
the air.

It's a transformation - a happy one, for a change - that gives hope in an era of
despair. For while distress, even hopelessness, is all around us, from Syria to
North Korea and on both ends of Pennsylvania Avenue in Washington, Buffalo
offers us a reminder that this is an unusual period of unresolved issues.

We have faced periods of difficulty, where the ultimate resolution of our
challenges was never clear, many times before. We now know that the Union was
preserved in the middle of the 19th century, but in 1861 that was no safe bet.
We now know that the Allies prevailed in World War II, but in early 1942 that
was not the least bit apparent. We now know that the walls of segregation, and
the walls of Soviet-style communism, would fall, but in 1963 that was no sure
thing.

So here are some of the open questions to which our grandchildren will know the
answers, and, if we are lucky, may even wonder what all the worry was about:

* Global warming. Let's agree where there is broad agreement: Climate change is
real, and a real threat to our lifestyle. High water, indeed a foot-and-a-half
higher than usual for springtime, along Lake Ontario in nearby Niagara County is
causing grave concern around here, and while climate change may not be the
reason - water-level controls and an especially wet spring may be the culprit -
the effects are broadly similar: dramatic erosion of the lake bank, flooding at
yacht clubs and boat slips, beach staircases swept away, a state of emergency in
four lakeside towns.

President Donald J. Trump and environmentalists are at loggerheads, though -
speaking of change - we should remember that the last major log drive in the
continental United States occurred more than four decades ago in Maine,
rendering that metaphor a historical artifact. Even so, the perils and
opportunities are clear. Continued warming is a real danger, not to be
underestimated; some populations of birds, fish and mammals have declined by
more than half in about a half-century. But from Great Britain also comes small
glimmers of hope based on conservationists' success in saving the saiga
antelope, the echo parakeet and the giant panda. Small victories, but perhaps
precursors.

* Confrontation with North Korea. President Barack Obama told his successor that
North Korea, its angry fists full of nuclear weapons, would be his biggest
challenge. He was right. The isolated nation probably does not have the capacity
to reach even Hawaii by missile today but soon will, with the West Coast
vulnerable before the decade is out.

This is a serious threat to American security and to the American way of life,
which would be shattered beyond recognition by a credible threat of nuclear
attack. Washington knows that, but so does Pyongyang. Thus this is what the
Israelis call an existential crisis. It is imminent, and it may be unavoidable.

Right now we have no idea how this crisis will be resolved. It is likely that
Mr. Trump and his North Korean counterpart have no idea either. But barring an
unforeseen crisis elsewhere - and real crises often are unforeseen - this may be
the defining confrontation of the Trump administration. Like so much in this age
of the digital and the disruptive, it is a problem that is essentially binary,
the result being triumph or tragedy.

* The Trump presidency. The new president is caught between three competing
interpretations: that his improvisational style and combative iconoclasm
represent a meeting of the man and the moment; that he and Republican
congressional leaders will be able for forge an uneasy but productive peace; and
that his manners and impulses, political and personal, are a disgraceful
aberration from presidential tradition.

His supporters point to the precedent of Harry Truman, often reviled during his
presidency as out of his element but now regarded as an elemental force and a
successful chief executive. His detractors object to any argument that seeks to
"normalize" his behavior. This represents the great divide in American life
today. A solid majority of Americans, according to the latest Wall Street
Journal/NBC News Poll, disapprove of his performance. The gap between his
approval and disapproval rates among independents has nearly tripled since
February. That doesn't necessarily speak to his historical ratings, but it will
affect his ability as president to perform well enough to boost his profile in
history.

* America's role in the world. The president has spoken often of an
"America-first" approach to diplomacy but in the past month has shifted
dramatically, reacting to horrific pictures of victims of chemical-weapons
attacks by intervening with air attacks.

Whatever other virtues the 45th president possesses, he lacks the ability to
craft a sharply defined philosophy. In this regard, but probably in no other, he
resembles Franklin Roosevelt, whom Walter Lippmann derided as having a
second-class intellect but who, as the 1930s financial crisis deepened and as
world war approached and was prosecuted, developed strong thematic views.

It is no smarter to define Mr. Trump's worldview after a hundred days than it
would have been to define the worldview of John F. Kennedy after a hundred days
- a period that included the Bay of Pigs fiasco - followed in June by a
disastrous summit with Nikita S. Khrushchev, who by Kennedy's own admission
"beat the hell out of me," producing what the president told New York Times
reporter James Reston was the "worst thing in my life. He savaged me."

It is the next several months, and perhaps the next year, that will provide
hints of the Trump view of diplomacy and national security. My guess is that
that view will be unrecognizable to today's analysts. That does not mean they
will be comforted. It only means that they will be surprised.

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: David M. Shribman is executive editor of the Post-Gazette
(dshribman@post-gazette.com, 412-263-1890).

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              57 of 294 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                             June 10, 2017 Saturday
                                 SOONER EDITION

TRUMP'S VAINGLORIOUS TWEETS GET IN THE WAY OF GOVERNING

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. A-6

LENGTH: 773 words


WASHINGTON

Having coined Bush Derangement Syndrome more than a decade ago, I feel
authorized to weigh in on its most recent offshoot. What distinguishes Trump
Derangement Syndrome is not just general hysteria about the subject, but
additionally the inability to distinguish between legitimate policy differences
on the one hand and signs of psychic pathology on the other.

Take Donald Trump's climate-change decision. The hyperbole that met his
withdrawal from the Paris Agreement - a traitorous act of war against the
American people, America just resigned as leader of the free world, etc. - was
astonishing, though hardly unusual, this being Mr. Trump.

What the critics don't seem to recognize is that the Paris Agreement itself was
a huge failure. It contained no uniform commitments and no enforcement
provisions. Sure, the whole world signed. But onto what? A voluntary set of
vaporous promises. China pledged to "achieve the peaking of CO2 emissions around
2030." Meaning that they rise for another 13 years.

The rationale, I suppose, is that developing countries like India and China
should be given a pass because the West had a two-century head start on
industrialization.

I don't think the West needs to apologize -or pay - for having invented the
steam engine. In fact, I've long favored a real climate-change pact, strong and
enforceable, that would impose relatively uniform demands on China, India, the
U.S., the EU and any others willing to join.

Paris was nothing but hot air. Withdrawing was a perfectly plausible policy
choice (the other being remaining but trying to reduce our CO2-cutting
commitments). The subsequent attacks on Mr. Trump were all the more unhinged
because the president's other behavior over the past several weeks provided
ample opportunity for shock and dismay.

It's the tweets, of course. Mr. Trump sees them as a direct, "unfiltered"
conduit to the public. What he doesn't quite understand is that for him -
indeed, for anyone - they are a direct conduit from the unfiltered id. They
erase whatever membrane normally exists between one's internal disturbances and
their external manifestations.

For most people, who cares? For the president of the United States, there are
consequences. When the president's id speaks, the world listens.

Consider his tweets mocking the mayor of London after the most recent terror
attack. They were appalling. This is a time when a president expresses sympathy
and solidarity - and stops there. Mr. Trump can't stop, ever. He used the
atrocity to renew an old feud with a minor official of another country. Petty in
the extreme.

As was his using London to support his misbegotten travel ban, to attack his own
Justice Department for having "watered down" the original executive order
(ignoring the fact that Mr. Trump himself signed it) and to undermine the case
for it just as it goes to the Supreme Court.

As when he boasted by tweet that the administration was already doing "extreme
vetting." But that explodes the whole rationale for the travel ban - that a
90-day moratorium on entry was needed while new vetting procedures were
developed. If the vetting is already in place, the ban has no purpose. The
rationale evaporates.

And if that wasn't mischief enough, he then credited his own interventions in
Saudi Arabia for the sudden squeeze that the Saudis, the UAE, Egypt and other
Sunni-run states are putting on Qatar for its long-running dirty game of
supporting and arming terrorists (such as the Muslim Brotherhood and Hamas) and
playing footsie with Iran.

It's good to see our Sunni allies confront Qatar and try to bring it into line.
But why make it personal - other than to feed the presidential id? Gratuitously
injecting the U.S. into the crisis taints the endeavor by making it seem an
American rather than an Arab initiative and turns our allies into instruments of
American designs rather than defenders of their own region from a double agent
in their midst.

And this is just four days' worth of tweets, all vainglorious and
self-injurious. Where does it end?

The economist Herb Stein once quipped that "if something cannot go on forever,
it will stop." This really can't go on, can it? But it's hard to see what, short
of a smoking gun produced by the Russia inquiry, actually does stop him.

Mr. Trump was elected to do politically incorrect - and needed - things like
withdrawing from Paris. He was not elected to do crazy things, starting with his
tweets. If he cannot distinguish between the two, Trump Derangement Syndrome
will only become epidemic.

Charles Krauthammer is a syndicated columnist for The Washington Post
(letters@charleskrauthammer.com).

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              58 of 294 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                             July 20, 2017 Thursday
                                 SOONER EDITION

PA. POLICYMAKERS MUST VALUE NUCLEAR ENERGY

BYLINE: FORMER SEN. JUDD GREGG

SECTION: EDITORIAL; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR; Pg. A-10

LENGTH: 221 words


Robert Bryce is right: It is time for our country to recognize the importance of
nuclear energy ("The Appalling Delusion of 100 Percent Renewables," July 2
Forum). We need both renewable energy sources and nuclear energy to combat
climate change. It is common sense: If you support emission-free energy, it is
not an either/or choice between nuclear or renewables. Instead, we must promote
renewables while also preserving the largest source of emission-free energy we
have - our nuclear plants.

Nationwide, nuclear provides one-fifth of our energy. In Pennsylvania, nuclear
provides more than 40 percent of the energy overall and 93 percent of
carbon-free energy. But nuclear plants in Pennsylvania are at risk.

In May, it was announced that Three Mile Island (a single nuclear plant near
Harrisburg that generates more power than all the renewables in the state
combined) will close prematurely absent policy changes. If providing for all of
our energy needs with renewables isn't feasible now, and we wish to address
climate change, then we need to support policies that value the clean energy we
already have by preserving nuclear power in the state.

There's an old adage that comes to mind: "If you find yourself in a hole, quit
digging." We hope Pennsylvania policymakers heed that adage.

FORMER SEN. JUDD GREGG

Washington, D.C.

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: The writer, a Republican who represented New Hampshire in the U.S.
Senate, is a member of the Advocacy Council of Nuclear Matters, a national
coalition that works to inform the public and policymakers about the benefits of
nuclear energy.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              71 of 294 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                             January 1, 2017 Sunday
                                TWO STAR EDITION

COLD, TOUGH CONDITIONS -- AND DRONES;
PITTSBURGH ACTIVISTS JOIN DAKOTA PIPELINE PROTEST

BYLINE: Chris Potter, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. A-1

LENGTH: 1410 words


Even as Pennsylvania's political landscape was being redrawn this past fall,
some Western Pennsylvanians took part in a struggle over a place that less than
two years ago was barely on the map.

They traveled some 1,300 miles to the Standing Rock Sioux Reservation, where
Native Americans hoped to stave off construction of the Dakota Access Pipeline,
which is meant to carry roughly 500,000 barrels of oil a day from North Dakota
oil fields to a terminal in Illinois.

For some, like Squirrel Hill native Madeline Whitehill, the journey was a chance
to recover from Donald Trump's election victory two days before.

"I went feeling a loss of faith in humanity, a feeling of being powerless," she
said. What she found, she said, was "a culture we all need to learn from, one
built on strength and love."

Homewood artist Vanessa German saw a way of life that respected the earth
instead of exploiting it. "These were people who still know the medicine of the
land when there's an urgent scientific sense of how the climate is changing,"
she said.

In December, the Army Corps of Engineers announced it would not allow the
pipeline to cross beneath a dammed portion of the Missouri River. The Corps said
it hoped to find an alternate route for that section of the $3.7 billion
pipeline.

That victory may not last: A spokesman for President Elect Trump said it was
"something that we support construction of." (Mr. Trump has held stock in the
pipeline's developer, Energy Transfer Partners, though he has said he sold the
stock during his campaign.)

But Pittsburghers who took part - and who lived in 19th century conditions under
21st century surveillance - say the fight offers hope for the future.

"For the next four years, there are going to be a lot of battles that we lose,
but we're not going to win any if we don't fight," said John Creasy, an
associate pastor at Highland Park's Open Door Church. "Standing Rock is going to
happen all over this country."

They were among thousands of people who came to live, often in tents or huts, on
the windswept Dakota prairie. The Rev. Dr. Lauren Stanley, the superintending
presbyter of an Episcopal mission on the reservation, called it "amazing to see
people come here from all over the world" and as far away as New Zealand. "If
people came with an open mind, they were welcomed with open arms."

They were drawn by a confluence of issues: global climate change, the threat to
water supplies, wariness of corporate power, a concern for Native American
rights.

'It doesn't kill the lie'

The 1,172-mile pipeline route skirts the reservation: The Sioux say it will
disturb ancestral lands and fear a leak could contaminate water supplies, in
their community and those down the Missouri River.

"These are people we've screwed over for a couple hundred years," said Beth
Roxby of Ligonier, a former Army helicopter mechanic who joined thousands of
other veterans at the site last month. "I'm typically not the kind of person who
goes Downtown and holds signs," she said, but "I think our presence made people
think about it not just as another environmental protest."

Ms. German spent a week in the camp in August, seeking not so much to make a
statement as to live one.

"You can kill liars every day of the week, but it doesn't kill the lie. So you
don't just say something is wrong: You also have to live the rightness," she
said. She went with the hope that "If I could show up with my love, then my
presence would be an act of protest."

Ms. German discovered that Steelers Nation encompassed indigenous people: "I'd
come 2,000 miles, and there was this guy with Steelers Native American garb
living on a reservation." But she was taken aback at the animus she saw directed
at Native Americans. "It stunned me to see white women at Walmart curdle their
faces and drop money on the counter instead of handing it to [a Native
American]. It was safer for me as a black woman than for the people whose land
it actually was."

Meanwhile, Caleb Gamble found it "difficult unpacking my feelings about being of
European descent," given the historic mistreatment of Native Americans. "There
was a large influx of Europeans around Thanksgiving, and it was like, 'Oh no,
it's happening again.' "

But had police tried to overrun the camp, he would have "put my body in front of
those of indigenous people, because the police have a harder time brutalizing
white people."

A contractor in Pittsburgh, Mr. Gamble helped winterize the camp, building
windbreaks and platforms "to get tents off the ground. Sometimes we'd just pick
up trash, or wash dishes." With temperatures dropping below freezing, "The only
way to stay warm was to keep working."

"There was this feeling of everybody helping everybody else: People wouldn't
hesitate to give their gloves if they saw somebody without them," said Ms.
Roxby. "It was hard for veterans to adjust to the lack of a command structure:
Decisions were made by the elders when they got a spiritual message. But I was
always impressed with how much organization there was."

Participants describe prayer, often held around sacred fires, as a constant
presence. "It isn't just this thing we did in our head," said Mr. Creasy.
"Everything is connected with something physical: There's always herbs burned."

But God wasn't the only one watching: Floodlights blazed from nearby hilltops
all night, helicopters flew overhead. And then there were the drones.

"They'd be going 24 hours a day," recalled Ms. Whitehill. "They would hover, and
swoop in not too far from you," presumably to photograph protesters. But
cell-phone and internet service was spotty, making connections hard to maintain
at home. And residual distrust - due to racial gaps, or suspicion that someone
in the next tent might be an undercover officer - had to be overcome.

Tensions boiled over during a violent Nov. 20 confrontation with police at a
barricade on a highway bridge. Police claim protesters tried to deploy
explosives made from propane tanks, while protesters decry police use of tear
gas, rubber bullets and high-pressure water hoses, which doused protesters in
20-degree weather. One protester nearly lost her arm in an explosion whose cause
is unclear.

Ms. Whitehill recalled another demonstrator, motionless in prayer and covered in
ice water. "His hair was frozen up. It was like he was a statue, except that he
was crying."

"I can't look at firefighters the same way now," she said.

A police spokesman told a local broadcaster that while "there are probably
people there [who] were nonviolent . those right up front [were] violent
agitators," a claim protesters reject.

"From what I experienced, there is no possibility that anyone had weapons," said
Mr. Creasy. "We were told if you have a pocketknife in the camp, you have to get
rid of it before going to the bridge." As for the police, "they say they weren't
using lethal force, but in freezing temperatures, water can be lethal."

Shelving the project

Two weeks after that confrontation, the Army Corps of Engineers shelved the
project.

"The general reaction was hope mixed with suspicion," Ms. Roxby said. Even
without an incoming Trump administration, "You can't trust the government."

The United States has broken promises to Native Americans before, after all,
though currently it's Energy Transfer Partners complaining of betrayal. The
company called the decision "the latest in a series of ... transparent political
actions by an administration which has abandoned the rule of law." It said it
was "fully committed to ensuring that this vital project is brought to
completion."

"We're putting our faith in the legal system," said Rev. Stanley. "If Trump
issues an executive order [reversing the Corps], he'll be in court before the
ink is dry. And now we have a court of public opinion, because people came."

Keith J. Coyle, a Babst Calland attorney who heads a Pennsylvania industry
workgroup for pipeline safety, said a pipeline may ultimately be in everyone's
interest.

"Pipelines are the safest means of transporting energy products," he said. "If
you don't move forward with new pipeline transportation, there will be increased
risk" from relying on accident-prone trains or aging pipelines.

But Mr. Gamble said such concerns were "a distraction" from the need to
transition away from fossil fuels entirely. Pennsylvania too, he said, "has an
intense environmental history with coal, the dumping of fracking waste," he
said. "What's happening out there can happen here. It already has."

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Chris Potter: cpotter@post-gazette.com or 412-263-2533.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Scott Olson/Getty Images: An activist fights the wind while
walking along Flag Road at Standing Rock Sioux Reservation. \ \ PHOTO: Rebecca
Droke/Post-Gazette: Madeline Whitehill, shown in December at her home in
Shadyside, spent two weeks with the Standing Rock Sioux Tribe and other
protesters in North Dakota, peacefully trying to halt the Dakota Access Pipeline
drilling on tribal lands. \ \ PHOTO: Jim Watson/AFP/Getty Images: President
Barack Obama talks with the chairman of the Standing Rock Sioux Tribal Nation,
David Archambault II, in June during the Cannon Ball Flag Day Celebration in
North Dakota.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              75 of 294 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            April 19, 2017 Wednesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

A WAR ON HEALTH

BYLINE: JOSEPH O. MINOTT

SECTION: EDITORIAL; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR; Pg. A-8

LENGTH: 185 words


During his visit to a Western Pennsylvania coal mine on April 13, Scott Pruitt,
head of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, proclaimed "the war on coal is
done" ("EPA's Pruitt Says He'll Be a Friend to Coal," April 14). His war on
public health and the environment has only just begun.

Mr. Pruitt and the Trump administration have made clear their decision to ally
themselves with polluters while ignoring the needs of the American public and
shirking the EPA's responsibility to protect human health and the environment.
The reckless slashing of the EPA budget will cost thousands of family-sustaining
jobs while jeopardizing the entire country's air quality and decades of
essential climate change research.

Pennsylvanians, and all Americans, deserve leadership that will reduce carbon
dioxide and methane pollution, minimizing the already damaging effects of
climate change. We must continue to call out Mr. Pruitt and the Trump
administration on every occasion power is abused to benefit the few at the cost
of the health and lives of the many.

JOSEPH O. MINOTT

Executive Director

Clean Air Council

Philadelphia

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              85 of 294 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                              July 14, 2017 Friday
                                 SOONER EDITION

UNDO THE DAMAGE

BYLINE: MICHAEL PASTORKOVICH

SECTION: EDITORIAL; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR; Pg. A-10

LENGTH: 276 words


The theology employed by Terrence Feitknecht in his attempt to debunk both the
fact of climate change and the environmental movement in general is pretty
amazing ("God in Control," July 11 letters).

Mr. Feitknecht begins by stating that environmentalists "believe that without
man's intervention, we will destroy the planet and ourselves in the process."
This is exactly wrong. What we believe is that it is precisely human
intervention - in the form of the burning of fossil fuels and other behaviors
that pollute our planet and alter its climate - that threatens our survival and
the survival of the other creatures with whom we share the planet.

He says his "view is the planet will exist as God intended and will be totally
changed when God chooses." I have a news bulletin for Mr. Feitknecht: It is not
God who is polluting the air and water and burning the fossil fuels that are
disrupting the climate. It is human beings who do these things. That being the
case, it is the obligation of human beings to undo the damage done, as far as
that is possible, and to prevent further damage. According to Mr. Feitknecht's
theology, it seems to be acceptable for corporate pillagers to defile God's
creation but wrong for environmentalists to try and stop them. That, to me,
seems to be an exactly backward way of thinking.

I can think of no better way of expressing my own theological view of the matter
than by quoting the close of President John F. Kennedy's inaugural address:
"[L]et us go forth ... asking His blessing and His help, but knowing that here
on earth God's work must truly be our own."

MICHAEL PASTORKOVICH

Chair

Sierra Club Allegheny Group

Oakland

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              87 of 294 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                             January 2, 2017 Monday
                                 SOONER EDITION

PA. COULD LOSE ANOTHER SEAT IN CONGRESS AFTER NEXT CENSUS

BYLINE: Angela Couloumbis, Harrisburg Bureau

SECTION: STATE; Pg. A-1

LENGTH: 1040 words


HARRISBURG - The numbers aren't looking good for Pennsylvania.

The latest U.S. Census Bureau estimates show the state on track to lose at least
one seat in Congress - and possibly two - come 2020. That is when official
population numbers are released and the state begins the once-a-decade
politically charged process of redrawing congressional and state legislative
maps.

A report in late December by Election Data Services, a Virginia-based political
consulting firm, named Pennsylvania as one of nine states that stand to lose at
least one U.S. House seat, continuing a shift in political clout in Washington,
D.C., from the Northeast and Midwest to fast-growing areas in the West and
South.

The other potential losers include Michigan, New York, Ohio, Rhode Island and
Illinois. On the flip side, Texas could gain up to four seats, Florida up to two
and Arizona, Colorado and Oregon one each. New Jersey, according to the report,
would not lose or gain any seats.

Though a one-seat loss over a decade may not be cause for alarm, the downward
spiral in Pennsylvania's delegation strength over the past century should be,
political analysts say.

In 1910, the state had 36 U.S. House members. Today, it has 18. By 2021, that
number could drop to 16 - a decrease that would also cut Pennsylvania's
electoral votes and political influence in presidential elections.

"A one-seat change is not gigantic in terms of clout in Washington - but if you
compare it to a few generations ago, it is a significant change," said Chris
Borick, a political science professor and director of the Muhlenberg College
Institute of Public Opinion.

Though it remains the sixth most populous state, Pennsylvania dropped an
estimated 7,677 residents from 2015 to 2016 - its first population loss in 31
years, according to a Philadelphia Inquirer analysis of census data.

Kimball Brace, president of Election Data Services, said jobs and the economy
play a significant role in migration patterns, but the steady population shift
over the past six decades began, as research has shown, because of something
more mundane: the widespread use of air conditioning.

"People wanted to get out of the upper Midwest and the snow belt and move to a
warmer climate," he said. "With air conditioning, they could do that more
comfortably."

Before 2016, Pennsylvania was growing, but at a sluggish pace. Since 2010, the
state grew by 0.6 percent - the eighth-slowest pace of any state, census figures
show.

And the commonwealth's population only grew in that span because of immigration
and births outpacing deaths. (The latter also happened in every state except for
West Virginia.)

Mr. Brace said it is possible the next three years could bring a change in
momentum for Pennsylvania or other states, but he suggested it might take a
major event. Louisiana, for instance, had been set to gain a congressional seat
between 2000 and 2010, but Hurricane Katrina and its aftermath wiped out that
possibility.

The state ended up losing a seat in Congress after the 2010 census.

The updating of population every 10 years also drives reapportionment of
congressional seats and redrawing of state legislative maps.

Congressional reapportionment in Pennsylvania is controlled by the political
party in power in the state Capitol. It has been heavily criticized over the
years for creating shamelessly gerrymandered districts - areas with seemingly
illogical geographic boundaries that are drawn based on political registration
figures to protect incumbents and further party interests.

Though the governor's office is now held by a Democrat, Tom Wolf, Republicans
hold historic majorities in both legislative chambers. If that holds, they will
drive the legislation determining the new district maps - and deciding which
districts must consolidate.

"We're watching it," said longtime U.S. Rep. Bob Brady, a Democrat from
Philadelphia who said he does not believe the three congressional districts
Democrats hold in and around the city, for both demographic and political
reasons, will be touched in any reapportionment.

But, he added: "That's why it's so important to keep Governor Wolf in the
governor's office. He's the veto guy if they try to get too crazy."

As it stands, 13 of the state's 18 U.S. House seats are held by Republicans.

(Pennsylvania's two senators are split - a Democrat, and a Republican - but
their seats are not impacted by census changes).

Good government groups and reform-minded legislators argue that such lopsided
representation is no accident.

During the last reapportionment in 2011, when the state again lost one
congressional seat, Republicans controlled both the Legislature and the
governor's office.

The congressional maps they produced came under heavy fire for creating
districts that protected GOP incumbents and positioned the party for further
dominance. The Republican-held 7th Congressional District outside Philadelphia,
for instance, was redrawn in such a contorted way that it prompted a Democratic
legislator to launch a contest to determine what creature from Greek mythology
it resembled.

The district now includes chunks of Montgomery, Chester and Delaware counties.

G. Terry Madonna, a longtime political analyst and pollster, at the time called
the maps "the worst gerrymander in modern Pennsylvania history."

Carol Kuniholm chairs Fair Districts PA, a coalition of good government and
other nonprofit groups with the singular purpose of changing - and
de-politicizing - how the state decides congressional and state legislative
districts to create fairer elections.

In an interview, Ms. Kuniholm called the current mapping process "detrimental to
democracy" because it creates extreme partisan districts that elect
representatives less willing to compromise to achieve policy goals.

Ms. Kuniholm's group would like to see a nonpartisan citizens commission decide
district boundaries - a change that would require legislative approval and
approval by voters.

Such a sea change appears unlikely, if for no other reason that many legislative
leaders don't see a problem with the current process.

"You already have a citizens commission," said Steve Miskin, spokesman for the
House Republicans. "It's called the General Assembly of Pennsylvania, elected by
the people."

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Angela Couloumbis: acouloumbis@phillynews.com or 717-787-5934 or
@AngelasInk

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              88 of 294 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            October 23, 2017 Monday
                                 SOONER EDITION

WHEN IT STARTED;
WESTINGHOUSE SOLD UNFINISHED NUCLEAR PLANTS, LEADING TO MAJOR FISCAL TROUBLE

BYLINE: Anya Litvak, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. A-1

LENGTH: 2133 words


About a decade ago, after years of thinking up the next best thing in nuclear
power, Westinghouse Electric Co. sold eight AP1000 plants to kick off the
nuclear renaissance.

The deals - two in China, one in Georgia, and one in South Carolina - were worth
more than a mere $30 billion.

In the U.S., they would represent the new way of building nuclear plants. They
would overcome the history of outrageous delays and cost overruns on every other
nuclear power plant built in the country to date - a history that led to the
30-year hiatus in nuclear construction. The AP1000 projects ended the lull.

But when Westinghouse signed the deals in 2008, the Cranberry-based nuclear
firm's design of the power plants wasn't yet complete.

There are two ways to view that.

One is to note that, historically, all other U.S. nuclear plants had been sold
and even moved into construction with the design still being finalized.

Another is to ask: Shouldn't the industry have learned from the mistakes of the
past?

In the pages of Westinghouse's bankruptcy dockets, in state houses and
newspapers, those affected by the company's failures - regulators, creditors,
and ratepayers - are looking for the road map of how a promising multibillion
nuclear construction project in South Carolina came to a premature end this
summer. More than 6,000 people have lost their jobs at V.C. Summer. Westinghouse
is laying off 1,500 employees globally.

"The surprise is that there are no surprises," Dan Yurman, a nuclear industry
blogger, wrote in September. "All of the faults that caused the project in South
Carolina to come to an early halt are with failures to follow project management
schedule and cost control standard practices that have been known since Admiral
Rickover supervised the construction of the first nuclear submarines in the
1950s."

It has been a long time since a U.S. company commissioned a new nuclear plant,
even though nuclear power provides about 20 percent of the nation's electricity.

In the late 1960s and early 1970s, the nuclear construction boom in the U.S. saw
as many as 70 reactors being built at the same time.

"Back in those days, you had designers and [equipment manufacturers] that were
doing estimates with only 10 percent of design being done," recalled Dale Klein,
a former chair of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission who now serves as associate
vice chancellor for research at the University of Texas' Cockrell School of
Engineering.

At Plant Vogtle in Georgia - where the only two U.S. AP1000 plants are still
being built - two existing nuclear power plants went into service in the 1980s.

They were supposed to cost less than $1 billion. The price tag was closer to $10
billion.

The sales pitch behind the AP1000 was that it had evolved past the pitfalls that
accompanied engineering on the fly.

It could be built using modules manufactured at factories and assembled on site
as a cookie-cutter plant, Westinghouse said. The design relied on gravity to
keep the fuel cool in case of an accident, which allowed for a compact
footprint, the company said.

An earthquake and tsunami devastated the Fukushima Daiichi plant in Japan;
natural gas became the cheap fuel of choice for the U.S.; and it became clear
that decisive action to mitigate climate change wasn't a near-term prospect.

"[The] contracts were signed in the context of nuclear renaissance," Jose
Emeterio Gutierrez, Westinghouse's CEO, said in May at a Nuclear Energy
Institute conference. "We know well that that never happened."

How does that account for the current predicament?

A number of experts and Westinghouse insiders suggested that Westinghouse wasn't
so naive as to expect everything to go smoothly. It anticipated it would likely
lose money on the first AP1000 plants.

That would be the price of learning lessons, building its supply chain, and
training its engineers. The money would be more than made up for in the volume
of future orders, the company thought.

"It's not that Westinghouse was just reckless," said Sola Talabi, a former risk
manager for the company. "We thought there was going be at least one more plant
to distribute these costs over."

Duke Energy dragged its feet and then canceled plans to build two AP1000 plants
in Florida. A follow-up order for eight AP1000 plants in China hasn't been
finalized.

Plans to bring the reactor to India have appeared on the brink for years with no
contract in hand. With the cancellation of the project in South Carolina, the
project pipeline has actually shrunk.

Where is the schedule?

Against a chorus of optimism and glossy photos of giant steel structures moving
around expanses of dirt at Plant Vogtle in Georgia, Bill Jacobs has been a
skeptic.

A nuclear expert who monitors activity at the site and reports his findings to
the Georgia Public Service Commission each month, Mr. Jacobs has been warning
for years that the completion dates that Westinghouse and the utilities were
using were unrealistic.

The delays were evident - a part that should have been delivered wasn't, or its
flaws required extensive rework. Instead of tacking those delays onto the
schedule, Westinghouse and its construction partner, Stone & Webster, collapsed
the timeline, assuming they would be able to make up the slack later.

Mr. Jacobs told regulators this summer that an honest project schedule - one
that integrated engineering, procurement and construction costs into one picture
- could have avoided the shock that everyone from Westinghouse to utility
executives have displayed in recent months at how things have turned out.

"Had an economic analysis been performed at that time," he said - that time
being five years ago - "before hundreds of millions of dollars of sunk costs
were incurred, a more accurate picture of the value of the project relative to
its alternative would have been developed."

The lack of a finished design was initially a problem for estimators: It's hard
to know how much steel or concrete you'll need or how many man hours to schedule
if you don't know exactly what the plant will look like when you start.

But it evolved into a workflow issue since the designs kept changing as
components were delivered.

"Often times, the design would change and a component couldn't be constructed
with materials already built. So it had to be purchased [again]," Lonnie Carter,
CEO of Santee Cooper, a state-owned utility that owned 45 percent of the
now-canceled V.C. Summer project, told a South Carolina Senate committee last
month.

Meanwhile, the original design had to go back to Westinghouse's Cranberry office
to be reworked, launching a domino of recalculations through various engineering
departments that could take months.

All of this was cutting into the engineer's task of finishing the whole design,
thereby further pushing the schedule and the materials and the workforce.

As delays piled up, Westinghouse switched from providing utilities with
electronic monthly reports to physical printouts - hundreds of
11-inch-by-17-inch pages of site activities that were harder to digest.

The China projects

Westinghouse also had another mouth to feed. The four AP1000 plants being built
in China were supposed to be as much as 18 months ahead of the U.S. projects.

But there, too, the lack of a final design and other factors had caused delays.

Construction, which was being handled by Chinese firms and not the
Westinghouse-led consortium, had progressed to the point of erecting structures
and still the design hadn't been completed.

Then the U.S. push began.

In an upbeat article in Modern Power Systems magazine in January, three
Westinghouse project management directors wrote that the company's experience in
China with nuclear modules led to "more than 14,000 module-related improvements
to be realized by the U.S. AP1000 plant projects."

Read another way, there were 14,000 changes to the procurement, fabrication and
assembly of the 714 submodules that make up an AP1000 power plant.

The improvements saved between 30 percent and 70 percent on the cost, the
Westinghouse officials wrote.

In a paper titled "AP1000 worldwide deployment, learning through delivery,"
Westinghouse authors wrote that by 2012, the first AP1000 unit at Plant Vogtle
had 4,800 design changes and 300 "design deviations."

Yet as late as September 2014, Westinghouse was still showing slides at
international nuclear conferences promising a four-year construction schedule
from the first concrete pour. At Vogtle, the concrete milestone was reached in
2013 and its current projected completion date is 2021.

In China, where concrete was poured in 2009, the first plant is expected to have
fuel loaded into it late this year.

Difficult shipping logistics

When Mr. Talabi, the former risk manager at Westinghouse, was tasked with
assessing the risk of building the first AP1000 plants, he used NASA projects as
a reference. The complexity involved, the regulatory regime, the lack of an
established supply all skewed toward something outside the realm of a typical
large infrastructure job, he said.

The biggest risk identified in the beginning, he said, was the supply chain.

Over the decades when nuclear construction was at a standstill in the U.S., this
country lost the ability to produce certain large components. Mr. Talabi knew
that many critical parts would have to be forged abroad. Even getting them to a
site was a logistical labyrinth.

The steam generators weighed more than 1.3 million pounds each and spanned more
than 80 feet. Westinghouse had to modify the nation's largest train car and cut
down trees along the route to transport them from a port in Savannah to the
site.

Given these baked-in challenges, the wrenches thrown in at every step weighed
heavily on the project's timeline.

When modules coming out of a factory in Louisiana arrived at Vogtle and V.C.
Summer, quality control inspectors crawled over them to document deficiencies.
Workers onsite then had to take them apart, fix errors or refabricate components
- negating the promise of modular construction.

When the Nuclear Regulatory Commission mandated that the shield building that
holds the reactor must be able to withstand an airplane crash, that delayed the
final design certification until late 2011 - nearly four years after
Westinghouse sold the plants.

Slower, more expensive

When workers who weren't yet steeped in nuclear culture would lose documentation
for certain components or when their product tags weathered beyond recognition
as they awaited installation, mountains of metal were put out to pasture in
large laydown yards. A ding in the chain of custody of a nuclear component
renders it useless.

Productivity on both sites reached a low in early 2016.

Workers at Vogtle were taking more than twice as long as the budget projected
during the last six months before Westinghouse's bankruptcy, according to
Kenrich Group LLC, a consulting firm hired by Southern Co.

These productivity lags dominoed across the supply chain, Kenrich said.

Each 10 percent decrease in productivity, the consultant said, would add $203
million to the price tag.

In August 2016, Westinghouse hired a consultant to collect data on how workers
were spending their time. The results were never publicly disclosed, but the
consultant made more than 100 recommendations to boost productivity and cited
"idle time, early quits and late starts" as a concern.

Mark Rauckhorst, executive vice president of construction at Vogtle, told the
Georgia Public Service Commission this month that over the past year,
Westinghouse's financial situation was to blame for the productivity deficits.

"Contracts with key suppliers were delayed or suspended; the workforce was
reduced; and we began to hear from various subcontractors that needed material
was not going to be delivered to the site because Westinghouse had stopped
paying them," he said in written testimony.

Southern wasn't told that this was happening until after Westinghouse's
bankruptcy, Mr. Rauckhorst claimed.

"Throughout the process, Westinghouse attempted to maintain transparency in its
communications with the owners," Westinghouse spokesperson Sarah Cassella said.

Project happenings were communicated in meetings, through change orders,
"president's meetings and many other communications," she said.

Current and former employees at Vogtle questioned whether Southern, which had
some 200 people devoted to the project, could have been as caught off guard as
its leadership has been claiming.

Since Southern took over the Vogtle project this summer, Mr. Rauckhorst said, it
has tightened the grip over financials, restricted design changes, and improved
productivity.

Mr. Gutierrez, the Westinghouse CEO, said last month that work is "progressing
well."

"In the past month, we have been working well with Southern and things are
moving," he said. "Nothing bad to report and everything positive."

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Second of two parts/ Anya Litvak: alitvak@post-gazette.com or
412-263-1455. {SERIES} THE BANKRUPTCY OF WESTINGHOUSE

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Westinghouse of AP: An artist's rendering of an AP1000 nuclear
power plant.
\ PHOTO: Darrell Sapp/Post-Gazette: In 2011, Ed Cummins, vice president of
Passive Plant Technology at Westinghouse Electric, talks in front of a model of
the AP1000 nuclear reactor. The reactor and steam generator are surrounded with
a 3-foot-thick steel and concrete wall.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              101 of 294 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            August 26, 2017 Saturday
                                 SOONER EDITION

MAKE AMERICA TOXIC AGAIN;
TRUMP AND PRUITT SEEK TO GUT ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTIONS

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. A-7

LENGTH: 685 words


Efforts to kill Obama-care have failed, at least for now. Tax "reform" - tax
cuts for the rich - faces doubtful prospects. So many are asking whether
President Donald Trump can restart his stalled agenda.

Well, first, Mr. Trump doesn't really have an agenda beyond "winning." He has
instincts and prejudices, but no interest in policy. For example, it's obvious
that he never had any idea what was in his own party's health care plan. And he
has shown no interest in turning his populist rhetoric into anything concrete.

As a result, whatever personal feuds Mr. Trump may have with the Republican
establishment - the interest groups and ideologues that have been driving GOP
policy for decades - that establishment is setting his administration's agenda.

Second, a lot of what those interest groups want doesn't require legislation and
is anything but stalled. This is especially true for environmental policy, where
decisions about how to enforce laws already on the books can have a huge impact.

Mr. Trump's true legacy may be defined not by the laws he passes, but by his
decision to put Scott Pruitt in charge of the Environmental Protection Agency.
As Oklahoma attorney general, Mr. Pruitt acted as a servant, not of the public,
but of polluting industries. That's confirmed by his own email trail.

Now, at a time when much of the Trump administration seems paralyzed by lack of
leadership and key personnel, Mr. Pruitt is firing on all cylinders. He's
engaged in sabotage from the top, moving quickly to undermine his own agency's
mission - not just its efforts against climate change, but its role in
protecting the environment across the board.

Mr. Trump won't make America great again, but he and Mr. Pruitt can do a lot to
make it polluted again.

This is an unpopular agenda, or it would be if people knew about it. The
improvement in air and water quality since the EPA was founded in 1970 is one of
America's great policy success stories. It's also largely unsung.

When Mr. Trump was young, New York's air was filthy, and killer smog sometimes
killed hundreds. New York's governor described the Hudson as "one great septic
tank." But Mr. Trump probably doesn't remember that or realize that regulation
made the difference, and neither do many voters.

Of course, that could change quickly if people realize that the relatively clean
air and water they take for granted is being put at risk. Think of how support
for the Affordable Care Act surged once people realized that coverage for
millions might really be taken away. There would be an even bigger surge in
support for environmental protection if, say, Republicans tried to repeal the
Clean Water Act.

Still, Mr. Pruitt could do a lot of harm without changing the law. He could, for
example, reverse the ban on a pesticide that the EPA's own scientists say may
damage children's nervous systems. Or he could move to scrap a rule that would
limit heavy-metal contamination from power-plant wastewater.

Mr. Pruitt also could cripple enforcement of rules he doesn't undo by starving
his own agency of personnel and funds. The Trump budget released in May won't
become law, but it called for cutting funding for the EPA by 31 percent.

Individually, none of these actions is likely to be treated as front-page news,
especially given everything else going on. Cumulatively, however, they would
kill or cripple large numbers of Americans - for that is what pollution does,
even if the damage is gradual and sometimes invisible.

By the way, if you're wondering whether an anti-environmental agenda would at
least be good for job creation, the answer is no. Coal jobs, in particular,
aren't coming back no matter how much leeway we give corporations to blow the
tops off mountains and dump toxins in waterways. This agenda will, however, be
worth billions to certain campaign donors.

So, don't say that the administration's agenda is stalled. Some parts are, but
other parts are moving right along. When it comes to environmental policy, Mr.
Trump will definitely change America - and his legacy will literally be toxic.

Paul Krugman is a columnist for The New York Times.

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              102 of 294 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                           September 5, 2017 Tuesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

RECOMMIT TO CLIMATE

BYLINE: GENE WATSON

SECTION: EDITORIAL; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR; Pg. A-8

LENGTH: 75 words


Let's see ... the GOP has almost unanimously denied climate change. President
Donald Trump campaigned on such. The U.S. was pulled from the Paris climate
accord by Mr. Trump. And now Mr. Trump and Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas, stand with
open palms asking for assistance.

No! Not one penny until the U.S. is recommitted to the Paris accord, the GOP
gets on board with this catastrophic problem, and the move away from fossil
fuels is accelerated.

GENE WATSON

Moon

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              109 of 294 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                              June 12, 2017 Monday
                                 SOONER EDITION

TRUMP'S PLANS FOR A STATE VISIT TO THE U.K. MAY BE UP IN THE AIR

BYLINE: From wire services

SECTION: WORLD; FOREIGN POLICY ROUNDUP; Pg. A-6

LENGTH: 545 words


BRANCHBURG, N.J. - President Donald Trump's plans for a state visit to Britain
later this year now appear up in the air, as he faces a backlash from across the
pond for his criticism of London Mayor Sadiq Khan in the immediate aftermath of
the June 3 terrorist attack in which eight people died, administration officials
said.

Due to previous comments Mr. Trump was already unpopular in the United Kingdom,
and a visit of any sort could prompt large protests. The Guardian newspaper,
quoting anonymous sources, reported that Mr. Trump recently told British Prime
Minister Theresa May in a phone call that he does not want to go forward with a
state visit until the British people support such a visit. The White House call
was made "in recent weeks," according to a 10 Downing Street adviser who was in
the room, the Guardian wrote. The statement surprised Ms. May, according to
those present.

Mr. Trump, who was visiting his golf course in Bedminster, N.J., over the
weekend, has not definitively ruled out going, the administration officials
said. They emphasized that it was possible that the president would eventually
warm to the idea, and that keeping it off the schedule was the best way to
prepare for any eventuality.

While the White House has said a visit would come later this year, the exact
schedule remains unannounced. At least publicly, Mr. Trump and Ms. May are
acting as if the trip is still on.

White House press secretary Sean Spicer labeled the Guardian report as "false,"
without citing specifics, and a White House spokesman, Raj Shah, said Sunday:
"The president has tremendous respect for Prime Minister May. That subject never
came up on the call." Mr. Shah did not specify which call he was referring to.

A spokeswoman for the prime minister said: "The queen extended an invitation to
President Trump to visit the U.K., and there is no change to those plans."

Soon after the Saturday night attack on London Bridge, Mr. Trump also accused
Mr. Khan of not taking the threat of terrorism seriously enough, citing a quote
from Mr. Khan that had been taken out of context.

The president's decision to lash out at the London mayor as his city attempted
to recover from the June 3 attacks was widely questioned and mocked in Britain.

Climate communique

The U.S. will join other Group of Seven nations in a communique at the end of a
two-day climate meeting in Italy that will acknowledge points of disagreement, a
top German official said.

Environment Minister Barbara Hendricks said Sunday in Bologna that talks with
Scott Pruitt, administrator of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency,
underlined agreement on such issues as pollution of the oceans. The G-7 states,
"including the U.S.," agreed on joint efforts to reduce carbon dioxide
emissions, though Mr. Pruitt "made clear" the nations are at odds on climate
protection, she said.

Mr. Pruitt, who led the campaign for the U.S. to quit the Paris climate
agreement, will not be in Bologna when the communique is issued.

White phosphorous

Images and reports from witnesses in the northern Syrian city of Raqqa suggest
that the United States-led coalition battling the Islamic State there has used
munitions loaded with white phosphorus, the use of which in populated areas is
prohibited under international law.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Giorgio Benvenuti/ANSA via Associated Press: U.S. EPA chief
Scott Pruitt sits at the round table at the opening of a two-day G-7 summit on
the environment Sunday in Bologna, Italy.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              116 of 294 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            April 26, 2017 Wednesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

100 DAYS OF GRATITUDE: A PRESIDENTIAL REPORT

BYLINE: Reg Henry

SECTION: LIFESTYLE; Pg. A-2

LENGTH: 713 words


Many Americans are greeting the first 100 days of the Trump administration with
weeping and gnashing of teeth. Not me. I am Mr. Optimism and Good Cheer. I am
for walking on the sunny side of the street while the climate is still temperate
enough to allow that.

So today, let us count all the good things that have occurred since the
inauguration while gloomy people were moping. First, President Grump hasn't
started a nuclear war with North Korea (yet). There's still time to build a
classic 1950s shelter.

His administration has adopted a very sensible policy for countering the
paranoid North Korean dictator Kim Jong Un, he of the strange haircut. It
basically amounts to shaking a large stick at him so he will forget to feel
paranoid and maybe even visit a regular barber.

Have you ever tried this with a paranoid person in your neighborhood who is
walking down the street yelling wild things? No, I haven't either, but I am sure
it would be helpful.

If push comes to shove, we can be confident that our armed forces are up to the
task. They were in a shocking state just a few months ago - Mr. Grump suggested
so on the campaign trail - but miraculously when the new president came on board
they suddenly became the best again.

They misplaced a carrier battle group the other day. The administration said it
was going to Korea when at the time it was actually steaming to Australia.
Fortunately, the ships were soon found and turned around, which was a good thing
as you can't have admirals saying, "What the heck? I know those ships are around
somewhere."

Of course, fair-minded Americans recognize this could happen to anyone as Korea
and Australia are often confused. People talk about the fog of war, but the fog
of peace can be just as impenetrable, especially if you are new to the job and
bring your own fogginess.

Fortunately, the president has recruited China to help us deal with the
bad-haircut guy. They have promised to do as little as they can but will
continue to sell us stuff for Wal-Mart and Ivanka can also sell fashion items to
them. So everything is swell.

Moreover, the Chinese president gave our president a great little lecture about
North Korea - better than TED Talks without Ted, better even than the lectures
available to students at Trump U., assuming they were not already in bankruptcy.
Now he is an expert in the field and can tell you that kimchi is not the North
Korean defense secretary.

Unfortunately, Mr. Grump apparently didn't take the opportunity to scold the
Chinese for starting the climate-change hoax. This shows what a natural diplomat
he is, not wishing to offend without proof they are Muslim or Mexican.

What we need in this country is more methane, a manly sort of gas that spells
employment. Breathing is overrated anyway. We can't have effete liberals sitting
around tasting the air like wine snobs.

No, what we need are people busy at jobs fueled by fossil fuels promoted by
fossil politicians. Americans can grow bigger noses if they need more air or
else have them surgically enhanced, which would be a boost to the health care
industry.

Ah, health care. One little temporary hiccup occurred in the unveiling of
Trumpcare, which is going to be the greatest innovation in the medical world
since the application of leeches to infected wounds. Did you know that stupidity
will not count as a pre-existing condition? The health of insurance companies
will soon be restored and we will all be dying to see that.

The best thing Mr. Grump has done is to destroy the idea of role models, which
was a concept invented by academics, some wearing beards and sandals, and then
propagated on daytime TV by media personalities. The idea was always nonsense.
Little kids were coerced to go against their natures and emulate all sorts of
unsuitable characters chosen by the media.

Mr. Grump has broken that myth forever. Who wants to have their kid grow up to
be a swaggering, untruthful, name-calling, bullying braggart? Why, a kid like
that could end up as president of the United States!

George Washington was said to have chopped down a cherry tree as a child but did
not lie when confronted. If young Donald Grump chopped down a cherry tree, he
would say: "It's fake news. Obama chopped it down!"

What a blessing he has been to us these 100 days.

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Reg Henry: rhenry@post-gazette.com

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              134 of 294 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                           December 16, 2017 Saturday
                                 SOONER EDITION

WHAT'S IN THE SKY IN PITTSBURGH?;
IT'S TIME FOR THE ANNUAL CHRISTMAS BIRD COUNT

BYLINE: John Hayes Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: OUTDOORS; Pg. D-1

LENGTH: 766 words


During the first week of last year's Audubon Society Christmas Bird Count, a
major winter storm blanketed two-thirds of North America. Although many amateur
birders canceled count plans, and many birds took cover to avoid the weather,
data were collected by 76,669 observers, setting a new participation record.

The skies are expected to be kinder during the 118th annual Christmas Bird
Count, which begins Thursday and runs through Jan. 5. People from the United
States - including many in southwestern Pennsylvania - Canada, Latin America,
and Caribbean and Pacific islands will identify and document every bird they see
at predetermined count sites and upload that data to a national Audubon Society
collection site. The numbers are analyzed, combined with other data and made
available for the free use of scientists and the general public.

Nearly a century before the recent revival of the phrase "citizen science," the
Audubon Society was crowd-sourcing mega-data about the ranges and migration
schedules of North American birds.

"Audubon and other organizations use data collected in this long-running
wildlife census to assess the health of bird populations and to help guide
conservation action," according to a page on the national Audubon site.

The bird count is a fun way for kids to get involved in wildlife conservation
and for amateur birders to participate in real science.

"We absolutely learn from this," said Brian Shema, operations director for the
Audubon Society of Western Pennsylvania and organizer of its Bird Count
activities.

Data biases related to the varied collection methods of nonscientist collectors
are offset, he said, by the huge numbers of participants.

"If we're talking about hundreds of thousands of people reporting on tens of
millions of birds over a century, that's about as statistically accurate as data
can be," he said.

A couple of years ago the regional Audubon chapter was asked to compare the
populations of several bird species in Pittsburgh with their numbers in other
metropolitan cities east of the Mississippi River and generally in the north.

"I queried [Christmas Bird Count] data sets . and was able to use them to
propose the ranking of 15 cities based on the frequency of finding those birds
during the Pittsburgh Bird Count."

Audubon has compared historical CBC data with weather records compiled by the
U.S. Geological Survey to examine trends related to a changing climate.

"We were looking at individual species and comparing data over 118 years to see
if the birds' ranges were changing," he said.

One of the findings was that a particular finch species has gradually moved
north and away from the coasts at a time when southern latitudes and inland
areas are getting warmer.

"That trend would suggest the bird is moving in the direction you would expect
in a warmer climate," said Mr. Shema. "There's a direct correlation between the
statistical weather data and bird data."

Some birds, said Mr. Shema, are considered migratory in Pennsylvania but
resident in other states and countries.

"We count hundreds of white-throated sparrows in the Christmas Bird Count, yet
they are not here in summertime," he said. "Dark-eyed junko is another that we
don't see until wintertime, but it's considered a resident somewhere else. We're
providing information on a species that doesn't breed here, and someone in the
Northern Tier or Canada may be using our information on a bird that lives
there."

How to participate

According to the Aububon Society website, the local bird count takes place in
circles that represent specific geographic areas - for example Fox Chapel or
South Butler. A leader is assigned for each circle so birders of all experience
levels can participate. Homeowners within a count circle may also count birds in
their backyards. Phone numbers for the leaders and the areas they serve are on
the website for the public to contact to get instructions on how to participate.

Counts that will take place on three dates on Audubon properties include
Saturday at Todd Nature Reserve area in Buffalo Creek Valley at the new park
site, 154 Monroe Road, Sarver, 16055; Dec. 30 at Beechwood Farms Nature Reserve,
614 Dorseyville Road (Fox Chapel), Pittsburgh, 15238; and Jan. 6 at Succop
Nature Park, 185 Airport Road, Butler, 16002. Children's activities also have
been scheduled at these locations on those dates.

For more information about the Christmas Bird Count, data entry and access to
historical data, visit the Audubon Society of Western Pennsylvania at
www.aswp.org/pages/christmas-bird-count.

John Hayes: 412-263-1991, jhayes@post-gazette.com

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Lake Fong/Post-Gazette: Barb Harman, left, of Penn Hills,
Virginia McQuown of Fox Chapel and Sheree Daugherty of the North Side observe
birds near the Latadomi Nature Center in North Park in December 2014 for the
115th year of the Christmas Bird Count.
PHOTO: Audubon Society: Pittsburgh birders document many white-throated sparrows
during the annual Christmas Bird Count, but the bird is here only in winter.
PHOTO: Pam Panchak/Post-Gazette: Brady Porter, associate professor of biology at
Duquesne University, center, leads a group surveying birds along Pine Creek in
Hampton as part of the National Audubon Society's 112th Christmas Bird Count in
2011.
PHOTO: Lake Fong/Post-Gazette: Two male cardinals sit on branches in North Park
in December 2014, the 115th year of the Christmas Bird Count.
PHOTO: Lake Fong/Post-Gazette: A Northern Mocking bird sits on a bird house in
North Park in December 2014, the 115th year of the Christmas Bird Count.
PHOTO: Lake Fong/Post-Gazette: Lake Fong/Post-Gazette 20141227. Local.
standalone. Two male cardinals sit on branches in North Park. it is the 115th
year of the Christmas Bird Count and the group takes part in the ongoing
research to document winter birds in North Park. on Saturday, December 27, 2014.

PHOTO: Tony Tye/Post-Gazette: Erin Estell, a staffer at the National Aviary,
looks for birds in the Pine Creek valley in Hampton as she takes part in the
Audubon Society's annual Christmas bird count.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              135 of 294 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            January 15, 2017 Sunday
                                TWO STAR EDITION

DOWNTOWN FOUNDATION HAS TRUMP TIES;
25 MEMBERS OF TRANSITION TEAM CONNECTED TO GRANTEES OF SCAIFE CHARITY

BYLINE: Rich Lord and Julian Routh, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. A-1

LENGTH: 1902 words


A presidential administration assembled in Trump Tower and at Mar-a-Lago resort
is built in part with Pittsburgh money.

When this week's inaugural speeches and balls are over, and Donald Trump's
administration takes office, it will have dozens of ties to a Downtown-based
foundation that has been preparing for half a century for a moment like this.

More than two dozen organizations funded in 2015 by the Sarah Scaife Foundation
have connections to at least 25 high-ranking members of Mr. Trump's White House
transition team, a Pittsburgh Post-Gazette analysis found.

The connections are an indicator of the right-wing foundation's influence in
Washington at a time when it controls some $700 million, after receiving $364
million from the estate of Richard Mellon Scaife after his death in 2014.

The foundation, which was central to the conservative movement in the late 1970s
leading to the election of Ronald Reagan, could capitalize on a rare chance for
conservatives to steer the nation as all three branches of government are poised
to shift to the right.

The foundation's ties to the administration are "certainly not coincidental,"
said Shirley Anne Warshaw, a professor at Gettysburg College who has written
books on presidential staffing, including "The Co-Presidency of George W. Bush
and Dick Cheney."

"It means that the senior people involved in the Scaife Foundation are
well-connected in conservative politics, and that they will play a very
significant role in shaping policy in the Trump administration," she said.

Not even the best-connected conservatives claim to know where this will lead.

"We've been very supportive of most of the groups that are playing a very
important role in the Trump organization," said H. Yale Gutnick, an attorney who
was a confidant to Richard Mellon Scaife and has periodically worked for the
foundation. "I have not yet formulated my own opinions on who can influence
Donald Trump."

A Trump spokeswoman declined comment on the transition team members.

Mr. Trump made a campaign out of his independence from entrenched interests,
even on the conservative side.

"For candidate Trump to be talking about draining the swamp and keeping elites
at a distance, and then to be doing what he's doing now by filling the cabinet
with insiders and elites, the hypocrisy is shocking to me," said Aaron Dorfman,
CEO of the left-leaning National Committee for Responsive Philanthropy, a
watchdog of foundations. "But the influence and the insider access of wealthy
conservative donors and those with connections to conservative philanthropy,
that doesn't feel any different to me now." Dozens of ties

The Sarah Scaife Foundation board meets privately, at One Oxford Center,
typically on the third Thursday of each November, and historically the focus has
been on conservatism's horizon.

"They drive the conversation," said Mr. Dorfman. "They choose which think tanks,
which grantees, which fellows are getting funding and which ideas get a chance
to germinate and take root on the right."

After Nov. 8, Election Day, their work suddenly became timely. In the weeks that
followed, two of the foundation's nine trustees, and dozens of its grantees,
were picked to assist Mr. Trump's takeover of Washington.

Scaife trustees Edwin Feulner of the Heritage Foundation and Republican National
Committeewoman Christine Jack Toretti were named to the Trump transition team -
a group that includes paid staff and volunteers whose tasks include interviewing
candidates for the 4,000 federal jobs that each administration must fill.

Among the initial rollout of approximately 150 Trump team members, roughly one
in every six were connected to organizations funded by the foundation in 2015.
Ten Scaife-funded groups have more than one connection to the Trump transition.

Mr. Scaife was a leading benefactor of Heritage starting in its early years, and
was vice chairman of its board at the time of his death. Heritage had nine
people on Mr. Trump's initial team. By last week, 16 Heritage employees were
among the nearly 300 people on transition "landing teams" meeting with federal
agencies.

Most prominently, Heritage co-founder Mr. Feulner has been making
recommendations on Trump administration appointees. Philanthropist Rebekah
Mercer, a Heritage trustee, was named to the transition team's executive
committee.

Elaine Chao, labor secretary under George W. Bush and slated to head Trump's
Department of Transportation, has been a Heritage fellow. Edwin Meese III,
attorney general under Ronald Reagan, is among three Heritage people advising on
management and budget, and the foundation has at least one person on Mr. Trump's
economics, national security, domestic issues and regulatory reform teams.

Every four years since 1980, Heritage has prepared policy blueprints, in hopes
the next White House occupant will want conservative prescriptions. "This time
it's a much more extensive transition program than I think they ever had
before," said Matthew Spalding, who was a vice president at Heritage before
leaving in 2013 for Hillsdale College, where he is dean of educational programs.
"This is a classic example of someone coming in, who doesn't have that [policy]
background, and a place that does, namely Heritage, working together."

At least one of the Scaife-funded organizations is using its connections to the
transition to raise funds. The head of the Hoover Institution sent an email to
potential donors in late December touting its ties to retired Marine Gen. James
Mattis, the nominee for defense secretary, who has held a $419,000 a year
position as a Hoover distinguished visiting fellow.

Institution director Thomas Gilligan, in a Dec. 27 memo obtained by Bloomberg,
said Mr. Mattis' appointment gives his organization the "opportunity to
influence the course of American and world history in a way that no one could
have foreseen."

There is nothing nefarious about the president-elect staffing his White House
with members of think tanks, added Leslie Lenkowsky, former CEO of the
Corporation for National and Community Service in the George W. Bush
administration and former director of the Scaife-funded Philanthropy Roundtable.
"This is where you get people: from the talent banks, you might say," he said.
"These are repositories of expertise, much like universities are, much like
liberal groups are."

"It's a potent threat to modern American institutions," countered Lisa Graves,
executive director of the left-leaning Center for Media and Democracy. "These
ideologically right-wing foundations tend to be free-market fundamentalists
whose primary focus is to undo the New Deal and all of the progress that came
after."

Turning right

When Sarah Mellon Scaife placed some of her family's banking, oil and aluminum
fortune into a foundation in 1959, its leaders were local, with an academic
lean.

She included on its board two executives from the University of Pittsburgh and
one who was then involved with the Mellon Institute, later part of Carnegie
Mellon University. She also included her 27-year-old son, Richard.

After her death in 1965, as the right reeled from Republican Barry Goldwater's
loss in the 1964 presidential election, Mr. Scaife dedicated the foundation to
reviving the conservative movement by funding everything from campus groups to
think tanks.

The foundation's ideological tilt became part of its bylaws, which now require
that trustees have "a commitment to the principles of less government and a high
degree of personal and economic liberty and corresponding responsibility, as
well as a traditional understanding of vital United States interests and
national security."

In 2013, the foundation had assets worth $320.8 million and gave out $12.3
million. Its latest disclosures, which it provided to the Post-Gazette upon
request in late November, indicated that it held assets valued at $708 million
at the end of 2015 and gave away more than $18 million that year.

The Sarah Scaife Foundation's influence may be "more than any other foundation
that I'm aware of, by virtue of size," said Richard Mittenthal, president and
CEO of TCC Group, a New York-based consultant to philanthropies. He reviewed the
foundation's recent giving. "From [the foundation's] grantees, there will be a
lot of work that will find its way to either Trump Tower or Washington, wherever
[the new president] decides to live, or Florida."

Mr. Gutnick said he recently visited Mr. Trump's resort at Mar-a-Lago, Fla., in
his role as a board member at Newsmax Media Inc. That online outlet is run by
Christopher Ruddy, who investigated the Clintons for Mr. Scaife's Tribune-Review
newspapers in the mid-1990s, and who now boasts about his one-on-one
conversations with Mr. Trump.

Mr. Trump wasn't there at the time, said Mr. Gutnick, adding that people there
"were very optimistic about him being open to various inputs from the
conservative and liberal standpoints." From courts to climate change

The group poised to mold the courts under Mr. Trump is unambiguously
conservative.

The Federalist Society for Law &; Public Policy Studies, a group of 60,000
lawyers and law students, describes its ideology as "individual liberty,
traditional values and the rule of law." The Sarah Scaife Foundation helps fund
the society, and foundation chairman Michael Gleba is a member of its
International and National Security Law Practice Group Executive Committee.

Mr. Trump in November met with society executive vice president Leonard Leo, and
emerged saying he'll pick a Supreme Court justice to replace the late Antonin
Scalia from a list approved by the group. If the last Republican administration
is a guide, the society also will play a big part in filling the 112 vacant
benches throughout the federal judiciary. That's one in every eight federal
court judgeships.

Eventually that could mean "the weakening of unions and collective bargaining,"
said Danielle McLaughlin, a New York attorney and co-author of "The Federalist
Society: How Conservatives Took the Law Back from Liberals." "This means the
continued chipping away at the right to abortion. This may put a question mark
over same-sex marriage. This means more money in politics. This means more
religion in public life."

Mr. Scaife's legacy also supports nine legal foundations, located from
California to Massachusetts, that specialize in strategically suing, often to
oppose union organizing, lift restrictions on corporations or stop environmental
measures. Their cases will be more likely than ever to come before judges backed
by the Federalist Society.

The transition group studying the Environmental Protection Agency has been
headed by Myron Ebell, who leads the Cooler Heads Coalition, part of the
Competitive Enterprise Institute. Recipients of $400,000 from the Sarah Scaife
Foundation in 2015, the institute questions whether climate change is serious,
as has Mr. Trump, and opposes agreements to reduce emissions.

Several of the foundation's grantees, by contrast, have criticized one
centerpiece of Mr. Trump's orthodoxy: his protectionist pronouncements and
interference with corporate decisions to manufacture elsewhere.

Though the foundation's heft is indisputable, the result is unpredictable.

"The problem with bringing in all of these ad hoc groups is that they have
individual agendas," said Ms. Warshaw. "What you'll see with the Trump
administration, I think, is this absolute mishmash of people moving forward
agendas."

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Rich Lord: rlord@post-gazette.com or 412-263-1542. / Julian Routh:
jrouth@post-gazette.com, 412-263-1488. /

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Stephen Crowley/The New York Times: Retired Marine Gen. James
Mattis, President-elect Donald Trump's nominee for secretary of defense, sits in
on his confirmation hearing Wednesday on Capitol Hill. Mr. Mattis has held a
$419,000 a year position with the Scaife-funded Hoover Institution as a
distinguished visiting fellow
\ CHART: Transition Team announcement, Sarah Scaife Foundation disclosures and
organization website; James Hiltson/Post-Gazette: MANY LINKS BETWEEN GROUPS,
TRUMP TEAM

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              139 of 294 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                              May 26, 2017 Friday
                                 SOONER EDITION

JENNIFER RAFANAN KENNEDY;
PITTSBURGH UNITED;
MANAGING DIRECTOR

BYLINE: Janice Crompton

SECTION: BUSINESS; PROFILES IN INFRASTRUCTURE; Pg. 94

LENGTH: 451 words


What is the region's most critical infrastructure shortcoming??

"Fixing our region's aging and outdated sewer system will be our largest-ever
public works investment. Ratepayers -- all of us -- are already footing the
multibillion dollar bill. The Clean Rivers Campaign, convened by Pittsburgh
United, has organized ratepayers to advocate for infrastructure solutions that
bring the most benefits to our community."

* * *

For Jennifer Rafanan Kennedy, a Squirrel Hill native who has worked as a
coalition organizer for 10 years, green solutions to a major overhaul of sewage
systems in the region will depend on a commitment from local officials and
ratepayers.

At issue is a 2007 consent decree between the Allegheny County Sanitary
Authority and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, which calls for an end
to illegal wet-weather discharges and sewage overflows into the region's rivers.

In response, Alcosan proposed a multibillion dollar wet-weather plan for miles
of new underground tunnels and other so-called "gray" infrastructure --
human-engineered solutions that often involve large-scale construction.

"Our region is at a crossroads," said Ms. Rafanan Kennedy, whose organization,
Pittsburgh United, has enlisted the support of more than 50 other area
organizations. "Will we invest in the same old 20th-century tunnel fixes or will
we embrace the sustainable, resilient and benefits-laden green solutions that
build our community and move us forward?

In her view, the choice is simple. "Our city, neighboring municipalities and the
authorities that serve our region must maximize our investment in green
infrastructure that captures stormwater where it falls, keeps sewage and other
pollutants out of our rivers, mitigates flooding, curbs climate change and
brings a host of other benefits to our families and neighborhoods including
jobs, cleaner air, and higher property values."

Ms. Rafanan Kennedy and Pittsburgh United have led a coalition gathering public
support. Members have knocked on more than 75,000 doors in the 83 municipalities
served by Alcosan. The area covers about two-thirds of the county.

She advocates a "Clean and Green" modification to the plan put forward to
Alcosan by the city of Pittsburgh and the Pittsburgh Water and Sewer Authority
that calls for green solutions, such as planting more trees, bioswales,
permeable pavement and rain gardens -- projects engineered to take maximum
advantage of nature by capturing rainwater and preventing it from entering the
sewage system.

"Making the right choice and investing in critical green infrastructure will
serve our children and grandchildren, and bring us the return on investment we
as ratepayers need and deserve," she said.

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: IN THE LEAD / EXPLORING HOW INFRASTRUCTURE SUPPORTS AND DRIVES THE
REGIONAL ECONOMY / Janice Crompton: jcrompton@post-gazette.com

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jennifer Rafanan Kennedy

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              170 of 294 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            August 17, 2017 Thursday
                                 SOONER EDITION

NEW LINCOLN CONTINENTAL RESERVE BRINGS JOY TO DRIVERS

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. D-1

LENGTH: 864 words


2017 Lincoln Continental Reserve AWD: Bringing back the '70s?

Price: $76,130 as tested ($59,340 for the trim level; Technology Package adds
$4,215; Luxury Package adds $5,000; and Climate Package adds $850; more below).
A far, far lesser Continental can be had for $44,560.

Marketer's pitch: "Cool. Calm. Decidedly Continental."

Conventional wisdom: Car and Driver says, "Tasteful if familiar design, ample
power, decent performance" but pans "Interior diminished by poor choice of
materials, excess brightwork, ergonomic flaws."

Reality: If the '70s combined comfort, luxury, and sporty driving like this, we
might still be there.

What's new: The whole Continental for 2017, the new flagship for the brand.

The Lincoln feel: When I was a wee Master Driver's Seat, I expected fancy cars
to have a learning curve, because they were so darn fancy and gadgety, and I was
wee. These days, though, I find the best fancy cars are those that offer luxury
and some level of user-friendliness.

Unless you're familiar with them, Lincolns will keep you guessing. Why, even the
interior door handles are difficult to find - because they're buttons. Hmmm.

Outside: I look at the Continental and I see a Bentley, so that's a good thing,
although Mrs. Passenger Seat was not impressed. The grille has gotten a much
better look than recent Lincolns, although the taillights still come in a big
bar.

But I see funky pull-style door handles that are built into the chrome trim
strip along the windowline, so I also see a 1960 Mercury Monterey. Kind of
Edsel-y. Not a good accent.

Driver's Seat: These are "Perfect Position Seats." Like Lincolns tend to, the
Continental bathes the driver in both luxury and support. The 30-way (yes,
that's three-oh) multicontour front seats with thigh extender and head restraint
are worth the $1,500 price tag. The pillow tops resemble Lincolns of old, but
the resemblance ends there.

And also like Lincolns tend to, the door-mounted seat controls are fussier than
they need to be. And they send you to the center touchscreen to complete all the
options.

Up to speed: The 3.0-liter GTDI V-6 engine creates 400 horsepower. It moves the
giant beast to 60 mph in 5.4 seconds, according to Motor Trend.

Shifty: It's not my first Lincoln, so I know full well to look for the
transmission buttons next to the radio.

This remains, to me at least, not a better idea. Again and again, I almost
pressed one while trying to operate the radio. Because, well, that's what's next
to the radio in the rest of the world.

Outside of that, the six-speed SelectShift automatic works well in both Drive
and Sport modes, and the paddles work divinely.

On the road: Switch the Continental into Sport mode, activate the paddle
shifters on the steering wheel, and you'll feel like you're driving a European
sports sedan. Yes, the Continental is that good.

Hushed, but loud: The Continental is exceedingly quiet, but offers a sporty
exhaust note when it's put through its paces.

In the parking lot: Here, the Continental reveals the true beastliness of its
character, and becomes more like the 1976 version that my college housemate
drove (affectionately nicknamed "The Grandfather Car"). It swings into parking
spaces, adds a couple points to the Sturgis Chateau driveway turnaround, and is
fairly impossible to judge the far corners of.

Friends and stuff: But, oh, how the 6-foot-1 Sturgis Kid 4.0 loves that back
seat. Lots of legroom, lots of headroom. And a full monitor of heat and radio
controls to keep an eye on the old man. The seats also massage, heat, and cool,
just like up front.

Cargo space is a generous 16.7 cubic feet.

Play some tunes: The Sync 3 system functioned well during testing.

But it can be cumbersome to use, with many touchscreen presses required to
change the music source, change the station, and change to other screens.

Dials do control volume and tuning, which is again becoming a standard for most
automobiles. Sound was above average.

Some glitches: The Apple CarPlay menu seemed like a good idea a few cars ago,
but these days I'm not so sure. I prefer the car maps, and the Continental
didn't want to give them up unless I unplugged my phone.

Also, the CarPlay screen would get stuck on while I was fishing through the
radio presets, a major annoyance.

Finally, the trunk close button was not functioning on the test model, which had
about 8,000 miles on it. This causes me to fear for the future of the door
release buttons.

Night shift: The interior lights are beautiful, with a nice glow all around.

The headlights are fine for the most part, but I've never driven a vehicle that
made me so clearly think "Headlights that turn would really help this experience
a lot." Cornering on rural roads at night seemed darker than usual.

Where it's built: Flat Rock, Mich.

How it's built: Consumer Reports predicts the Continental reliability to be 3
out 5. Ford also builds the Mustang there, and its reliability has been bottom
of the barrel for the past three years.

In the end: I found the Lincoln Continental to be quite out of the ordinary for
its price segment, so despite a few glitches, it's worth a test.

Scott Sturgis, a freelance auto writer, can be reached at
mrdriversseat@gmail.com

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Among other amenities, the 2017 Lincoln Continental features
seats that adjust 30 ways. Note the pillowy seats, which are exceedingly
comfortable but still supportive.
PHOTO: The 2017 Lincoln Continental brings back an old nameplate for a new age.
It's definitely not The Grandfather Car, although grandfathers would do just
fine in it.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              178 of 294 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                             March 17, 2017 Friday
                                 SOONER EDITION

THIS BUDGET OUTLINE BRIMS WITH HARMFUL IDEOLOGY

SECTION: EDITORIAL; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR; Pg. A-10

LENGTH: 840 words


President Donald Trump's "America First" budget outline is shortsighted and
self-defeating. Cuts to certain programs may be warranted, but the outright
slashing across the board of already weakened discretionary programs in favor of
spending for military and border control smacks of ideologically driven
decision-making, not close analysis.

And these priorities will, in fact, harm America. Protectionism at the expense
of diplomacy, via cuts in the State Department and international programs, will
diminish America's standing. Cuts to programs for the poor and education, such
as support for before- and after-school programs, will exacerbate the growing
inequalities driving a wedge in our communities. And ignoring climate change and
shifting away from our commitments to the environment will only accelerate this
all-encompassing threat.

Mr. Trump's budget outline should be seen for what it is - an unabashedly
ideological work that fails to truly address our country's problems.

DANIEL SCHNELBACH

Lawrenceville

STRANGE PRIORITIES

President Donald Trump wants to quit wasting money on health care for the needy,
public education and protection of the environment so he can increase military
spending and get the arms race boiling again. Do we have a Dr. Strangelove in
the White House?

FRANK KERNAN

Mt. Lebanon

A BLOW TO U.S. SECURITY

As I read Thursday's Post-Gazette, I was disappointed to learn that once again,
our new president's attempt to keep us safe was thwarted by a federal court
("Federal Judge Places Trump Ban on Hold," March 16).

Apparently U.S. District Judge Derrick Watson thinks Hawaiian tourist dollars
are more important than protecting the security of the nation's borders.

Our president is trying to secure our borders and get a firm grip on the
immigration situation, and I think we should support his efforts for the benefit
of all. But there are those who think that we should have no borders and are
blocking every attempt that the president advances.

So when our beloved country is perforated with "no-go" zones where Sharia law is
in effect and where our Constitution is scorned and disrespected, we should name
that experience "District Judge Derrick Watson Syndrome." And perhaps all of his
constituents, and all those who so vehemently protest when our president
attempts to secure our borders, could reside in those zones and suffer the
consequences of their poor judgment.

If members of the court are going to make illogical decisions that negatively
impact the lives of others, they should be held accountable. Sinking the ship
because you don't like the captain is not the proper approach for those who
disagree with him.

THOMAS AUBRECHT

Green Tree

UNFAIR IMMIGRATION

What I find most perplexing about the immigration uproar is that many people
ignore the word illegal. Even the mayor of Pittsburgh supports undocumented
immigrants in our city.

I get the human element, but the bottom line is that these people broke our laws
by jumping the line of law-abiding immigrants, some of whom have been waiting
for many months or years. When you make exceptions to one law (amnesty), why not
other laws?

At this time, the government is deporting only illegal immigrants. If one feels
strongly about this issue, then petition your senator and try to change the
immigration laws to expedite citizenship, not make exceptions.

BILL KNOX

Moon

THEIR APATHY SHOWS

In response to Krista Harris' letter defending Sen. Pat Toomey and Rep. Tim
Murphy ("Guided Disruption," March 9), I would like to correct a few
inaccuracies.

People are unable to get through to Mr. Toomey and Mr. Murphy because they are
unable to answer the tough questions. There is an apathy and an out-of-touch
attitude regarding the taxpayers from Mr. Toomey. He does not respond to town
hall invitations because he cannot defend his position.

Mr. Toomey responded, I'm quite sure, to the DeVos family when they contributed
more than $60,000 to his campaigns, most recently in hopes of getting his vote
for confirmation of the unqualified Betsy DeVos for education secretary.
Surprise! He did vote for her.

Mr. Toomey is not up for re-election until 2022 so there's not much incentive
for him to do his job at the present time. When, however, you call Sen. Bob
Casey or Rep. Mike Doyle, there is always an actual person who answers the phone
and your questions, willing to engage in discussion or give a message to the
senator or representative on your behalf.

Those who need to talk to a representative regarding veterans issues, Social
Security, Medicare, the Affordable Care Act and various other issues more
important than playing golf every weekend at Mar-a-Lago should call Sen. Casey
or their local representatives. Sen. Toomey and Rep. Murphy are obviously too
busy to be bothered

Just an FYI: The booklet "Indivisible," referred to by Ms. Harris, is based on
the playbook of the Republican Tea Party, which used the exact tactics when
President Barack Obama had been in office for just 30 days. They continued those
tactics for eight years.

JEANN TOPPER

Turtle Creek

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              182 of 294 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                              May 22, 2017 Monday
                                 SOONER EDITION

PAPAL TREATMENT;
RECEIVING TRUMP, POPE FRANCIS FACES ONE OF HIS TOUGHEST COUNSELING JOBS

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. A-15

LENGTH: 774 words


WASHINGTON

If anyone ever needed a conversion experience - and fast - it is President
Donald Trump. The issue here is not switching religions. What he could use is an
honest examination of his conscience, his attitude toward himself and others,
and his approach to what it means to be a leader.

Even to suggest such a possibility seems absurd, more an inspiration for a
"Saturday Night Live" sketch than a serious prospect. Moving an incorrigible
narcissist toward self-criticism is as likely as changing the course of a river
or the trajectory of the Earth's rotation around the Sun.

But some people believe in miracles. One of them is Pope Francis, with whom Mr.
Trump will be meeting on Wednesday. Might this compassionate Jesuit who preaches
a God of mercy and the power of humility abandon his diplomatic role to engage
in a pastoral intervention with a man whose soul (like all of our souls) could
use some saving?

We're unlikely to know if the pope even tries. Communiques on papal meetings
with heads of state are usually opaque. At worst, the encounter may be blandly
described as "a full and frank exchange." The Vatican knows that a lot of
American Catholics voted for Mr. Trump, and the Catholic Church hasn't survived
all these centuries by ignoring realpolitik.

Those of us who are critics of the president are hoping for something more: a
stern talking-to from a religious leader who stands passionately on the opposite
side of Mr. Trump on so many questions.

Francis, after all, has explicitly condemned "trickle-down" economics as a
system that "has never been confirmed by the facts" and "expresses a crude and
naive trust in the goodness of those wielding economic power." Capitalism, as he
sees it, "tends to devour everything which stands in the way of increased
profits." He added that "whatever is fragile, like the environment, is
defenseless before the interests of a deified market."

The pope wrote an encyclical stating emphatically that a "very solid scientific
consensus indicates that we are presently witnessing a disturbing warming of the
climatic system," that "things are now reaching a breaking point" and that
greenhouse gases are "released mainly as a result of human activity." To protect
the planet, Francis called for "changes of lifestyle, production and
consumption."

The president and the pope have already tangled on immigration. During the 2016
campaign, the pope labeled Mr. Trump's Mexican wall "not Christian," comments
Mr. Trump called "disgraceful." The contrast between the two men on immigrants
and refugees could not be starker. "We must make our immigrant brothers and
sisters feel that they are citizens, that they are like us, children of God,"
Francis has said, pleading for compassion toward "the stranger in our midst."

It's hard to imagine Francis remaining silent on these questions when he talks
with Mr. Trump. But the pope also believes in our capacity to transform
ourselves and in an Almighty willing to forgive our sins. So he might well take
on one of the toughest counseling jobs of his life by urging Mr. Trump to
consider the value of thinking beyond the self.

Was the pope preparing for this moment in a surprise talk he filmed for the
TED2017 conference late last month? "Please, allow me to say it loud and clear,"
he declared. "The more powerful you are, the more your actions will have an
impact on people, the more responsible you are to act humbly. If you don't, your
power will ruin you, and you will ruin the other.

"There is a saying in Argentina," Francis continued. " 'Power is like drinking
gin on an empty stomach.' You feel dizzy, you get drunk, you lose your balance,
and you will end up hurting yourself and those around you." I hope Francis
conveys something like that to our president. He could profit from it right now.

Mr. Trump enjoys mocking "losers," so he might pay heed to Francis' injunction
that when the fortunate encounter those who are not, they should ask themselves,
"Why them and not me?" Francis' answer was different from the one Mr. Trump
would likely give. "I could have very well ended up among today's 'discarded'
people," the pope said.

Mr. Trump has recently been portrayed as being in a dark and sour mood, and the
disclosures over the last few days could hardly have improved his disposition.
This just might make him open to a pastor who teaches: "We must regain the
conviction that we need one another, that we have a shared responsibility for
others and the world, and that being good and decent are worth it."

Mr. President, what do you have to lose?

E.J. Dionne Jr. is a syndicated columnist for The Washington Post
(ejdionne@washpost.com).

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              183 of 294 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                             May 31, 2017 Wednesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

OWNER OF THREE MILE ISLAND  PLANNING TO CLOSE FACILITY IN '19;
SEEKS HELP FROM STATE TO MAINTAIN OPERATIONS

BYLINE: Laura Legere and Anya Litvak, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. E-1

LENGTH: 986 words


Exelon Corp. said Tuesday was a "difficult day" as it announced plans to close
its Three Mile Island nuclear power plant 15 years before its operating license
expires unless Pennsylvania enacts subsidies to keep it afloat.

A year ago - nearly to the day - the Chicago-based power company issued a
similar statement, bemoaning a "very difficult day" when it announced the early
retirement of its Clinton and Quad Cities nuclear power stations in Illinois.

In Illinois, as in New York, the threat worked.

Both states enacted policies to subsidize nuclear power to keep plants from
closing before the end of their useful lives. Exelon, which had filed a formal
notice with federal nuclear regulators to deactivate the Clinton and Quad Cities
plants, withdrew its notice.

By declaring Three Mile Island in Dauphin County on the brink, with retirement
now planned for September 2019, Exelon raised the stakes for Pennsylvania's
emerging discussions about ways to save the state's beleaguered nuclear power
plants from a worry to a warning.

The plants are struggling to compete as the low cost of natural gas pushes down
prices in the deregulated market. Three Mile Island has been in the most
financially precarious position, but other plant operators - including Beaver
Valley nuclear power station's owner FirstEnergy Corp. - have signaled plans to
exit the market, by choice or economic pressure, unless the state intervenes.

Exelon's announcement "confirms what we have suspected for many months - that
there are serious and consequential underlying issues in Pennsylvania's energy
sector that must be addressed," the bipartisan chairs of the Pennsylvania
General Assembly's Nuclear Energy Caucus said Tuesday.

But the legislators - Sens. Ryan Aument, R-Lancaster, and John Yudichak,
D-Luzerne, and Reps. Becky Corbin, R-Chester, and Rob Matzie, D-Ambridge - did
not signal a preferred policy direction beyond a general goal of finding
strategies that "promote long-term economic, environmental and consumer
benefits."

Talk of a bailout has drawn swift and influential opposition from the natural
gas industry and an assortment of allies, including advocates for older
Pennsylvanians, manufacturers and anti-nuclear activists.

"A bailout of the nuclear industry may temporarily extend the lifespan of TMI
for a few years, but the negative effect of higher energy costs as a result of a
bailout would have a major impact on all energy users," the coalition, called
Citizens Against Nuclear Bailouts, said in a statement.

The subsidies in Illinois will cost utility ratepayers there up to $235 million
per year while the subsidies in New York could cost about $7 billion over 12
years if the three targeted plants stay open, the coalition said.

Struggle for power

The timing and language of Exelon's announcements this year and last aren't
coincidental.

Both came days after PJM Interconnection, a Valley Forge-based regional grid
operator that coordinates the flow of electricity to parts of 13 states
including Pennsylvania, released the results of its annual auction. The auction
determines which power plants will be needed three years from now and the
retainer fees they'll be paid to be on hand.

As power prices have fallen in recent years - partly because of cheap natural
gas and all the new natural gas power plants that are springing up to gobble it
up, and partly because demand in the region is actually shrinking - these
retainer fees have become a more important chunk of revenue for struggling
plants.

This year, about 90 percent of all the nuclear capacity bid into the auction
successfully came in below the clearing price. That still leaves about 3,000
megawatts - or the equivalent of 3½ Three Mile Islands - out of the money.

While 90 percent may sound high, that number has only fallen below 99 percent
four times since PJM started its auctions 14 years ago.

Three Mile Island's financial troubles were obvious even before the most recent
PJM auction.

In fact, this is the third year in a row that it has failed to clear the
auction. The plant, which employs 675 workers and contracts another 1,500
workers during refueling outages, has only one operating unit after a partial
meltdown in 1979 damaged the second one in the worst commercial nuclear power
accident in U.S. history.

Despite the promise of Illinois subsidies, Exelon said that Quad Cities also
failed to clear the auction in May.

FirstEnergy said a portion of its Beaver Valley nuclear power plant cleared this
year, but did not specify how much. The company's spokesperson Jennifer Young
said neither the auction nor the Three Mile Island announcement changes the
company's plans to get out of the unregulated power generation business in the
next year or so.

"Though legislation has not yet been proposed in Pennsylvania, we are encouraged
by the discussions going on in the state about the importance of nuclear," she
said.

But it's Exelon leading the campaign for a rescue in Pennsylvania, just as it
had done in Illinois and New York.

Exelon, having stocked up on Harrisburg lobbyists in recent months, operates
three of Pennsylvania's five nuclear plants, including Three Mile Island,
Limerick Generating Station in Montgomery County and Peach Bottom Atomic Power
Station in York County.

Exelon president and CEO Chris Crane, said in a statement that, "Like New York
and Illinois before it, the commonwealth has an opportunity to take a leadership
role by implementing a policy solution to preserve its nuclear energy facilities
and the clean, reliable energy and good-paying jobs they provide."

The company said Pennsylvania's Alternative Energy Portfolio Standard provides
incentives for 16 forms of clean energy, like solar, wind and hydropower, but it
excludes nuclear power even though nuclear plants produce 93 percent of the
electricity in the state that doesn't directly emit carbon dioxide, the primary
greenhouse gas contributing to climate change.

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: PowerSource / Energy news. In context./ Laura Legere:
llegere@post-gazette.com; Anya Litvak: alitvak@post-gazette.com or 412-263-1455.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Matt Rourke/Associated Press: Cooling towers at the Three Mile
Island nuclear power plant in Middletown, Pa. Exelon Corp., the owner of Three
Mile Island, site of the United States' worst commercial nuclear power accident,
said Tuesday it will shut down the plant in 2019 without a financial rescue from
Pennsylvania.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              186 of 294 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                              July 2, 2017 Sunday
                               FIVE STAR EDITION

UNITED WAY FUNDRAISING SHORTFALL LINKED TO STEEL INDUSTRY DOWNTURN

BYLINE: Joyce Gannon, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. G-1

LENGTH: 959 words


Financial woes in the steel industry have taken a toll on the amount of funds
flowing into one of the region's largest charities, United Way of Southwestern
Pennsylvania.

For the first time since the Great Recession, contributions to United Way's
annual campaign fell slightly in Allegheny County - a dip the charity's top
officials linked mainly to decreased donations from workplace campaigns at local
steelmakers, the absence of a major corporate gift the agency expected to
receive, and a change in reporting by one corporate donor that resulted in some
of that company's gift being discounted because the funds couldn't be properly
tracked.

Contributions for the 2016-17 campaign that wrapped in June totaled $31.7
million, down less than 1 percent from $31.9 million the prior year.

"Our biggest challenge is the steel industry," said Bob Nelkin, president and
chief executive of the local United Way affiliate.

He declined to name specific companies that fell short in their workplace
campaigns and corporate gifts, but he said that over the last three years, the
decline in contributions from all local steelmakers dropped by $1.5 million.

Though Mr. Nelkin said the agency wasn't caught off guard by the shortfall, the
fact that some big corporate donors are pulling back is part of the impetus
behind a strategic plan United Way has started to develop to better engage
donors - especially technology and other small businesses emerging in and around
the city, and millennials who don't necessarily connect with traditional United
Way workplace campaigns.

"All in all, I don't think it's a crisis," Mr. Nelkin said.

Despite the drop in funds raised in Allegheny County, the overall campaign in
southwestern Pennsylvania that wrapped up in June raised nearly 5 percent more
than last year for a total $36.4 million. That amount includes contributions in
Allegheny as well as Westmoreland, Fayette, and southern Armstrong counties.

"Pittsburgh remains a very charitable community and we are very fortunate to be
here," said Karen Larrimer, United Way's board chair who is executive vice
president and head of retail banking at PNC Financial Services Group.

A drop of less than 1 percent in fundraising "should not be seen as a
disappointment," she said. "Year to year there are going to be fluctuations."

Ms. Larrimer declined to address fundraising drops in specific corporate
sectors.

But it's no surprise that some steelmakers aren't contributing as much as they
did in the past.

At U.S. Steel, for instance, revenue fell 11 percent last year and the company
reported an unexpected loss of $180 million loss in this year's first quarter.

The U.S. Steel Foundation, which is funded by the corporation and does not have
an endowment, hasn't awarded any grants since 2015 "due to business conditions,"
according to a spokeswoman.

To counter the decline in fundraising in Allegheny County, United Way has
already made adjustments in its grantmaking and operational costs.

It stopped allocations to several nonprofits that had management or
organizational issues, Mr. Nelkin said, and has reduced staff size at its Strip
District headquarters to 74 from 78. It has also trimmed expenses at its
offices.

"We certainly wouldn't make adjustments outside and not internally," he said.

For the fiscal year that began July 1, the agency has allocated $20.3 million
for programs and agencies that assist at-risk youth, senior citizens, veterans,
individuals with disabilities, and women and families in crisis.

Among programs targeted for expansion are a mentoring initiative for middle
school students in the Mon Valley; the PA 2-1-1 Southwest help line, which will
add a 24-hour text service; and an employment program that will help students
with mental health challenges and autism find jobs.

Since taking over as United Way's chair in April, Ms. Larrimer has been
convening board members, United Way staff and community leaders to craft the
five-year strategic plan that will be implemented in 2018.

While the workplace campaigns conducted at about 700 companies account for 82
percent of United Way's annual fundraising, "We want to think outside that box,"
she said.

"The community keeps changing and corporate headquarters and chief executives
change. We have to look to engage beyond the workplace level and engage
individuals."

Specific donor groups the agency aims to grow are its Women's Leadership Council
for women who donate $1,000 or more annually and target much of their giving to
women in crisis; and the Tocqueville Society for individuals who donate $10,000
or more per year. The Tocqueville Society includes 500 members who raised over
$9 million for the recent campaign.

A major thrust of the strategic plan is finding ways to reach people in their
20s and 30s.

"That's absolutely critical to the success of the United Way going forward,"
said Ms. Larrimer.

Already the organization has developed a Next Generation Playbook that it has
distributed to companies as a guide to getting younger workers involved in
philanthropy.

And last year it introduced UPledge for Good, an online platform that gives
donors more detailed options about where to direct their giving.

At PNC, Ms. Larrimer said, a longtime practice of having a veteran executive
chair the workplace campaign is changing this year so that a millennial-age
employee will be paired with that executive to "infuse new ideas and bring new
thinking to engage that audience."

While the proliferation of appeals people receive through web emails and social
media are some of the "disruptive forces in traditional charitable giving" that
have impacted fundraising at United Way, said Mr. Nelkin, the agency is anxious
to embrace technology if it helps draw donors.

"Online giving is now omnipresent," he said.

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Joyce Gannon: jgannon@post-gazette.com or 412-263-1580.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Karen Larrimer \ \ PHOTO: Bob Nelkin \ \ CHART: United Way of
Southwestern Pa; Jaems Hilston/Post-Gazette: UNITED WAY FUNDRAISING IN
SOUTHWESTERN PA

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              190 of 294 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                           October 4, 2017 Wednesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

ELISE ADIBI MODELS A HOLISTIC UNIVERSE IN THE FRICK GREENHOUSE

BYLINE: M. Thomas, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT; Pg. C-3

LENGTH: 729 words


When Elise Adibi installed 18 paintings for a six-month stay in the Frick
Greenhouse, she expected the experience to differ from that of an exhibition
within the white-walled, climate-controlled space of a museum. But some of what
happened went beyond what was predicted.

The stylish glasshouse provided flowers and edibles for the Frick family from
1897 through the 1970s and is part of the campus of The Frick Pittsburgh in
Point Breeze.

Her site-specific installation, "Elise Adibi: Respiration Paintings," occupies
the two greenhouse wings, mingling abstract paintings with architectural
elements designed by Ms. Adibi and flowering plants selected by the artist in
collaboration with grounds manager Kim Rothert.

The north wing is a rose garden in which rose as flower, color, scent and idea
are blended. Paintings in the south wing surround a central field of potted
color that began with spring tulips and closes with fall chrysanthemums.

Floral scents rising from essence-infused paints ripened on hot, humid days,
providing an additional sensory component,

While the resultant spaces are pleasurable and calming, they are layered upon a
series of investigations Ms. Adibi has mulled in recent years. Two that are
central are the experiential notion of change and the philosophic notion of
organicism, which views everything in nature as part of an organic whole.

Ms. Adibi, 51, was born in Boston, but grew up and now lives in Squirrel Hill.
She is a nationally exhibited artist who has lived and worked on both coasts.
She earned degrees from Swathmore College, the University of Pennsylvania and
Columbia University in philosophy, architecture and fine arts, respectively.

As the exhibition nears its Oct. 22 close, the artist reflected upon what she'd
learned.

The oxidation paintings, which combine urine and other agents on copper, were
expected to react to the climatic exposure, and they did. (These evolved from a
feminist response to Andy Warhol's oxidation paintings, but that's another
story.)

"All of the oxidations changed on the first day," Ms. Adibi said. "Now all [the
paintings] have changed," and that was a surprise.

"Rose Chord,' for example, was a formally structured pattern of receding and
advancing geometric shapes in various shades of rose, floating on a white
background. It emitted fragrances of jasmine, Australian sandalwood, bergamot,
sweet orange, geranium rose and highland lavender, among others. Throughout the
exhibition, it has been increasingly shaded by a colonizing dark mold.

"This painting gave a feeling of harmony and balance and connection," Ms. Adibi
said. "It has a different presence now."

The surrounding plants have grown and occasionally tendrils and blossoms assert
themselves into a painting's perimeter. Insects have left casings behind. If at
first this dismayed Ms. Adibi, who works only in oil because of its proven
permanence, she now takes it in stride.

"It opens conversations about the duration of painting, what it is to experience
a painting and how do you experience their aliveness," she said.

"Aliveness" is not a casual choice of words and hints at a larger and
fascinating related concept that the artist explores handsomely in an exhibition
booklet.

Under the umbrella of interconnectedness, she dissolves preconceptions, as when
attributing light-bestowed vitality to the fragrances and the paintings. The
distilled liquids, as a product of photosynthesis, could be seen as "a pure form
of light," she said. It's the same force that gives life to a painting if one
considers that varying light wavelengths determine one's perception of color.

Boundaries waver in a holistic universe and open vistas wide.

"It is my belief that the plants really eat the light from the sun, and that is
what supports all the life on the planet," she said as she looked out a window
at a tree.

"What a deep mystery that that creature can take sunlight and use it as a food
to grow."

The greenhouse is on the grounds of The Frick Pittsburgh, 7227 Reynolds St.,
Point Breeze. Two additional paintings are exhibited in The Frick Art Museum.
Admission is free. Hours are 10 a.m.-5 p.m. Tuesday through Sunday and 10 a.m.-9
p.m. Friday. An exhibition booklet contains color illustrations of all works and
essays by the artist, the museum's executive director and the chief curator
($5). Information: www.thefrickpittsburgh.org or 412-371-0600.

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: M. Thomas: mthomas@post-gazette.com or 412-263-1925.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Steve Mellon/Post-Gazette: Elise Adibi's paintings hang among
tulips at The Frick Pittsburgh in Point Breeze. The art changes over time due to
light, humidity and temperature. \

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              191 of 294 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            October 17, 2017 Tuesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

BANNER LEADS TO LEARNING OPPORTUNITY FOR STUDENTS

BYLINE: Molly Born, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: EDUCATION; Pg. A-1

LENGTH: 1402 words


WELLSBURG, W.Va. - When they unfurled their banner in Brooke High School's
football cheering section Sept. 22, students say, they meant to celebrate a
message of patriotism.

"Red, white and blue" was the theme for the Bruins' game with the mostly black
Commodores from Pittsburgh's Perry High School. The banner contained an American
flag with exactly 50 stars and 13 stripes. But it also was painted with large
block letters that said "TRUMP PERRY," with a tuft of yellow hair above the
president's name. And almost nothing about Mr. Trump is uncontroversial.

"We didn't make it with racism in mind," said Kylie Byers, a 17-year-old senior
who helped paint it. "That wasn't what was in our hearts."

School officials did have one warning that Mr. Trump would cast a shadow even in
the Friday night lights of their stadium. The parents of Brooke's only black
football player complained before the game started.

"We did our best to try to get that taken down," said the player's father,
58-year-old Dana Davis. "Trump, to me, is a racist person."

The player's parents shared their objections with a custodian, who summoned the
school's athletic director, who called in Brooke's principal, Timothy Pannett.
Mr. Pannett looked at the sign and let it stand. He couldn't have known that,
more than 600 miles away, Mr. Trump himself was mixing football and racially
charged politics at a rally in Alabama.

"I made a bad mistake that night," Mr. Pannett said.

***

During football season, about a dozen Brooke seniors meet at someone's house six
days before a game.

They roll out paper the length of the basement floor and decorate it according
to a theme chosen each week. A patriotic theme usually is timed with the
anniversary of the Sept. 11 attacks, but was delayed to Sept. 22 this year by
the schedule of home games.

One of the senior girls at Brooke came up with the "Trump Perry" idea. Brooke
students are quick to point out the wordplay: "Trump. You know, like, to beat."

"I thought it was a cute play on words and was impressed that they represented
the flag with enough respect to depict it with the appropriate number of stars
and stripes," Kylie's father, Chris Byers, 46, said at a recent school board
meeting.

"At this point in time, we knew nothing about Perry," said Kylie, a Bernie
Sanders supporter.

It was the first contest between the teams. Pittsburgh schools occasionally play
in West Virginia and Ohio, but it was only Perry's second visit to the Mountain
State since 2003.

But while the schools are only an hour away from each other, they are worlds
apart. Brooke County is 97 percent white; it voted for Mr. Trump by a
69-to-27-percent margin last year. Perry is 75 percent black, in an urban
district that named a school after former President Barack Obama.

Perry's Joshua Dyer, an 18-year-old senior running back, said he didn't notice
the banner until teammates pointed it out in the third quarter.

At first, "I'm thinking, 'OK, that doesn't mean no harm.' " But after a few
moments he found himself "looking at it just shaking my head like, 'Wow. ...We
come up from a black school, me being black - it's kind of like being hostile to
me and other people.' "

Perry players discussed the banner among themselves on the field, but didn't
broach the subject with their opponents. After Perry's 34-20 loss, the teams
wished each other good luck. By Joshua's account, and that of some Brooke
players, the game was pleasant.

"When I went to bed Friday night," Kylie said, "I didn't think anything was
going to come of it."

***

At 6:49 a.m. the next day, Perry librarian Sheila May-Stein tweeted a photo of
the banner, taken by her friend who attended the game, calling it "sickening
racism." A flurry of tweets followed, from other angry observers and from Brooke
kids explaining their intentions.

"The banner was so repellent, and so racially weighted, given the president's
popularity with neo-Nazi and white nationalist groups, that I felt sick," said
Ms. May-Stein, who is white, in a Sept. 26 email.

Later Saturday morning, Brooke County superintendent Toni Shute - who was sick
Friday and missed the game - got a text from her principal: "Call me." He was
fielding complaints about the sign from Perry teachers and others, and Mrs.
Shute called an emergency meeting of administrators.

"Implicit or conscious, bias and prejudice are the No. 1 threats to humanity,"
Mrs. Shute said. "You have to look at the world through the eyes of everyone
else, you have to stay awake and understand what's happening."

She spoke with Pittsburgh superintendent Anthony Hamlet and issued an apology
the Monday after the game, calling the banner "insensitive, intimidating and
offensive."

"Policies were not followed by the schools administrators to ensure a climate
free from bullying and harassment, and as a result people were offended in our
home," it said in part. Mrs. Shute said in an interview that she was certain
that wasn't her students' intent.

Even as Ms. May-Stein's tweet was circulating, Americans were waking up to the
news that during his Alabama rally the night before, Mr. Trump had called out
former San Francisco 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick for kneeling during the
national anthem a year ago at a National Football League game to protest police
treatment of African-Americans.

Since Mr. Trump's election, students in a handful of high schools have used his
name as a taunt. In March, for instance, a group of students at a high school
basketball game in Indiana chanted "Build that wall" at a rival team made up
largely of Latino players.

"There is harm done when [Mr. Trump] is raised up to intimidate a black,
inner-city school," said Dave Zirin, who writes about the intersection of
politics and sports for The Nation.

School officials in Pittsburgh seemed anxious to put the issue behind them last
week. District spokeswoman Ebony Pugh and Perry principal James Cooper
repeatedly discouraged student interviews on the topic.

"I would like for our students to move on from this discussion and get back to
focusing on their academics," Mr. Cooper said in an email.

***

That hasn't been so simple in Brooke.

Mrs. Shute's letter set off a firestorm, with some parents calling for her
termination and some teachers wearing red, white and blue in solidarity with
students. At a board meeting Oct. 9, protesters lined up outside the district
administration building with signs like "Give Shute the boot."

Several students and parents said the language in Mrs. Shute's letter - its use
of the words "bullying" and "intimidating" especially - gave credence to the
idea that Brooke students are racist. And in West Virginia, that can be a hard
notion to reverse. Even Joshua's family brought it up when he told them about it
on the way home.

"Now my child could go to another school [that says], 'Here comes those
hillbilly rednecks,' " said Brian Shafer, 51, whose daughter plays in the Brooke
marching band. "Once you're labeled racist, it's too late, the damage is done."

"Just because I'm a white student in West Virginia doesn't mean we have rebel
flags all around," Kylie said.

Mrs. Shute "didn't have our backs," said 16-year-old Brooke lineman Scott
Browning, a junior who didn't help make the sign.

Among the first to report the sign, 55-year-old Carla Davis wanted to pull her
son off the Brooke team, until her husband helped to change her mind. She said
she heard Perry parents complaining, too.

"It made me very upset and very discouraged," Mrs. Davis said. "They could have
picked a better week to do that."

An educator in the district 42 years, Mrs. Shute makes few apologies for hoping
to make the controversy a "teachable moment."

Mr. Pannett, the Brooke principal, has asked his social studies teachers to make
"cultural diversity" a part of their lessons this year. He has planned a series
of assemblies on the topic to be led by local clergy and other community leaders
and invited percussionist Elec Simon, who plays at Cleveland Cavaliers games, to
talk with students about racial bias.

"We've got to be relentless over the long term," he said. "It's a change in
thinking. Everyone has to be careful of their words and actions."

Kylie, for one, said she would welcome more conversation - and if she could go
back, would do things differently.

"We know we hurt people badly," she said. "I don't believe that what we did was
wrong, but knowing how other people would take it, I would decide it wasn't
worth it."

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Molly Born: mborn@post-gazette.com or 412-263-1944.

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              197 of 294 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            November 24, 2017 Friday
                                 SOONER EDITION

GIFTS FOR OUTDOORS LOVERS

SECTION: LIFESTYLE; SHOP HOLIDAY; Pg. GG-38

LENGTH: 347 words


Everyone who does anything outdoors needs at least one of everything. These
holiday gift items will be appreciated by hunters, anglers and anybody who plans
to get out this winter.

Keep your favorite outdoors lover warm this winter. SmartWool Trekking heavy
socks absorb wet sweat and trap it away from feet and synthetic trainers,
keeping feet dry and warm. Full cushioning and flat-knit toe seams provide
comfort while arch braces hold the sock in place. A perfect stocking stuffer.
($20.99, Dick's Sporting Goods)

Which direction to go? There's an app for that. Owners of Apple watches or other
Apple devices can download one of many detailed Ordnance Survey maps and
navigate with confidence using ViewRanger's GPS navigation guide app. Works
offline without mobile and data signals. (Free to $19.93, Apple Store)

A half gallon of no-salt soft-plastic baits -- enough to keep an angler on the
water for years. The Worm Bucket includes 195 pieces -- 13 each of 15 different
worms of various colors. The Shad/Grub Bucket contains 420 baits. ($19.99,
Cabela's while it's still Cabela's)

Let the little angler in your life feel the excitement of life at the end of the
line. Shakespeare's character-branded 2-foot 6-inch spincast rods aren't toys,
they're tools for turning kids on to fishing. Available in Barbie, Disney
Frozen, Disney Princess, Spider-Man and others and includes rod, reel, mono line
and a practice plug. ($9.46, Walmart)

In the field, hunters need a radio that won't run out of juice. This Midland
two-way radio pack includes a USB charging jack, battery meter, auto battery
save and low battery indicator. Twenty-two channels, 28-mile range, durable
water-resistant construction. ($49.99, Field & Stream)

Say goodbye to BB guns. Modern air-rifle technology can stop game animals in
their tracks and is now legal for hunting small game in Pennsylvania. The
gas-powered Gamo Raptor Whisper air rifle with 4x32mm scope propels.177-caliber
pellets at 1,300 fps through a muzzle blast reducer, making it an accurate and
quiet squirrel gun. ($132.60, Anthony Arms and Gun Works)

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: For shopholidayoutdoors Midland Two-Way Radio Pack PHOTO: For
shopholidayoutdoors Gamo Raptor Whisper Air Rifle PHOTO: For shopholidayoutdoors
Midland Two-Way Radio Pack PHOTO: Shakespeare Barbie All-in-One Starter Fishing
Combo Shop Holiday John Hayes PHOTO: For shop holiday outdoors - John Hayes
Cabela's Bass Bucket Soft Plastics 31691: Bass Worm and Shad Grub Soft Bait
Cabela s Bass Fishing Lures Buckets | Online Shopping | Shop Online | Online
Deals | Daily Deals |eBay Deals | This item is on eBay | Sportinggoods |
Sporting Goods | Sports | Fishing | Hunting Gear | Football | Sporting Events
PHOTO: for shopholidayoutdoors Apple Watch navigation app. PHOTO: For
shopholidayoutdoors SmartWool Trekking Heavy Socks. PHOTO: Shop Holiday John
Hayes, Cabela's Bass Bucket. Might look better in a round box.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              198 of 294 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                           September 19, 2017 Tuesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

BYLINE: From staff and wire reports

SECTION: BUSINESS; BUSINESS BRIEFS; Pg. D-1

LENGTH: 582 words


After Harvey-driven spike, gas prices in region start to drop

Average gasoline prices in the Pittsburgh region dipped 2 cents over the last
week and sit at $2.87 a gallon, according to price-tracking website GasBuddy.
That compares with the national average of $2.63 a gallon, which also dropped 2
cents in the last week. Gasoline markets have stabilized, but prices remain high
after Hurricane Harvey slammed the Houston area, temporarily knocking out
refineries that produce roughly 25 percent of the country's gasoline. From Aug.
29 to Sept. 5, Pittsburgh-area pump prices increased 24 cents - the largest
weekly spike in the region recorded since GasBuddy began keeping detailed data
in 2007.

UPMC Pinnacle, Highmark sign agreement on insurance

Health care system UPMC Pinnacle and insurer Highmark signed an agreement that
will allow Highmark members to access Pinnacle's eight central Pennsylvania
hospitals and primary care and specialist physicians, UPMC Pinnacle president
and CEO Philip Guarneschelli said.

Amazon announces southwest Ohio center, 1,000 jobs coming

Amazon plans to locate a fulfillment center in the southwest Ohio city of
Monroe, bringing more than 1,000 jobs. Ohio recently approved a 1.39 percent,
10-year tax credit for the project, along with a tax credit for a planned
fulfillment center near Cleveland that could employ 2,000 people. The
Seattle-based e-commerce giant says the Monroe center will add to more than
6,000 Amazon employees already in Ohio. It said associates at the
1-million-square-foot facility will pick, pack and ship larger customer items
such as sports equipment, gardening tools and pet food.

Major defense deal amid rising global tensions

Northrop Grumman is buying Orbital ATK for about $7.8 billion, with a backdrop
of rising global tensions accelerating big deals in the defense sector. Earlier
this month, United Technologies said it would pay $22.75 billion for defense
contractor Rockwell Collins. Legislation is expected to pass easily Monday,
pumping $700 billion into the Pentagon budget as the U.S. responds to growing
hostility from North Korea. The acquisition of Orbital would strengthen Northrop
Grumman's capabilities in military aircraft technology and missile defense.

Ford and Mahindra Group looking to team up

Ford and India's Mahindra Group will cooperate in an agreement to advance
electric and connected vehicle technology, among other things. Ford Motor Co.
seeks to expand its presence in India, while Mahindra wants to expand its reach
outside of the country. The companies seek to cooperate on mobility,
electrification and connected vehicle projects. India has proved to be a tough
environment for U.S. automakers. In May, General Motors Co. said it would pull
its Chevrolet brand out of India by the end of 2017.

Chocolate fries soothe McDonald's scandals

McDonald's Japan took a series of hits starting in 2014 that threatened to crack
its Golden Arches: a supplier sold expired chicken, a human tooth was found in
french fries, and a child was injured by a plastic shard in a sundae. Sales
plummeted and the chain closed hundreds of restaurants. CEO Sarah Casanova
visited all of the country's 47 prefectures to meet with diners. She then
revamped the menu to add local flavors like the pork-and-ginger "Yakki Burger"
and headline-grabbing items like chocolate-covered fries. McDonald's Japan
same-store sales climbed for the 21st consecutive month in August, and the
company raised its full-year profit outlook twice.

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              205 of 294 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                           February 9, 2017 Thursday
                                 SOONER EDITION

'DOUBT' AT SPACE GALLERY REQUIRES SECOND GLANCE

BYLINE: Courtney Linder, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT; ART PREVIEW; Pg. W-10

LENGTH: 629 words


An eight-foot-long scroll spills across the gallery floor, covered in thin
strips of cyan, sapphire and violet paper. At first glance, it resembles an
expensive rug, but with a magnifying glass, the words "Call me Ishmael"
materialize.

Similar to the other pieces in SPACE Gallery's newest exhibition, "Doubt," Diane
Samuels' full-hand transcription of "Moby-Dick" demands new eyes. In the realm
of visual art, to look is not always to see.

Ms. Samuels' work, along with selections from Lenka Clayton, Lori Hepner,
Melinda McDaniel, Gina Occhiogrosso and Mary Temple, portray the multifaceted
truths that can be buried in a piece of artwork.

Curator Nadine Wasserman believes the doors of perception are always open -
instances of doubt are not a lapse in faith but a tool for re-evaluating
commonly held positions, as opposed to blindly accepting them.

"I don't want to dictate what doubt means," said Ms. Wasserman. "I'm promoting
questioning."

Some of those questions are baseline queries about content, including one of
Melinda McDaniel's pieces - a series of 48 black panels with square cutouts in
various patterns.

This is the exhibit's inherent challenge - discovering that the panels translate
to the number of months in four years, that each blank space corresponds to one
unplanned day in the Trump presidency and that Ms. McDaniel herself feels
double-edged doubt and open-mindedness for this unpredictable future.

Ms. Hepner's process, a complicated digital method that she created herself,
involves photography, LED bulbs and projection, so she finds that much curiosity
focuses on the "how?" of her art, rather than the "why?"

The two light paintings she exhibits in "Doubt" are green and blue, created from
Icelandic settings she photographed. Ms. Hepner said she wanted to visit before
climate change continued to alter the landscape, although ironically she is
manipulating the horizon lines and trees through her digital process.

"My camera is open 20 seconds, and you see the landscape floating in space in my
studio," Ms. Hepner said. The lights correspond to elements of the land, and she
physically moves them to mimic the way she traversed through the landscape while
taking photos. Once completed, her abstractions are hardly recognizable,
concealing their complex nature.

Still, other works beg the viewer to reconsider their own unwavering convictions
rather than their eyesight. Mary Temple's "We're All Pink on the Inside" takes
up a full pale pink wall, complementing rosy sketches of female world leaders.

From her five-year daily drawing project, "Currency," which depicts world
leaders mentioned in web-based stories each day, Ms. Temple selected 19
portraits that illustrate women leaders.

"I don't always love the drawings, but I may love what the person did that day,"
said Ms. Temple, who places the images on the page higher up if she feels the
person's actions have contributed to global harmony, or lower on the page if
not.

The selection includes Geraldine Ferraro, Queen Elizabeth II and Benazir Bhutto.
Hillary Clinton was going to be the 20th image up until her unsuccessful
presidential bid in November. Now, Ms. Temple leaves the placeholder open,
wondering whether a female U.S. president will occupy it in the future.

Ms. Wasserman has grouped these pieces together to elicit questioning of not
only beauty in the mundane, but what personal interpretations of artwork say
about the viewer. In this process of give and take, a visitor may leave with
even more doubt than before. To Ms. Wasserman, that's a gateway to possibility.
DOUBT

* Where: SPACE Gallery, 812 Liberty Ave., Downtown.

* When: Opens Friday with a reception from 5:30 to 10 p.m. that is free to the
public. It continues through March 26.

* Information: www.spacepittsburgh.org.

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Courtney Linder: clinder@post-gazette.com or 412-263-1707. Twitter:
@LinderPG.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Courtesy of Lori Hepner: Lori Hepner's digital artwork is a form
of advanced light painting, based on landscape photography. \ \ PHOTO: Courtesy
of Mary Temple: Mary Temple's "We're All Pink on the Inside" features 19
drawings of female world leaders, including Dr. Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma,
chairperson of the African Union Commission.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              207 of 294 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                           February 14, 2017 Tuesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

STANDING WITH JAPAN;
THE PRESIDENT PROMOTES CONTINUITY WITH KEY ALLY

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A-6

LENGTH: 425 words


The visit of Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe to the United States, meeting
with President Donald Trump in Washington and at Mar-a-Lago, turned out to be
particularly timely when North Korea set off a ballistic missile rocket toward
the Sea of Japan on Sunday.

Regional security, with Japan wedged somewhere between China, North Korea,
Russia and South Korea in the mix, was one subject. Another was international
trade and others had to be climate change and immigration, even though Japan
shows little flexibility in the latter area.

North Korea claims that its missiles can carry nuclear warheads, but that may or
may not be true. China has criticized North Korea for the test, but late and
somewhat halfheartedly. Japan, South Korea and the United States called for a
meeting on the latest Pyongyang test fire by the U.N. Security Council, which
yesterday evening strongly condemned the missile test. The statement followed a
strong condemnation of North Korea's action by new U.N. Secretary-General
Antonio Guterres

No one has figured out what to do about Kim Jong-un's provocative forays,
including Washington under recent presidents. Consider the circumstances
prevailing in the region: North Korea has a 1.4 million-person army and nuclear
capacity, with the South Korean capital Seoul 35 miles from the border; the
28,500 U.S. troops in South Korea serve only as a tripwire, not a real deterrent
to North Korean actions. A Security Council meeting that might impose new
sanctions on North Korea is about all that can be expected at this point.

Trade is central to the U.S.-Japanese relationship, amounting to $267.5 billion
in 2015, with America $69 billion in deficit in 2016. Japan had signed on to the
12-nation Trans-Pacific Partnership, which Mr. Trump jettisoned Jan. 23, leaving
a new bilateral trade agreement to be negotiated. The United States retains some
50,000 troops on Japanese soil, for which Japan pays half the cost, an annual
$2.7 billion. Some Japanese oppose their presence, 71 years after the end of
World War II, particularly those stationed on Okinawa.

Given the complexity, depth and implicit danger in the relationship, it is
useful for Mr. Abe and Mr. Trump to get to know each other better. Direction of
national security affairs in Washington, the U.S. relationship with China, and
potential explosiveness in the region are very much in the air at this point,
and understanding between these two leaders can only serve a useful purpose.
Faced with a crisis, Mr. Trump could do worse than pick up the phone to Mr. Abe.

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              213 of 294 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                             March 9, 2017 Thursday
                                 SOONER EDITION

SECTION: ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT; THE HOT LIST; Pg. W-2

LENGTH: 777 words


THURSDAY

THROWBACK THURSDAYS

The History Center launches its series of 21+ Throwback Thursdays this week,
presented in conjunction with the exhibit "#Pixburgh: A Photographic
Experience."

There will be access to the exhibit, along with a cash bar, retro dessert table
with old school treats like Zebra Cakes and Twinkies, throwback music from DJ
MB, games from the good ole days such as UNO, Monopoly and The Game of LIFE, a
selfie-scavenger hunt and more.

It runs from 5:30 to 8:30 p.m. Thursday and March 16, 23 and 30; info at
HeinzHistoryCenter.org.

WILD, SCENIC FILMS

The Wild & Scenic Film Festival, presented by and benefiting the Pennsylvania
Resources Council and Allegheny CleanWays, is an evening of award-winning films
that address global issues such as climate change, species extinction and
environmental justice.

It will stop at the Eddy Theater at Chatham University's Shadyside campus at
6:30 p.m. Thursday. It will allow festivalgoers to connect with local
initiatives to make a positive impact on the environment right here at home.

Tickets are $15 at www.prc.org/filmfestival2017 or at the door. FRIDAY-SATURDAY

THINK PINK

Roger Waters won't be around until September, so if you need your Pink Floyd fix
now, check out what might be the world's leading tribute band: the Damian
Darlington-led Brit Floyd.

The Liverpool-based tribute band's new Immersion World Tour 2017 will pay
special tribute to the "Animals" album, which just celebrated its 40th
anniversary.

Shows are at the Benedum Center, Downtown, at 8 p.m. Tickets are $38.75-$73.75;
trustarts.org. FRIDAY AND SUNDAY

PSO IN PRAGUE

The Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra is offering a few city-themed programs this
season, and the next stop on the musical passport is Prague.

The PSO, led by returning guest conductor Juraj Valcuha, is presenting a
Czech-themed program, and instead of going all the way to Prague, you just have
to make your way to Heinz Hall, Downtown.

The program features music by the two most famous Czech composers -- Dvorak and
Smetana -- along with one of Prague's most famous residents, Mozart.

The concert opens with "The Moldau," the most well known of the tone poems that
make up Smetana's patriotic "Ma vlast." It continues with Dvorak's Piano
Concerto, performed by Swiss pianist Francesco Piemontesi in his Heinz Hall
debut. The second half of the program includes Mozart's Symphony No. 38,
"Prague," and Dvorak's "Carnival Overture."

Performances start at 8 p.m. Friday and 2:30 p.m. Sunday. Tickets: $20-$94,
412-392-4900 or www.pittsburghsymphony.org.

SATURDAY

MEASURING UP

Measurement Rules, an interactive exhibit opening at the Children's Museum of
Pittsburgh, on the North Side, on Saturday, asks such questions as"How many
chickens do you weigh?" and "How tall are you in apples or inches or pennies?"

The exhibit explore nonstandard measuring tools such as balancing scales,
odometers, calipers, 3-D imaging and counting "Mississippis."

"We've designed this exhibit to enable kids to work together and become more
confident in the language of measurement," Anne Fullenkamp, Children's Museum
Director of Design, stated.

Kids can have fun with a height wall, treadmill odometer, ball gauges, a giant
tape measure, foot ruler and dead table. On opening day, kids explore Abacus
Making with PA Leadership Charter School from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m.

The exhibit runs through May 7. Hours are 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. each day. Admission
is $16; $14 for kids 2-18 and senior citizens, children under two free. Call
412-322-5058 or visit www.pittsburghkids.org.

SATURDAY

CIRCUS-Y SHOW

Playing By Air brings a mix of comedy, music to juggling to Shady Side Academy
in Fox Chapel as part of the Hillman Performing Arts Series on Saturday.

The group, which features Pittsburgh native Michael Karas, promises "an
electrifying display of lights, color and motion, engaging characters, and
musical instruments that fly through the air."

It's at 7:30 p.m. at the Hillman Center for Performing Arts, SSA Senior School
campus, 423 Fox Chapel Road, Fox Chapel. Tickets are $30; $24 for seniors (65
and over) and $16 for children (18 and under); www.thehillman.org or by phone at
412-968-3040. SUNDAY

YOUNG ARTISTS

The Pittsburgh Concert Society presents the winners of its young artist
auditions: pianist Eric Wang, violists James Cunningham IV and Devin Moore, the
Yosen-Futen Piano Duo (Yosen Wang and Futen Wang), and the Well-Tempered Trio
(violinist Joseph Comella, pianist Cameron Schepner and cellist Chris Fedor).

The concert starts at 2 p.m. at Kresge Theatre, Carnegie Mellon University in
Oakland. Tickets: $15, $10 for seniors, free for students, at
www.pittsburghconcertsociety.org or 412-279-2970.

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: WEEKEND MAG

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Brit Floyd\ \ PHOTO: Playing By Air

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              219 of 294 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                             April 14, 2017 Friday
                                 SOONER EDITION

AREA DEMS ARE UNDER PRESSURE TO OPPOSE PA. IMMIGRATION BILLS

BYLINE: Tracie Mauriello, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: STATE; Pg. A-9

LENGTH: 863 words


With a few chants, one bullhorn and a lot of polite conversation, local
activists are trying to change the conversation about immigration in
Pennsylvania by targeting area Democratic state legislators who are leaning
right on policies affecting undocumented people.

State Rep. Tony DeLuca, D-Penn Hills, is among their latest targets.

Ten activists gathered outside his district office Thursday for a rally
organized by the Thomas Merton Center and the nonprofit Casa San Jose, which
connects immigrants in Allegheny County with community resources.

Democratic state representatives like Mr. DeLuca are facing increasing pressure
from the left as progressives worry that they will cede to pressure created by
the election of President Donald Trump, who won Pennsylvania after campaigning
on a platform widely viewed as anti-immigrant.

"In the political climate we're in right now, the narrative is that immigrants
are bad. And people who don't take time to ask questions to learn what's really
going on believe the hype," said Monica Ruiz, a community organizer with Casa
San Jose. "Whoever yells the loudest gets the most attention, and we've got a
big yeller in the White House."

Ms. Ruiz is trying to make sure quieter voices are heard, too. And her approach
seems to be working.

Just recently, after a meeting with Ms. Ruiz and a few others, state Rep. Dom
Costa, D-Stanton Heights, backed away from a bill that would have required
schools to cooperate with Immigration Control and Enforcement officers.

Mr. Costa later said he had never intended to back that bill but signed on
mistakenly as he was scrolling through numerous co-sponsorship requests. But Ms.
Ruiz believes he changed his mind because of the meeting.

"He listened to us. He said, 'Why is this so bad?' We gave him some examples and
he said, 'You're right. You put enough doubt in my mind that I cannot support
this,'" Ms. Ruiz said.

Mr. Costa could not be reached on Thursday.

Activists hope most of the Western Pennsylvania Democrats they're targeting are
persuadable if they have the right information. They're zeroing in on Mr.
DeLuca, Harry Readshaw of Carrick, Joe Markosek of Monroeville and Bill Kortz of
Dravosburg.

Mr. DeLuca was willing to listen Thursday, when the group of 10 showed up
outside his office asking him to withdraw a bill that would impose fines and
jeopardize business licenses of companies that hire undocumented immigrants.

"I don't know what they're upset about because this bill prevents businesses
from taking advantage of immigrants that come over. These people are being
exploited," Mr. DeLuca said. He said a lot of businesses force undocumented
employees to work in unsafe conditions and threaten to report them to ICE if
they complain."I don't think it's fair. I don't believe people should be
exploited, no matter who they are, and they should have the rights to complain
to anybody about unfair working conditions," he said in a phone interview.

Opponents say the bill, which is co-sponsored by Mr. Costa, would push more
immigrants into dangerous working conditions and drive down wages even more by
giving employers even more of an incentive to hire immigrants off the books,
making them ineligible for benefits such as workers compensation.

"We don't want these kind of things driving people more underground where they
aren't protected," said Ms. Ruiz, who made a similar argument to Mr. DeLuca on
Thursday.Protesters said Mr. DeLuca did not seem persuaded, although he agreed
to a formal meeting to hear their ideas for making his legislation more
palatable.

"He seemed very sincere, and that's a major plus for us," said Kenneth Love, a
Presbyterian pastor who runs Alpha and Omega House Ministries.

Mr. DeLuca said he'll listen with an open mind."If they can convince me this
bill is dangerous for immigrants, I'll take another look at it, but right now I
can't believe that," he said.

Ms. Ruiz said she'll also work on getting him and other lawmakers to oppose
bills that would end so-called "sanctuary cities" by withholding funding from
schools and police departments that don't cooperate with immigration officials
in the absence of arrest warrants. Sponsored by state Sen. Guy Reschenthaler,
R-Jefferson Hills, Senate Bill 10 would require police officers to honor
detainer requests for anyone in their custody.

Opponents say the pair of bills would lead to increased racial profiling, put
educators in untenable positions and dissuade undocumented immigrants from
reporting crimes as victims or witnesses.

Mr. Reschenthaler has said the legislation would improve safety by keeping
municipalities from obstructing efforts to deport dangerous undocumented
immigrants. It was inspired by the death of Katie Steinle, a California woman
killed in 2015 by an undocumented immigrant that San Francisco police released
from jail without notifying ICE that he was in custody. The killer had
previously been charged with seven felonies and had been deported five times.

Mr. DeLuca hasn't taken a position on either bill. Mr. Costa opposes both.

Activists are focusing on bills going through the Pennsylvania Legislature
because they believe that's where they can have the most influence.

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Tracie Mauriello: tmauriello@post-gazette.com, 703-996-9292 or on Twitter
@pgPoliTweets.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              223 of 294 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                             June 1, 2017 Thursday
                                 SOONER EDITION

ABOVE THE FRAY;
TRUMP'S TRIP WORKED; NOW HE MUST BE PRESIDENTIAL AT HOME

BYLINE: Marc A. Thiessen

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A-11

LENGTH: 673 words


President Donald Trump just returned from a foreign trip that was the single
most successful eight-day stretch of his presidency. But almost as soon as he
landed at Joint Base Andrews, he abandoned the approach that gave him his best
week in office, and returned to the form that gave him some of his worst weeks -
tweeting against "fake news writers" and opining about how "Russian officials
must be laughing at the U.S."

Mr. Trump needs to ask himself: What made his trip so successful? For more than
a week, he did not mention James B. Comey, Russia or "fake news." Instead, he
delivered a widely hailed address in Saudi Arabia where he pointed out that 95
percent of the victims of terrorism are Muslims and rallied the leaders of 50
Muslim nations to confront the terrorist threat. He brokered a massive arms deal
with Saudi Arabia and forged the beginnings of a new regional alliance to
confront the Islamic State and Iran. He became the first sitting American
president to visit the Western Wall in Jerusalem and pledged to launch a new
effort to forge Israeli-Palestinian peace. He had a cordial meeting with Pope
Francis and urged NATO nations to finally meet their financial commitments to
the alliance. He deftly smoothed a diplomatic row with Britain over the U.S.
leak of intelligence on the Manchester bombing.

The result? Critics were reduced to spreading false reports that he was not
using his translation earpiece (actual "fake news"), criticizing his body
language at photo ops and speculating about whether the first lady smacked away
his hand at an arrival ceremony. They seemed small and petty while Mr. Trump was
serious, substantive and - dare we say it - presidential.

Yes, some on the left were apoplectic about Mr. Trump's refusal at the Group of
Seven summit to endorse the Paris agreement on climate change. So what? They
were also apoplectic when President George W. Bush withdrew from the
International Criminal Court and the Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty. If Mr. Trump
is being attacked hysterically for being a conservative, rather than for his
tweets, he's winning.

Now that he's back, Mr. Trump needs to decide: Does he want the next four years
to be like his foreign trip, or does he want to return to the morass of
controversy he left behind when Air Force One took off for Riyadh, Saudi Arabia?
If it is the former, then the answer is simple: Keep doing what he was doing on
the trip. There is no reason he has to be on foreign soil to embrace the power
and grandeur of the presidency. What worked abroad can also work at home.

Washington is a jungle, but as president, Mr. Trump is the king of the beasts.
He needs to stop fighting with the lesser animals. One of the secrets of the
presidency Mr. Trump has been slow to embrace is that the office confers a
certain majesty on its occupants. There is a reason the opposing party's
response to a State of the Union address invariably falls flat compared with the
real thing. Mr. Trump's most successful moments - his terrific address to
Congress, his nomination of Neil M. Gorsuch for the Supreme Court, his foreign
trip - all came when he embraced the dignity of the office. His worst moments
came when he did not.

The lesson should be clear: Stay above the fray, ignore your critics, focus on
substance and use the presidency to promote your agenda. Go on a tour to
highlight the achievements of your foreign trip. Visit defense factories that
will get jobs because of your Saudi arms deal. Speak to Jewish organizations
about your visit to Israel and plans to isolate Iran, defeat the Islamic State
and bolster the U.S.-Israel alliance. Barnstorm the country promoting your
agenda. And never mention Mr. Comey or the Russia probe - not in an interview,
not in a tweet.

Mr. Trump does not need the tactics of the campaign to succeed in the Oval
Office. The presidency is more powerful than any of the tools that got him into
the office. He needs to stop acting like a candidate for president and start
being who he really is: president of the United States.

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Marc Thiessen writes a weekly column for The Washington Post and
contributes to the PostPartisan blog. He is a fellow at the American Enterprise
Institute and the former chief speechwriter for President George W. Bush
(Twitter @marcthiessen).

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              226 of 294 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                              June 5, 2017 Monday
                                 SOONER EDITION

NO SPARE PLANET

BYLINE: CAROLE McINTYRE

SECTION: EDITORIAL; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR; Pg. A-6

LENGTH: 256 words


If Donald Trump can learn the magic words, he might be able to salvage his
presidency.

Those magic words are, "I was wrong." To say them, mean them and then do what it
takes to repair the damage done by the wrong are part and parcel of being an
adult human.

The problem with the current presidency is not only the most recent "wrong," the
declaration of withdrawal from the Paris Agreement on climate change, but also
other things he has done and said.

Still, this is the most egregious thing done so far. We have only this one
planet. There is no spare. The evidence is incontrovertible, and many heads of
American corporations, the military and just ordinary citizens can see it. A
large chunk of ice is going to break off from Antarctica shortly; it is the size
of Delaware.

When I was a child, iris and peonies were the flowers of choice for Memorial Day
decoration of gravesites. Now, they are in bloom by Mother's Day, two weeks
before that date, which also used to be the "safe date" for setting out tender
plants. That, too, has retreated back to Mother's Day.

A "lot of rain" used to be an inch or so. Now, it's not that uncommon to have
half a foot, a foot, creating flash floods in areas that used to be immune.
Devastating windstorms are flattening whole towns. We see their pictures on the
nightly news, homes and other buildings reduced to matchsticks and rubble.

Mr. Trump is wrong. Withdrawal from the Paris Agreement is wrong. He (and his
supporters) need to admit that and rejoin the rest of the world.

CAROLE McINTYRE

Waynesburg

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              239 of 294 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                              July 16, 2017 Sunday
                               FIVE STAR EDITION

20;
20 COLLABORATION;
CARNEGIE, STUDIO MUSEUM IN HARLEM SHARE VISION IN NEW SHOW

BYLINE: M. Thomas, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT; Pg. E-1

LENGTH: 889 words


An exhibition created through an unusual collaboration between Carnegie Museum
of Art and The Studio Museum in Harlem will open this weekend with music, a
family-friendly participatory artwork, food trucks, an artists' discussion and a
workshop.

It comprises works by 20 artists from each institution chosen by Eric Crosby,
Carnegie curator of modern and contemporary art, and Amanda Hunt, director of
education and public programs at the Museum of Contemporary Art in Los Angeles
and former Studio Museum associate curator.

The curators selected works that reflect aspects of the changing American
socio-cultural climate from the 1920s to the present. The intent is to inspire
consideration of the nation's complex history and of the role that art may play
in inspiring discussion during transformative times.

When the curators began organizing "20/20: The Studio Museum in Harlem and
Carnegie Museum of Art," Barack Obama was still president. "It's very
interesting how things shifted over the course of planning the exhibition," Mr.
Crosby said. As they structured the show, they made changes in response to "the
polarized political landscape we find ourselves in."

While the focus, in part by virtue of the particular collections drawn from, is
on the way American history has impacted communities of color, the curators aim
for an inclusivity that invites examination of identity diversity including
generational difference, gender, sexual orientation, and urban and rural
similarities and differences.

Art at its most compelling, after all, is about the human experience as told,
Mr. Crosby said, "through story, through materials, through metaphor."

Ms. Hunt and Mr. Crosby open the dialogue with their own conversation, available
in a gallery guide and to be posted at storyboard.cmoa.org. But they invite each
visitor to construct his or her own while traveling the show's six themed
sections.

The stage is set by "Abe Lincoln's First Book," a 1944 oil painting by the
notable African-American self-taught artist Horace Pippin (1888-1946). Lincoln
is depicted in a darkened space reaching toward enlightenment.

Mr. Crosby calls the artist's inspiration an "idealized quest that feels so
compromised today" at the beginning of the printed conversation, but by the end
finds resolution of sorts in works by contemporary artists such as Howardena
Pindell and Kerry James Marshall who echo Pippin's "desire to insert our most
resolute democratic values into a conversation that only art can have."

Ms. Hunt replies, "We've come full circle then: We are looking back but also
forward." She cites Collier Schorr's "The First Lady (Diplomat's Room, Rihanna,
20 Minutes)," a 2016 photograph of Michelle Obama, "a black woman in the white
space of the White House. ... The potency and potential of that image, what it
allows, and the opportunity for some viewers to see themselves reflected in it.
That is what President and Mrs. Obama did for an entire generation of children
in this nation."

Between these poles is a mini-exhibition of its own comprising 13 photographs
each by Charles "Teenie" Harris (1908-98) and James VanDerZee (1886-1983).

"A conversation between the work of these two icons has never been presented
before," Ms. Hunt says in the printed conversation. "I'm super proud that we are
able to do that. ... [Teenie Harris] documented a time in American history and,
more specifically, [Pittsburgh] black history, in the way that James VanDerZee
did for Harlem."

A vital aspect of "20/20," Mr. Crosby said, is that it is a collection
exhibition (as opposed to one drawn from a variety of sources). "The subtle
gesture of re-contextualizing the works reveals different meanings." As example
he gave the Pippin exhibited alongside prominent African-American contemporary
activists Glenn Ligon and Pope L. as opposed to its usual home in the permanent
collection galleries beside an Edward Hopper.

At a moment when even families appear to be having difficulty initiating
constructive dialogue, the curators are drawing upon natural facilitators to
help.

"Artists are very special people," Mr. Crosby said. "In some ways the
conversation comes more naturally to them." IF YOU GI

'20/20: THE STUDIO MUSEUM IN HARLEM AND CARNEGIE MUSEUM OF ART

* 'Where: Carnegie Museum of Art, Oakland.

* When: Saturday through Dec. 31.

* Admission: $19.95, seniors $14.95; students and ages 3 to 18, $11.95; ages 2
and under and members, free; weekdays after 3 p.m. half price.

* Hours: 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday through Saturday; noon to 5 p.m. Sunday; until
8 p.m. Thursday and 11 p.m third Thursday of the month.

* Events: 3 to 9 p.m. Saturday, opening celebration in the Sculpture Court
including dancing with music by 1 Hood Media; food trucks Oh My Grill,
Pittsburgh Tortas, Pittsburgh Sandwich Society, Happy Camper Cupcakes and Sugar
& Spice Ice Cream; collaborative artmaking led by Edith Abeyta. Admission $10,
members $8, students and ages 17 and under $5. 1:30 to 3 p.m. Saturday,
"American Landscape: 20/20 Artists in Conversation" with exhibiting artists
Abigail DeVille, Jon Kessler and Kori Newkirk. Free, museum theater. 12:15 to
2:45 p.m. Sunday, "Making and Thinking With Artist Kori Newkirk," drawing
workshop. Museum Hall of Sculpture. Fee $10, members $8, students $5, includes
materials.

* Information: http://cmoa.org or 412- 622-3131.

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: M. Thomas: mthomas@post-gazette.com or 412-263-1925.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: "Untitled (Gallery)," a painting by Kerry James Marshall, was
purchased by Carnegie Museum of Art last year.\ \ PHOTO: "The First Lady
(Diplomat's Room, Rihanna, 20 Minutes)," photograph by Collier Schorr. \ \
PHOTO: One of 60 prints inspired by 1930s-1970s magazine advertisements in
"DeLuxe" by Ellen Gallagher. \ \ PHOTO: "Momme," a photograph by Pittsburgh
native LaToya Ruby Frazier. \ \ PHOTO: A selection from the print portfolio "The
Emancipation Approximation" by Kara Walker. \ \ PHOTO: "Solon 6:12," a
mixed-media work by Kori Newkirk. \ \ PHOTO: "Black Wall Street," a painting by
Noah Davis \

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              243 of 294 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            August 3, 2017 Thursday
                                 SOONER EDITION

SECTION: ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT; MOVIE GUIDE; Pg. W-17

LENGTH: 1412 words


OPENING FRIDAY

THE DARK TOWER The long-awaited big-screen version of Stephen King's popular
fantasy-Western stars Idris Elba as gunslinger Roland Deschain and Matthew
McConaughey as the dreaded Man in Black. PG-13 for thematic material including
sequences of gun violence and action. 95 min. AMC Delmont, South Hills,
Waterfront & Westmoreland; Cinemark Monroeville, North, Robinson & Tarentum;
Cranberry; Dependable; Phoenix CV & NV, SouthSide Works; Waterworks.

DETROIT ** 1/2 Director Kathryn Bigelow chronicles a massive outbreak of civil
unrest in the summer of 1967. R for strong violence and pervasive language. 143
min. AMC Delmont, AMC Mt. Lebanon, AMC Waterfront, AMC Westmoreland; Cinemark
Monroeville, North, Robinson & Tarentum; Cranberry; Manor; Penn Hills; Phoenix
CV & NV; Waterworks.

AN INCONVENIENT SEQUEL: TRUTH TO POWER More than 10 years after Al Gore stated
his case for man-made climate change in the documentary "An Inconvenient Truth,"
the former vice president returns to insist that all is not lost. PG for
thematic elements and some troubling images. 98 min. Manor.

KIDNAP When her child is abducted, a determined mother (Halle Berry) works
desperately to get him back. R for violence and peril. 94 min. AMC Delmont,
South Hills, Waterfront & Westmoreland; Cinemark Monroeville, North & Tarentum;
Cranberry; Phoenix CV & NV; SouthSide Works; Waterworks.

THE LITTLE HOURS The arrival of a hunky laborer unleashes sexual desire and
bacchanalian behavior at a nunnery during the Middle Ages. With Alison Brie,
Dave Franco, Kate Micucci, Aubrey Plaza, John C. Reilly, Molly Shannon. R for
graphic nudity, sexual content and language. 90 min. Hollywood. CURRENT MOVIES

ATOMIC BLONDE *** A sexy secret agent (Charlize Theron) goes on a mission into
spy-infested Berlin. With James McAvoy. R for sequences of strong violence,
language throughout, and some sexuality/nudity. 115 min. AMC Delmont, Mt.
Lebanon, South Hills, Waterfront & Westmoreland; Cinemark Monroeville, North,
Robinson & Tarentum; Cranberry; Dependable; Phoenix CV & NV, SouthSide Works;
Waterworks.

BABY DRIVER *** In this action-packed comedy by Edgar Wright, a music-obsessed
getaway driver (Ansel Elgort) wants to give up crime for the love of his life
(Lily James), but he is coerced into working for a crime boss (Kevin Spacey) and
could lose everything in a doomed heist. R for strong violence and some
language. 103 min. AMC South Hills, Waterfront & Westmoreland; Cranberry;
Dependable; Phoenix CV & NV.

THE BIG SICK **** Kumail Nanjiani stars as an up-and-coming Muslim comic whose
relationship with a grad student is complicated by his traditional parents and
her serious illness. Based on a true story. R for language including some sexual
references. 119 min. AMC Mt. Lebanon, Waterfront & Westmoreland; Cinemark North
& Tarentum; Manor; Phoenix CV & NV; Waterworks.

CARS 3 * 1/2 Race car Lightning McQueen (voice of Owen Wilson) is losing his
edge, but a new coach/car (Nathan Fillion) helps him learn to compete against
younger rivals. Rated G. 109 min. AMC Waterfront, Cinemark Tarentum.

DESPICABLE ME 3 ** 1/2 Steve Carell returns as the voice of supervillain Gru --
and his cooler brother, Dru -- in this animated sequel. The villain is Balthazar
Bratt (Trey Parker), a former child star obsessed with the 1980s. PG for action
and rude humor. 90 min. AMC Delmont, South Hills, Waterfront & Westmoreland;
Cinemark Monroeville, North & Tarentum; Cranberry; Dependable; Phoenix CV & NV;
Waterworks.

DUNKIRK *** 1/2 Director Christopher Nolan ("The Dark Knight") tells the story
of Allied forces trapped on a beach in northern France during World War II. With
Tom Hardy, Cillian Murphy and Kenneth Branagh. PG-13 for intense war experience
and some language. 106 min. AMC Delmont, Mt. Lebanon, South Hills, Waterfront &
Westmoreland; Cinemark Monroeville, North, Robinson & Tarentum; Cranberry;
Dependable; Manor, Penn Hills; Phoenix CV & NV, SouthSide Works; Tull;
Waterworks.

THE EMOJI MOVIE T.J. Miller is the voice of Gene, a multi-expressional emoji who
just wants to be normal, in this animated comedy with the voices of Ilana
Glazer, Patrick Stewart and James Corden. PG for rude humor. 86 min. AMC
Delmont, Mt. Lebanon, South Hills, Waterfront & Westmoreland; Cinemark
Monroeville, North, Robinson & Tarentum; Cranberry; Dependable; Penn Hills;
Phoenix CV & NV, SouthSide Works; Waterworks.

47 METERS DOWN ** Mandy Moore and Claire Holt portray sisters trapped underwater
in a shark cage. PG-13 for sequences of intense peril, bloody images, and brief
strong language. 89 min. AMC Waterfront, Cinemark Tarentum.

A GHOST STORY *** A dead man (Casey Affleck) returns as a specter to his
suburban home to comfort his wife (Rooney Mara) but finds what he knew to be his
life slipping away. R for brief language and a disturbing image. 87 min. AMC
Waterfront, Cinemark Tarentum.

GIRLS TRIP *** Four friends (Regina Hall, Jada Pinkett Smith, Tiffany Haddish,
Queen Latifah) take a journey to New Orleans for the annual Essence Festival. R
for crude and sexual content throughout, pervasive language, brief graphic
nudity, and drug material. 122 min. AMC Delmont, AMC Waterfront, AMC South
Hills, AMC Westmoreland; Cinemark Monroeville, North, Robinson & Tarentum; Penn
Hills; Phoenix CV & NV, SouthSide Works; Waterworks.

THE HOUSE Desperate to raise money for their daughter's college fund, the
parents (Will Ferrell and Amy Poehler) start an illegal home casino. R for
language throughout, sexual references, drug use, some violence and brief
nudity. 88 min. AMC Delmont & Westmoreland, Cinemark Tarentum.

MAUDIE *** 1/2 Sally Hawkins plays Canadian artist Maud Lewis, who turned a
loveless life into a career as a beloved painter of happiness and color. PG-13
for some thematic content and brief sexuality. 115 min. Tull.

MY COUSIN RACHEL Rachel Weisz stars in this mystery romance based on the 1951
novel of the same name by Daphne du Maurier. PG-13 for some sexuality and brief
strong language. 106 min. Tull.

SPIDER-MAN: HOMECOMING *** 1/2 Tom Holland is the "new" Spider-Man, which
returns Peter Parker to high school to start the whole thing over again. Michael
Keaton portrays the villain Vulture. PG-13 for sci-fi action violence, some
language and brief suggestive comments. 133 min. AMC Delmont, Mt. Lebanon, South
Hills, Waterfront & Westmoreland; Cinemark Monroeville, North, Robinson &
Tarentum; Cranberry; Dependable; Phoenix CV & NV, SouthSide Works; Waterworks.

TRANSFORMERS: THE LAST KNIGHT * 1/2 The fifth film in the blockbuster series --
and supposedly the last from director Michael Bay -- stars Mark Wahlberg as
amateur inventor Cade Yeager, who must discover why the shape-shifting
Transformers keep returning to Earth. PG-13 for violence and intense sequences
of sci-fi action, language, and some innuendo 149 min. Phoenix NV.

VALERIAN AND THE CITY OF A THOUSAND PLANETS ** In the 28th century, two special
operatives (Dane DeHaan and Cara Delevingne) team up to protect civilization
from a dark force. PG-13 for sci-fi violence and action, suggestive material and
brief language. 137 min. AMC Waterfront & Westmoreland, Cinemark Tarentum,
Phoenix CV & NV.

WAR FOR THE PLANET OF THE APES **** In the third chapter of the rebooted series,
Caesar (Andy Serkis) and his apes are forced into a deadly conflict with an army
of humans led by a ruthless Colonel (Woody Harrelson). PG-13 for sequences of
sci-fi violence and action, thematic elements, and some disturbing images. 140
min. AMC Delmont, Waterfront & Westmoreland; Cinemark Monroeville & Tarentum;
Phoenix NV; SouthSide Works; Waterworks.

WISH UPON * 1/2 This supernatural horror film is based on W.W. Jacobs' short
story "The Monkey's Paw," about a girl who discovers a box with magical and
deadly powers. Joey King and Ryan Phillippe star. PG-13 for violent and
disturbing images, thematic elements and language. 90 min. AMC Westmoreland,
Dependable, Phoenix NV.

WONDER WOMAN *** Gal Gadot gets her first starring role as Diana, princess of
the Amazons, in Wonder Woman's origin story. PG-13 for sequences of violence and
action, and some suggestive content. 141 min. AMC Delmont, Waterfront &
Westmoreland; Cinemark North & Tarentum; Phoenix CV & NV.

* Closing Thursday: "Beatriz at Dinner," "The Beguiled," "Guardians of the
Galaxy Vol. 2," "Pop Aye," "Radio Dreams,"

* Screening times in many of the movie theater ads in this section are for
Thursday only. See Friday's Magazine section for Friday show times.

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: WEEKEND MAG / Key: Movies are rated on a scale of * (bomb) to ****
(classic).

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              245 of 294 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            August 10, 2017 Thursday
                                 SOONER EDITION

SECTION: ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT; MOVIE GUIDE; Pg. W-16

LENGTH: 1500 words


OPENING FRIDAY

ANNABELLE: CREATION In this follow-up to the 2014 horror film "Annabelle," a
dollmaker and his wife welcome into their home a nun and several orphan girls,
who soon become the target of the dollmaker's possessed creation, Annabelle. R
for horror violence and terror. 109 min. AMC Delmont, South Hills, Waterfront &
Westmoreland; Century Square; Cinemark Monroeville, North, Robinson & Tarentum;
Cranberry; Dependable; Phoenix CV & NV; SouthSideWorks.

THE GLASS CASTLE A young girl comes of age in a dysfunctional family of
nonconformist nomads with a mother who's an eccentric artist and an alcoholic
father who would stir the children's imagination with hope as a distraction to
their poverty. Based on the memoir by Jeannette Walls and starring Brie Larson,
Woody Harrelson and Naomi Watts. PG-13 for mature thematic content involving
family dysfunction, and for some language and smoking. 127 min. AMC Delmont, Mt.
Lebanon, Waterfront & Westmoreland; Cinemark North, Cinemark Robinson &
Tarentum; Cranberry; Phoenix CV.

LOST IN PARIS Fiona visits Paris for the first time to assist her myopic Aunt
Martha. Catastrophes ensue, mainly involving Dom, a homeless man. Not rated. 83
min. Tull.

PILGRIMAGE In 13th-century Ireland, a group of monks must escort a sacred relic
across an Irish landscape fraught with peril. With Tom Holland, Richard Armitage
and John Bernthal. Not rated. 96 min. AMC Westmoreland.

NUT JOB 2: NUTTY BY NATURE Following the events of the first film, Surly and his
friends must stop Oakton City's mayor from destroying their home to make way for
a dysfunctional amusement park. PG for action and some rude humor. 91 min. AMC
Delmont, Mt. Lebanon, South Hills, Waterfront & Westmoreland; Cinemark
Monroeville, Century Square; Cinemark North, Cinemark Robinson & Tarentum;
Cranberry; Dependable; Penn Hills; Phoenix CV & NV; SouthSideWorks; Waterworks.
CURRENT MOVIES

ATOMIC BLONDE *** A sexy secret agent (Charlize Theron) goes on a mission into
spy-infested Berlin. With James McAvoy. R for sequences of strong violence,
language throughout, and some sexuality/nudity. 115 min. AMC Delmont, Waterfront
& Westmoreland; Cinemark North & Tarentum; Cranberry; Phoenix CV & NV;
SouthSideWorks.

BABY DRIVER *** In this action-packed comedy by Edgar Wright, a music-obsessed
getaway driver (Ansel Elgort) wants to give up crime for the love of his life
(Lily James), but he is coerced into working for a crime boss (Kevin Spacey) and
could lose everything in a doomed heist. R for strong violence and some
language. 103 min. AMC Waterfront, Dependable, Phoenix CV & NV, Tull.

THE BIG SICK **** Kumail Nanjiani stars as an up-and-coming Muslim comic whose
relationship with a grad student is complicated by his traditional parents and
her serious illness. Based on a true story. R for language including some sexual
references. 119 min. AMC Mt. Lebanon, Waterfront & Westmoreland; Manor; Phoenix
CV.

CARS 3 * 1/2 Race car Lightning McQueen (voice of Owen Wilson) is losing his
edge, but a new coach/car (Nathan Fillion) helps him learn to compete against
younger rivals. Rated G. 109 min. Cinemark Tarentum.

THE DARK TOWER ** The long-awaited big-screen version of Stephen King's popular
fantasy-Western stars Idris Elba as gunslinger Roland Deschain and Matthew
McConaughey as the dreaded Man in Black. PG-13 for thematic material including
sequences of gun violence and action. 95 min. AMC Delmont, South Hills,
Waterfront & Westmoreland; Century Square; Cinemark Monroeville, North, Robinson
& Tarentum; Cranberry; Dependable; Phoenix CV & NV; SouthSideWorks; Waterworks.

DESPICABLE ME 3 ** 1/2 Steve Carell returns as the voice of supervillain Gru --
and his cooler brother, Dru -- in this animated sequel. The villain is Balthazar
Bratt (Trey Parker), a former child star obsessed with the 1980s. PG for action
and rude humor. 90 min. AMC Delmont, South Hills, Waterfront & Westmoreland;
Cinemark North, Cinemark Tarentum; Dependable; Phoenix CV & NV.

DETROIT ** 1/2 Director Kathryn Bigelow ("Zero Dark Thirty," "The Hurt Locker")
chronicles a massive outbreak of civil unrest in the summer of 1967 with John
Boyega and Anthony Mackie. R for strong violence and pervasive language. 143
min. AMC Delmont, South Hills, Waterfront & Westmoreland; Century Square;
Cinemark Monroeville, North, Robinson & Tarentum; Cranberry; Manor; Penn Hills;
Phoenix CV & NV; SouthSideWorks.

THE EMOJI MOVIE T.J. Miller is the voice of Gene, a multi-expressional emoji who
just wants to be normal, in this animated comedy with the voices of Ilana
Glazer, Patrick Stewart and James Corden. PG for rude humor. 86 min. AMC
Delmont, Mt. Lebanon, South Hills, Waterfront & Westmoreland; Century Square;
Cinemark Monroeville, North, Robinson & Tarentum; Cranberry; Penn Hills; Phoenix
CV & NV; Waterworks.

GIRLS TRIP *** Four friends (Regina Hall, Jada Pinkett Smith, Tiffany Haddish,
Queen Latifah) take a journey to New Orleans for the annual Essence Festival. R
for crude and sexual content throughout, pervasive language, brief graphic
nudity, and drug material. 122 min. AMC Delmont, Waterfront & Westmoreland;
Century Square; Cinemark Monroeville, Cinemark Robinson & Tarentum; Penn Hills;
Phoenix CV & NV; SouthSideWorks; Waterworks.

AN INCONVENIENT SEQUEL: TRUTH TO POWER *** 1/2 More than 10 years after Al Gore
stated his case for man-made climate change in the documentary "An Inconvenient
Truth," the former vice president returns to insist that all is not lost. PG for
thematic elements and some troubling images. 98 min. AMC Waterfront, Cinemark
Tarentum, Manor.

KIDNAP When her child is abducted, a determined mother (Halle Berry) works
desperately to get him back. R for violence and peril. 94 min. AMC Delmont,
South Hills, Waterfront & Westmoreland; Century Square; Cinemark Monroeville,
North & Tarentum; Cranberry; Phoenix CV & NV; SouthSideWorks; Waterworks.

THE LITTLE HOURS The arrival of a hunky laborer unleashes sexual desire and
bacchanalian behavior at a nunnery during the Middle Ages. With Alison Brie,
Dave Franco, Kate Micucci, Aubrey Plaza, John C. Reilly, Molly Shannon. R for
graphic nudity, sexual content and language. 90 min. Hollywood.

MAUDIE *** 1/2 Sally Hawkins plays Canadian artist Maud Lewis, who turned a
loveless life into a career as a beloved painter of happiness and color. PG-13
for some thematic content and brief sexuality. 115 min. Manor, Tull.

ROUGH NIGHT A bachelorette party gets out of hand after a male stripper dies.
The cast includes Scarlett Johansson, Kate McKinnon, Zoe Kravitz, Jillian Bell
Ilana Glazer. R for crude sexual content, language throughout, drug use and
brief bloody images. 101 min. AMC Waterfront, Cinemark Monroeville.

SPIDER-MAN: HOMECOMING *** 1/2 Tom Holland is the "new" Spider-Man, which
returns Peter Parker to high school to start the whole thing over again. Michael
Keaton portrays the villain Vulture. PG-13 for sci-fi action violence, some
language and brief suggestive comments. 133 min. AMC Mt. Lebanon, South Hills,
Waterfront & Westmoreland; Century Square; Cinemark Monroeville, North &
Tarentum; Cranberry; Dependable; Phoenix CV & NV.

TRANSFORMERS: THE LAST KNIGHT * 1/2 The fifth film in the blockbuster series --
and supposedly the last from director Michael Bay -- stars Mark Wahlberg as
amateur inventor Cade Yeager, who must discover why the shape-shifting
Transformers keep returning to Earth. PG-13 for violence and intense sequences
of sci-fi action, language, and some innuendo 149 min. Phoenix NV.

VALERIAN AND THE CITY OF A THOUSAND PLANETS ** In the 28th century, two special
operatives (Dane DeHaan and Cara Delevingne) team up to protect civilization
from a dark force. PG-13 for sci-fi violence and action, suggestive material and
brief language. 137 min. AMC Waterfront, Cinemark Tarentum.

WAR FOR THE PLANET OF THE APES **** In the third chapter of the rebooted series,
Caesar (Andy Serkis) and his apes are forced into a deadly conflict with an army
of humans led by a ruthless Colonel (Woody Harrelson). PG-13 for sequences of
sci-fi violence and action, thematic elements, and some disturbing images. 140
min. AMC Delmont, Waterfront & Westmoreland; Cinemark Monroeville & Tarentum;
Phoenix NV; SouthSideWorks.

WISH UPON * 1/2 This supernatural horror film is based on W.W. Jacobs' short
story "The Monkey's Paw," about a girl who discovers a box with magical and
deadly powers. Joey King and Ryan Phillippe star. PG-13 for violent and
disturbing images, thematic elements and language. 90 min. Dependable, Phoenix
NV.

WONDER WOMAN *** Gal Gadot gets her first starring role as Diana, princess of
the Amazons, in Wonder Woman's origin story. PG-13 for sequences of violence and
action, and some suggestive content. 141 min. AMC Delmont, Waterfront &
Westmoreland; Phoenix CV & NV.

* Closing Thursday: "47 Meters Down," "A Ghost Story," "My Cousin Rachel."

* Screening times in many of the movie theater ads in this section are for
Thursday only. See Friday's Magazine section for Friday show times.

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: WEEKEND MAG/ Key: Movies are rated on a scale of * (bomb) to ****
(classic). /

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: DUNKIRK *** 1/2: Director Christopher Nolan ("The Dark Knight")
tells the story of Allied forces trapped on a beach in northern France during
World War II. With Cillian Murphy, above, Tom Hardy and Kenneth Branagh. PG-13
for intense war experience and some language. 106 min. AMC Delmont, Mt. Lebanon,
South Hills, Waterfront & Westmoreland; Century Square; Cinemark
Monroeville,North, Robinson & Tarentum; Cranberry; Dependable; Manor; Phoenix CV
& NV; SouthSideWorks; Tull; Waterworks.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              246 of 294 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                             August 14, 2017 Monday
                                 SOONER EDITION

VIGIL IN OAKLAND DENOUNCES VIOLENCE TIED TO WHITE SUPREMACISTS IN VIRGINIA;
CIVIL RIGHTS LEADER SAYS U.S. HAS HIT A NEW LOW

BYLINE: Julian Routh, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. B-1

LENGTH: 429 words


History has a way of repeating itself. For Tim Stevens, it came full circle.

A half-century before, he had been at the University of Pittsburgh protesting
the conditions of his black classmates. On Sunday evening, there he was again,
under the shadow of the Cathedral of Learning, calling for racial equality and
peace in wake of the deadly white supremacist rally in Charlottesville, Va.,
this weekend.

"The idea of white people walking around the streets with torches in 2017 is
just beyond comprehension," said Mr. Stevens, now chairman and CEO of the Black
Political Empowerment Project. "It's hurtful. ....We feel like we've hit a new
low in our country in many ways."

Mr. Stevens was one of a couple hundred people who gathered at Schenley Plaza in
Oakland, condemning the violence in Charlottesville that resulted in several
injuries and the death of Heather Heyer, 32, who was killed when a car driven by
an Ohio man plowed into a crowd of protesters. At the vigil organized by
Pittsburgh's chapter of the Democratic Socialists of America, attendees held
signs with phrases such as "Freedom, Not Fascism," "To Change Everything, We
Need Everyone" and "White Supremacy is Terrorism," criticizing President Donald
Trump's response to the white supremacist rally and calling for social justice
and solidarity.

Adam Shuck, co-chair of the Pittsburgh chapter, which has about 300 members,
said the vigil was designed to give people a venue to mourn Ms. Heyer and to
stand up against what he deemed "fascist hate and violence."

A similar anti-fascist rally was held at Market Square earlier Sunday.

"The fact that neo-Nazis can march on an American city is not necessarily new,
but I think with the embedding from the Trump administration, the Nazi right has
been given a space to feel more comfortable to mobilize like this," Mr. Shuck
said. "It's our job - speaking as a socialist, as an American and as a worker -
it's our job to stand up against this fascism, and to also build solidarity."

Holding candles as the sun set, Mrea Csorba and Gordon Brown sat in silent
reflection. Ms. Csorba said the vigil gave her "a little bit of peace," but the
close friends agreed that it will be difficult for America to unite in
solidarity during the current political climate.

"What transpired [Saturday in Charlottesville] is a poor reflection of our
society as a whole," Mr. Brown said. "It's sad in this day and age that this is
how we go about working out our differences. You always hope that some good will
come out of it, but at this point in time, I don't see that on the horizon."

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Julian Routh: 412-263-1952 or jrouth@post-gazette.com, Twitter
@julianrouth.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Stephanie Strasburg/Post-Gazette: Aimee Murphy, 28, of Beechview
holds a sign Sunday evening at a vigil at Schenley Plaza in Oakland for those
injured and killed in Charlottesville, Va.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              251 of 294 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            August 29, 2017 Tuesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

WE NEED BOLD INVESTMENT IN OUR NATION

BYLINE: DAVID GRAY

SECTION: EDITORIAL; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR; Pg. A-8

LENGTH: 244 words


The deeply fractured Republicans may very well unite around what they call tax
reform. They are likely to offer some crumbs to the ordinary person and will
engineer a new windfall for the rich and the mega-rich. The corporate welfare
kings and queens who have luxuriated in entitlements of massive tax breaks, and
cruise on their $90 million yachts, need to start paying.

Then after the 540 billionaires and the thousands of multimillionaires, all of
us middle-class people need to pay a little more. If we have to wait another
year for the granite countertop or an upgraded Audi, it will not really hurt our
standard of living. The poor, and especially the 25 percent poor youth, need to
be salvaged rather than wasted by providing them complete health care and other
critical humane support. That goes for small businesses as well.

Our nation is still great in many ways, but we are stalling and slipping. We
desperately need a bold new building and investment program. We not only need
new roads, bridges and pipes. We need to charge ahead into the alternate energy
age, cyber age and reality of climate change which would engender innovation and
assure us of a continued prominent place in world leadership.

Tax reform is code for making the wealthy more wealthy and more powerful, and
the poor poorer and less powerful. The national debt is real, but it functions
as a smokescreen to indicate that we have no funds to address the commonweal.

DAVID GRAY

New Wilmington

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              252 of 294 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                           August 30, 2017 Wednesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

ALIENATING THE WORLD;
AMERICANS CAN'T PRETEND TRUMP'S UTTERANCES AND ACTIONS DON'T MEAN ANYTHING

BYLINE: Dan Simpson

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A-7

LENGTH: 970 words


Even though it is no one's business but Americans' whom we elect as president,
it is nonetheless the case that President Donald Trump during his first seven
months in office has already lost the confidence of the rest of the world's
leaders.

His attacking Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, even though Mr. McConnell
certainly has his shortcomings, as well as other key congressional figures,
including Sen. John McCain, cancer victim, war hero and former Republican
presidential candidate, simply does not wash. What it means is that, to the
degree that Mr. Trump had a program, it now has little or no chance of getting
through Congress.

His idea that he can somehow pound these political figures into submission shows
a massive misunderstanding of America's governmental process. Senators depend on
their states' electorates for their jobs; representatives depend on their
districts'. Whether that is good or bad, these electorates tend to look kindly
on their home boy or girl and see an irascible president tweeting against their
person as unhinged.

What Mr. Trump's alienation of potential legislative support does instead is
annihilate our process of government. We don't even have to like any of his
program. Let's just say we would like to have a budget passed, the debt limit
raised and maybe even tax reform occur, although I have a fundamental resistance
to seeing the taxes of the rich reduced and the tax burden shifted even more to
the middle class and poor.

Now, let us not imagine for one minute that people like German Chancellor Angela
Merkel, Chinese President Xi Jinping and Russian President Vladimir Putin don't
see what Mr. Trump is in the process of doing in terms of misgovernment of
America with his big mouth and rude behavior. I am by no means a fan of
Washington's way of operating, with lobbyists spreading the money around,
legislators holding their seats due to lobbyists' campaign contributions and
gerrymandering, and long vacations.

But this is just ridiculous. Does Mr. Trump imagine that he can get cooperation
from Congress by attacking its members, potentially threatening their jobs and
trying to diminish Americans' views of them?

Some of his stunts raise the question of whether he is pursuing a policy of
raising the question of whether the president is crazy, particularly with
respect to the use of America's nuclear weapons, making friends and opponents of
the United States wonder what he might do next. The problem with that approach
is that it makes it almost impossible for an administration to pursue a coherent
foreign policy, or even a cogent domestic policy.

The list of people whom Mr. Trump has caused to question his reason is long.
There is Ms. Merkel, British Prime Minister Theresa May, whom he stood up to
spend more time with Mr. Putin at the G-20 summit. He took a crack at Mr. Xi for
not pushing North Korea hard enough. Mexican President Enrique Pena Nieto
probably hates him over the absurd "Wall" financing controversy. Canada's Justin
Trudeau continues to try to retain his equilibrium, but Mr. Trump hates him for
Mr. Trudeau's popularity with Americans. Japanese President Shinzo Abe must
cringe at the thought of American and North Korean nuclear weapons flying over
Japan.

The Saudis and other Middle Easterners must find Mr. Trump a familiar figure,
with his mercantile orientation, with family profit driving policy. The Israelis
have had to deal with this kind before. But those in the Middle East are also
wondering, examining the case of Qatar, when he might choose to sell out U.S.
best interests in response to a better offer.

Other foreign leaders, especially those with experience of American presidents,
must be including in their calculations of U.S. policy the question of just how
long Mr. Trump can last in office, and what that means for them and their
countries' policies. Some of what they do in policy areas, including climate
change and international trade, they will deal with the way some Americans are
already dealing with Mr. Trump's puzzling, erratic behavior. They will simply
proceed, assuming, "This, too, shall pass," or work from the premise that their
policies, unlinked to America's, are based on their own logic and should be
maintained for their own countries' best interests, regardless of the American
president.

What is certain is that no foreign leaders can realistically have much
confidence in what Mr. Trump's subordinates say to them to the degree that they
profess to represent him. Again, there may be some satisfaction to be had from
Mr. Trump's quick disposal of various of his underlings, Michael Flynn as
national security adviser for his seamy foreign associations with Russians and
Turks and political counselor Stephen Bannon for his lack of Stepford Wives
glassy-eyed fidelity to the Trump family, as examples.

The clear lesson from these banishings of senior officials is that no foreign
leader can be sure that Secretary of State Rex Tillerson or Secretary of Defense
Jim Mattis, never mind National Security Adviser H.R. McMaster, already under
harsh right-wing criticism, will be around the day after he returns to
Washington.

America does not benefit from an incoherent or an arbitrarily changeable foreign
policy. One of the first things a senior diplomat figures out is that his
foreign interlocutors must learn that what he says to them is worthy of trust.
That is the basis for deals. A madman in the attic, if he is in control, can
sabotage any chances for that, in the Middle East, with China, with Russia and
with Mexico and Canada. We can try pretending what Mr. Trump says is
inoperative, but it won't work with the media reporting his every babble, or
while he can still hire and fire senior officials.

Congress and the courts should try harder to tie him up. The media should try
ignoring him.

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Dan Simpson, a former U.S. ambassador, is a Post-Gazette associate editor
(dsimpson@post-gazette.com, 412-263-1976).

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              256 of 294 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                          September 6, 2017 Wednesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

COOLING IT ON NORTH KOREA;
LOOK AT WHAT EACH PLAYER IN THE GAME WANTS - AND RECOGNIZE THAT THE KIM REGIME
WANTS, ABOVE ALL, TO SURVIVE

BYLINE: Dan Simpson

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A-7

LENGTH: 1249 words


Once again, with its sixth nuclear test, tiny North Korea has managed to
preoccupy not only Washington but also the U.N. Security Council, China, Japan,
Russia, South Korea and any other nation that has to profess concern about one
more nation with nuclear weapons and the ability to deliver them.

For Americans, first of all, it is a matter of importance that somebody -
whether it be North Korean leader Kim Jong Un or our own problem, President
Donald Trump and his military-led government - could be taking us, Northeast
Asia and the world into warfare that will include weapons of mass destruction.
It isn't that Americans do not want the U.S. government not to respect its
commitments to defend Japan and South Korea, which otherwise would have by now
developed their own nuclear weapons to counteract Mr. Kim's. It's that most
Americans perceive quite clearly that we are at a juncture where we must see to
our own domestic concerns, as opposed to issues created by North Korea, or see
our own nation sink into second-class status in terms of standard of living.

Those domestic concerns, just to remind ourselves, include an economy that is
seeing the inequality of what it has offered its poor and middle class for
decades mired firmly in a state of stagnation, characterized increasingly by
hopelessness. The symptoms are the sad state of most urban and rural education,
a distressing muddle over health care, both far behind the higher standards of
other developed countries, and collapsing infrastructure. The stupid approach of
the Washington government to obvious climate change isn't worth commenting on.
There is also little hope that even the financial cost of fixing Houston will
catch their attention.

So what about North Korea (also known as the Democratic People's Republic of
Korea)? To try to make sense of it, it is worth trying to look at the problem
from the point of view of the principal parties involved, the DPRK, South Korea,
Japan, Russia, China and the United States.

For the South Koreans, it is particularly complicated. On the one hand, they are
the ones really under the gun. If North Korea cuts loose, or if the United
States pre-emptively goes after North Korea, the South Koreans, with their
magnificent economy and generally impressive democracy, all built up since the
end of the Korean War, go back to square one, dust, rubble and millions of dead.
On the other hand, the South Koreans have lived with batty, threatening leaders
in Pyongyang since the Japanese left in 1945.

There is also the pre-eminent fact that North Koreans and South Koreans are all
Koreans, with the same language, same ethnicity and same history for the most
part, and, potentially, the same economy. If you are South Korean, it is not
that difficult to think of a reunified country. It would cost South Korea an arm
and a leg to resuscitate North Korea, but just look at what Seoul has done with
its part of the peninsula in 64 years. So that, against the backdrop of a
grinning Mr. Kim watching the rockets go off, is part of the South Korean view
of what is going on. The other part is watching Washington, with an
uncomprehending president and a basically military government, trying to decide
what to do next.

Some of the same thoughts lie behind whatever the approach of the North Koreans
might be. The basic approach of the Kim dynasty to the DPRK's situation in the
world must be to survive, as a country and with its family's continued rule in
place. That would seem to dictate reasonable, although agile, behavior. It is
hard to imagine that even Mr. Kim would want to see American bombs crashing into
his country, assuring the destruction not only of his regime and its war-making
capacity but probably of his own life (and that of his barber). He should be
able to envisage a reunified Korea, with him sharing the catbird's seat with
some South Korean president, prosperous and the hated U.S. troops gone. It is
also likely that he would like to lessen North Korea's dependence on China for
economic and political sustenance.

That is to assume he isn't stark raving mad. He probably isn't, if the political
acumen he showed in consolidating his rule in the DPRK is any indication of his
skills and mentality.

Japan, the world's third-largest economy, is the key piece that is frequently
left out of general U.S. and other policy considerations of the Korean issue.
Japan is, first, easily capable of developing quickly weapons sufficient to
achieve "mutual assured destruction" with the DPRK, thus making it as capable as
the United States of scaring North Korea into relatively responsible behavior.
But, for that to occur, the United States would have to hand over Japan's
defense to the Japanese, which we have not done since 1945 for whatever
combination of reasons. Japan knows, from its own occupation of the Korean
Peninsula, that it is fully capable of dealing with the Korean issue, left to
its own devices.

The Russians are only vaguely interested in what happens in Korea, only engaged
in that issue as a sidebar in their relations with China and the United States.
It isn't even clear if they would like to see things quiet down there. They
probably enjoy the United States trying to get China to clamp down on North
Korea and China having to try to calm down Mr. Kim and the North Koreans while
Russian President Vladimir Putin maintains his beatific smile as he walks
through the recent summit of the BRICS (Brazil, Russia, India, China and South
Africa) in China. The Russians would be present at resumed six-party talks
(North Korea, South Korea, China, Japan, Russia and the United States) if there
ever were any.

China mainly wants to continue to look like the kingpin of East Asia. That
requires it to continue to give the impression that it can, in fact, bridle
North Korea if it wants to. That is only partly true since it would be highly
inconvenient to it to see either the Kim regime collapse, or a general, vicious
war to break out on its borders. Chinese President Xi Jinping has a hard hand to
play, but he has so far dominated the table, watching everyone else squirm,
including his regional rivals, Japan and South Korea, and the United States.

As for the United States, we do have cards to play. One of them is to agree
privately, with South Korean consent, to lay off joint military exercises in
South Korea and the region for a while, to permit talks. Another is to reduce
the number of troops, 28,500, that we have stationed in South Korea. Another is
for our leaders to shut up about fire and fury directed against North Korea. Mr.
Trump would also need to stop peppering South Korean President Moon Jae-in about
appeasement as Mr. Moon tries to dissuade Mr. Kim and Mr. Trump from destroying
his country through hubris or stupidity, whichever it is.

It is a waste of time to speculate where the Korean Peninsula would be today if
we had left after ensuring the stalemate that ended the Korean War in 1953. On
our side there would have been fewer U.S. four-star generals and fewer weapons
sales. Would Korea have reunified, serving as a serious counterweight to China
and Japan in the region? We may yet find out if we are able to get ourselves out
of this mess, out of Korea, without another major war.

We all know quite well that America should now concentrate its resources on
dealing with its own problems at home, rather than playing war games or worse,
real war in Northeast Asia, particularly lethal sparring that may involve
nuclear weapons.

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Dan Simpson, a former U.S. ambassador, is a Post-Gazette associate editor
(dsimpson@post-gazette.com, 412-263-1976).

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: STR/AFP/Getty Images: Not all fun and games: An official photo
from North Korea said to show leader Kim Jong Un watching a ballistic rocket
launch last month.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              257 of 294 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                           September 18, 2017 Monday
                                 SOONER EDITION

TRUMP RETWEETS DOCTORED GIF OF HIS GOLF BALL HITTING HILLARY CLINTON

BYLINE: From wire services

SECTION: NATIONAL; WASHINGTON ROUNDUP; Pg. A-5

LENGTH: 630 words


It's a big week for President Donald Trump. He will appear before the U.N.
General Assembly, the first such visit of his presidency. The session comes at a
time when the United States is on the cusp of crucial foreign policy decisions:
North Korea continues to provoke by firing missiles over Japan, and Mr. Trump
plans to refine his overall strategy on Iran.

Serious work beckons, but so does Twitter, and on Sunday morning the temptation
to share a fan's GIF that showed Mr. Trump golfing and the ball striking Hillary
Clinton proved too much to resist.

The retweet stoked outrage online, generating more than 11,000 replies, many of
which condemned the president's promotion of violent imagery toward Ms. Clinton,
who - as a former first lady - has lifetime Secret Service protection.

"Trump chipping away at the dignity of the office, one tweet at a time. He knows
this stuff is going into history books for all time, right?" one Twitter user
posted.

Rep. Adam Schiff, D-Calif., appearing on ABC's "This Week, said: "It's
distressing to have a president that frankly will tweet and retweet things as
juvenile as that."

But it was also celebrated by Trump supporters, who admonished "crooked Hillary"
and accused Mr. Trump's critics of lacking a sense of humor.

"Get a sense of freaking humor. Everyone on the LEFT defended stupid Kathy
Griffin when she held a "severed" head & said it was comedy!" one wrote.

A former Trump campaign strategist, David Urban, brushed off the controversy.
"Retweets do not equal endorsements," he said on CNN's "State of the Union."

The GIF, which was created by splicing two videos, shows Mr. Trump swinging a
golf club and the ball striking Ms. Clinton in the back as she boards a plane,
knocking her forward. The imagery of Ms. Clinton tripping in the aircraft's
doorway was from 2011, shot when she boarded a flight in Yemen.

It is not the first time one of the president's tweets has made light of
violence.Last month he retweeted an image of a train running over a cartoon
person with a CNN logo over their head, which was later described by a White
House official as a mistake and deleted. In July, Mr. Trump posted a video of
him body slamming a man with a CNN logo superimposed over his head.

The post with the golfing GIF on Sunday was just one of several eclectic tweets
that Mr. Trump sent.In one, he referred to Kim Jong Un, the leader of North
Korea, as "Rocket Man." CHAIN MIGRATION' TARGETED

Just over a day after agreeing with Democratic leaders to make an immigration
deal, Mr. Trump on Friday took a hard line against allowing close family members
to follow new immigrants, a position that could stymie bipartisan legislation.

Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter that any immigration bill cannot include "chain
migration," a term used by advocates of limiting immigrants to criticize how new
U.S. citizens can sponsor family members for legal status. DOWNSIZED MONUMENTS?

Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke has recommended that Mr. Trump modify 10 national
monuments created by his immediate predecessors, including shrinking the
boundaries of at least four western sites - Bears Ears and Grand Staircase
Escalante in Utah, along with Nevada's Gold Butte and Oregon's Cascade-Siskiyou
- according to a copy of the report obtained by The Washington Post.
ENVIRONMENTALISTS WIN

Handing a major victory to environmentalists, a court cast doubt Friday on a
longstanding U.S. government argument that blocking federal coal leasing won't
affect climate change because the coal could simply be mined elsewhere.
OBAMACARE REPEAL EFFORT

The Congressional Budget Office is in the process of estimating the cost and
coverage impact of the Graham-Cassidy bill that would devolve federal health
care spending to the states, according to a senior Senate Republican aide.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              262 of 294 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                           October 4, 2017 Wednesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

IT'S TIME TO SWEAR OFF TEAM JERSEYS

BYLINE: Brian O'Neill

SECTION: LIFESTYLE; Pg. A-2

LENGTH: 694 words


Hey sports fans, what do you say we stop wearing other people's names on our
backs?

I might be sounding like the old man yelling, "Hey, you kids, get off the lawn!"
But there was a time not very long ago when almost nobody felt compelled to play
dress-up before heading to the ballpark, stadium, arena or sports bar.

I daresay those were better days. Look where all this team-jersey wearing has
left us: with the seriocomic sight of football fans across America making home
videos of themselves burning jerseys and other memorabilia in some of the least
festive bonfires in memory.

Their anger about NFL players kneeling during the national anthem is real. For
the love of God, in Baltimore they booed the Ravens last Sunday for kneeling
before the anthem for a prayer announced as one for "kindness, unity, equality
and justice for all Americans."

Maybe this Sunday, those Baltimorons can heckle a church.

If the sense of betrayal is real for the YouTubers narrating the torching of
hundreds of dollars in home team schlock, it should also be time for them to
look inward and ask: How could I not see this coming?

Not the kneel-or-stand question necessarily but the almost-sure-to-backfire idea
of putting another man's name on your back. All of us already have plenty to
atone for in this life. Dropping a C-note or more to don another sinner's name
is just asking for trouble. He's bound to let you down sooner or later. He's
human.

There is ample evidence in the PG photo archives of those blessed days when
rabid fans went without official team jerseys. In October 1979, at the
undoubtedly raucous celebration in Market Square after the Pirates won the World
Series, there was nary a jersey in sight. As late as the 1990s, Steelers fans
contented themselves with commemorative sweatshirts and such. Well along their
way to the Stanley Cup in 1992, nearly all Penguins fans came to the arena in
street clothes.

Team jerseys have become street clothes in Pittsburgh since. Patient X in the
epidemic is unknown but, by the late 1990s, official team jerseys had become
widely available. ESPN and sports radio already had turned football in
particular from a pleasant weekend diversion to a 24/7 obsession, and so the
same fans who bemoaned the ridiculous salaries athletes receive would drop
ridiculous money on jerseys and soaring cable bills so the billionaire owners
could write ever larger checks to the millionaire players.

I can remember getting a late invitation to a Steelers game in the mid-'90s and,
not thinking much about it, wearing my green winter coat. I'm just lucky they
weren't playing the Packers because, after being introduced to my friend's
friends in the stands, a woman 20 years my senior scolded me for not wearing
black or gold or both. She was genuinely angered.

All I could think was, gee, lady, don't you think they're getting enough of our
money already? Then I bought an overpriced beer.

I've managed to lead a relatively normal life going to dozens of Pirates games
each year wearing only a team cap or T-shirt that I was handed at the gate at a
previous game. Well, OK, I don't wear only that; I generally add pants,
underwear, socks and sneakers, but you take my meaning.

If someone ever gave me a jersey bearing the name of my favorite Pirate, Andrew
McCutchen, would I wear it? No, that would stay in the wrapper like that Little
River Band Greatest Hits CD the WDVE deejay Sean McDowell gave me more than 20
years ago. (You'll pay one day, McDowell.)

Don't get me wrong. I love the way McCutchen plays baseball, respect the way he
has carried himself in public all these years. I just don't know the guy. If he
continues to entertain me in exchange for my ticket money or TV time, that's all
I need from him. If he ever goes to another team or slips in my esteem, I don't
want to find myself stuck with a $150 car-wash rag with the number 22 on it.

Part of me feels like the Grinch for saying all this, but think about it, sports
fans. Before you buy another athletic top, assess the risks. We don't need any
more jersey bonfires. That might only add to climate change, which I mention
just in case there's somebody I haven't yet ticked off.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Brian O'Neill: boneill@post-gazette.com or 412-263-1947 or Twitter
@brotheroneill

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              266 of 294 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                           October 21, 2017 Saturday
                                 SOONER EDITION

AMERICA'S DISASTER

BYLINE: BEVERLY MORAN

SECTION: EDITORIAL; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR; Pg. A-8

LENGTH: 257 words


If I wrote a letter in opposition to something that President Donald Trump has
said or done, which is about every day- on topics such as Obamacare, climate
change, North Korea, the NFL- I would have writer's cramp.

Just when I thought I was beyond being shocked, the man had the audacity to
blame the citizens of Puerto Rico (American citizens) for the amount of
devastation they have suffered and to tell them they are fortunate not to have
experienced "a real catastrophe, like Katrina" and that they have "thrown our
budget a little out of whack." Is this what he said to the victims of Harvey and
Irma? Now, this week, in praising his administration's response there, he says
the situation in Puerto Rico is "worse than Katrina."

Recently Jimmy Fallon suggested the next time they find themselves in the direct
path of a hurricane, they should try pushing the island out of the way! I must
say, though, Mr. Trump impressed me with his ability to toss rolls of paper
towels into the crowd like footballs. I just hope they were Bounty; I'm sure
they would be a big help in absorbing the 3 to 4 feet of water and mud in
people's homes.

Although Mr. Trump and the mayor of San Juan were cordial when he landed in
Puerto Rico, he blatantly snubbed her during the rest of his visit because she
was brave enough and angry enough to criticize him in public.

My heart and prayers go out to all the victims of Maria, Harvey, Irma and the
shootings in Las Vegas - but mostly to America, which must refer to this man as
its president.

BEVERLY MORAN

Penn Hills

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              269 of 294 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                           October 26, 2017 Thursday
                                 SOONER EDITION

CARNEGIE MUSEUM  OF NATURAL HISTORY EVOLVES;
DIRECTOR STRIVES TO ENSURE RELEVANCE

BYLINE: David Templeton, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. B-1

LENGTH: 799 words


The cover of the book shows old wood floor planks with two sprigs emerging
between them. It forewarns that the topic is something old that needs some
metaphorical sandpaper and polyurethane.

The book title provides the reference point: "The Future of Natural History
Museums."

After returning from the second of two important conferences, Eric Dorfman,
director of the Carnegie Museum of Natural History, decided it was time to put
long-held beliefs into action to make natural history museums relevant to the
modern age. He says the natural history museum must strive to pique interest in
history and science - to educate and entertain rather than continue existing as
a "dead zoo."

Worldwide, museums have 3 billion items in their collections, he said, but many
are gathering dust in warehouses or storage. Mr. Dorfman essentially says that
museums, perhaps ironically, can't be antiquated. They must use their many
resources to full advantage and present history with an eye to the future. The
goal should be to move forward by better explaining the past and its pertinence
to modern life.

Such museums bear the responsibility to explain natural history and how
evolution, genetics, climate change and humans themselves affect it. "How do we
deal with the devaluing of science, especially in the U.S.?" Mr. Dorfman asked.
"As we move forward, this is a road map."

The resulting book that Mr. Dorfman edited includes insights from more than 20
experts in operating natural history museums. He wrote the introduction and two
chapters, while participating in a third chapter.

Its strategy focuses on making museums more important to people and the
communities they serve. That mission, he said, requires technology, marketing,
financial knowledge, activism from the museum and museum-goers alike, and a
fresh focus on natural and cultural things of interest. There are even things to
learn from how the "Indiana Jones" movies, "Jurassic Park" and "Planet Earth"
inspired public interest in nature and science, the book says.

The revolutionary rebirth of the natural history museum also requires technology
"with a growing focus on the needs of the young and empowered global audience,"
the book says, noting that "natural history museums must have the potential to
become the networks of fact-based reality in a post-truth world."

Emlyn Koster, director of the North Carolina Museum of Natural Sciences, who
co-wrote one chapter, said the book targets ways to better understand "solutions
for a more harmonious global situation so nature and culture - the natural world
and the human journey - become in sync."

"Too long, natural history museums have been comfortable-looking and
synthesizing what we did and what we thought," he said. "The book says we have
to move forward with more relevant, contemporary needs. Dr. Dorfman gathered
papers from around the world, and collated a global voice on what the future
needs to look like."

Mr. Dorfman and a panel of co-authors will discuss the book beginning at 5:45
p.m. Thursday in the Carnegie Library Lecture Hall in Oakland, with the first
100 people receiving a copy of the book. The talk is free to the public.

"Just like the Catholic Church a couple decades ago, natural history museums
must assure their relevance in an aging world," he said. "The idea of forming a
collaboration between the museum and community is key to success."

His efforts to date at the Carnegie Museum include forging partnerships with
organizations, leaders and museum-goers, along with merchandising and marketing.
He also has focused on well-organized exhibits that explain natural history and
culture. A former dead zone in the museum, for example, now serves as Discovery
Base Camp - a science playground where parents and children can play with
scientific toys and fossil models, sit on big bug models, and interact hands-on
with science in ways interesting to all ages.

The "Arab Courier Attacked by Lions" exhibit, now in the main hallway, is fully
restored with unabashed explanations about how the besieged camel rider's head
includes an actual human skull. A new exhibit, scheduled to open this week,
focuses on the "Anthropocene," a proposed new epoch in history involving the
human impact on nature and the globe itself, with exhibits explaining the
impacts of pollution and modern products on the environment.

Last year, Mr. Dorfman said, museum attendance rose 6 to 8 percent, with current
hopes that this year's attendance will match or exceed that of the 2007-08
season - the highest attendance year in the 21st century.

Museum-goers can't be considered as mere numbers, he said, but rather as "valued
friends" inspired time and again to engage in the many museum attractions.

Bottom line, he said, "We can't get a single person through the door if we
aren't relevant."

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: David Templeton: dtempleton@post-gazette.com or 412-263-1578.

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              271 of 294 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                           November 2, 2017 Thursday
                                 SOONER EDITION

SECTION: ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT; MOVIE GUIDE; Pg. W-16

LENGTH: 1295 words


OPENING FRIDAY

A BAD MOMS CHRISTMAS follows three under-appreciated and over-burdened women as
they rebel against the challenges and expectations of the Super Bowl for moms:
Christmas. R for crude sexual content and language throughout, and some drug
use. 104 min. AMC Loews; Century Square; Cinemark Monroeville, North, Robinson,
Tarentum; Cranberry; Phoenix CV, NV; Southside Works; Waterworks.

THE KILLING OF A SACRED DEER Steven, a charismatic surgeon, is forced to make an
unthinkable sacrifice after his life starts to fall apart, when the behavior of
a teenage boy he has taken under his wing turns sinister. R for disturbing
violent and sexual content, some graphic nudity and language. 120 min. Manor.

LADY BIRD The adventures of a young woman living in Northern California for a
year. R for language, sexual content, brief graphic nudity and teen partying. 93
min. Manor.

LBJ The story of U.S. President Lyndon Baines Johnson from his young days in
West Texas to the White House. R for language. 98 min. Cinemark. Tarentum.

JANE Using a trove of unseen footage, the film tells the story of Jane Goodall's
early explorations, focusing on her groundbreaking field work, her relationship
with cameraman and husband Hugo van Lawick, and the chimpanzees that she
studied. 90 min. Manor.

THOR: RAGNAROK Imprisoned, the mighty Thor finds himself in a lethal
gladiatorial contest against the Hulk, his former ally. Thor must fight for
survival and race against time to prevent the all-powerful Hela from destroying
his home and the Asgardian civilization. PG-13 for intense sequences of sci-fi
violence and action, and brief suggestive material. 130 min. Cranberry; Cinemark
Monroeville, North, Robinson, Tarentum; Century Square; Phoenix CV, NV;
Waterworks; Tull.

CURRENT MOVIES

ALL I SEE IS YOU A blind woman's relationship with her husband changes when she
regains her sight and discovers disturbing details about themselves. R for
strong sexual content/nudity, and language. 110 min. AMC Loews.

AMERICAN MADE **½ A pilot lands work for the CIA and as a drug runner in the
south during the 1980s. R for language and nudity. 115 min. Cinemark Robinson,
Tarentum; Cranberry.

BLADE RUNNER 2049 *** A young blade runner's discovery of a long-buried secret
leads him to track down former blade runner who's been missing for thirty years.
163 min. R for violence, sexuality, nudity and language. AMC Loews; Century
Square; Cinemark Robinson; Southside Works.

BOO 2! A MADEA HALLOWEEN Madea, Bam and Hattie venture to a haunted campground
and the group must run for their lives when monsters, goblins, and the boogeyman
are unleashed. PG-13 for sexual references, drug content, language and some
horror images. AMC Loews: Century Square; Cinemark Monroeville, North, Robinson,
Tarentum; Phoenix CV, NV; Southside Works; Waterworks.

THE FLORIDA PROJECT ***½ Set over one summer, the film follows precocious
6-year-old Moonee as she courts mischief and adventure with her ragtag playmates
and bonds with her rebellious but caring mother, all while living in the shadows
of Disney World. R for language throughout, disturbing behavior, sexual
references and some drug material. 115 min. Manor.

THE FOREIGNER A humble businessman with a buried past seeks justice when his
daughter is killed. R for violence, language and some sexual material. 114 min.
AMC Loews; Century Square; Cinemark Monroeville, Robinson.

GEOSTORM When the network of satellites designed to control the global climate
start to attack Earth, it's a race against the clock to uncover the real threat
before a geostorm wipes out everything and everyone. PG-13 for destruction,
action and violence. 109 min. AMC Loews; Century Square; Cinemark Monroeville,
North, Robinson; Phoenix CV, NV; Southside Works; Waterworks.

HAPPY DEATH DAY A college student relives the day of her murder until she
discovers her killer's identity. PG-13 for violence/terror, sexual content,
language, drug material and nudity. 96 min. AMC Loews; Century Square; Cinemark
Monroeville, North, Robinson, Tarentum; Cranberry; Phoenix CV, NV.

IT *** A group of bullied kids band together when a shapeshifting demon begins
hunting children. R for violence/horror, bloody images and language. 135 min.
AMC Loews; Century Square; Cinemark North, Robinson, Tarentum; Phoenix NV.

JIGSAW Bodies are turning up around the city, each having met a uniquely
gruesome demise. As the investigation proceeds, evidence points to one suspect:
a man known who has been dead for ten years. R for sequences of grisly bloody
violence and torture, and for language. 91 min. AMC Loews; Century Square;
Cinemark Monroeville, North, Robinson, Tarentum; Cranberry; Phoenix CV, NV;
Southside Works; Waterworks.

KINGSMAN: THE GOLDEN CIRCLE When their headquarters are destroyed and the world
is held hostage, the Kingsman's journey leads them to the discovery of an allied
spy organization in the US. 141 min. R for sequences of violence, drug content,
language and some sexual material. AMC Loews; Cinemark Tarentum; Phoenix CV.

THE LEGO NINJAGO MOVIE Six young ninjas are tasked with defending their island
home. PG for some mild action and rude humor. 101 min. AMC Loews; Cinemark
North, Tarentum; Phoenix CV, NV.

LET THERE BE LIGHT The story of dedicated scientists working to build a small
sun on Earth, which would unleash perpetual, cheap, clean energy for mankind.
Not rated. 80 min. AMC Loews; Cinemark Monroeville, Tarentum.

MARK FELT The story of Mark Felt, who under the name "Deep Throat" helped
journalists Bob Woodward and Carl Bernstein uncover the Watergate scandal in
1974. PG-13 for some language. 103 min. AMC Loews; Harris.

MARSHALL *** About a young Thurgood Marshall, the first African-American Supreme
Court Justice, as he battles through one of his career-defining cases. PG-13 for
mature thematic content, sexuality, violence and strong language. 118 min. AMC
Loews.

THE MOUNTAIN BETWEEN US Stranded after a plane crash, two strangers must forge a
connection to survive extreme elements. 103 min. PG-13 for sexuality, peril,
injury images and strong language. AMC Loews.

MY LITTLE PONY: THE MOVIE A dark force threatens Ponyville. 99 min. PG for mild
action. Cinemark Tarentum; Cranberry; Phoenix CV.

ONLY THE BRAVE **** Based on the true story of the Granite Mountain Hotshots, a
group of elite firefighters who risk everything to protect a town from a
historic wildfire. PG-13 for thematic content, some sexual references, language
and drug material. 133 min. AMC Loews; Century Square; Cinemark North, Robinson,
Tarentum; Cranberry; Phoenix NV; Southside Works.

THE SNOWMAN Detective Harry Hole investigates the disappearance of a woman whose
pink scarf is found wrapped around an ominous-looking snowman. R for grisly
images, violence, some language, sexuality and brief nudity. 119 min. AMC Loews;
Century Square; Cinemark Robinson; Southside Works;

SUBURBICON A home invasion rattles a quiet family town. R for violence, language
and some sexuality. 104 min. AMC Loews; Cinemark Monroeville, North, Robinson,
Tarentum; Century Square; Cranberry; Phoenix CV, NV; Southside Works;
Waterworks.

THANK YOU FOR YOUR SERVICE *** A group of U.S. soldiers returning from Iraq
struggles to integrate back into family and civilian life. R for strong violent
content, language throughout, some sexuality, drug material and brief nudity.
108 min. AMC Loews; Cinemark Monroeville, North, Robinson, Tarentum; Cranberry;
Phoenix CV; Southside Works; Waterworks.

VICTORIA AND ABDUL *** Queen Victoria strikes up an unlikely friendship with a
young Indian clerk. 112 min. PG-13 for some thematic elements and language. AMC
Loews; Cranberry.

Screening times in many of the movie theater ads in this section are for
Thursday only. See Friday's Magazine section for Friday show times.

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: WEEKEND MAG

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: "A Bad Mom's Christmas" features a comedic cast including Mila
Kunis, Kristen Bell Kathryn Hahn.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              275 of 294 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            December 15, 2017 Friday
                                 SOONER EDITION

DEP TARGETS AIR POLLUTANTS TO COMBAT METHANE FROM EXISTING WELLS

BYLINE: Laura Legere, Harrisburg Bureau

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. B-1

LENGTH: 541 words


HARRISBURG - Pennsylvania's first step toward cutting emissions of methane from
thousands of existing shale gas wells will not target the greenhouse gas
directly.

Instead, the state Department of Environmental Protection is planning to
implement federal guidelines for cutting smog-causing pollutants that will, as a
side benefit, reduce methane escaping from some types of well site equipment,
according to concepts the agency outlined at an advisory meeting on Thursday.

The strategy has frustrated environmental groups who are concerned that it will
leave many sources of methane leaks at current well sites unchecked, especially
in regions of the state where gas from the Marcellus Shale carries too little of
the smog-forming volatile organic compounds, or VOCs, to trigger the proposed
controls.

"Focusing only on the VOC element puts Pennsylvania not only significantly
behind other leading natural gas-producing states, but also leaves a big swath
of the emissions mix on the table," Andrew Williams, a regulatory affairs
director with the Environmental Defense Fund, said.

Gov. Tom Wolf laid out a strategy in 2016 for curbing methane emissions across
the state's shale gas industry, including new wells, existing wells and
pipelines.

Permits to address emissions from future wells and other infrastructure are
expected to be published in the first quarter of 2018, but regulations for
existing sources have been slower to develop.

Methane is a more powerful, but shorter-lived greenhouse gas than carbon
dioxide, and minimizing leaks is seen as crucial to realizing the climate
benefits of using natural gas instead of fuels like coal.

Nearly 7,000 shale wells were drilled in Pennsylvania before the state's current
air pollution requirements for preventing and fixing leaks took effect in August
2013. Another 4,000 wells have been drilled since then.

The guidelines published by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency in October
2016 cover only certain equipment at existing gas facilities - storage tanks,
compressors and pneumatic controllers and pumps - and they set recommended
standards for leak detection and repair.

DEP signaled in the past that it planned to use the federal guidelines as a
platform for regulating methane from existing shale gas wells, and said last
year it would "enhance" the EPA's recommendations for controlling VOCs.

But the concepts described on Thursday almost exactly mirror the EPA's
recommendations, except for maintaining the state's more stringent standards for
tanks installed after August 2013.

DEP officials said controlling the smog-forming compounds will reduce methane,
since both are commingled in natural gas.

George Hartenstein, DEP's deputy secretary in charge of air programs, said the
concepts for controlling emissions from existing wells are in the early stages
of discussion and establish a floor for future considerations.

"We haven't made a final decision," on whether to establish thresholds for
directly controlling methane from existing wells, he said. "I wouldn't say we
don't plan to. This has just been a concept out there right now."

Pennsylvania has until October 2018 to develop a regulation to satisfy the EPA
guidelines. The changes will then have to be implemented by January 2021.

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Laura Legere: llegere@post-gazette.com /

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Alex Brandon/Associated Press: A drilling rig is set up to tap
gas from the Marcellus Shale gas field, near a barn in the Susquehanna County
township of Springville, Pa., in 2011.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              286 of 294 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                              May 26, 2017 Friday
                                 SOONER EDITION

STEEL, ENERGY STOCKS TOP PERFORMERS IN 2016

BYLINE: LEN BOSELOVIC, PITTSBURGH POST-GAZETTE

SECTION: BUSINESS; TOP 50; Pg. 86

LENGTH: 398 words


Most regional stocks advanced in 2016, but none climbed as energetically as the
biggest slackers of the previous year.

Steel and energy stocks were the top-performing regional stocks in 2016, paced
by the 356 percent advance of West Chester, Ohio steel producer AK Steel, which
has major operations in Butler.

Pittsburgh's U.S. Steel finished a close second, jumping 314 percent, followed
by Consol Energy of Cecil, which rose 131 percent.

Steel shares benefited from a drop in imports and rising steel prices while
higher oil prices energized energy stocks.

Other steel stocks that did well in 2016 included Bridgeville's Universal
Stainless & Alloy Products, up 45 percent at No. 18, and Pittsburgh stainless
steel and titanium producer Allegheny Technologies, up 42 percent at No. 21.

None of the top three stocks in 2016 made the top 50 performers in 2015, a year
when most regional stocks declined. Neither did two other 2016 Top 10
performers: heavy equipment maker Joy Global and Canada's Bombardier, which has
major transportation operations in West Mifflin.

Four other Top 10 finishers -- treated wood products maker Koppers, Cecil's Rice
Energy, steel industry supplier Ampco-Pittsburgh and tool maker Kennametal --
all finished between 40th and 49th in the 2015 rankings.

Also in the top 10 in 2016, specialty plastics producer Covestro, was not
eligible for the 2015 rankings because it had just been spun out of Bayer.
Covestro ranked seventh on this year's list.

Another perennial laggard, Lawrence-based network gear equipment provider Black
Box, rebounded in 2016 by climbing 60 percent -- good enough for an 11th place
finish. Black Box also finished outside the Top 50 in the 2015 rankings.

Just how good of a year it was for regional stocks is reflected in the
performance of the worst performers in the top 50: software writer Ansys,
Latrobe banker Commercial National Financial, and Green Tree-based L.B. Foster,
which makes products for the rail, construction and energy markets. Prices for
their shares were unchanged at the end of the year. Meanwhile, 46 of the Top 50
stocks registered double-digit gains in 2016.

In 2015, only 18 of the Top 50 stocks recorded gains and the worst performer,
Westinghouse Electric parent Toshiba, fell 52 percent.

TriState Capital Holdings, 2015's top performer, placed 14th in 2016. The
Pittsburgh bank's shares advanced 58 percent last year.

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: IN THE LEAD / EXPLORING HOW INFRASTRUCTURE SUPPORTS AND DRIVES THE
REGIONAL ECONOMY/ Len Boselovic: lboselovic@post-gazette.com or 412-263-1941. /

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Lake Fong/Post-Gazette Consol Energy offices in Cecil.\ \ CHART:
TOP STOCKS/A Look At The Region's 50 Top-Performing Stocks in 2016

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              288 of 294 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            September 4, 2017 Monday
                                WEB ONLY EDITION

#LETSMAKEASEEN: STEEL SMILING

BYLINE: Natalie Bencivenga

SECTION: LIFESTYLE; SEEN; Pg. WEB

LENGTH: 839 words


Founder and CEO: Julius Boatwright, 34, of Beechview. He is a licensed social
worker who received his master's in social work at the University of Pittsburgh
and a graduate certificate in human services management. While serving as a
community-based therapist, he witnessed the brokenness of the mental health
system at its core. He wasn't sure how to digest this realization when it first
hit him, but soon he recognized he was being called to create something that
would challenge institutionalized barriers with a focus in underserved
communities.

Steel Smiling was launched in December 2015 as an online resource provider. The
initial purpose was to serve as an educational platform for community members
seeking to identify mental health resources, best practices and therapeutic
strategies. It has since evolved into becoming a bridge between people to mental
health resources while providing informal therapeutic experiences. The goal is
to provide psychoeducation, destigmatize and raise awareness by having a
conversation and getting ongoing support.

The organization grew out of a personal connection for Mr. Boatwright. "I've
thrived with symptoms related to depression and anxiety since I was a teenager.
However, I can recall moments when I didn't know how to properly process my
trauma. My best friend from college lost his life to mental illness by suicide.
That's something I've struggled with since it occurred. Grief is such a
nonlinear process, and the sorrow from his passing has yet to subside. I've also
had many unsuccessful suicide attempts. I never wanted to die. I have had
multiple suicidal ideations, but I just wanted the pain to stop. In those
moments, you feel so broken and weak, but I knew that I didn't want to die."
Nowadays, Mr. Boatwright tries to connect with others overcoming similar
challenges in a real, authentic and transparent way. "The people in our
communities who need treatment the most aren't receiving it. While we may never
completely solve this problem, I want to utilize Steel Smiling to shift the
systems."

After connecting with an inspiring African-American woman in the Hill District
in spring 2016, the methods of engagement and impact grew exponentially. "The
way that I was providing resources as therapist was helpful but not
preventative. It's so reactive. That's the way things are set up. We serve
during a crisis. We are the firefighters. Teach and connect and walk away. I
needed to do more and in an intentional, proactive way. In that moment I needed
to talk to someone in the community right now. There was no rhyme or reason
other than that. I was driving in my car and I was surveying the neighborhood.
It was warm out and people were walking. I said to myself, 'Let's do this. Meet
people where they are at.' It was awful. I got denied by three to four people
before meeting her." The interaction made Mr. Boatwright realize that you could
be informal and have therapeutic conversations.

Why does Pittsburgh need something like this? "When we first met people at
liquor stores, churches and barber shops, we simply wanted to share
conversations about mental health. That organically grew into providing more
tangible support on an as-needed basis to connect willing community members with
ongoing resources." Mr. Boatwright quickly discovered that many could benefit
from person-centered approach. With that knowledge, he and his team developed a
hybrid model that consists of community conversations, customized trainings and
grassroots outreach. "We take mental health to our people, give them the power
to build processes and ultimately empower them to educate our service delivery
methods in real time."

Right now, it is located at the Urban Kind Institute on Brownsville Road in
Mount Oliver, and it is a project under the Thomas Merton Center. The
organization focuses on those in the African-American community because Mr.
Boatwright has heard over and over again that when they try to engage the system
and don't receive understanding or cultural sensitivity, they disengage. "As a
person of color, I feel like historically speaking we have a lot of healing to
do, and as we make sense of historical things, that can inhibit our therapeutic
growth. Giving people an opportunity to really be heard and letting them voice
what is hurting them can be the best way to engage and to start the healing
process."

What are your dreams for Steel Smiling? "I'm a dreamer with pretty bold goals.
We see opportunities to grow as a local, regional, national and global mental
health support provider. Since our model starts and ends with people, the growth
potential is limitless. We plan to finetune our practices in Pittsburgh before
we strategically branch out into other locations. If we continue meeting
community members where they're at, loving them for who they are and providing
informal engagements for us to heal together, Steel Smiling will have a bright
future."

#LetsMakeASEEN around Steel Smiling! To learn more, email Julius Boatwright:
julius@steelsmilingpgh.org

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: NATALIE BENCIVENGA'S SEEN

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Haley Nelson/Post-Gazette: Julius Boatwright, founder of Steel
Smiling.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 P.G. Publishing Co.
