
                               2 of 454 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                           February 22, 2014 Saturday
                                 SOONER EDITION

THE NOTION OF 'SETTLED SCIENCE' IS IN ITSELF ANTI-SCIENTIFIC

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A-12

LENGTH: 770 words


WASHINGTON

I repeat: I'm not a global warming believer. I'm not a global warming denier.
I've long believed that it cannot be good for humanity to be spewing tons of
carbon dioxide into the atmosphere. I also believe that those scientists who
pretend to know exactly what this will cause in 20, 30 or 50 years are
white-coated propagandists.

"The debate is settled," asserted propagandist in chief Barack Obama in his
latest State of the Union address. "Climate change is a fact." Really? There is
nothing more anti-scientific than the very idea that science is settled, static,
impervious to challenge. Take a non-climate example. It was long assumed that
mammograms help reduce breast cancer deaths. This fact was so settled that
Obamacare requires every insurance plan to offer mammograms (for free, no less).

Now we learn from a massive randomized study - 90,000 women followed for 25
years - that mammograms may have no effect on breast cancer deaths. Indeed, one
out of five of those diagnosed by mammogram receives unnecessary radiation,
chemo or surgery.

So much for settledness. And climate is less well understood than breast cancer.
If climate science is settled, why do its predictions keep changing? And how is
it that the great physicist Freeman Dyson, who did some climate research in the
late 1970s, thinks today's climate-change Cassandras are hopelessly mistaken?

They deal with the fluid dynamics of the atmosphere and oceans, argues Mr.
Dyson, ignoring the effect of biology, i.e., vegetation and topsoil. Further,
their predictions rest on models they fall in love with: "You sit in front of a
computer screen for 10 years and you start to think of your model as being
real." Not surprisingly, these models have been "consistently and spectacularly
wrong" in their predictions, write atmospheric scientists Richard McNider and
John Christy - and always, amazingly, in the same direction.

Settled? Even the U.K.'s national weather service concedes there's been no
change - delicately called a "pause" - in global temperature in 15 years. If
even the raw data is recalcitrant, let alone the assumptions and underlying
models, how settled is the science?

Last week, Mr. Obama ostentatiously visited drought-stricken California.
Surprise! He blamed climate change. Here even The New York Times gagged,
pointing out that far from being supported by the evidence, "the most recent
computer projections suggest that as the world warms, California should get
wetter, not drier, in the winter."

How inconvenient. But we've been here before. Hurricane Sandy was made the
poster child for the alleged increased frequency and strength of "extreme
weather events" like hurricanes.

Nonsense. Sandy wasn't even a hurricane when it hit the United States. Indeed,
in all of 2012, only a single hurricane made U.S. landfall. And 2013 saw the
fewest Atlantic hurricanes in 30 years. In fact, in the last half-century,
one-third fewer major hurricanes have hit the United States than in the previous
half-century.

Similarly tornadoes. Every time one hits, the climate-change commentary begins.
Yet last year saw the fewest in a quarter-century. And the last 30 years - of
presumed global warming - has seen a 30 percent decrease in extreme tornado
activity (F3 and above) versus the previous 30 years.

None of this is dispositive. It doesn't settle the issue. But that's the point.
It mocks the very notion of settled science, which is nothing but a crude
attempt to silence critics and delegitimize debate. As does the term "denier" -
an echo of Holocaust denial, contemptibly suggesting the malevolent rejection of
an established historical truth.

Climate-change proponents have made their cause a matter of fealty and faith.
For folks who pretend to be brave carriers of the scientific ethic, there's more
than a tinge of religion in their jeremiads. If you whore after other gods, the
Bible tells us, "the Lord's wrath be kindled against you, and he shut up the
heaven, that there be no rain, and that the land yield not her fruit"
(Deuteronomy 11).

Sounds like California. Except that today there's a new god, the Earth Mother.
And a new set of sins - burning coal and driving a fully equipped F-150.

But whoring is whoring, and the gods must be appeased. So if California burns,
you send your high priest (in a carbon-belching Air Force One, but never mind)
to the bone-dry land to offer up, on behalf of the repentant congregation, a $1
billion burnt offering called a "climate resilience fund."

Ah, settled science in action.

Charles Krauthammer is a syndicated columnist for The Washington Post
(letters@charleskrauthammer.com).

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2014 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              15 of 454 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                           September 26, 2014 Friday
                                 SOONER EDITION

FLORIDA'S GOING DOWN THE DRAIN;
BUT DON'T MENTION THE WORDS 'CLIMATE CHANGE' TO THE GOVERNOR

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. B-7

LENGTH: 822 words


On Miami Beach, rising sea levels have interesting consequences. The ocean
periodically starts bubbling up through local drainpipes. By the time it's over,
the concept of "going down to the water" has extended to stepping off the front
porch.

It's becoming a seasonal event, like swallows at Capistrano or the return of the
buzzards to Hinckley, Ohio.

"At the spring and fall high tides, we get flooding of coastal areas," said
Leonard Berry, the director of the Florida Center for Environmental Studies.
"You've got saltwater coming up through the drains, into the garages and
sidewalks and so on, damaging the Ferraris and the Lexuses."

Ah, climate change. A vast majority of scientific studies that take a stand on
global warming have concluded that it's caused by human behavior. The results
are awful. The penguins are dwindling. The polar bears are running out of ice
floes. The cornfields are drying. The Southwest is frying.

There is very little on the plus side. Except maybe for Detroit. As Jennifer
Kingson reported in The New York Times this week, one scientific school of
thought holds that while temperatures rise and weather becomes extreme in other
parts of the country, Detroit's location will turn it into a veritable garden
spot.

Miami is probably not used to being compared unfavorably to Detroit. But there
you are.

"We're going to wander around shin-deep in the ocean - on the streets of Miami,"
said Sen. Sheldon Whitehouse of Rhode Island, who is planning to go on a
climate-change tour this month with Florida's senior senator, Bill Nelson. (The
junior senator, Marco Rubio, who's no fan of "these scientists," will presumably
not be joining the party.)

Once a week, when the Senate is in session, Mr. Whitehouse gets up and makes a
speech about rising sea levels or disappearing lakes or dwindling glaciers. He's
kind of the congressional climate-change guy. He's also looking for bipartisan
love and feeling lonely.

"I've got exactly no Republican colleagues helping me out with this," he said.

There was a time, children, when the parties worked together on climate-change
issues. No more. Only 3 percent of current Republican members of Congress have
been willing to go on record as accepting the fact that people are causing
global warming. That, at least, was the calculation by PolitiFact, which found a
grand total of eight Republican nondeniers in the House and Senate. That
includes Rep. Michael Grimm of New York, who while laudably open-minded on this
subject is also under indictment for perjury and tax fraud. So we may be pushing
2 percent in January.

This is sort of stunning. We're only looking for a simple acknowledgment of
basic facts. We'll give a pass to folks who say they accept the connection
between human behavior and climate change but don't want to do anything about
it.

Or that China should do something first.

Or: "Who cares? I'm from Detroit!"

In Congress, Republican environmentalists appear to be terrified of what should
be the most basic environmental issue possible. Mr. Whitehouse blames the
Supreme Court's decisions on campaign finance, which gave the energy barons
carte blanche when it comes to spending on election campaigns. It's certainly
true that there's no way to tick off megadonors like the fabled Koch brothers
faster than to suggest the globe is warming.

"At the moment, there's a dogma in the Republican Party about what you can say,"
Tom Steyer told me. He's the billionaire who formed a "super PAC" to support
candidates who believe we need to do something major about climate change.

Mr. Steyer has committed to spending about $100 million this year on ads and
organizing in seven states. Many in the campaign-finance-reform community think
that this is a terrible idea, and that you do not combat the power of right-wing
oligarchs to influence U.S. elections by doing the same thing on the left. They
have a point. But think of the penguins.

Florida's Republican governor, Rick Scott, who's running for re-election, has
been asked many times whether he believes in man-made climate change. Lately, he
responds: "I'm not a scientist." Mr. Scott is also not a doctor, engineer,
computer programmer, personal trainer or a bus driver. Really, it's amazing he
even has the confidence to walk into the office in the morning.

The governor did visit last month with some climate scientists. He began the
meeting by making it clear that he did not intend to go anywhere near the word
"causes." After the group had pulled out their maps and projections - including
the one that shows much of Miami-Dade County underwater by 2048 - Mr. Scott
asked them questions. Which were, according to The Miami Herald, "to explain
their backgrounds, describe the courses they taught and where students in their
academic fields get jobs."

If they're lucky, the students will wind up someplace where there's no seawater
in the garage.

Gail Collins is a syndicated columnist for The New York Times.

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2014 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              29 of 454 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                           January 23, 2014 Thursday
                                 SOONER EDITION

EUROPE WOULD EASE CLIMATE RULES;
ECONOMIC REALITIES FORCE EU TO ALTER GOALS FOR MEMBERS

BYLINE: Stephen Castle, The New York Times

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. A-1

LENGTH: 803 words


LONDON -- For years, Europe has tried to set the global standard for
climate-change regulation, creating tough rules on emissions, mandating more use
of renewable energy sources and arguably sacrificing some economic growth in the
name of saving the planet.

But now, even Europe seems to be hitting its environmentalist limits.

High energy costs, declining industrial competitiveness and a recognition that
the economy is unlikely to rebound strongly anytime soon are leading
policymakers to begin easing up in their drive for more aggressive climate
regulation.

On Wednesday, the European Union proposed an end to binding national targets for
renewable energy production after 2020. Instead, it substituted an overall
European goal likely to be much harder to enforce.

It also decided against proposing laws on environmental damage and safety during
the extraction of shale gas by a controversial drilling process known as
fracking. It opted instead for a series of minimum principles it said it would
monitor.

Europe pressed ahead on other fronts, aiming for a cut of 40 percent in Europe's
carbon emissions by 2030, double the current target of 20 percent by 2020.
Officials said the new proposals were not evidence of diminished commitment to
environmental discipline, but instead reflected the complicated reality of
bringing together the 28 EU nations behind a single policy.

"It will require a lot from Europe," said Connie Hedegaard, European
commissioner for climate action. "If all other big economies followed our
example, the world would be a better place."

But the proposals were seen by environmental groups as a substantial backtrack
and as evidence that economic factors were starting to influence the climate
debate in ways they previously had not in Europe.

Friends of the Earth, an environmental group, described the proposals as
"totally inadequate" and "off the radar of what climate science tells us to do
in Europe to avoid climate catastrophe."

Wednesday's proposals came from the European Commission, the Brussels-based
executive arm of the 28-nation bloc, and would next require approval by the
group's member states and the European Parliament.

The energy and climate debate, which is playing out across Europe, reflects
similar trade-offs being made around the world on mending economic problems
today or addressing the environmental problems of tomorrow. The political and
policy response to climate change has failed to keep pace with increasingly dire
warnings from scientists about the cascading effects of increasing
concentrations of carbon dioxide and other global warming pollutants in the
atmosphere.

What progress has been made has come largely from cost efficiencies adopted by
businesses and consumers, primarily for financial reasons -- the switch from
coal to cheaper natural gas for electricity generation in the United States, for
example, and the cumulative effect of years of increasing efficiency in
buildings, vehicles, appliances and manufacturing around the globe.

In Britain, despite public protests, the government is pressing ahead on
proposals for fracking, which has helped the United States drive down its energy
costs. Germany's plans to shift away from nuclear power by 2022 and to encourage
development of alternative sources are running into complications including
higher energy costs for industry and consumers.

European Commission president Jose Manuel Barroso defended the new proposals as
a hard-fought compromise and proof that it "is possible to make a marriage
between industry and climate action." He said the measures showed that Europe
was still playing a global leadership role in reducing carbon emissions.

That drew a tart response from Friends of the Earth, which accused the
commission of putting the immediate interests of industry ahead of Europe's
broader welfare.

"Barroso and his commissioners seem to have fallen for the old-think industry
spin that there must be a trade-off between climate action and economic
recovery," Brook Riley, the group's climate and energy campaigner, said in a
statement. "This position completely ignores the huge financial cost of dealing
with the impacts of climate change and the 500 billion euros the EU is spending
every year on oil and gas imports."

The British government, a frequent critic of what it sees as moves by the EU
that inhibit economic performance, welcomed the proposals. It singled out for
praise the scrapping of national targets for renewable energy in favor of an
overall goal of producing 27 percent of Europe's energy from renewables by 2030,
an approach that will leave countries battling among themselves over who should
do more.

Before Wednesday's announcement, business groups had lobbied hard against more
stringent targets that they worried could endanger Europe's still feeble
economic recovery.

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2014 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              31 of 454 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                              June 6, 2014 Friday
                                 SOONER EDITION

POLLS FIND SUPPORT FOR REGULATIONS ON EMISSIONS

BYLINE: Don Hopey, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: STATE; Pg. B-1

LENGTH: 593 words


Voters in the swing states of Pennsylvania and Virginia have shifted strongly in
support of federal regulations that limit power plant emissions contributing to
climate change, according to polls released Thursday by the League of
Conservation Voters.

The polls found that 72 percent of Pennsylvania voters and 67 percent of
Virginia voters favor the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency's proposed limits
on greenhouse gas emissions from coal-fired power plants.

Similar majorities in both states recognize climate change as a serious problem,
favor elected officials and candidates who support action to address it, and
believe such action will create rather than cost jobs.

"We are at a new political moment on climate change," said Bill Burton, senior
adviser at the League of Conservation Voters, a Washington, D.C., environmental
policy and advocacy organization. "The polls show that not only is the
Republican leadership wrong on policy, it's wrong on politics."

The poll results are similar to national polling results released Tuesday by
Washington Post-ABC News that show broad support for the EPA taking action, even
if that action causes higher electricity rates. Support for the EPA proposal
limiting greenhouse gases was strong in coal-producing states, even if those
states must make bigger reductions than other states.

"This looks like it will be a significant problem going forward in the 2014 and
2016 elections for the Republicans that deny climate change and don't favor
action," said Geoff Garin, president of Hart Research Associates, which
conducted the polls for the league. "Among key groups and demographics, the
support for action to do something about climate change is very deep."

The Pennsylvania poll findings included:

* Twenty-three percent of those polled oppose the EPA carbon pollution rules,
while there is strong consensus in favor in the Philadelphia area (76 percent)
and the Pittsburgh area (69 percent). In the coal-producing areas of Western
Pennsylvania, excluding Allegheny County, 63 percent of those polled favored the
EPA rules.

* Women (76 percent) and Pennsylvanians 18 to 36 years old (79 percent) are
especially high in their support of the rules, as are Democrats (86 percent) and
independent voters (69 percent) and voters over 65 years old (69 percent).

* Republicans support the EPA rules, too, but by a narrower margin (58 percent
vs. 37 percent).

Mr. Garin said a poll question showed 61 percent of voters wanted their senators
to support the EPA rules, with 27 percent favoring opposition.

"We are seeing clearly that for voters, it's a net plus for officials or
candidates who believe climate change is a significant threat and we should do
something about it," Mr. Garin said. "And it's a problem for those who say it's
not real or that don't want to do anything about it." Elizabeth Anderson, a
spokeswoman for Sen. Pat Toomey, R-Pa., declined to comment on the poll results.
She instead cited the senator's comments about the federal power plant controls
earlier this week, in which he accused the Obama administration of a "War on
Coal" and continuing policies that drive up energy costs.

Mr. Toomey, unlike some Republican conservatives, has acknowledged that the
climate is changing, but not that the change is a product of human activity. He
has voted to bar the EPA from regulating greenhouse gases as it did this week.

Sampling of 600 voters in each state by Hart Research Associates was done by
phone between May 27 and Sunday. The margin of sampling error for the state
polls is plus or minus 4 percent.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Don Hopey: dhopey@post-gazette.com or 412-263-1983. /

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2014 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              49 of 454 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            November 9, 2014 Sunday
                                TWO STAR EDITION

AS THE WORLD TURNS;
LOCAL SCIENCE FACILITIES LAG ON CLIMATE CHANGE FACTS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. D-2

LENGTH: 361 words


The latest report by the U.N. Intergovernmental Report on Climate Change used
language that was said to be the starkest ever. The panel warned with new
urgency that continued emissions of greenhouse gases threaten severe
consequences for the planet, affecting people and the ecosystems that sustain
them.

"Without additional mitigation efforts beyond those in place today, and even
with adaptation, warming by the end of the 21st century will lead to high to
very high risk of severe, widespread and irreversible impacts globally," the
report said.

Yet these dire predictions appear to have changed few minds. To climate change
deniers, the doomsday-like warnings are an increasingly shrill expression of
desperation by a science community that can't make its case. Indeed, in the same
week as the report, American voters rallied to the Republican Party, home to
many who dismiss the large scientific consensus as a political creation.

In truth, the threat of climate change has too few believers, even if the world
scientific community is in general agreement. And if ever there was proof that a
prophet is not without honor except in his own town, it was the Sunday story by
the Post-Gazette's Chris Potter on the state of climate change exhibits in local
science-education facilities.

The Carnegie Science Center makes no mention of it in its displays. The Carnegie
Museum of Natural History has failed to update its 1983 "Polar World" exhibit
with news of ice melting in polar seas. Phipps Conservatory and Botanical
Gardens does not specifically mention climate change, although it does deal with
sustainability issues. Honorable exceptions to such omissions are the Pittsburgh
Zoo & PPG Aquarium and the National Aviary, which do address the issue.

As the Post-Gazette found, it's not as if scientists at these institutions
question mankind's role in global warming - they don't. They just haven't done
enough to highlight the issue - for whatever reason, including a need to please
local audiences and some of their sponsors.

Climate change is a global problem, but the global scientific consensus on this
issue could do with some local help. Education starts at home.

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2014 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              53 of 454 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                              June 3, 2014 Tuesday
                              Correction Appended
                                 SOONER EDITION

FEDERAL CONTROLS TARGET GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS

BYLINE: Don Hopey, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. A-1

LENGTH: 1273 words


The Obama administration's announcement of first-ever federal controls on
greenhouse gas emissions from coal-fired power plants elicited expected
opposition Monday from many in the coal and electric power industries and from
state Republican leadership.

Widespread support was voiced by environmental and public health organizations,
though some said the administration's attempt to balance political reality
against the science of climate change did not go far enough.

The rules released Monday would cut carbon emissions from power plants -- the
single largest source of carbon pollution that contributes to climate change --
by 30 percent from 2005 levels. They also would cut airborne particle emissions
by more than 25 percent, according to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency,
while providing up to $93 billion in climate and public health benefits.

Those health benefits in 2030 include avoidance of an estimated 6,600 premature
deaths, 150,000 childhood asthma attacks, and 490,000 missed days of work or
school.

The EPA said the rules also would shrink electricity bills by approximately 8
percent, by reducing demand and increasing efficiency.

Making the announcement in Washington, D.C., EPA administrator Gina McCarthy
said climate change "supercharges risks to our health, our economy, and our way
of life," and the administration's Clean Power Plan addresses those risks with
flexibility that will "sharpen America's competitive edge, spur innovation, and
create jobs."

She said the new rules take a first significant step toward reducing emissions
of climate-changing greenhouse gases from the nation's largest sources and will
complement health-based limits already in place on pollutants such as mercury,
sulfur and arsenic.

"For the sake of our families' health and our kids' future, we have a moral
obligation to act on climate," she said. "The science is clear. The risks are
clear. And the high costs of climate inaction keep piling up."

The EPA will accept comment on the proposed rules for 120 days, following
publication in the Federal Register, and will hold four public hearings during
the week of July 28 in Pittsburgh, Denver, Atlanta and Washington, D.C. The
rules will not be finalized until next year and expected legal challenges from
the electric power, coal industry and even some states could delay
implementation for years.

The EPA's 645-page proposal requires a 32 percent reduction of carbon pollution
from Pennsylvania power plants by 2030 from 2012 levels.

Pennsylvania power plants put out 48 percent of the state's carbon pollution,
according to the EPA. "Power plants account for 40 percent of the carbon
pollution in the U.S. and many of those power plants are in Pennsylvania and
neighboring states, fouling our air and damaging public health," said Cindy
Dunn, president and chief executive officer of PennFuture, a statewide
environmental organization. "The fossil fuel industry's chokehold on power
generation in the U.S. has us choking on bad air."

Sen. Bob Casey, D-Pa., emphasized the importance of clean air quality as well as
the state's continuing efforts toward carbon reduction and a healthier
environment. "We have an obligation to minimize the impacts of climate change
while moving towards energy independence and creating jobs across the
Commonwealth," Mr. Casey said. "No one understands better than Pennsylvanians
what can happen if we don't take appropriate steps to protect our air and
water."

Gov. Tom Corbett said the state is reviewing the EPA's proposal, but expressed
concern that it could result in the shut down of "hundreds of coal-fired power
plants across the country" and the loss of thousands of jobs.

"In Pennsylvania, nearly 63,000 men and women, including 8,100 miners, work in
jobs supported by the coal industry," Mr. Corbett said in a written statement.
"Anything that seeks to or has the effect of shutting down coal-fired power
plants is an assault on Pennsylvania jobs, consumers, and those citizens who
rely upon affordable, abundant domestic energy."

Jacob Smeltz, president of the Electric Power Generation Association, a
Harrisburg trade group, said he has "hope that Pennsylvania will be able to
navigate a path forward."

"We had specifically asked the EPA to create a program that would give maximum
flexibility to allow the states to be in the driver's seat in creating
compliance strategies," Mr. Smeltz said. "I think some of those concerns have
been reflected in the rule. ... I'm cautiously optimistic."

But, contrary to the EPA projections, he predicted electric power prices will
rise. The National Mining Association issued a statement saying the proposal is
unrealistic for industry and puts the electric power supply at risk.

"EPA's previous power plant rules have pushed our nation's electric grid close
to the edge of breaking, as we saw this past winter, and this new rule could
finally break it. This is a major gamble that America cannot afford to make,"
said Hal Quinn, NMA president and chief executive officer.

And Sen. Pat Toomey, R-Pa., condemned the EPA proposal as costly and attributing
the new rules to the administration's "war on coal."

But studies cited by the Resources for the Future, a nonprofit environment
research organization, found that EPA's likely approaches for regulating carbon
emissions "will result in minimal price increases for consumers."

And Steven Nadel, executive director of the American Council for an
Energy-Efficient Economy, said the EPA, by including energy efficiency in its
proposal, has "created a path for states to lower consumer energy bills through
modest investments." According to EPA estimates, Pennsylvania's energy demand
savings could be as much as 4.6 percent in 2020, 9.4 percent in 2025 and 12
percent by 2030.

S. William Becker, executive director of the National Association of Clean Air
Agencies whose members will develop control plans to meet the greenhouse gas
targets, said the proposal "provides states and localities with an ability to
tailor their programs to the unique characteristics of their individual
economies" and gives them credit for past actions to reduce emissions.

Harold P. Wimmer, American Lung Association president and chief executive
officer, said the rules will prevent up to 4,000 premature deaths and 100,000
asthma attacks in the first year they are in place.

"Cleaning up carbon pollution will have an immediate, positive impact on public
health; particularly for those who suffer from chronic diseases like asthma,
heart disease or diabetes," he said. First Energy spokeswoman Stephanie Walton
said the Akron, Ohio-based company believes it's in a "strong position" to meet
the proposed federal requirements.

"We expect that our CO2 reductions will be 25 percent below 2005 levels by
2015," Ms. Walton said, adding that the regulations "use an appropriate baseline
year of 2005 and gives an adequate compliance timeline."

Robert Weissman, president of Public Citizen, a 300,000-member public interest
nonprofit, noted that the U.S. energy sector has already made significant carbon
emissions reductions, from 2,417 million metric tons in 2005 to 2,053 in 2013,
without the "apocalyptic effects" predicted by industries. That also shows how
modest the emissions reduction goals are, he said.

"If our policy debates were guided by science and evidence, rather than 'Big
Money' and partisan positioning," he said, "the noisy criticism of the EPA rule
would come not from those bemoaning a tyrannical mandate, but those demanding
much more aggressive action."

Additional information on the EPA Clean Power Plan can be found at
http://www2.epa.gov/carbon-pollution-standards.

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Don Hopey: dhopey@post-gazette.com or 412-263-1983. / Stephanie
Ritenbaugh and Yanan Wang contributed. /

CORRECTION-DATE: June 4, 2014



CORRECTION:  Proposed federal controls on greenhouse gas emissions from power
plants mostly would affect the coal industry. A headline on a story Tuesday
about the controls incorrectly said the gas industry would mount opposition to
the proposal.

GRAPHIC: CHART: U.S. Environmental Protection Agency; Post-Gazette: EPA emission
retention goals

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2014 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              57 of 454 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            January 13, 2014 Monday
                                 SOONER EDITION

DON'T BUY INTO CLIMATE CHANGE CONFUSION

BYLINE: TIM KELLY

SECTION: EDITORIAL; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR; Pg. B-6

LENGTH: 245 words


Robert Brulle, an environmental sociologist at Drexel University, recently
published a paper disclosing the existence of a well-funded climate change
counter-movement in the United States, whose sole mission is to confuse the
public on the reality of climate change, and thus slow or stop action to address
carbon emissions.

Remember the horrible drought of 2012, when the U.S. corn crop was decimated?
More than 27,000 high temperature records were either broken or matched by
August of that year.

Incidentally, there is evidence that shows that the recent cold snaps may be
attributable to changes in the path of the jet stream, caused by global
warming-driven loss of Arctic sea ice. Let's be clear here: Climate change and
its lesser-known twin, ocean acidification, are real and ongoing threats to our
security (particularly food security) and need to be addressed aggressively.

However, conservative foundations, including the Pittsburgh-based Scaife
Affiliated Foundations, and the fossil fuel industry, have been funding authors
and think tanks that put out propaganda that serves only to confuse the public.

Environmental security is a fundamental right. Apparently, the need of those who
fund these efforts to die wealthy trumps our (and our children's) need for a
reasonable future. If you doubt the existence of climate change (ocean
acidification is proven and irrefutable), it may well be someone paid for you to
do so. It should not be tolerated.

TIM KELLY

Aleppo

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2014 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              61 of 454 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                             May 29, 2014 Thursday
                            PITTSBURGH PRESS EDITION

THE FACTS DON'T ADD UP FOR HUMAN-CAUSED GLOBAL WARMING

BYLINE: JACK KELLY

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A-8

LENGTH: 708 words


The first five months of 2014 have been the coldest since the National Weather
Service began keeping records in 1888. If "climate change" alarmists got out
more, they might have noticed.

Between 1979 - when weather satellites started measuring temperatures in the
lower troposphere - and 1997, they rose about 1.1 degrees Celsius (1.98 degrees
Fahrenheit).

Temperatures stopped rising then, have fallen since 2012. The "pause" in warming
(212 months) is now longer than the warming trend was (211 months).

The earth has warmed about 16 degrees F since the last ice age. The net increase
since 1979 - 0.19 degrees C (0.34 F) - is well within the range of natural
fluctuation.

So why, as President Barack Obama says so often, do 97 percent of scientists
agree climate change is "real, man-made, and dangerous?"

They don't. This bogus stat is derived from two questions University of Illinois
researchers asked in a survey of earth scientists in 2008:

1. "When compared with pre-1800s levels, do you think that mean global
temperatures have generally risen, fallen, or remained relatively constant?"

2. "Do you think human activity is a significant contributing factor in changing
mean global temperatures?"

The researchers culled from 3,146 responses those of 79 climate scientists who'd
been published in peer reviewed journals. Seventy-six answered "risen" to the
first question; 75 "yes" to the second.

Temperatures have risen since the Little Ice Age ended around 1870, skeptics
agree. Most think the activities of humans have some effect on them.

The key question is whether that effect is big enough to do harm, but that's not
what the scientists were asked.

John Cook, climate communication fellow (a publicist, not a climate scientist)
at the University of Queensland in Australia and eight colleagues examined
abstracts of 11,944 articles on climate published between 1991 and 2011.

"Among abstracts expressing a position . . . 97.1 percent endorsed the consensus
position that humans are causing global warming," they concluded in a paper last
May.

Which is as meaningless as the "consensus" in the two-question survey, for the
same reason.

Skeptics agree humans cause some warming. Mr. Cook et. al. included papers by
prominent skeptics Willie Soon, Craig Idso, Nocola Scafetta, Nir Shaviv,
Nils-Axel Morner and Alan Carlin in their 97.1 percent "consensus."

Only 41 papers (0.3 percent) explicitly state support for Mr. Cook's assertion
that humans have caused most of the warming since 1950, former Delaware state
climatologist David Legates and three colleagues found in a peer reviewed study
last September.

"It is astonishing that any journal could have published a paper claiming a 9
percent climate consensus when on the authors' own analysis the true consensus
was well below 1 percent," Mr. Legates said.

Carbon dioxide in the atmosphere has increased from about 285 parts per million
250 years ago to about 380 ppm today. CO2 is a "greenhouse" gas -- it holds heat
in the atmosphere -- so if humans are generating more, it should have a warming
effect.

But probably not much of one. Greenhouse gases comprise less than 1 percent of
the earth's atmosphere; carbon dioxide is less than 4 percent of greenhouse
gases; 96 percent of CO2 in the atmosphere was put there by Mother Nature.

Compared to variations in solar radiation and other natural forces, the effect
of greenhouse gases on climate is trivial.

"There is no convincing scientific evidence that human release of carbon
dioxide, methane, or other greenhouse gases is causing or will, in the
foreseeable future, cause catastrophic heating of the Earth's atmosphere and
disruption of the Earth's climate," says a petition signed by more than 31,000
American scientists in climate-related disciplines.

That's rather more than 79 or 41. There is no scientific consensus on
human-caused global warming, and there shouldn't be.

"If it's science, it isn't consensus," said Mr. Soon, a solar expert at the
Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics. "If it's consensus, it isn't
science."

Scientists search for truth by observation and experimentation, not by taking
polls. Consensus is a political concept.

The skeptics are true to the scientific method. The abusers of science are those
who politicize it.

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Jack Kelly writes for The Blade of Toledo and The Pittsburgh Press. He
can be reached at jkelly@post-gazette.com /

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2014 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              65 of 454 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                              July 6, 2014 Sunday
                                TWO STAR EDITION

MOVEMENT TARGETS FOSSIL FUEL DIVESTITURE;
RELIGIOUS AND LIBERAL GROUPS SEE ENVIRONMENT AS A 'MORAL ISSUE'

BYLINE: Peter Smith, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. A-1

LENGTH: 1273 words


When she learned of an international campaign to divest from the fossil fuel
industry, Wanda Guthrie didn't wait long to join in.

As environmental justice committee chair of the Thomas Merton Center -- a
faith-based social activist group in Bloomfield -- she has been urging religious
and other groups to use their investment decisions to promote a halt in the
burning of carbon-emitting fossil fuels.

"I'?ve been pushing it everywhere," said Ms. Guthrie. The aim is "to let fossil
fuel companies know that this is a moral question," she said.

And she'?s worried about the cataclysmic effects of global warming: "I have
grandchildren and they're going to have children."

A small but growing number of liberal religious groups and other groups are
heeding such calls. They'?ve been voting to shed their investments in the fossil
fuel industry -- an effort they acknowledge that can have only token financial
impact on a vast industry, but one they say makes a symbolic statement linking
carbon emissions to the threat of climate change.

Like many social movements from gay marriage to the anti-apartheid campaign, the
effort is seeing its first successes on the left flank of the religious
landscape and slowly gaining the notice of more established groups.

The United Church of Christ last year became the first national denomination to
take such a stand. In recent weeks, momentum has built.

The Unitarian Universalist Association'?s national General Assembly voted June
29 to divest over five years from any holdings in 200 fossil fuel companies
included on climate activists'? Carbon Tracker list, with the option of keeping
small amounts of holdings so it could do shareholder resolutions and other
activism.

Mark Tomlinson, who was a delegate to that assembly representing Allegheny
Unitarian Universalist Church on the North Side, said advocates on both sides
made strong arguments, but he supported divesting as in harmony with one of the
denomination'?s core values -- "respect for the interdependent web of all
existence."

"Taking this step is one thing, but all of us have our own lives lead, and all
of us need to figure out how we figure into that puzzle" of responding to
climate change, whether it'?s to "change our lifestyle, change our consumer
choices, put pressure on our government."

Also in June, the University of Dayton in Ohio, affiliated with the Marianist
religious order, became the first Roman Catholic university to vote to divest.
So did Union Theological Seminary, a historic beacon of Protestant liberalism in
New York. Various regional Quaker, Episcopal and United Church of Christ groups
have taken similar steps.

Several American cities and college towns have voted to divest. An online
petition with nearly 200 signatures is asking Pittsburgh to do so. Mayor
Elizabeth Goreham of State College, Pa., neighbor of Penn State University, has
also endorsed the effort.

But the General Assembly of the Presbyterian Church (U.S.A.) last month voted
down a proposal for divestment. Instead, it assigned staff to begin discussions
on climate issues with fossil-fuel corporations in which it owns shares.

For Ms. Guthrie, an Episcopalian, the effort is a spiritual issue. "For a long
time, we'?ve considered ourselves just stewards of creation, instead of part of
creation," she said.

The divestment effort clashes with the current natural-gas drilling boom in the
Marcellus and Utica shales, not to mention the Tri-State Region's longstanding
ties to the coal industry.

Travis Windle, spokesman for the Marcellus Shale Coalition, said the goals of
carbon reduction are being met by the regional boom in extracting natural gas,
which burns cleaner than coal or gas.

"Despite what some activists suggest, air quality is sharply improving as more
clean-burning American natural gas is safely produced and increasingly used to
power our economy, grow local jobs and heat our homes, especially for those on
fixed incomes," he said in a statement.

He also cited recent Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection figures
showing that pollutants emitted by the natural gas industry stayed relatively
flat despite an increase in activity.

Messages left with the Pennsylvania Coal Alliance, which represents the
industry, were not immediately returned last week.

Divestment -- even if it amounted to millions of dollars in shares held by
religious groups'? pensions, foundations and other sources --would hardly
register on the bottom line of an industry in which just one corporation, Exxon
Mobil, has a market capitalization approaching a half-trillion dollars.

And renewables account only for about one tenth of U.S. energy usage, according
to the U.S. Energy Information Administration, far below the capacity to handle
a rapid switch from fossil fuels.

"Electric utilities have long been diversifying their sources of fuels from
coal," said a recent report issued by Cambridge Associates, an international
investment-services firm. "However, projections for significant increases in
renewables' share of the larger energy consumption pie span decades in the
future."

Divestment proponents, the report noted, aren't aiming for financial impact so
much as public opinion so that companies "will lose their social license" to
continue extracting fossil fuels.

Area religious groups, meanwhile, have been taking on fossil fuels in other
ways. The Sisters of the Humility of Mary, based in Lawrence County, has refused
multiple, lucrative offers to sell natural gas rights involving its 761-acre
property near the Ohio line.

"It's a political and a financial and a spiritual" issue, said Sister Barbara
O'Donnell. "We are one species here [and need to] cooperate with nature, not
dominate it."

Last year, two Catholic religious communities in Kentucky refused overtures from
developers of a since-canceled plan to build a pipeline sending natural gas
liquids from the Marcellus and Utica shale plays to the Gulf Coast for
processing. In the wake of that controversy, leaders of numerous religious
organizations -- including the Sisters of the Humility of Mary as well as the
Sisters of Charity of Nazareth, which is active in Pittsburgh -- signed a
statement of environmental ethics that included a pledge to consider divestment
and shareholder actions targeting fossil fuels.

On Thursday, the Earth Quaker Action Team -- an environmental group that joined
a larger group of Quakers at a national conference at California University of
Pennsylvania last week -- traveled to Pittsburgh to protest PNC'?s continued
financing of the environmentally disruptive coal-mining technique of mountaintop
removal.

Georgetown University history professor Michael Kazin, who studies social
change, said that divestment movements alone have rarely influenced policy. Even
the best-known example -- targeting apartheid-era South Africa -- succeeded only
by dovetailing with a broad range of boycotts and other political pressure
movements, he said.

But the fossil-fuel campaign could succeed in concert with other actions such as
the Obama administration'?s recent release of regulations to reduce carbon
emissions.

"It's symbolic, it's about public relations, it's about presenting the image of
a cause which is gaining support from people who are articulate and have the
ability to put pressure on officials," he said.

A Franklin & Marshall College Poll in January 2014 found Pennsylvanians about
evenly divided on the question of whether the environmental costs of natural-gas
drilling outweigh the economic benefits.

The survey didn'?t specify whether the environmental impacts referred to local
side-effects of drilling, global warming or other factors.

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Peter Smith: psmith@post-gazette.com /

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2014 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              82 of 454 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            February 28, 2014 Friday
                                 SOONER EDITION

CONSERVATIVES MUST HELP DRIVE THE SOLUTION FOR CLIMATE CONCERNS

BYLINE: PRICE ATKINSON

SECTION: EDITORIAL; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR; Pg. B-6

LENGTH: 274 words


I read Reg Henry's column regarding global climate change and basic science
denial from my fellow conservatives ("Climate Change Deniers Come With a Cost,"
Feb. 19). It's clear that the increased burning of fossil fuels around the globe
is in fact causing overall rising temperatures. And we need a solution.

A revenue-neutral carbon tax is a conservative, free-market approach where every
dollar raised through a new tax on emissions would be 100 percent returned to
taxpayers and bring Republicans to the table. Anything else is a nonstarter for
conservatives and an exercise in futility to solve this national, bipartisan
issue.

Pricing emissions is about fixing market distortions that currently exist
through clumsy government regulations, fickle tax incentives, direct subsidies
and the non-recognition of negative externalities. A "tax swap" - off of income
and on to emissions - is a pro-growth policy that empowers American free
enterprise, instead of government mandates and incentives, to reduce climate
risks and deliver a brighter energy future. And as citizens who believe in free
enterprise and liberty, we hope the future is shaped through elegant price
signals rather than the stultifying regulations of the left such as regulating
climate through the Environmental Protection Agency.

The environmental left has dominated the whole discussion about climate policy.
As conservatives, we can continue to hide in the stands, or we can put forth our
free enterprise, market-based solution and compete. I say we compete.

PRICE ATKINSON

Director of Communications & Development

Energy & Enterprise Initiative

George Mason University

Fairfax, Va.

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Tim Brinton:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2014 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              87 of 454 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                           December 18, 2014 Thursday
                                 SOONER EDITION

PROGRESS IN LIMA;
MANY NATIONS NOW WANT TO CURB GREENHOUSE GASES

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. B-6

LENGTH: 328 words


The outcome of the 196-nation, United Nations climate change conference in Lima,
Peru, was positive, but it revealed the barriers to addressing this crucial
global problem.

Representatives met for two weeks, to lay more of the groundwork for the next
climate summit, set for Paris next December.

The good news was that every nation left Lima pledging to cut greenhouse gas
emissions. The bad news was that the promised reductions, even if fulfilled,
still will not be enough to prevent serious damage to the environment.

Some significant progress involved China, which over the years has portrayed
itself as a developing country to avoid having to restrain its economic growth
yet, in the meantime, has become probably the world's largest economy. This
change in status may have caused it to become less reluctant to accept its
responsibilities for climate change, a critical shift because it is the world's
largest greenhouse gas polluter.

At the same time, various developing nations continue to insist that the
developed nations are obliged to aid them in adapting their economies to reduce
greenhouse gases. This is an argument that evokes little sympathy from the
developed world, including the United States. The developing countries' argument
is that the modern industrial countries have polluted the atmosphere to become
developed and that they, therefore, should be more on the hook to fix the
problem worldwide.

The position of some developing countries, including those that face harm if
meaningful steps are not taken, is difficult to understand, because it is the
developed nations that will have to make the most drastic changes in their
economies. Then there is the position of India, which says that as a developing
nation it will continue with relatively untrammeled growth, no matter what - a
reckless position that the United States and others must discuss with the
Indians.

In short, the Lima summit made progress, but the road ahead is still long and
hot.

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2014 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              93 of 454 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            December 2, 2014 Tuesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

FOR LIBERALS, IT'S A KEYSTONE COP-OUT

BYLINE: Charles Lane

SECTION: BUSINESS; POWERSOURCE VOICE: CHARLES LANE; Pg. D-3

LENGTH: 836 words


Building the Keystone XL pipeline, to speed the flow of crude from Canada's oil
sands to refineries in Texas, would be "game over for the climate," says
NASA-scientist-turned-climate-activist James Hansen. Heeding Mr. Hansen's words,
environmentalists have sworn to stop the project, which requires U.S. government
approval.

Yet large, bipartisan majorities of the House and Senate support Keystone XL, as
does 60 percent of the American public, according to the latest USA Today poll.

Today, it is still on hold, because 41 Senate Democrats voted last week against
ending debate on a bill to green-light Keystone XL, thus thwarting what might
have been a disastrous exercise of democracy.

In short, the filibuster may have just saved the planet, at least for now.

Or so it must be believed by Keystone XL's opponents - even though they include
some of the same people who decried the filibuster, not unreasonably, as an
obstructionist, anti-majoritarian evil when Republicans employed it against
President Obama's health-care reform, cap-and-trade and other progressive
legislation.

Majority rule is not the only progressive principle some progressives seem ready
to sacrifice on the anti-Keystone altar.

Remember the corrupting influence of money on politics? Billionaire Tom Steyer
has spent millions on TV ads backing environmentalist Democrats and trashing the
pipeline itself, thus purchasing outsize influence in the White House and the
Democratic Party.

"On issues as critical as climate change, we will take action and work within
the system that we've got until we can change it," Mr. Steyer pragmatically told
Forbes magazine.

Most of the time, liberals tout the job-creating potential of critical
infrastructure projects, based on the indirect "multiplier effect" that even
short-term construction can have on economic growth.

For Keystone XL, though, different rules apply. We are instructed, by Daniel
Weiss of the Center for American Progress, among others, that the $8 billion
project will create "only" 3,900 "direct" one-year construction jobs and a mere
50 permanent ones. Forget the 42,000 jobs that a State Department analysis said
would be "supported" by the project.

Construction unions understand that employment in their field is inherently
temporary in the sense that it ends when the building is built. They strongly
favor Keystone XL. Yet this reliably Democratic middle-class constituency is
also being thrown under the anti-Keystone bus.

The least attractive violation of progressive values by Keystone XL opponents
was their attempt to recast this joint project of Canada and the United States
in xenophobic terms.

One ad financed by Mr. Steyer warned that China is "counting on the U.S. to
approve TransCanada's pipeline to ship oil through America's heartland and out
to foreign countries like theirs."

The only basis for this claim was that state-owned Chinese companies have a
modest investment in Canada's oil sands. The Post's fact checker, Glenn Kessler,
awarded the ad four Pinocchios, noting that "it relies on speculation, not
facts, to make insinuations and assertions not justified by the reality."

Speaking of the planet, perhaps the only person on it who still hasn't made up
his mind about Keystone XL is Mr. Obama, though his dithering has recently given
way to expressions depressingly reminiscent of those in Mr. Steyer's ad.

"Understand what this project is," he said at a news conference recently in
Myanmar. "It is providing the ability of Canada to pump their oil, send it
through our land down to the Gulf [Coast], where it will be sold everywhere
else." Their oil. Our land.

Yet his own State Department's exhaustive review of the project found that
re-exports of the oil, as crude or in refined form, were unlikely.

Hypocrisy and rhetorical flimflam are standard in politics, and liberals are not
the only guilty parties in the Keystone XL battle. Keystone XL proponents have
undoubtedly tapped corporate coffers to fund their share of exaggerations about
the project's benefits. And of course climate change is real and must be
addressed.

But in this case progressives are not only being intellectually dishonest and
traducing their values, they're doing so pointlessly: This end doesn't justify
these means.

Far from being "game over" for the planet, Keystone XL would not boost
greenhouse gas emissions significantly, according to State Department experts.
With or without Keystone XL, Canada''s oil sands will still be turned into crude
oil and shipped, often by rail, to markets in the United States and elsewhere.
The environmental movement's energies - not to mention Mr. Steyer's millions -
would be far better spent elsewhere.

In their tendentious effort to deny these realities, progressives risk violating
yet another cherished principle that, in their view, distinguishes them from the
right: that of letting facts and science, not ideology, determine policy.

Campaigning for a symbolic victory over the fossil-fuel industry, they may end
up with a pyrrhic one - if any.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: PowerSource/ Charles Lane is a member of The Washington Post's editorial
board.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2014 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              101 of 454 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                           January 30, 2014 Thursday
                                 SOONER EDITION

'SETTLED' SCIENCE?

BYLINE: ERIC SLAN

SECTION: EDITORIAL; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR; Pg. B-4

LENGTH: 239 words


Regarding Jim LeJeune's letter to the editor "Climate Change Is a Settled,
Scientific Fact" (Jan. 26), I offer him this question, first posed by Galileo
Galilei to the church in 1613: "Who would dare assert that we know all there is
to be known?"

Here's an inconvenient truth for the "settled science" crowd. No science, no
matter how broad, will ever be settled. All scientific theories are provisional.
There are always scientists poking around the edges of the most fundamental
matters of nature, including the ones we teach to students as established fact.

Think of it this way. Almost all reputable scientists make their living
challenging what others have agreed upon.

I've been known to riffle through those scientific journals of which Mr. LeJeune
speaks. And I find articles galore that remind me that we're forever refining
and reforming our models of reality.

To be fair to Mr. LeJeune, I'll stipulate that we can't wait for any science to
be settled before we take action. Otherwise we'd never do a thing. I'm just
saying that the notion of settled science is an expedient political meme, a way
to stifle dissent.

So let the Los Angeles Times censor away by refusing to publish letters from
those who challenge climate change. Leave my hometown paper and its readers free
to debate the issue. Because if the science of climate change is really and
truly settled, why do its proponents keep trolling for research grants?

ERIC SLAN

Moon

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2014 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              108 of 454 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                           December 4, 2014 Thursday
                                 SOONER EDITION

THE RENEWAL OF A WIND TAX CREDIT IS A BAD MOVE

BYLINE: THOMAS PYLE

SECTION: EDITORIAL; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR; Pg. B-6

LENGTH: 285 words


The editorial board recently called on Congress to renew the wind Production Tax
Credit, dubbing the PTC "a no-brainer" that can help curtail the "alarming"
effects of climate change ("Invest in Renewables: Congress Should Revive the
Production Tax Credit," Nov. 18). Unfortunately, reviving the PTC is neither
good policy nor an effective way to reduce carbon dioxide emissions.

First, wind energy is expensive and unreliable. Electricity generated from wind
is 125 percent more expensive than natural gas and 90 percent more expensive
than coal. And it only works when the wind is blowing, which is not necessarily
when energy is needed most.

Moreover, the PTC is a massive wealth transfer from Pennsylvania taxpayers to
out-of-state corporations. In 2012 alone, Pennsylvanians forked over $76 million
more in tax dollars than wind producers in their state received in tax
subsidies. Much of that money went to line the pockets of billionaires like
Warren Buffett, who admits that wind facilities "don't make sense without the
tax credit."

The PTC will also do little to combat climate change. The subsidy is a crucial
"building block" of President Barack Obama's plan to regulate carbon dioxide
from power plants. However, that Environmental Protection Agency rule will
reduce global carbon dioxide emissions by just 1.5 percent by 2050 - an
effectively negligible impact.

The facts are clear: The PTC promotes expensive energy, transfers wealth from
Pennsylvania families to multinational corporations and fails to make a dent in
climate change. Although the renewal of the tax credit has been approved by the
House, the Senate should reject the PTC.

THOMAS PYLE

President

American Energy Alliance

Washington, D.C.

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2014 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              110 of 454 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            March 26, 2014 Wednesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

COAL-USE CONCERNS

BYLINE: CHRIS MULLIN

SECTION: EDITORIAL; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR; Pg. B-6

LENGTH: 306 words


Syd S. Peng misleads readers in his Perspectives commentary championing clean
coal as a viable route for reducing greenhouse gases ("Champion Clean Coal: The
EPA Is Stifling Realistic Climate-Change Policies," March 18). For one thing,
"clean coal" refers to methods of burning that reduce pollutants and
particulates but have nothing to do with reducing carbon dioxide emissions. He
pooh-poohs CO2 sequestration as being nonviable and makes the childish claim
that since everyone else is burning coal, we should, too. He even claims that
burning coal with 50 percent greater efficiency will reduce fuel use by half.
No, it would take a 100 percent increase to reduce usage by half, and if a plant
can get 50 percent more efficiency, it won't take government policies to induce
foreign plants to be built that way. The money they save will be inducement
enough.

No, coal just doesn't have the carbon efficiency to solve our climate problem,
so the best way we can lead the world is to stop using it.

Another opinion piece a couple of weeks ago scorned the Senate climate caucus
for wasting time discussing the problem in an all-night session ("Liberals Put
Out-of-Touchness on Display" by Jennifer Rubin, March 12). Instead, it said
people want more focus on the economy and jobs. Yes, those are more pressing
concerns, but how else should this country join in a discussion of climate
change? It may be a longer-term threat than today's unemployment rate, but it
could be a much more dire one.

If there's just a 10 percent chance that the energy path we are on today will
wreak havoc 100 years from now, don't we owe it to our grandchildren to at least
discuss the problem? I, for one, think we should be acting much more forcefully
than we are now, but I'm appalled that our society seems unable to even
contemplate it.

CHRIS MULLIN

Mt. Lebanon

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2014 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              113 of 454 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                             June 12, 2014 Thursday
                            PITTSBURGH PRESS EDITION

DON'T BUY THE CAMPAIGN AGAINST NEW POLLUTION RULES

BYLINE: FRANCES BEINECKE

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A-8

LENGTH: 734 words


The nation's worst polluters and their allies have launched a propaganda
campaign to convince you that the Environmental Protection Agency's new carbon
pollution standards are nothing more than a backdoor energy tax that will kill
jobs and cost you money.

That campaign is a lie. And what's at stake is too important to let the lie
stand, or even start.

Even before the official EPA announcement, the opposition was lining up with a
range of astonishing falsehoods.

Right now, there are no limits on the amount of carbon pollution that
coal-fueled electric plants can pour into the air. Zero limits on the worst
pollution in America, pollution that increases the risk of asthma, heart disease
and lung cancer. Pollution that is the leading cause of climate change.

For the polluters, the carbon pollution loophole has been one of the most
lucrative giveaways in America. So it's not surprising that the EPA proposal
would start them howling. The thing is, what they're saying isn't true.

Take the radio ads from the National Mining Association claiming that home
electric bills will "nearly double" if "extreme new power plant regulations take
effect."

In fact, the proposal calls for a 30 percent cut in pollution, which would at
most create small, short-term changes in electricity prices of the sort the
power sector already deals with. EPA chief Gina McCarthy compared the potential
increases for families with the price of a gallon of milk a month. And those
costs would be dwarfed by huge benefits in job creation and health savings,
worth more than $90 billion, according to the EPA.

Even before the official EPA announcement, the opposition was lining up with a
range of astonishing falsehoods.

The folks at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce said the plan they hadn't seen yet
could cost $50 billion and kill 224,000 jobs (they have since said they're
re-examining their numbers).

Republican Sen. Michael B. Enzi of Wyoming, the nation's largest coal-producing
state, said Saturday that the Obama administration "set out to kill coal and its
800,000 jobs."

The truth? When these pollution cuts take effect, coal will still provide 31
percent of American electricity, down from 37 percent today - hardly a death
blow.

And those 800,000 jobs?

The National Mining Association itself counts just 90,000 coal miners in the
whole country. Double that for the workers transporting it and working in
coal-fired plants, and the figure is still far short of Mr. Enzi's numbers and
short of the Chamber of Commerce jobs-at-risk numbers.

Most of these coal jobs will remain. Moreover, hundreds of thousands of new
clean energy jobs will be created. Last year alone, investments in clean energy
created more than 78,000 jobs, according to Environmental Entrepreneurs, a
business group.

Among the toothless charges being made, my personal favorite is the claim that
the EPA proposals represent "an illegal use of executive power," as Sen. Rand
Paul, R-Ky., called it.

The facts? The Supreme Court has twice (in 2007 and 2011) ruled that the EPA has
the responsibility under the Clean Air Act to control air pollution that
"endangers public health or welfare," and that this responsibility applies to
carbon pollution and other heat-trapping pollutants.

The new EPA standards are a first step in the work that must be done to slow,
stop and eventually reverse the climate chaos that is contributing to
life-threatening heat waves, dangerous storms, rising seas and more.

The EPA has proposed flexible, state-by-state limits that would enable states to
invest in creative and locally appropriate solutions to curb dangerous pollution
while providing dependable and inexpensive power to their citizens.

California is already proving that an approach like the EPA's can work.

Thanks to the state's climate and clean energy plan, millions of Californians
received a "climate credit" of $30 to $40 on their electricity bills this April
(and residents can expect those credits biannually from here on out).

What's more, California's emissions per capita have dropped 17 percent since
1990.

So when the coal and oil industry titans and their allies try to tell you the
EPA carbon rules will kill jobs or send your electric bills soaring, tell them
you don't buy their lies.

Tell them you want to leave our children and grandchildren a healthy, livable
world, and that you're not willing to give the worst polluters in America a free
pass anymore.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Frances Beinecke is president of the Natural Resources Defense Council.
She wrote this for the Los Angeles Times. /

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2014 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              132 of 454 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                             October 5, 2014 Sunday
                                TWO STAR EDITION

JACK KELLY IS OUT OF TOUCH WITH REALITY ON CLIMATE CHANGE

BYLINE: ROD ELDER, South Park

SECTION: EDITORIAL; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR; Pg. D-2

LENGTH: 198 words


Last Sunday you published a column by Jack Kelly titled "Climate Craziness" in
which he demonstrates his total lack of understanding of the very real problems
associated with global climate change.

He wrote his commentary after the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration recently announced (Sept. 18) that the planet as a whole has just
experienced the warmest summer since record-keeping began in 1880. It is true
that a few areas experienced cooler than normal temperatures (Eastern United
States, central Africa). All of the oceans and most land masses were warmer than
normal. The Earth is heating up and the dangers to all species, including
humans, are very real.

The article is terribly uninformed, and he berates Secretary of State John Kerry
for telling us the truth. That is bad enough, but his insulting characterization
of me and the 400,000 others (including five busloads of Pittsburghers) as "the
motley crew of Marxists ... in New York last Sunday to spread their increasingly
hysterical message" was in such poor taste that it makes me wonder how the
Post-Gazette can continue to publish his "increasingly hysterical" columns that
are so far out of touch with reality.

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2014 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              135 of 454 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                           October 8, 2014 Wednesday
                              Correction Appended
                                 SOONER EDITION

BYLINE: From staff and wire reports

SECTION: BUSINESS; BUSINESS BRIEFS; Pg. C-1

LENGTH: 577 words


Educational app firm acquires Oakland-based tech company

Lightside Labs, an Oakland-based educational technology company founded last
year, has been acquired by Oakland, Calif.-based educational app company
Turnitin. Turnitin, which specializes in automated plagiarism detection in
student papers, will use LightSide's guided writing tool to expand its
offerings. LightSide will expand its current staff of 10 to between 20 and 25 by
the end of the summer. No further details were available.

Industrial nonprofit's center now under CMU purview

Carnegie Mellon University has acquired the Robert Mehrabian Collaborative
Innovation Center from the Regional Industrial Development Corp. RIDC leased the
land for the Innovation Center, a 127,636-square-foot research space, from CMU
in 2003 to develop the property, which was complete in 2005.

McCandless opposes appeal on Wal-Mart Supercenter

McCandless has asked a judge to throw out an appeal of the town council's
approval of a 150,000-square foot Wal-Mart Supercenter on Blazier Drive near
North Park. A citizens group appealed the council's July 28 vote approving plans
for the store in a lawsuit filed in Allegheny County Common Pleas Court. It
accused council members of being "obdurate, vexatious" and acting in bad faith.
The town's lawyers said council members had to approve the plan because it met
all code requirements.

Financial firm ranks Nova's 401(k) plan as best in region

Nova Chemicals offers the best 401(k) plan among the Pittsburgh region's largest
employers, according to BrightScope. The San Diego company evaluated more than
200 features, including company matches, costs and participation rates, for
401(k) plans with more than $100 million in assets. Bayer, Ariba, Allegheny
Technologies and Lanxess rounded out the top five.

Climate index highlights BNY Mellon's efforts

Bank of New York Mellon said it was named to CDP's Climate Disclosure Leadership
Index and its S&P 500 Climate Performance Leadership Index for 2014. The indices
highlight S&P companies that display a strong approach to the disclosure of
information regarding climate change.

Arts contributions generate nearly $1.5M

Nonprofit arts groups in the region received $1.24 million in contributions and
$250,000 in matching funds during the Arts Day of Giving held Thursday. Final
statistics from the event were confirmed Tuesday by the Greater Pittsburgh Arts
Council, which sponsored the event using the Pittsburgh Foundation's website,
PittsburghGives.org. Public radio station 90.5 WESA-FM received the greatest
number of contributions, 396; and the Pittsburgh Symphony generated the largest
dollar amount of donations at $91,755. The Heinz Endowments provided the
matching funds.

Consumer borrowing up $13.5 billion in August

The Federal Reserve said consumer borrowing rose $13.5 billion in August
following a revised $21.6 billion increase in July. The gains have pushed total
consumer debt to a record level of $3.25 trillion.

Job openings rose in August, but hiring fell

Employers advertised the most job openings in nearly 14 years during August, yet
their pace of hiring fell compared to July. The number of available jobs rose
230,000 to 4.84 million during the month, the Labor Department said Tuesday.
Restaurants, hotels and health care providers drove much of the increase, which
resulted in the most openings since January 2001. But total hiring fell 294,000
to 4.64 million, driven by declines in construction and retail.

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: October 9, 2014



CORRECTION:  Nonprofit arts groups in the region received $1.24 million in
contributions and $250,000 in matching funds during the Arts Day of Giving last
week. An incorrect amount appeared in a business brief item Wednesday.

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2014 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              152 of 454 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            October 28, 2014 Tuesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

CLIMATE CHANGE WILL BE COSTLIER THAN EBOLA

BYLINE: ROSEMARY S. PROSTKO, Bethel Park \ \

SECTION: LIFESTYLE; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR; Pg. B-4

LENGTH: 193 words


I was surprised to see a huge article by U.S. Rep. Tim Murphy this close to
Election Day ("Candor Is Missing in Ebola Debate," Oct. 23 Perspectives). Then I
remembered you will not have to give equal time to his opponent as he has no
opponent. Sad to say, approximately three-fourths of those running in Western
Pennsylvania have no opposition.

It is almost as though the two main political parties have colluded to say you
can have that seat and we will take this one. Anyone besides me thinking of
Russia, where there is often one candidate for each office?

But back to Rep. Murphy. The commentary made a lot of sense if you ignored the
political slams. But I started substituting world climate change for Ebola.
Funny, Mr. Murphy does not support the same scientific rigor when it comes to
human involvement in health threats from climate change.

Mr. Murphy's plan will be very expensive, but I agree we have a moral and a real
self-interest in stopping Ebola regardless of the cost. Tim Murphy thinks
cleaning the air and moving from dirty coal to renewables is too expensive. At
this point, which public health hazard kills more people, animals and plants?

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2014 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              154 of 454 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            December 12, 2014 Friday
                                 SOONER EDITION

2 BLASTS KILL AT LEAST 40 IN NIGERIAN CITY

BYLINE: Compiled from news services

SECTION: WORLD; WORLD BRIEFS; Pg. A-7

LENGTH: 688 words


JOS, Nigeria - Two bombs exploded near a bus station in the central Nigerian
city of Jos on Thursday evening, witnesses said, the second one killing at least
40 people.

Casualties from the first blast could not immediately be ascertained and
Nigerian security sources could not immediately be reached for comment.

Bomb blasts that bore the hallmarks of Islamist Boko Haram militants killed 118
people in the same area of Jos in May.

Boko Haram is a Sunni jihadist movement that has been waging a five-year
insurgency to establish an Islamist state in the northeast of the country.

President Goodluck Jonathan declared a state of emergency in three northeastern
states last year. The number of attacks has risen sharply since then.

Kerry warns of 'tragedy'

LIMA, Peru- U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry made an impassioned plea on
Wednesday for all nations to work for an ambitious United Nations deal next year
to fight climate change, saying time was running out to reverse a course
"leading to tragedy."

He also took aim at domestic critics of President Barack Obama who question
whether climate change is mainly man-made, saying that scientific findings were
overwhelming and "screaming at us, warning us."

Mr. Kerry said that a deal in Paris next year would not be a silver bullet to
solve the problem of rising temperatures, more heat waves, floods, droughts and
rising sea levels, but it could put the world on the right track.

Bombers kill 6 in Kabul

KABUL, Afghanistan - A teenager evaded tight security and blew himself up in the
auditorium of an elite French high school in Kabul on Thursday evening, killing
at least one other person and wounding more than a dozen people.

It was the second suicide bombing of the day in the capital. Earlier, a young
man standing at the edge of a road on the outskirts of the city detonated his
explosives as a bus carrying Afghan troops passed by, killing five soldiers.

The attacks shattered a relative calm in Kabul that had lasted more than a week.
Bombings were more frequent earlier.

Mali says it's Ebola free

BAMAKO, Mali - Mali has no remaining cases of the Ebola virus as the last
patient in the country has recovered and left the hospital, the Ministry of
Health said on Thursday.

Six people have died of Ebola in Mali, while two others have recovered. The
country is the sixth West African state to be hit by the worst outbreak on
record of the hemorrhagic fever.

At least 6,533 people have died of the virus in Sierra Leone, Liberia and
Guinea, according to the World Health Organization.

Putin pledges aid to India

NEW DELHI - Russian President Vladimir Putin pledged Thursday to supply India
with oil, weapons and nuclear power reactors, buttressing a long-time friendship
with Asia's third- biggest economy as ties deteriorate with the West over
Ukraine.

Prime Minister Narendra Modi reassured Mr. Putin, who is on a visit to the
Indian capital, that India opposes sanctions against Russia.

He also said Russia remains India's most important defense partner and welcomed
Mr. Putin's offer to make one of its most advanced helicopters in the country.

Mr. Putin is seeking new markets for its oil and natural gas as the nation's
faltering relations with the United States and Europe amid the Ukraine conflict
prods it toward a recession.

Russia's ruble extended its worst rout in 16 years Thursday even after the Bank
of Russia raised its key rate for the fifth time this year.

Castro wins a peace prize

BEIJING - Former Cuban leader Fidel Castro is this year's winner of China's
Confucius peace prize, portrayed by organizers as an alternative to the Nobel
Prize, which they see as biased against China.

The committee that sponsored the prize praised the 88-year-old Mr. Castro for
his "contributions to peace," in contrast to the view held by many in the west
of Mr. Castro as a dictator who ran an oppressive one-party state for nearly
five decades while seeking to export communist revolution.

The ailing Mr. Castro did not come to Beijing to pick up his award Tuesday.

The sponsors of the prize are academics and private business people who say they
are independent of the Chinese government.

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2014 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              156 of 454 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                          September 24, 2014 Wednesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

TOMLIN ACKNOWLEDGES '08 DOMESTIC INCIDENT

BYLINE: Gerry Dulac, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. E-1

LENGTH: 293 words


The Steelers talked to James Harrison about his domestic dispute in 2008 before
bringing him out of retirement and signing him to a contract to rejoin his
former team, coach Mike Tomlin said Tuesday.

Harrison was charged in March 2008 with assaulting his girlfriend, Beth Tibbott,
in a domestic dispute at her Ohio Township home.

The assault charge eventually was dropped when Harrison completed
anger-management counseling, and Tibbott declined to prosecute.

Domestic violence has become a major issue in the NFL because of the recent and
highly publicized incidents involving Ray Rice, Greg Hardy and Ray McDonald.
Commissioner Roger Goodell has come under fire for his handling of those
incidents, especially the one involving Rice.

Steelers president Art Rooney II and New York Giants owner John Mara were
appointed by Goodell to oversee a private investigation of the league's handling
of the Rice matter.

In regard to re-signing Harrison, Rooney said Tuesday:

"The NFL's new policies on domestic violence apply to all of our players and all
employees.

"Everyone in the league is now more aware of the seriousness of domestic
violence, and I am hopeful this awareness can be turned into a positive for the
entire league and possibly society in general."

Tomlin said he has talked to Harrison about the current climate in the league
involving domestic disputes.

"It's been seven years and it is a different climate," Tomlin said.

"I've discussed the climate change with James.

"Over those years, James has grown ... and I don't anticipate those being a
problem going forward."

In 2008, Steelers chairman Dan Rooney said the dispute between Harrison and his
girlfriend revolved around his desire to have their son baptized -- something
Tibbott apparently did not want.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Gerry Dulac: gdulac@post-gazette.com; twitter: @gerrydulac. /

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: "I've discussed the climate change with James. Over those years
James has grown ... and I don't anticipate those being a problem going forward."
-- Mike Tomlin

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2014 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              168 of 454 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            November 17, 2014 Monday
                                 SOONER EDITION

THE OTHER ELECTORATE;
THE PRESIDENT IS MINDFUL OF THE TENS OF MILLIONS WHO VOTED FOR HIM

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. B-7

LENGTH: 762 words


WASHINGTON

House Speaker John Boehner has said that President Barack Obama would "poison
the well" for legislative action on immigration reform by unilaterally issuing
executive orders. But how can you poison a well that has already been filled
with partisan cyanide?

Mr. Obama's Republican critics say his forceful approach on immigration, climate
change and net neutrality show he isn't paying attention to what the voters said
in the midterm elections.

In truth, he is paying close attention to the feelings of a very important group
of voters - the tens of millions who supported him two years ago but were so
dispirited that they stayed away from the polls on Nov. 4. They are hoping Mr.
Obama will show them that political engagement is worth the effort.

Republicans did a brilliant job in the campaign playing on the idea that Mr.
Obama is weak, passive and without a game plan. That was the not-so-hidden
meaning of all their television ads about the Islamic State, Ebola and
immigration. So Mr. Obama has made clear that he won't be weak and passive, and
that he has a game plan.

On immigration, Mr. Boehner has lost all credibility to claim he wants to act in
a bipartisan way. In his heart of hearts, might he like to pass a bill? Sure.
But the speaker's heart is not what's at stake here. A willingness to take heat
from the right wing of his caucus to pass a bill is what matters. And this is
something he has shown, again and again, that he just won't do.

On June 27, 2013, by a genuinely bipartisan vote of 68-32, the Senate passed
comprehensive immigration reform. Mr. Boehner kept sending signals that he
wanted to act. So Mr. Obama waited. And waited. And waited. And nothing
happened.

After an election in which so many Republican candidates took a hard line on
immigration, can anyone really believe that the House (or, for that matter, the
new Republican Senate) will be eager to act? In the meantime, Mr. Obama, having
promised executive orders to solve at least part of the problem, held back to
try to help incumbent Democratic Senate candidates in red states. A lot of good
that did.

By taking action now, Mr. Obama could even change the Republican calculus.
Instead of burying a bill through countless delays, Republicans will have to
respond to concrete decisions that could help actual human beings - perhaps as
many as 6 million undocumented immigrants - and also a tech industry that wants
visas for the highly skilled.

And the notion that Mr. Obama is spoiling a moment of exquisitely nonpartisan
opportunity in Washington is laughable. Did anyone notice incoming Senate
Majority Leader Mitch McConnell's victory speech on election night when he spoke
as if the election weren't over? "What the current crowd in Washington is
offering is making us weaker, both at home and abroad," he said, adding that Mr.
Obama and the Democrats regularly "blamed somebody else when their policies
didn't work out."

The ink was barely dry on Mr. Obama's climate change accord with China when Mr.
McConnell pronounced himself "particularly distressed" by a deal that he said
"requires the Chinese to do nothing at all for 16 years," which rather
oversimplifies matters.

Mr. McConnell is free to say whatever he wants. But please, let's not pretend
that it is Mr. Obama who is poisoning anybody's well. Ditto for Mr. Boehner. He
seemed to give comfort to the impeachers he is trying to discourage when he said
of executive orders that haven't even been issued that he was determined to
"stop the president from violating his own oath of office and violating the
Constitution."

This, by the way, is the same Mr. Boehner who, during the border crisis in July,
released a statement with the rest of the House Republican leadership declaring:
"There are numerous steps the president can and should be taking right now,
without the need for congressional action, to secure our borders ."

The message is that some executive actions are great but others are
unconstitutional - and whichever way Mr. Obama goes must be wrong.

This year, an estimated 36.3 percent of eligible voters - the lowest turnout
since 1942 - gave Republicans their overwhelming victory. Many of the nearly
two-thirds of voters who didn't show up (they happen to be disproportionately
young and Latino) had given up on Mr. Obama and the Democrats getting anything
done.

Yes, Washington may again be engulfed in partisan warfare. But at least this
time, it will be over things that are actually happening.

E.J. Dionne Jr. is a syndicated columnist for The Washington Post
(ejdionne@washpost.com Twitter: @EJDionne).

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2014 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              170 of 454 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                             March 11, 2014 Tuesday
                            PITTSBURGH PRESS EDITION

SECTION: NATIONAL; NATION; Pg. A-3

LENGTH: 972 words


General to try for new plea deal

FORT BRAGG, N.C. - Attorneys for an Army general charged with sexual assault
said today they have decided to try to renegotiate a plea bargain with a new set
of military officials after the judge determined the case may have been
improperly influenced by political concerns.

The judge, Col. James Pohl, sent the jury of generals back to their duty
stations around the world after defense lawyers for Brig. Gen Jeffrey A.
Sinclair announced their decision. The two sides now enter intense negotiations
to try to resolve the case.

"There are other issues that have come up in this trial," Col. Pohl told the
jurors as he dismissed them. "Sometimes there are twists and turns you can't
anticipate."

Col. Pohl had declined to dismiss the charges outright on Monday. But he
reviewed newly disclosed emails in Gen. Sinclair's case and said he found the
appearance of "unlawful command influence" in Fort Bragg officials' decision to
reject a plea bargain with the general in January.

Under the military code of justice, the decision was supposed to be decided
solely on the evidence, not its broader political implications.

But Col. Pohl said the emails showed that the military officials who rejected
the plea bargain had discussed a letter from the accuser's lawyer. The letter
warned that allowing the general to avoid trial would "send the wrong signal."

Gen. Sinclair, the 51-year-old former deputy commander of the 82nd Airborne
Division, is accused of twice forcing a female captain to perform oral sex on
him in Afghanistan in 2011 during a three-year extramarital affair. He has
admitted to the affair but denied assaulting the woman.

In December, Gen. Sinclair had offered to plead guilty to some of the lesser
charges in exchange for the Army dropping the sexual assault charges, but he was
turned down.

Gen. Sinclair's plea offer was discussed in emails among a high-ranking
Washington-based Army lawyer, the prosecutors and the commanding general
overseeing the case.

The judge said he doesn't think the whole case was tainted, just the decision on
a plea agreement.

Judge stops destruction of phone records

SAN FRANCISCO - A federal judge in San Francisco stopped the destruction of
millions of telephone records collected by the National Security Agency more
than five years ago.

U.S. District Judge Jeffrey White, who is overseeing an invasion-of-privacy
lawsuit against the agency, issued a nationwide order Monday to safeguard
evidence until March 19, when he will hold a hearing on extending the deadline
further.

The secret federal court that approved the agency's surveillance has required
that documents be purged after five years for privacy reasons. On Friday, the
Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court denied the federal government's request
to keep the records for the sake of pending lawsuits.

Judge White said he was enforcing an order he had issued in an earlier NSA
surveillance case that halted evidence from being destroyed.

He wrote that "the Court would be unable to afford effective relief once the
records are destroyed" and before he decided if their collection was legal. The
plaintiffs in the lawsuits include civil rights, environmental and religious
groups as well as gun organizations and marijuana advocates.

Senate holds all-nighter on climate

WASHINGTON - Democratic senators clocked an all-nighter, working in shifts into
this morning to warn of devastation from climate change and the danger of
inaction.

Addressing a nearly empty chamber and visitor gallery, more than two dozen
speakers agreed with each other about the need to act on climate change.
Naysayers - Republicans - largely stayed away, arguing hours earlier that
regulation would cost Americans jobs in a sluggish economy.

The talk-a-thon ended at 8:55 a.m., almost 15 hours after it began. It was the
35th all-night session since 1915, according to the Senate.

'Fatal Vision' author dies

NEW YORK - Joe McGinniss wasn't one to let a story tell itself.

Whether insisting on the guilt of a murder suspect after seemingly befriending
him or moving next door to Sarah Palin's house for a most unauthorized
biography, Mr. McGinniss was unique in his determination to get the most inside
information, in how publicly he burned bridges with his subjects and how
memorably he placed himself in the narrative.

Mr. McGinniss, the adventurous and news-making author and reporter who skewered
the marketing of Richard Nixon in "The Selling of the President 1968" and
tracked his personal journey from sympathizer to scourge of convicted killer
Jeffrey MacDonald in the blockbuster "Fatal Vision," died Monday at age 71.

Mr. McGinniss, who announced last year that he had been diagnosed with
inoperable prostate cancer, died from complications related to his disease.

Christie aides fight subpoenas

TRENTON, N.J. - Lawyers for two key figures in a political payback scandal
ensnaring Gov. Chris Christie's administration are trying to persuade a judge
not to force them to turn over text messages and other private communications to
New Jersey legislators investigating the matter.

Fired Christie staffer Bridget Kelly and two-time campaign manager Bill Stepien
say complying with the subpoenas carries the risk of self-incrimination.

The subpoenas seek documents involving the intentional blocking of traffic near
the George Washington Bridge in September, which created hours-long backups in
nearby Fort Lee, apparently to punish the town's Democratic mayor.

Ms. Kelly did not speak to the reporters who surrounded her when she arrived at
the courthouse. Mr. Stepien was not in attendance.

A parallel criminal investigation by the U.S. attorney's office seeks to uncover
whether federal laws were broken. The legislative panel wants to find out how
high up Christie's chain of command the lane-closing scheme went and why it was
hatched.

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2014 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              173 of 454 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                             August 1, 2014 Friday
                                 SOONER EDITION

DUELING RALLIES PIT JOBS AGAINST AIR \

BYLINE: Anya Litvak and Don Hopey, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. A-8

LENGTH: 663 words


They met at the intersection of Liberty Avenue and 10th Street, a sea of
thousands of mine workers in camouflage and hundreds of environmental
protesters, chanting competing slogans.

Standing between the two camps was Pittsburgh resident Charles McCollester, a
labor supporter and lifelong environmentalist, holding a sign: "As long as blue
union jobs are pitted against green earth health, we are all doomed."

In the William S. Moorhead Federal Building just a block away, the Environmental
Protection Agency was in the first few hours of public testimony in Pittsburgh
over its proposed carbon-emission regulations.

The union miners, electrical workers and boilermakers attending the rally on
Thursday came in 70 buses from a half-dozen states, united under this theme:
Jobs and the U.S. economy are in grave danger if EPA's rules are enacted.

When the U.S. government says the EPA's proposed rules won't affect the economy,
"They're wrong," said Donald Siegel, international vice president of the
International Brotherhood of Electric Workers, saying that miners would lose
jobs and Appalachian communities would suffer.

Kim Glas, executive director of the Blue Green Alliance, which counts 16 million
environmental group and union members, said workers don't have to choose between
a clean environment or good jobs.

"Quality, family-sustaining jobs will be created throughout an economy that also
addresses climate change," Ms. Glas said. "We understand that workers need a
fair shake. We will not leave workers behind as we transition to a more
sustainable energy economy."

"We all want clean air," Mr. Siegel said during a rally at the David L. Lawrence
Convention Center that preceded coal supporters' marching through Downtown to
the federal building. "But you can't take 40 gigawatts of power off the grid"
and not expect consequences.

Mr. Siegel asked for more time to allow the federal government to finally come
up with a comprehensive energy policy that would allow the country to ramp up
renewables and figure out how to burn coal cleaner and more efficiently.

Dan Kane, international secretary-treasurer of the United Mine Workers of
America, likened the EPA rules to a pharmaceutical commercial with its litany of
side effects, which he said were "worse than the cure."

But Jacqui Patterson, who heads the NAACP's environment and climate program,
said the coal industry says nothing about the costs of inaction.

Today, she said, 68 percent of minorities in the U.S. live within 30 miles of a
coal-burning power plant, 71 percent live in areas that are in violation of
federal air quality standards, and twice as many minority children than white
children die because of asthma attacks.

"We need to establish these aggressive targets for pollution reduction," she
said. "We need to get this situation under control for all our sakes."

Paula Swearengin, a West Virginia resident whose family has strong ties to the
coal mines there, said she lost her miner grandfather to black lung disease and
her father to cancer.

"I'm tired of burying family members for this industry," she said. "The nation's
energy plan is flawed. It's powered by my family's blood, and it's past time we
stand up for a better energy future."

The miners' march culminated in the prearranged arrests of UMWA President Cecil
Roberts and 13 other union leaders, who notified the police they'd be peacefully
trespassing on federal grounds to be booked.

Prior to the march, Mr. Roberts riled up the union members by linking coal not
just to electricity but to the establishment of a middle class.

Just as his supporters' applause swelled in the convention center, Mayor Bill
Peduto was addressing a crowd of about 400 environmentalists at the August
Wilson Center for African-American Culture.

Mr. Peduto said that although he recognized the region's historic role in coal
production, it was time to move forward into a new era of energy production with
its existing workforce "that won't poison our air and water."

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2014 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              186 of 454 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            March 12, 2014 Wednesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

LIBERALS PUT OUT-OF-TOUCHNESS ON DISPLAY

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. B-7

LENGTH: 411 words


Someone in the hermetically sealed bubble of the White House and Democratic
Senate leadership must have thought it was a good idea to stage an all-night
talk-a-thon Monday into Tuesday on climate change. It might seem odd since the
American people are most interested in jobs, government trustworthiness and a
slew of other issues, but these lawmakers chose this tactic for the gravest
issue they could find, the threat of carbon. One can only imagine this was a
base-pleasing move.

It also pleased Republicans on the ballot in 2014. The distinctly not pleased
should include Democrats from energy-rich red states.

Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., provided a written statement
which one can see being wrapped into a campaign ad or debate zinger: "It is one
of the primary responsibilities of a U.S. senator to speak out when fellow
lawmakers are actively working against your constituents' best interests. It is
very disappointing that Alison Lundergan Grimes could not muster a word against
her liberal allies in Washington who were pulling an all-nighter to shut down
the coal industry and left open the possibility that she would join them."

This is going to be a theme embraced by more than one campaign. David Ray,
campaign spokesman for Rep. Tom Cotton of Arkansas quickly emailed, "This goes
to show how out-of-touch Washington Democrats are with what voters want. They're
not holding an all-nighter for job creation. They're not holding an all-nighter
to fix Obamacare. They're holding an all-nighter to placate their liberal donor
base in California."

Red-state Democratic senators did not, of course, join in this gabfest, but they
do vote for the Senate leadership and have taken some anti-home-state energy
votes. In the case of Virginia's Mark Warner, competitor Ed Gillespie's
spokesman took this shot: "Mark Warner has advocated for cap-and-trade and a
carbon tax that make the energy produced in Southwest Virginia more expensive
and would kill even more jobs here. He may not have stood with his colleagues on
the Senate floor last night, but he has stood with them on every job-killing
vote they've cast."

Going after climate change while hawking regulatory limits on domestic energy
production is one more issue (in addition to the stimulus, Obamacare, guns,
taxes, Medicare cuts) Republicans will use to tie Democratic incumbents to the
White House. Must be nice to have the Democrats help out.

Jennifer Rubin writes for The Washington Post.

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2014 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              199 of 454 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                             August 5, 2014 Tuesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

EPISCOPAL DIOCESE OF PITTSBURGH:;
SAME-SEX MARRIAGE CERTIFICATES OK'ED

BYLINE: Wesley Yiin, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. A-7

LENGTH: 667 words


Clergy within the Episcopal Diocese of Pittsburgh may now sign civil marriage
certificates between same-sex couples, Bishop Dorsey McConnell confirmed in a
recent open letter to the diocese.

The action builds on Bishop McConnell's decision in November 2013 to allow
clergy to conduct blessings of same-sex relationships.

At that time, same-sex marriage was not a legal option in Pennsylvania, but
Bishop McConnell and diocesan chancellor Andy Roman reviewed civil and canon law
after the May 20 federal court decision ruling that same-sex couples be allowed
to marry in the state of Pennsylvania.

They determined that the language of the same-sex blessing rite satisfies the
state's legal requirements, and therefore, clergy may sign civil marriage
certificates in conjunction with the rite.

The rite was approved provisionally at the Episcopal Church's national
legislative General Convention in 2012, subject to approval by each individual
bishop. Bishop McConnell, when he authorized use of the rite in November 2013,
left it up to parish leaders to decide whether to perform the blessing rite
within their specific communities.

"I know and treasure the theological diversity of this diocese, and know that
practice in this matter will vary from parish to parish," Bishop McConnell wrote
in the letter. "I support the need for our clergy to be faithful to their own
consciences, in choosing to use or not use the Rite, and hope as always that we
will continue to regard one another with affection and respect across our
differences ..."

The Bishop McConnell declined to comment further than what he stated in his
letter.

Cautioning against an overreaction to the letter, diocese spokesman Rich Creehan
said the recent letter was meant only to elaborate on developments in the
diocese's point of view following the November statement and recent changes in
civil law.

It should not be seen as a blanket statement in support of same-sex marriage, he
said.

"The letter simply clarifies that the clergy may act on their civil authority to
help couples secure the civil benefits they're entitled to by Pennsylvania law,"
Mr. Creehan said. "That is the extent of this letter. There is no change in the
ecclesiastical point of view."

Moreover, Mr. Creehan emphasized that Bishop McConnell continues to have "very
strong reservations" about the theology behind the provisional rite, which
Bishop McConnell mentioned in the letter as well.

Dianne Watson, co-convener of Integrity Pittsburgh, a local group calling for
inclusion of all LGBTQ in the church, said the letter was another step in the
right direction but issued a statement urging Bishop McConnell to help "the
House of Bishops create a liturgy that offers the same sense of covenant that is
in the marriage rite for heterosexual couples."

Ms. Watson also expressed the group's desire to see the day when all clergy in
the diocese are willing to perform same-sex marriages.

Ms. Watson said the climate surrounding same-sex marriage within the church is
now much more positive than three years ago, prior to the creation of the
blessing rite.

She attributed this trend partially to the church's splintering over the issues
of sexuality.

"A lot of those who were offended at the idea ... have left," she said, but
added that she believes "the climate has changed much more quickly than they
expected at the general convention."

Mr. Creehan said the diocese, composed of 37 congregations and 9,100 members, is
generally still considered to be conservative.

He also said that, to his knowledge, only one same-sex blessing ceremony has
been performed since the the bishop's November letter. That was in July, and he
said it was also the first and only signing of a same-sex civil marriage
certificate by a diocesan clergy member of which he is aware.

Ms. Watson remains optimistic, especially after seeing diocesan priests
beginning to conduct premarital counseling for same-sex couples.

"They're preparing individuals to spend the rest of their lives together," she
said.

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Wesley Yiin: wyiin@post-gazette.com or 412-263-1723.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2014 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              208 of 454 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            January 19, 2014 Sunday
                                TWO STAR EDITION

SPILL COULD ALTER W.VA. OUTLOOK;
STATE'S OPPOSITION TO FEDERAL REGS TESTED AFTER LATEST CALAMITY

BYLINE: Trip Gabriel, Michael Vines and Coral Davenport, The New York Times

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. A-1

LENGTH: 1643 words


CHARLESTON, W.Va. -- Residents in this West Virginia capital city were still
reeling from the chemical spill that left more than 300,000 people without
usable water for days, many of them still frightened and unsure whether official
assurances that they could once again drink tap water or bathe their children
were true.

But in Washington on Wednesday, among friends at an event sponsored by the
American Coalition for Clean Coal Electricity, West Virginia's junior senator
and former governor, Joe Manchin, was preaching a familiar gospel of an industry
under siege by overzealous regulators.

"You feel like everyone's turned against you," he said sympathetically. He
assured his audience that he would continue to fight back against proposed new
Environmental Protection Agency regulations on coal, quoting the state motto in
Latin: "Montani semper liberi" -- "Mountaineers are always free."

In an interview the next day, he expounded on the theme. "Coal and chemicals
inevitably bring risk -- but that doesn't mean they should be shut down," Mr.
Manchin said. "Cicero says, 'To err is human,' But you're going to stop living
because you're afraid of making a mistake?"

The spill, which occurred earlier this month when 7,500 gallons of a chemical
used to clean coal leaked from an aging, outmoded storage tank into the Elk
River, played out in a state that has often been seen by outsiders as a place
apart. West Virginia, with its strong ties to coal and chemicals, has long had a
fierce opposition to environmental regulations. It has also been the scene of
five major accidents related to coal or chemicals in eight years.

But amid an energy boom that stretches from Pennsylvania to North Dakota and the
belief among many conservatives that the nation suffers from too much
regulation, the issues that played out have enormous relevance well beyond its
borders. They include all the questions about the incident raised by regulators
and environmental critics: why the tank was so close to a water treatment plant,
how often it was inspected and by whom, the hazard status accorded the chemical
inside the tanks, what regulations might have prevented the spill and what would
have been their costs.

And as Congress this winter considers updating a much-criticized chemical safety
law, the Toxic Substances Control Act, Mr. Manchin, a Democrat, is one of the
key players.

At the very least, the spill raised concerns for many West Virginians about the
state's attitudes toward regulation.

"This ought to be a huge wake-up call," said Barbara Evans Fleischauer, a
Democratic member of the West Virginia House of Delegates. "I don't think people
want the government to get out of the way right now. What we're supposed to do
in state government is protect the health and welfare of our citizens."

Mr. Manchin, who has a thick shock of steel-gray hair and an affable Appalachian
drawl, grew up in the coal mining town of Farmington. An uncle and five
classmates died in the Farmington mining disaster of 1968 that killed 78 people
and led to more federal regulation of West Virginia's mines. Before entering
state politics, he started a coal brokerage company, Enersystems. His memorable
2010 Senate campaign ads showed him blasting a shotgun at a climate-change bill
that would have curbed pollution from coal-fired plants.

In his maiden speech on the Senate floor, Mr. Manchin called for the repeal of a
Clean Water Act regulation on mountaintop mining. His Senate financial
disclosures state that he made nearly $1.5 million a year in 2011 and 2012 from
his coal brokerage firm. He is the co-sponsor of a bill that would block
President Barack Obama's efforts to regulate global warming gases.

West Virginia's record of deferring to industry is long and deep, reflecting its
heavy economic reliance on coal, chemicals and, most recently, natural gas. The
tank farm where chemicals were stored, just a mile and a half upstream of the
intake of the state's largest water provider, seems to have fallen outside the
bounds of multiple state and federal anti-pollution laws.

Randy Huffman, the state Cabinet secretary in charge of environmental
protection, said that because the facility stored chemicals but did not produce
them, his department had no responsibility for regulating it. Other states
inspect storage facilities as well as production ones.

"A lot of our elected officials think it's political suicide to take a stand
against coal or in favor of the EPA," said Angie Rosser, executive director of
the West Virginia Rivers Coalition, a conservation group.

Coal mining today employs but 4 percent of West Virginia's labor force. But its
symbolic appeal runs deep, and it has long enjoyed an exalted status in state
government. As an incoming governor, Mr. Manchin named the head of the state
coal association, aided by oil-and-gas industry officials, to run the panel
setting his administration's energy and environment policies.

In May 2009, the state Environmental Protection Department sued PPG Industries,
a Pittsburgh maker of paints, industrial coatings and other products, to stop it
from dumping illegal amounts of mercury into the Ohio River from a plant at
Natrium, about 25 miles south of Wheeling.

Far from a hostile act, however, the suit was actually filed at PPG's request,
Mr. Huffman told The Charleston Gazette that month, to stave off a threatened
lawsuit by two environmental groups.

The two groups had employed a clause in the federal Clean Water Act that allows
citizens to sue for violations when government regulators fail to enforce the
law. The act required that PPG receive 60 days' notice of the planned suit; by
intervening before that deadline, the state seized legal control of the issue
from the groups, and struck its own settlement with PPG.

Last year, the environmental groups gave notice again that they intended to sue
PPG, this time for dumping pesticides into the Ohio -- and again, Mr. Huffman's
department imposed its own last-minute settlement.

"The state stepped in with sweetheart deals every time we threatened to sue"
PPG, said Derek Teaney, senior staff attorney for Appalachian Mountain
Advocates, which assisted the environmental groups' legal plans.

The most obvious candidate for change resulting from the Elk River spill is the
nation's weak and outdated law governing chemical safety. That law, the Toxic
Substances Control Act, was passed in 1976 and has not been substantially
updated since.

Now, Mr. Manchin and Sen. David Vitter, R-La., another state with major chemical
industry interests, are leading long-delayed efforts to update the law.

But environmentalists complain that the bill, written in close consultation with
the American Chemistry Council, would do very little.

"The problem is that the bill as currently written is terrible," said Daniel
Rosenberg, an expert in chemical regulations with the Natural Resources Defense
Council. "It wouldn't even guarantee getting additional health information or
regulation on MCHM," or 4-methylcyclohexane methanol, the chemical in the West
Virginia spill.

Mr. Manchin said outsiders want the energy and chemicals that come from West
Virginia while demonizing the industries that create them.

"I don't know where else you want the chemicals to be produced," he said.
"Another country? People say not in my backyard. But in West Virginia, we're
willing to do the heavy lifting."

Asked about criticism of the state's environmental record, the Environmental
Protection Department issued a statement Saturday saying it "has aggressively
pursued rule changes and legislation in recent years to ensure the state's
industries and businesses are operating in ways that are protective of the
state's natural resources."

For example, it said, Mr. Huffman's office wrote legislation in 2011 enabling
the agency to double its staff of oil and gas inspectors monitoring the rapidly
growing natural gas industry.

Rebecca Randolph, president of the West Virginia Manufacturers Association,
which represents the chemical industry, said she disagreed that enforcement is
lax.

"We're subject to state and federal regulations that are on par with neighboring
states," she said. "We go above and beyond what's required." She acknowledged
there were loopholes that allowed Freedom Industries, which is the owner of the
chemical storage tank that ruptured and is not a member of the group, to escape
closer scrutiny.

But critics nevertheless question whether the state's laissez-faire regulatory
culture has worked for a state where Wal-Mart is now the top employer. According
to the Census Bureau, West Virginia ranked 47th in median household income in
1969. In 2009, it ranked 49th.

And even if one incident is unlikely to change such an entrenched culture, for
now citizens appear spooked, confused and angry -- if unsure where to direct
that anger. Residents have received conflicting orders on whether they can use
their water, schoolchildren are still being given bottled water, and questions
have been raised about the adequacy of tests on water safety.

Mr. Manchin announced Friday that he would co-sponsor modest legislation to
regulate storage facilities like the Elk River tank farm, close to waterways.

At a gathering Wednesday in Charleston, some 130 people vented their fury at the
water company, the government and the news media.

Karan Ireland, a public relations executive, said she was afraid to drink the
water. "People are turning on their taps, they're smelling water that still has
the chemical in it and is discolored," she said after the meeting. "Nobody
believes anything anymore. We feel lied to."

Mike Pushkin, a cabdriver and a musician who attended the meeting, said, "I grew
up smelling Union Carbide every morning. I make money off the coal industry.
Everybody here makes money from coal. I'd just like to see them play by the
rules, and make sure there are rules."

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: John Raby/Associated Press: Demonstrators hold signs Saturday at
the state capitol in Charleston, W.Va. Residents voiced their concerns about the
quality of their tap water in the wake of a Jan. 9 chemical spill in the Elk
River that tainted the water supply.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2014 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              253 of 454 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            December 7, 2014 Sunday
                                TWO STAR EDITION

HISTORY COMES IN ALL SIZES;
BUT THERE'S A BIG DEBATE OVER 'BIG HISTORY' VS. THE HISTORY THAT HUMANS HAVE
WRITTEN DOWN

BYLINE: David M. Shribman

SECTION: EDITORIAL; MY POINT; Pg. D-3

LENGTH: 1067 words


The most contentious historical question in the country is not a dispute over
whether the United States is at heart a revolutionary or conservative force in
world affairs, nor a conflict over how deep was Abraham Lincoln's devotion to
the anti-slavery cause, nor even a battle over the origins of the Cold War. The
most contentious historical question in the United States is over what history
is - or, more precisely, how long history is.

In one camp are scholars who may disagree over whether history's engine is
economic or political - or over whether the Mexican War and the Spanish-American
War are proof that the United States has deep imperialist roots - but who
basically agree that the study of history should concentrate on what has
happened in the past 2,000 years or so.

In another camp is a growing group of scholars and educational activists who
believe history should be taught on a 14-billion-year scale.

So, into an academic realm where big business and big data have been recent
preoccupations enters another big area of controversy: Big History.

Big History is the notion that academics err when they concentrate on the Thirty
Years War, or the French Revolution, or American progressivism, without putting
them into a context that includes the Big Bang, the Pleistocene Era and the
appearance of millet and yams in sub-Saharan Africa.

The teaching of history in this Big fashion was the lonely crusade of an obscure
Australian academic until Bill Gates listened to a series of recorded lectures
and decided that his next cause was to promote Big History and to try to
persuade school boards across the country to adopt it. The intrusion of a
non-academic with a Big fortune and not a Big academic pedigree into the
decidedly Not Big world of history caused the predictable Big outcry.

History as viewed by David Christian, who teaches history at Macquarie
University in Sydney, Australia, and holds a D.Phil in Russian History from
Oxford, is history on an entirely different scale.

Its virtue - and I listened to 12 of Mr. Christian's lectures before coming to
this conclusion - is that it puts history into perspective. It leads you to
conclude that the co-evolution of humans and domesticated animals, including
livestock - the humans changing culturally, the animals changing genetically -
is a more important passage in human history than Watergate. It leads you to
believe that the appearance of agriculture only 11,000 years ago is a bigger
oddity than the Soviet-Nazi Pact of 1939.

And - critical to our own age, a slender strand of history - is the broader
dynamic of climate change and how humans have adapted to it: with migration
across the globe and with increasing impact on the environment, through, among
other things, fire and farming. Wow. The debate over the Versailles Treaty
sounds pretty peripheral in that context.

At the center of this view of history is Mr. Christian's contention that
historians concentrate on a mere 5 percent of history because they only examine
the record of written material and documents - and because they (wrongly)
believe that not much happened in that first 95 percent: No novels, no
symphonies, no documents hidden in pumpkin patches on Maryland farms or
retrieved by Freedom of Information requests.

Mr. Christian disagrees. "A lot indeed did happen in the Paleolithic era," he
argues in one of his lectures. "This was not a period of stagnation. Our
astonishing creativity is already evident in this era."

In an email exchange, Mr. Christian asserted that most societies taught
something like Big History in the past, calling it origin stories. "The weird
thing is that modern secular education stopped teaching such stories about a
century ago, yet one lurks within modern science waiting to be told," he said.
"We're trying to tell it and return education to the notion that students need a
framework for thinking about everything."

That's not how many university-based historians see it. "Academic historians
know that all things are important to history," argued Amy Dru Stanley, an
American historian at the University of Chicago. "But what concerns me is that
this is a cultural approach to science more than a new approach to history - and
it threatens to displace established methods of historical scholarship."

Even so, Big History is making inroads among academics. The next American
Historical Association meeting will include a session exploring Big History, and
Patrick Manning, a University of Pittsburgh historian and president-elect of the
historical association, is working on a similar approach to world history for
students in Mt. Lebanon.

"It's not so much a threat as an alternative," Mr. Manning contended. "It simply
introduces a larger time frame and says the natural sciences have history the
way humans have history. Really, it's just an expansion of history."

That expanded history doesn't ask students only to consider the causes of the
War of 1812 but also to consider why whales have thumbs. It not only addresses
the history of racial conflict in America but also the notion that information
is cumulative for our species and not for any other - which, when you think
about it, is the essence of history itself.

And that expanded history is in some ways the basis for "Sapiens: A Brief
History of Humankind," a book by Hebrew University (Jerusalem) historian Yuval
Noah Harari - yet another product of Oxford - that has become an international
best seller and is to be published in the United States next February.

This may ultimately be a meaningless dispute. The sum of human knowledge is so
vast that no series of courses can begin to cover it. And young Americans have
so little general knowledge - how the Earth was formed, what the planets are,
where India is, who fought in the Korean War - that any exposure to anything,
well taught and presented in a fair-minded way, is a valuable undertaking.

Conventional history is worthwhile. Earth history is worthwhile. A combination
of each is worthwhile, though there also is virtue in the argument that American
students should most of all know the contours of American history and be exposed
to the mainstreams of the American experience.

And so, as we conclude our history lesson for today, let us recall and
appreciate the motto of Faber College, the mythical institution from the film
classic "Animal House": "Knowledge is good." Pretty much any knowledge is.

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: David M. Shribman is executive editor of the Post-Gazette
(dshribman@post-gazette.com, 412-263-1890). /

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2014 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              264 of 454 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            November 17, 2014 Monday
                                 SOONER EDITION

G-20 LEADERS TARGET $2T IN GROWTH THROUGH PROJECTS

BYLINE: Don Lee, Tribune Co. Washington Bureau

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. A-1

LENGTH: 685 words


BRISBANE, Australia - Criticized for being long on promises and short on
delivery, leaders of the Group of 20 major economies set a target of lifting
global economic output by at least 2 percent over five years - an ambitious goal
that would add $2 trillion to the world economy and millions of new jobs.

To achieve that, the U.S. and other G-20 countries presented more than 800
specific projects and policy reforms that would, for example, build more roads,
improve trade and bring more women into the workforce.

"We will monitor and hold each other to account for implementing our
commitments," the leaders said in a joint statement at the end of a two-day
summit here on Sunday.

Progress would be analyzed by the International Monetary Fund and the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. The IMF's managing
director, Christine Lagarde, said of the review process: "We'll make sure we
keep their feet to the fire."

Still, no one expects 100 percent implementation or can even say whether most of
the infrastructure projects and policy initiatives will fly, because many of
them will need to be funded or approved by politicians in their respective
countries.

And it is unlikely that the new plan will help boost near-term economic growth -
something that President Barack Obama and his administration want, given their
concerns about the current slow and uneven recovery of the global economy.

Details of individual country proposals to boost growth have not been released,
but it was evident that U.S. officials did not get stronger commitments from
Germany, Europe's biggest economy, to unleash investments to stimulate demand.

Nor was there definitive word that Japan, the world's third-largest economy,
would delay plans for a sales-tax increase, though there were indications that
Prime Minister Shinzo Abe would do that in light of concerns that more tax
increases could further crimp the recovery efforts there.

Australian Prime Minister Tony Abbott, host of this year's G-20 summit, had made
the 2 percent growth increase his singular focus, but the summit is likely to be
remembered for other things, especially the tension stirred by the presence of
Russian President Vladimir Putin, who came under fire from Mr. Obama and other
leaders for Russia's continued support of separatists fighting in Ukraine.

On the economic front, some of the summit's notable achievements came in areas
that in the past had been treated as peripheral to the main focus of the G-20.

As an outspoken skeptic of global warming, Mr. Abbott had sought to keep climate
change off the G-20 agenda. But Mr. Obama gave a major speech Saturday in
Brisbane in which he highlighted the new U.S.-China deal to cut carbon emissions
and called on the world to join in the effort.

A day later, the final G-20 leaders' statement encouraged nations to provide
targets for reducing greenhouse gases before a global climate conference in
Paris next year-although the language was watered down to say only "for those
parties ready to do so."

The G-20 leaders also committed to do all they can to contain the Ebola
outbreak. Though lacking in specifics, analysts called it significant.

"It's the first time the G-20 has taken up health issues directly," said John
Kurton, co-director of the G-20 research group at the University of Toronto, who
was in Brisbane to follow the proceedings.

As well, leaders endorsed an anti-corruption action plan despite initial
resistance from the Chinese. Saying the G-20 was committed to improve
transparency, the statement calls for nations to share information that would
make it easier to know the true owner of shell companies that are sometimes used
to launder money and evade taxes.

Anti-corruption groups credited G-20 leaders for recognizing the importance of
collecting information on the true owners, also known as beneficial owners.

"But the fact that the word 'public' is still missing from both beneficial
ownership registers and country-by-country reporting standards shows that G-20
leaders aren't fully committed to finding the strongest solutions," said the
Financial Transparency Coalition.

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Vladimir Putin leaves the G-20 summit early after a tough
reception over Ukraine.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2014 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              272 of 454 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            January 19, 2014 Sunday
                               FIVE STAR EDITION

LAND ALONG THE EAST COAST IS SINKING. JUST ASK NORFOLK, VA.

BYLINE: Justin Gillis, The New York Times

SECTION: HEALTH, SCIENCE, MEDICINE AND TECHNOLOGY; Pg. A-10

LENGTH: 1199 words


The little white shack at the water's edge in Lower Manhattan is unobtrusive --
so much so that the tourists strolling the promenade at Battery Park the other
day did not give it a second glance.

Up close, though, the roof of the shed behind a Coast Guard building bristled
with antennas and other gear. Though not much bigger than a closet, this
facility is helping scientists confront one of the great environmental mysteries
of the age.

The equipment inside is linked to probes in the water that keep track of the ebb
and flow of the tides in New York Harbor, its readings beamed up to a satellite
every six minutes.

While the gear today is of the latest type, some kind of tide gauge has been
operating at the Battery since the 1850s, by a government office founded by
Thomas Jefferson. That long data record has become invaluable to scientists
grappling with this question: How much has the ocean already risen, and how much
more will it go up?

Scientists have spent decades examining all the factors that can influence the
rise of the seas, and their research is finally leading to answers. And the more
the scientists learn, the more they perceive an enormous risk for the United
States.

Much of the population and economy of the country is concentrated on the East
Coast, which the accumulating scientific evidence suggests will be a global hot
spot for a rising sea level over the coming century.

The detective work has required scientists to grapple with the influence of
ancient ice sheets, the meaning of islands that are sinking in the Chesapeake
Bay, and even the effect of a giant meteor that slammed into the earth.

The work starts with the tides. Because of their importance to navigation, they
have been measured for the better part of two centuries. While the record is not
perfect, scientists say it leaves no doubt that the world's oceans are rising.
The best calculation suggests that from 1880 to 2009, the global average sea
level rose a little over 8 inches.

That may not sound like much, but scientists say even the smallest increase
causes the seawater to eat away more aggressively at the shoreline in calm
weather, and leads to higher tidal surges during storms. The sea-level rise of
decades past thus explains why coastal towns nearly everywhere are having to
spend billions of dollars fighting erosion.

The evidence suggests that the sea-level rise has probably accelerated, to about
a foot a century, and scientists think it will accelerate still more with the
continued emission of large amounts of greenhouse gases into the air. The gases
heat the planet and cause land ice to melt into the sea.

The official stance of the world's climate scientists is that the global sea
level could rise as much as 3 feet by the end of this century, if emissions
continue at a rapid pace. But some scientific evidence supports even higher
numbers, 5 feet and beyond in the worst case.

Scientists say the East Coast will be hit harder for many reasons, but among the
most important is that even as the seawater rises, the land in this part of the
world is sinking. And that goes back to the last ice age, which peaked some
20,000 years ago.

As a massive ice sheet, more than a mile thick, grew over what are now Canada
and the northern reaches of the United States, the weight of it depressed the
crust of the earth. Areas away from the ice sheet bulged upward in response, as
though somebody had stepped on one edge of a balloon, causing the other side to
pop up. Now that the ice sheet has melted, the ground that was directly beneath
it is rising, and the peripheral bulge is falling.

Some degree of sinking is going on all the way from southern Maine to northern
Florida, and it manifests itself as an apparent rising of the sea.

The sinking is fastest in the Chesapeake Bay region. Whole island communities
that contained hundreds of residents in the 19th century have already
disappeared. Holland Island, where the population peaked at nearly 400 people
around 1910, had stores, a school, a baseball team and scores of homes. But as
the water rose and the island eroded, the community had to be abandoned.

Eventually just a single, sturdy Victorian house, built in 1888, stood on a
remaining spit of land, seeming at high tide to rise from the waters of the bay
itself. A few years ago, a Washington Post reporter, David A. Fahrenthold,
chronicled its collapse.

Aside from this general sinking of land up and down the East Coast, some places
sit on soft sediments that tend to compress over time, so the localized land
subsidence can be even worse than the regional trend. Much of the New Jersey
coast is like that. The sea-level record from the Battery has been particularly
valuable in sorting out this factor, because the tide gauge there is attached to
bedrock and the record is thus immune to sediment compression.

Perhaps the weirdest factor of all pertains to Norfolk, Va., and points nearby.
What is now the Tidewater region of Virginia was slammed by a meteor about 35
million years ago -- a collision so violent it may have killed nearly everything
on the East Coast and sent tsunami waves crashing against the Blue Ridge
Mountains. The meteor impact disturbed and weakened the sediments across a
50-mile zone. Norfolk is at the edge of that zone, and the ancient cataclysm may
be one reason it is sinking especially fast.

Coastal flooding has already become such a severe problem that Norfolk is
spending millions to raise streets and improve drainage. Truly protecting the
city could cost as much as $1 billion, money that Norfolk officials say they do
not have. Norfolk's mayor, Paul Fraim, made headlines a couple of years ago by
acknowledging that some areas might eventually have to be abandoned.

Up and down the Eastern Seaboard, municipal planners want to know: How bad are
things going to get, and how fast?

One of the most ambitious attempts to take account of all known factors came
just a few weeks ago from Kenneth G. Miller and Robert E. Kopp of Rutgers
University, and a handful of their colleagues. Their calculations, centered on
New Jersey, suggest this is not just some problem of the distant future.

People considering whether to buy or rebuild at the storm-damaged Jersey Shore,
for instance, could be looking at nearly a foot of sea-level rise by the time
they would pay off a 30-year mortgage, according to the Rutgers projections.
That would make coastal flooding and further property damage considerably more
likely than in the past.

Even if the global sea level rises only 8 more inches by 2050, a moderate
forecast, the Rutgers group foresees relative increases of 14 inches at bedrock
locations like the Battery, and 15 inches along the New Jersey coastal plain,
where the sediments are compressing. By 2100, they calculate, a global ocean
rise of 28 inches would produce increases of 36 inches at the Battery and 39
inches on the coastal plain.

These numbers are profoundly threatening, and among the American public, the
impulse toward denial is still strong. But in towns like Norfolk -- where
neighborhoods are already flooding repeatedly even in the absence of storms, and
where some homes have become unsaleable -- people are starting to pay attention.

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2014 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              287 of 454 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                             June 5, 2014 Thursday
                                 SOONER EDITION

WYOMING TO WASHINGTON: PHOTOJOURNALIST FOLLOWS THE 'CHINA EXPRESS'

BYLINE: Mary Thomas, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT; COVER STORY; Pg. W-9

LENGTH: 848 words


Early in the winter of 2013 photojournalist Carlan Tapp began a 1,200-mile
motorcycle trip from Wyoming to Washington along the route of coal trains
carrying the black gold from its point of extraction to its proposed port of
departure for the Far East.

The exhibition "China Express," 40 images from that journey, is part of this
year's Dollar Bank Three Rivers Arts Festival at the Trust Arts Education
Center, 805 Liberty Ave., Downtown. Mr. Tapp will attend a public reception
there from 5 to 7 p.m. Friday and will speak about his work at 1 p.m. Saturday.

Mr. Tapp had a successful career as a commercial photographer in Seattle for two
and a half decades. Then 9/11 happened. He'd previously scheduled appointments
with some art directors in New York City for the week after and called to
cancel, but they encouraged him to come. "Being there shook my world like
nothing else," he said.

It made him want to find a way to give back using his photographic skills and
life experience.

In 2002 Mr. Tapp closed his studio and moved to Santa Fe, N.M. A year later he
visited the massive coal-burning Four Corners Power Plant in that state and
learned about its effect on the environment and on residents of the Navajo
Indian Reservation it is built upon.

Mr. Tapp is a descendant of the Wicomico Tribe, originally located in Virginia,
and his "grandfather seven times back," its last chief, was present when the
Jamestown colonists arrived. The family name, Taptico, was Anglicized to Tapp.
He was born in 1946 in Long Beach, Calif.

He was 6 when his father gave him his first camera, and he worked his way
through college as a wedding photographer. After graduation he became a ranger
at Mt. Rainier National Park, assigned to document environmental changes in the
backcountry.

For three years in the late 1970s Mr. Tapp was assistant to famed American
photographer and environmentalist Ansel Adams, which he deems "a flat- out
incredible experience." His biggest take away was a story Mr. Adams told about
tucking a stack of photographic prints under his arm and traveling to Washington
to lobby for the formation of Kings Canyon National Park. "The people in D.C.
told him they didn't have a clue [such a beautiful canyon] was even there." The
California park was established in 1940.

In 2005 Mr. Tapp founded the non-profit Question of Power with the mission of
creating visual voices for individuals, families and communities affected by the
mining, transportation and consumption of coal across America
(www.questionofpower.org). In 2011 he rode his Harley the length of fabled Route
66 to raise awareness for the organization's work.

"There are stories written related to how we mine, extract, transport and burn
waste materials from coal. The problems addressed include climate change and
pollution. We seem to leave out of the equation the human element. It's an
untold story of the effect on lower-income people and native American
reservation lands," he said.

Mr. Tapp has photographed, among others, a cancer-ravaged Oklahoma town near a
coal combustion waste disposal site, one of 400 in the U.S., and the effluent of
a coal ash spill in Tennessee that was removed with regulatory care and later
dumped openly near a poor black community in Alabama.

Question of Power also creates educational curriculum materials for kindergarten
through university classes and has created a mentorship program for young
photographers of impacted communities. Mr. Tapp's photographs are being used as
supporting evidence in four U.S. federal court litigations.

He began the "China Express" project with research. "Research is one thing.
Being on the ground is another, where you realize what a huge game changer this
is for all of us."

"China Express" images depict open pit coal mines in Wyoming that are 60 miles
long and 10 miles wide, powdered coal that falls off train cars by hundreds of
pounds a year and collects four to six-inches deep on vineyards and reservation
land, and a pristine shore that has been a Lummi Nation burial site for 3,500
years and is a proposed terminal location for deep water freighters.

Lummi Nation master carver Jewell James created a totem pole that was driven
along the train route in September to raise awareness and strengthen opposition
to the coal terminal. After Sept. 11, Mr. James carved and delivered totem poles
to each of the attack sites, including Shanksville, to help the American Nation
heal its wounds.

Mr. Tapp said he is not an activist or an environmentalist, but rather a
documentary photographer working in the tradition of the likes of Dorothea Lange
and Eugene Smith. He doesn't dismiss the possibility of using coal in a cleaner
way, he said. "I don't look for the negative element. I strive to document the
human condition.

"What it boils down to is what do I see several generations from now. I'm from a
school that says somehow that's not right. I want people to ask 'Why is this
happening? Why don't I know about it?' I'm just here to say this is what's going
on."

"China Express" is open from noon to 8 p.m. through June 15. Admission is free.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: WEEKEND MAG / THREE RIVERS ARTS FESTIVAL / Post-Gazette art critic Mary
Thomas: mthomas@post-gazette.com or 412-263-1925. /

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The largest open pit coal mines in the world are in the Powder
River Basin in Wyoming. The mines cover an area 60 miles long by 10 miles wide.
Early winter of 2013 photojournalist Carlan Tapp began a 1,200-mile motorcycle
trip from Wyoming to Washington along the route of coal trains carrying the
black gold from its point of extraction to its proposed port of departure for
the Far East. His images make up the exhibition "China Express," which is part
of the Three Rivers Arts Festival. \
PHOTO: Jay Julius, Lummi tribal official: "The salmon are our buffalo. We are
walking on the stones our ancestors walked on 3,500 years ago." The image by
Carlan Tapp is part of the exhibition "China Express."

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2014 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              291 of 454 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                              July 25, 2014 Friday
                            PITTSBURGH PRESS EDITION

SCIENTISTS UNLOCK SECRETS TO BOOST METABOLISM \ FINDINGS HIGHLIGHT BENEFITS OF
EXERCISE AND LOWER TEMPERATURES

BYLINE: Marni Jameson, Orlando Sentinel

SECTION: HEALTH SCIENCE MEDICINE & TECHNOLOGY; Pg. A-2

LENGTH: 817 words


What's the best way to boost your metabolism and burn more fat? That's the holy
grail for metabolic researchers and for many Americans. Orlando, Fla.,
scientists are at the forefront of some of the most promising research in the
field.

A heart hormone, the "caveman diet" and cooler spaces are all potentially
promising ways to burn more fat, these scientists say. Long-term, their
discoveries could help reverse the nation's twin epidemics of obesity and
diabetes. Short-term, their findings can help consumers boost metabolism now.

A person's metabolism determines how many calories he burns, and many factors
affect it, said Dr. Steve Smith, scientific director for the Florida
Hospital-Sanford Burnham Translational Research Institute.

"If we can increase thermogenesis, or the body's ability to burn calories and
stored fat, we could stave off obesity and its many related ills," Dr. Smith
said.

One metabolism-boosting secret may lie in a hormone the heart naturally
produces, said obesity researcher Sheila Collins, a professor at the Institute.

Natriuretic peptides, which the heart muscle makes when it perceives high blood
pressure and during exercise, appear to turn on the body's fat-burning
mechanisms, Ms. Collins said.

These peptides also help the body excrete salt, which lowers elevated blood
pressure. Thus, doctors have used a biologic form to treat patients who have
congestive heart failure. Autopsy studies inadvertently revealed that patients
who had been given this treatment had unusually high levels of "brown fat."

A desirable, active type of fat that actually helps burn fat, brown fat is not
like white fat, which is inactive. Everybody has some brown fat, said Ms.
Collins, who, like others, is looking for ways to activate and make more of it.

Ms. Collins tested natriuretic peptides in mice and found the peptides boosted
their levels of brown fat.

Taking Ms. Collins' work from the lab to the clinic, Dr. Richard Pratley,
director of the Florida Hospital Diabetes Institute, in Orlando, and TRI
investigator, is looking to see whether it holds true in humans. He is
administering natriuretic peptides to 40 healthy volunteers: 20 lean and 20
obese. He will then measure changes in their brown fat.

If outcomes look good, long-term infusions to improve metabolism and manage
obesity may not be far away, Dr. Pratley said.

What you can do now: Do anything that increases your heart rate, which will
release these cardiac peptides. "There is no escaping the fact that we have to
exercise," Ms. Collins said.

Another TRI study underway is comparing the effects on metabolism of a
low-carbohydrate diet and the typical American diet.

Studies have shown that a low-carb diet is more effective than a low-fat diet
for losing weight and lowering insulin, but "something about eating a low-carb
diet causes people to burn more calories in ways we don't yet understand," said
Dr. Smith.

To learn why, his team will study men who will live in a rigidly controlled
environment at the TRI. For four weeks they will eat a standard American diet of
50 percent carbohydrates, 15 percent protein and 35 percent fat.

They will go through the same drill again, only during the second four-week
period, they will eat a very-low-carbohydrate diet consisting of 5 percent
carbohydrates, 15 percent protein and 80 percent fat. In both diets the calorie
content will be identical and matched to the subject's caloric needs.

The study, funded by the Nutrition Science Initiative, a San Diego-based
nonprofit that aims to understand how nutrition changes health, is also being
conducted at three other centers across the country. The four centers will
collate their findings, said Dr. Smith, who aims to have some answers by
Thanksgiving.

What you can do now: Cut carbs, and eat more healthy fats and proteins. In other
words, "Go paleo," said Ms. Collins. "Cavemen didn't have many carbs around."

Seeking comfort is only human, which is why few of us choose to be cold or hot
if we have a choice.

"We self-select for comfortable climates," said Dr. Smith. "In environments
where our bodies are not trying to get warmer or cooler, we burn the fewest
calories."

What's more, being cold can wake up brown fat, studies show. A study published
recently in PubMed, an online database of the National Institutes of Health,
found that subjects who slept in a cool room increased their brown fat, compared
with those who slept in rooms that were more moderate or warm.

"When we're cold, we activate the brown fat we have," said Ms. Collins. "When we
get cold, shivering is the first response. As people adapt, nonshivering
mechanisms take over, and that involves the activation of brown fat, which goes
into overdrive to keep the body warm."

What you can do now: Forget the sweater. If you feel a little chill, try to
endure. Try sleeping in a cooler room, swimming in a cooler pool and taking a
cool shower, Ms. Collins said.

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Stephen M. Dowell/Orlando Sentinel: Dr. Sheila Collins, upper
left, Dr. Zuzana Kovacova, upper right, and Dr. Denny Liu, bottom, analyze
tissue samples at the Sanford Burnham Medical Research Institute in Lake Nona,
Fla.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2014 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              300 of 454 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                           December 3, 2014 Wednesday
                            PITTSBURGH PRESS EDITION

CURBING FOSSIL FUEL USE NOT THE WAY TO GO

BYLINE: Alex Epstein

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A-8

LENGTH: 671 words


Here's a question for Pennsylvanians to ponder: Is it good that your state
generates 61 percent of its electricity from fossil fuels?

I'd wager that most of you would say no. So would many of the politicians and
bureaucrats directing America's energy policy. This was on full display earlier
this month, when President Obama announced that the United States and China have
reached an agreement to limit both countries' carbon dioxide emissions, which
primarily come from fossil fuels. Such efforts have broad support from the
general public - one recent poll shows that 51 percent of voters want to reduce
fossil-fuel usage, while only 22 percent want to increase their use.

But the 22 percent are on to something. I've spent the better part of my life
researching fossil fuels - pros and cons - and have come to an inescapable
conclusion: Fossil fuels are morally praiseworthy - and our lives would be
better if we ramped up their use.

To understand why, we have to take a step back and look at fossil fuels in the
scope of human history. The energy sources that fall into this category - oil,
coal, and natural gas - played little to no role in mankind's cultural or
economic development until the late 1700s and early 1800s. Only then did
humanity recognize fossil fuels' potential to generate power. That power, in
turn, was used to create the technological and economic advances that took us
from no indoor plumbing to landing on the moon in less than 200 years.

The trend is striking: Increased fossil fuel use correlates with every positive
metric of human well-being - from life expectancy to income to nourishment to
clean-water access to safety.

The last few decades demonstrate this trend most clearly. Fossil-fuel usage has
been steadily growing across the world - in America, it has risen by 25 percent
since the 1970s. Developing countries like China and India have driven that
growth more than any other countries, using fossil fuels to power their
economies. At the same time, they lifted billions of people out of poverty - an
unprecedented feat in human history.

Fossil fuels have also helped improve the world's access to clean water.
According to World Bank data, access to clean water increased from 76 percent of
the world population in 1990 to 89 percent in 2012.This seems counterintuitive,
but technological advances in pollution reduction were actually enabled by
cheap, fossil fuel-generated energy.

Put another way, fossil fuels powered the innovation that ultimately limits
their own environmental drawbacks.

We're also safer than at any point in history thanks to oil, coal, and natural
gas. Climate-related deaths are down 98 percent over the last 80 years. Last
year saw a record low of 21,122 such deaths worldwide, compared with a high of
3.7 million in 1931, when world population was less than a third of its current
size. Thank sturdy homes, heating, air-conditioning, mass-irrigation,
drought-relief convoys, and advance warning systems - all made possible by
fossil fuel-generated energy.

That is the most important point of all: All human progress depends on
innovation, which depends on energy. Affordable and abundant energy is thus the
cornerstone of human progress. And fossil fuels are the most affordable and
abundant of all - alternative energy sources are either too expensive, too
difficult to access, or simply inefficient.

Fossil fuels thus have a profound moral importance. They allow us to improve
human well-being and make the world a better place. For this reason, fossil
fuels are likely to power the innovation that ultimately addresses climate
change itself.

But that won't happen if America and other rich, industrialized nations continue
their crusade against cheap and affordable energy. No matter how praiseworthy it
seems, curbing fossil fuel use will only deny the developing world the
opportunities that led to our own wealth and health - and it will also prevent
us from building on the progress that has made the 21st century the best period
in human history to be alive.

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Alex Epstein is president of the Center of Industrial Progress and author
of "The Moral Case for Fossil Fuels" (Portfolio/Penguin), released Nov. 13. He
wrote this for The Philadelphia Inquirer.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2014 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              306 of 454 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                           January 18, 2014 Saturday
                                 SOONER EDITION

PUTIN: GAYS SAFE AT OLYMPICS IF THEY 'LEAVE KIDS ALONE';
HUMAN RIGHTS AN ISSUE AT WINTER GAMES BECAUSE RUSSIA PASSED 'PROPAGANDA' LAW

BYLINE: Kathy Lally, The Washington Post

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. A-14

LENGTH: 731 words


MOSCOW -- President Vladimir Putin said Friday that gay people have nothing to
fear in Russia as long as they leave children alone.

Mr. Putin met Friday with a group of volunteers in the Olympic mountain venue at
Krasnaya Polyana to wish them success at the Games. During a question-and-answer
session, one volunteer asked him about Russia's attitudes toward gays, a subject
that has provoked worldwide controversy, and Mr. Putin offered what was
apparently meant to be a reassuring answer for visitors to the Olympics.

"One can feel calm and at ease," he said. "Just leave kids alone, please."

That phrasing -- with its intimation that gays might prey on children -- hardly
seems the kind of guarantee sought by the United States and other Western
governments and human rights activists.

Gay rights have become a contentious issue at the Olympics, which begin Feb. 7,
because Russia passed a law last year prohibiting the "propaganda of
nontraditional sexual practices" among minors.

The law has been used to ban gay rights parades -- children might see them --
and to curb discussion of gay issues on television and in newspapers for fear
that those younger than 18 might hear or read about homosexuality. Teachers
ignore the subject, isolating gay teenagers.

Some have interpreted the law as encouragement to beat up on gays. And there has
been talk of taking children away from gay parents.

Sarah Kate Ellis, president of GLAAD, a U.S. advocacy group, said her heart went
out to gay and lesbian families who had to live under harsh Russian laws. "Mr.
Putin can peddle fear and misinformation, but the global community is
increasingly siding with equality for all people," she said.

The law has provoked deep concern in the United States and other Western
nations, where it is seen as a human rights infringement. European leaders have
decided to stay away from the Winter Games, and President Barack Obama sent a
protest message by choosing a delegation to represent him that includes Billie
Jean King, a well-known gay athlete.

"I think the best thing that can be done is that the media continue to shine a
light on this issue," said Norman Bellingham, former chief executive of the U.S.
Olympic Committee. "There is always the hope that having the Games in an
environment brings the full force of the world's media on the issues in that
particular country or region."

The International Olympic Committee has steadfastly refused to criticize Russia,
saying it believes its assurances that there will be no discrimination. But
activists think otherwise.

"Putin's promise that gay and lesbian Olympians and spectators will be safe in
Sochi is meant to distract from his country's oppression of its LGBT citizens,"
said Andrew Miller, a member of Queer Nation, a gay rights group based in New
York. "That gays are dangerous to children is an obvious lie meant to justify
his violation of the human rights of gay men and women. We are not fooled, and
neither is the world."

Children are everywhere, said Julianne Howell, reached at home in Loveland,
Ohio, where she has organized a petition drive on Change.org to persuade
sponsors to drop their support of the Olympics to protest the gay law. "Simply
being gay in front of children is wrong under the law. It means you can't be
yourself."

In speaking to a room full of volunteers dressed in their Sochi warm-up gear,
Mr. Putin attempted to put Russia on higher moral ground than other countries.
Homosexuality is not a crime in Russia, as it was in the Soviet Union.
Homosexuality was legalized in 1993. Police, he said, do not pluck gays off the
street. In the United States, he asserted, some states impose criminal penalties
for homosexual relations. Not Russia, he said. (In 2003, the U.S. Supreme Court
declared that laws prohibiting gay sex were unconstitutional.)

"We have no ban on the nontraditional forms of sexual intercourse among people,"
Mr. Putin said in remarks carried by the Interfax news service. "We have the ban
on the propaganda of homosexuality and pedophilia. I want to stress this:
propaganda among minors. These are two absolutely different things: a ban on
certain relations or the propaganda of such relations."

One more question: Why, a volunteer asked, do Russia's Olympic uniforms contain
the colors of the rainbow, the rainbow being a symbol of gay rights? Don't ask
him, the president said. "I didn't design the uniform."

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2014 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              311 of 454 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                             March 6, 2014 Thursday
                                 SOONER EDITION

BYLINE: From staff and wire reports

SECTION: BUSINESS; BUSINESS BRIEFS; Pg. D-1

LENGTH: 528 words


Pa. ranked first in facilities

Norcross, Ga.,-based corporate real estate publication Site Selection has ranked
Pennsylvania first in the Northeast for new corporate facilities created last
year. In 2013, Pennsylvania finished fourth in the nation with 348 new or
expanded corporate facilities.

Ampco loses $1.5M in Q4

Ampco-Pittsburgh reported a fourth quarter loss of $1.5 million, or 14 cents per
share, citing the writedown of the value of its Chinese joint venture that
resulted in an aftertax charge of $4.2 million, or 40 cents per share. Sales
were flat at $77.1 million. In the year-ago quarter, the Pittsburgh industrial
products company earned $3.3 million, or 32 cents per share. For all of 2013,
net income rose 49 percent to $12.4 million despite a 4 percent drop in sales.

GM documents demanded

U.S. safety regulators are demanding that General Motors turn over documents and
other data showing what and when the company knew about a dangerous ignition
problem that has been linked to 13 car-crash deaths. The National Highway
Traffic Safety Administration is investigating how GM handled the problem, which
triggered the global recall of 1.6 million compact cars. GM has acknowledged it
knew of the ignition troubles a decade ago but didn't recall the cars until last
month. GM says a heavy key ring or jarring from rough roads can cause the
ignition switch in the recalled vehicles to shut off the engine and electrical
power, including power-assisted brakes and steering and the front air bags.

Still writing paper checks?

In the face of more mobile and online banking options, nearly 40 percent of
Americans say they never have reason to write a paper check, according to a
survey by GoBankingRates.com. The 18-24 age group was the most likely to never
write checks, while men were more likely than women to have severed all ties
with checks, the survey found. Another 20 percent of respondents said they only
write checks a few times a year.

Target exec resigns

The chief information officer of Target Corp., Beth M. Jacob, resigned Wednesday
as the retail giant overhauls its information security and compliance operations
amid investigations into a damaging network break-in late last year. The company
provided a copy of Ms. Jacob's resignation letter, dated March 5, in which she
wrote "this is a good time for a change."

CSX fined over derailments

The New York state Department of Transportation has fined CSX Railroad $10,000,
saying it failed to report two oil train derailments within an hour of when they
happened as required by state law. A Feb. 25 derailment in Kingston involved
empty rail cars that had contained crude oil. A Feb. 28 derailment at the
Selkirk yard near Albany involved a train loaded with crude oil. The cars
remained upright and nothing spilled.

Service-sector index falls

The Institute for Supply Management said Wednesday that its service-sector index
fell to 51.6 in February from 54 in January as the harsh winter took its toll.
Any reading above 50 indicates expansion. A measure for hiring plunged 8.9
percentage points to 47.5, raising concern that the February jobs report the
government will release Friday could disappoint.

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: /

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2014 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              321 of 454 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            June 25, 2014 Wednesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

A BANG-UP JOB;
TOWER AT PNC PLAZA WORKERS LAUDED AT CEREMONY FOR FINE WORK IN HARSH CONDITIONS

BYLINE: Mark Belko, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. A-8

LENGTH: 893 words


They endured bone-chilling cold that froze tools to their gloves, icy winds that
turned sheets of corrugated steel into sails, and snow that barreled after them
even through elevator shafts.

Through the most brutal of winters, ironworkers, carpenters and other tradesmen
erected the 33-story Tower at PNC Plaza on Wood Street one beam at a time, one
floor at a time.

And on Tuesday, they paused on a warm, sun-splashed day far different than those
they endured only a few short months ago to celebrate a milestone, as the last
beam for Downtown's newest skyscraper was moved into place.

With hard hats on and their cell phones recording the moment, scores of
construction workers watched from the ground as the beam - trimmed with an
American flag, the traditional evergreen tree and a broom to signify a clean
sweep without a major accident - was hoisted by crane to its spot at the top of
the skyscraper, the new global headquarters for PNC Financial Services Group.

Earlier in the morning, each of them, more than 200 in all, signed the beam to
record for posterity that they had worked on the $400 million project, billed as
the world's greenest sky-rise. PNC officials and other dignitaries later
followed suit.

For some workers, it was a special moment, particularly after battling snow,
wind and teeth-rattling temperatures for months.

"It's not too often you get to build a skyscraper in Pittsburgh," said Michael
Jackson, 33, an ironworker from Bethel Park. "It's nice to be part of something
like this."

Mr. Jackson has been part of the "deck gang" that has been laying corrugated
steel floors as beams are put into place. During the winter, the wind and the
cold made for a tough day on the job.

"You're dragging 30-foot sheets that weigh a couple hundred pounds, you and your
buddy, walking the iron doing that. You get those gusts of wind. No matter how
heavy the sheet is, the wind trumps all. It turns everything into a giant sail,"
he said.

Philip Charles Fleck, 51, of Portersville, Pa., has done elevator work on
skyscrapers in Hawaii and Denver but has a special fondness for the Tower at PNC
Plaza.

"It's a worldwide prestigious job. All eyes are on a job such as this - the
greenest building in the world for air flow, for sun, for solar power. You've
got to be proud to be involved in the elevator system," he said.

Not that it's been easy. During the winter, tools got so cold that they would
stick to wet gloves, he said, adding "there's nothing like snow coming down the
hatch when you're trying to work."

During his remarks, William Demchak, PNC chairman, president and CEO, thanked
the "incredible" men and women who worked on the project through two harsh
winters and two summers.

The new building, he said, rose to the level of his office across the street at
Wood and Fifth Avenue during the winter, giving him a firsthand look at the work
taking place.

"I never thought in my life that I would actually see sort of the greatness that
built America right in front of my eyes," he said. "I watched it all winter
long. I watched these guys through the polar vortex and frozen steel plates.
They come to work when the snow is blowing straight through one side of the
building and out the other. It caused me to be unproductive some days as I
watched you guys, worrying about you."

Despite the miserable winter, the building is still on schedule to be finished
next summer. Overall, with the placement of the last beam, it is 48 percent
complete. About 2,200 PNC employees will move into the office tower at the end
of 2015.

By its completion, the project will have created about 2,500 construction jobs.
The building itself will host a slew of green features, including a solar
chimney that will help to heat and ventilate the space, and a double-skinned
facade, the only one of its kind in the United States, that will allow PNC to
bring fresh air inside.

With such innovations and its cutting-edge design, Gary Saulson, PNC's director
of corporate real estate, said he expects the building to be at least 50 percent
more energy efficient than the typical skyscraper. That will save money and
provide employees and customers with a better environment, he said.

PNC angled the tower to optimize the use of sunlight and studied pollution and
pollen counts over the last 10 years to determine when to allow fresh air into
the building. Mr. Saulson estimated PNC will be able to do so 42 percent of the
time each year.

Another amenity will be an indoor park on the 28th floor featuring greenery,
comfortable seating, a conference center and an outdoor patio.

"I think it's fantastic for our employees. I think it's terrific for Pittsburgh.
The change that we've seen in Downtown as we've sort of expanded along with the
city is phenomenal," Mr. Demchak said.

PNC will bring employees from other buildings in the city into the new
headquarters or its surrounding campus. Mr. Saulson doesn't believe the
consolidation will create vacancies elsewhere in the market, noting that he
already has talked to tenants interested in moving into space that PNC will be
vacating.

For Mike Short, a 25-year-old laborer from Millvale, the building has more
personal significance. It marks the first skyscraper he has worked on - and in
his hometown to boot.

"It's something that comes around once in a lifetime," he said. "It's nice
building the city up, changing the skyline."

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Mark Belko: mbelko@post-gazette.com or 412-263-1262.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Bob Donaldson/Post-Gazette photos: THE CHERRY ON TOP/The final
steel beam for the 33-story Tower at PNC Plaza is lifted into place Tuesday
during the topping off ceremony in Downtown Pittsburgh.
PHOTO: Ironworker Kirk Galloway signs the final steel beam for the 33-story
Tower at PNC Plaza during the topping off ceremony.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2014 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              323 of 454 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                              July 20, 2014 Sunday
                                TWO STAR EDITION

HERB DOUGLAS: AN AGELESS FORCE;
AT 92, OLYMPIAN FROM HAZELWOOD STILL PROSELYTIZING FOR GREATNESS

BYLINE: J. Brady McCollough, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. A-1

LENGTH: 2355 words


Nothing about Herb Douglas feels 92 as he walks the halls of the University of
Pittsburgh on a recent May morning. He is on campus to meet with Steve Pederson,
the school's athletic director, who welcomes him into his office like an old
pal.

Mr. Douglas couldn't have met with a key decision-maker like Mr. Pederson when
he was a star athlete at Pitt in the 1940s. He certainly wouldn't have owned
this snazzy gray blazer and shiny watch back then. He gets a kick out of how far
he has come -- how the son of a blind man in segregated Hazelwood came to be a
trusted friend of so many influential people.

Mr. Douglas discusses his latest project as sunlight sprays the room. Ideas
always seem to grow once they're in his hands, and this one hits particularly
close to home. It started with his childhood idol, Jesse Owens, and the concern
he and Mr. Pederson shared over the realization that many people knew little or
nothing of Mr. Owens' legacy. "I said to Herb, 'We can't let that drift away,' "
Mr. Pederson says.

Mr. Owens and the other heroes of the 1936 Berlin Olympics were the men who
inspired a teenage Herb Douglas. He and Mr. Pederson talked about making a short
film.

"Herb never does anything at 30 miles an hour," Mr. Pederson says. "We only go
150 miles an hour. Next thing I know ... ."

Mr. Douglas was assembling a team that could help them get the job done. "The
Renaissance Period of the African American in Sports" is 22 minutes of history
that Mr. Douglas hopes will engage viewers in colleges and universities across
the country starting this fall. It premiered May 15 at the Walter Reade Theater
at Lincoln Center in New York City. (Pitt and Moet Hennessy, where Mr. Douglas
worked for many years, sponsored the film.)

Mr. Pederson says the legacy doesn't stop with the men in the film. He rattles
off the facts about his friend: Herbert Douglas Jr., bronze medalist in the long
jump in the 1948 London Olympics, the oldest living black Olympic medalist, the
third African-American to rise to the level of vice president of a national
company, a man whose influence has brought him into contact with everyone from
heads of state like Nelson Mandela and George H.W. Bush to famous entertainers
like Nat King Cole.

"Herb is always putting somebody else out front as the star, but he can't fight
it anymore," he says. "Because everybody wants to say 'Thank you' to him."

"Do I have a good PR guy?" Mr. Douglas says with a laugh. "I've got the best,
I'm telling you!"

"If you want to see something great," Mr. Pederson says, "go to YouTube and type
in 'Herb Douglas dances on his 90th birthday.' "

It was a night to remember. Mr. Douglas had been collecting friends for decades,
and he wouldn't invest in just anybody. They had to be driven like him, people
who would not be content with mediocrity. And here they all were, about 200
strong, filling up a room in the Heinz History Center.

When Stevie Wonder's "Happy Birthday" began to play, he put on his glasses and
walked to the stage. He swayed, up there all by himself in a black suit,
gyrating his hips, taking in the clapping and the laughter, a human antidote to
the fear of aging. After three minutes, he motioned for his friends to join him.
So there were Pittsburgh football dignitaries Franco Harris and Tony Dorsett,
Olympic gold medalists Edwin Moses and Roger Kingdom, and others, giving it a
go, too. Mr. Moses even did the moonwalk. Of course, Mr. Douglas was the last
man dancing.

Despite all the love, there was something missing. Only one member of his blood
family attended. His daughter was in Europe, where she had lived for 50 years,
and his son was in Florida. They don't talk very often. "My public life has been
real good," he says, back in Mr. Pederson's office. "My private life ... ."

There is no easy way of explaining it, how he has influenced countless others
but rarely his own children, grandchildren and great-grandchildren.

"I would say this," Mr. Pederson says. "He's got the biggest family in the
world. Because everybody in this department considers him family. We've all
learned so much from him. We've all been the beneficiaries."

A family splintered

On Aug. 4, 1927, the day Mr. Douglas' younger sister was born, his father got in
the car in front of their Hazelwood Avenue home to drive to meet his baby girl,
Barbara. Herb Sr. had a massive stroke that day, leading to the loss of his
sight. He knew what 5-year-old Herb Jr. looked like, but he'd never glimpse his
daughter.

Herb Sr. was not himself for about a year. He thought about ending it all. He
had been a man with such a keen eye for opportunity, making connections as a
chauffeur for one of Pittsburgh's political families, the Lawrences. They
pointed him in the direction of owning his own parking garage in Shadyside. Herb
Jr. watched all of it -- his father getting a guide dog that helped him back to
an active life one step at a time; his mother, Ilessa, running a tight house and
keeping even tighter books at the garage; the family living well during an era
when African-Americans faced so many restrictions. And as the years went by,
Herb Sr. developed a motto he'd pass along to his son: If he did these four
things -- Analyze! Organize! Initiate a plan! Follow through! -- then nobody
could stop him.

Herb Jr. had family role models, but not many in the world at large. At around 9
years old, he had started running track. He was awfully fast, but where was he
going? He needed someone to show him.

In 1936, Jesse Owens stared down Adolph Hitler and the Nazis by winning four
gold medals; he left the Berlin Olympics with German crowds chanting his name.
After Mr. Owens returned, he came to Pittsburgh to campaign for a politician.
Herb's mother took her 14-year-old son to see him. Herb's mind was really
churning. The Olympics: a plan. But now he had to follow through.

After graduating from Allderdice High School, he got a scholarship to run at
Xavier University of Louisiana, a historically black institution. After a year,
though, the United States had joined in World War II, and that meant Herb Sr.
didn't have enough young men around to help him at the garage. Herb Jr. came
home, working dawn to dusk each day while continuing his training at an armory
at night. After a few years, Pitt offered him a spot on the football and track
and field teams. As one of the best young athletes in the world, he would
eventually earn a scholarship.

Soon, he would board a ship headed for the 1948 London Olympics. It was
happening just as he'd seen it. He took bronze in the long jump with a mark of
24 feet, 9 inches. But, once he was back home with that medal around his neck,
it was odd: His parents did not celebrate him. A seed was planted, that
greatness was expected from him, and he would pass that mentality along to his
own children.

He now had a daughter, Joy, and a son, Herb III. Their mother and he didn't get
along, and she had run away to Montgomery, Ala., to find another husband. In
1950, he got a sales job with the Pabst Brewing Co., marketing its products
across the segregated South. While working and traveling the "Chitlin' Circuit"
of black-only hotels, venues and clubs, he'd see his children when he could, and
during the summers he'd take them on trips to Pittsburgh and Florida.

"I would expose them to everybody, Nat King Cole, Sugar Ray Robinson," Mr.
Douglas says. "That would only make their mother jealous. They'd go back and
tell her what a great time they had."

Joy would remember the fun times, sure. She would also remember how her father
wouldn't just let them enjoy swimming. They had to swim with perfect form. He'd
make them race against each other, too. "We were sort of like the Kennedy
family," Joy says. "We had to win. But this is the American culture."

Mr. Douglas wouldn't tolerate his kids not achieving as he did. He felt they
needed that Douglas vision, but as they grew older, he knew he was losing them.

"He's just not a very warm person," Joy says.

Mr. Douglas had moved up the corporate chain, being hired at Schieffelin & Co.
(now Moet Hennessy USA), where he'd later rise to vice president, showing that a
black man could make it in America if he just knew how to mine for the proper
solutions to his problems. But the first chance his daughter got to live on her
own, after graduating from college, she left for Europe and never came back.

"I was raised to believe I was worth something as a person," Joy says. "I didn't
want my children growing up with this racial problem."

Says Mr. Douglas: "She's more accepted over there than she was here. I did the
best I could. They weren't with me. They were in Alabama."

Picking his team

Mr. Douglas knew what he had to offer future generations, and he also had the
ability to see where he was needed.

In 1976, before the Montreal Olympics, he met a talented young sprinter named
Edwin Moses at a training camp. Mr. Moses, who attended Morehouse College in
Atlanta, was becoming bitter because the city's newspaper would not write about
his exploits. Mr. Douglas fixed that.

"He intervened on my behalf," Mr. Moses says. "He made it all happen."

Everybody would pay attention to him after he won the Olympic gold in the
400-meter hurdles in Montreal and eight years later in Los Angeles. Mr. Moses
lost his father in '83, and by that point, Mr. Douglas was so close to Mr. Moses
that he could step right in. He encouraged Mr. Moses to go to medical school,
but when he didn't choose that path, Mr. Douglas brought him onto the staff that
put on the annual Jesse Owens International Athlete Trophy award banquet that he
had started in the early '80s to honor his friend.

It was about that time that Mr. Douglas was called back to Pitt to talk with
football and track athlete Roger Kingdom, who was struggling with the transition
to college life.

"He didn't even talk about athletics at all," Mr. Kingdom says. "His major focus
was on me as a person, me getting my degree from the University of Pittsburgh,
and what I planned on doing with that degree. He followed my career. He tracked
me. If he hadn't heard from me, he would call me. He had that sixth sense just
like a parent to know that something was going on."

Mr. Kingdom would win Olympic gold in the 110-meter hurdles in Los Angeles in
1984 and Seoul four years later. That was great, sure, but Mr. Douglas was
always thinking a few moves ahead. "When he talks to you about being successful,
he doesn't talk to you about just getting a regular job," Mr. Kingdom says. "He
talks about you getting a job making six or seven figures and gives you a
blueprint on how to do that."

The blueprint was simple, what it had always been: Analyze! Organize! Initiate a
plan! Follow through!

So in the mid-1990s, Mr. Douglas tried to get a meeting with Mark Nordenberg,
the new chancellor at Pitt. Mr. Nordenberg didn't know much about him, but he
took the meeting.

They went to lunch, and Mr. Douglas, who now lived in Philadelphia, was offering
him a chance to be a part of his newly formed Jesse Owens Global Award for
Peace, which honored those who had a transcendent impact on the world beyond
athletics. He got Mr. Nordenberg's support.

"He is a visionary," Mr. Nordenberg says. "What you learn when you become
involved with people who have not only been highly successful in competitive
athletics but who have broken barriers along the way is that they keep breaking
barriers, and they find ways to make life even richer and more fulfilling."

Within a few years, Mr. Mandela would win the award. Because the South African
president could not clear his schedule to travel to New York to accept the
award, Mr. Douglas planned a trip to Johannesburg in 1999 and invited Mr.
Nordenberg to go with him. They met Mr. Mandela at his house.

Mr. Douglas never stopped adding to his network. He met Mr. Harris about five
years ago at an event at the Heinz History Center, and now they talk frequently.
Mr. Harris has enjoyed learning about Mr. Douglas' journey out of Hazelwood to
the international stage.

"That's a great Pittsburgh story," he says. "With Herb, you really don't think
about age. It just doesn't really fit into the conversation. I'm in awe in so
many ways with that. But once again, we still have to be realistic. We know that
he is more the exception rather than the rule, but at least it gives you hope to
say, 'Hey, maybe I can be the exception also.'"

Mr. Douglas swims at least a few times a week. He has been known to drive from
Philadelphia to New York and Pittsburgh. He uses an iPad. He is easy to reach by
cell phone or email. In all things, he still moves with grace and ease, and
maybe it shouldn't come as a surprise. His mother lived to 96, his father to 91.

His friends always think back to that 90th birthday party, the way he danced and
persuaded others to join him.

"He's a very quiet and powerful force," Mr. Moses says. "If he had to put an
army together, he'd have a great army. People will follow him."

Still striving

On that May morning at Pitt, Mr. Douglas wants to show you something. He takes
an escalator down at the Petersen Events Center, to Pitt's McCarl Hall of
Champions. There used to be a large picture of him jumping at the Olympics. He
looks through the glass, and he can't find it.

"They've taken it down, I think," he says.

He's visibly disappointed. At his age, every token of appreciation matters. He
still has the large mural painted on the brick wall on Hazelwood Avenue by
Second Avenue, and the Heinz History Center has created a place for him.

As for his legacy, he says it now lies in the hands of younger men like Messrs.
Moses, Kingdom, Pederson, Nordenberg and Harris.

He is proud of Joy, too. She worked in the United Nations for decades in Denmark
and Austria. From afar, she sees her father still striving in the corporate
world, and, while conflicted, she believes it comes from a genuine spot in his
heart. His strained relationship with her and her brother was a sacrifice he
chose to make.

"That's what it is," he says. "If they would have been with me, I wouldn't have
been energetic enough to really do these things that I've done, and this is the
path that God has prescribed me."

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: J. Brady McCollough: bmccollough@post-gazette.com and Twitter
@BradyMcCollough. /

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Herb Douglas takes off during one of his jumps at the 1948
Olympics. At 92, Mr. Douglas is the oldest living black Olympic medalist.
PHOTO: Herb Douglas, far right, waits at the podium to be awarded the bronze
medal for his performance in the long jump.
PHOTO: Nate Guidry/Post-Gazette: Herb Douglas looks on as University of
Pittsburgh athletic director Steve Pederson talks about Mr. Douglas' athletic
and professional accomplishments.
PHOTO: Hazelwood native Herb Douglas talks about winning the bronze medal in the
long jump at the 1948 Olympic Summer Games in London.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2014 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              330 of 454 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            January 10, 2014 Friday
                              Correction Appended
                                 SOONER EDITION

AS TEMPS SWING, SO DOES OUR WELL-BEING.\ \ EXTREME SHIFTS IN WEATHER CAN BE
HARMFUL TO OUR PHYSICAL, MENTAL HEALTH

BYLINE: David Templeton, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: HEALTH, SCIENCE, MEDICINE & TECHNOLOGY; Pg. A-1

LENGTH: 980 words


Dramatic swings in temperature this week help us to realize why weather can make
us sicker and crazier.

Biometeorology -- the study of weather's impact on living organisms including
humans -- uses different terminology but concludes that weather itself, but
specifically dramatic shifts in weather, can impact physical and even mental
health.

The good health news? Experiencing such horrible stretches of weather better
prepares us for what National Weather Service meteorologist Lee Hendricks said
is a strong likelihood of another cold snap this winter. The so-called polar
vortex, blamed for the sub-zero temperatures, could send us into another mental
and physical vortex before spring.

"It's a huge swing physiologically," Jennifer Vanos, a biometeorologist and
assistant professor of atmospheric science at Texas Tech University, said about
Tuesday's record low of minus 9 degrees Fahrenheit sandwiched by unseasonable
highs in the 50s. "People were not prepared. Physiologically, adapting is a
tough thing to do when you are used to certain weather day after day."

But if another cold snap occurs, "people will be prepared," she said, especially
for those 20 and under who never experienced such sub-zero temperatures. "They
will know what to do, how to dress, and it won't be as stressful."

Long airplane rides usually are necessary for such swings in temperature. It's
like flying round trip from Myrtle Beach, S.C., to the Yukon.

The Associated Press reported 21 deaths nationwide from the cold snap, most in
the Midwest. The normal high locally for early January is 36 degrees with a low
of 21. In the week ending Saturday, if the forecasted high of 52 holds true, the
region will have experienced a 61-degree swing. Last Monday alone saw a
temperature swing of 57 degrees -- 50 to minus 7, Mr. Hendricks said.

Along with potential dangers of extremely low temperatures, including
hypothermia, frostbite and blood vessel constriction leading to heart attacks,
quick shifts in barometric pressure, high or low, represents an unsuspected
health villain.

Ms. Vanos said people are most comfortable with barometric pressure of 30 inches
of mercury (inHg). When it quickly rises to 30.3 inHg or higher, or drops to
29.7 or lower, the risk of heart attack increases. High barometric pressure
constricts blood vessels, which hinders blood flow, while low pressure expands
blood vessels, making it more difficult for the heart to pump blood. The highest
prevalence of heart attacks occurs within 24 hours of swings of that magnitude
in barometric pressure, she said.

"That effect is strongest in the fall and winter," she said.

It's not yet known whether the rate of heart attacks increased this week.

Jack Boston, senior meteorologist at AccuWeather.com, said barometric pressure
rose from 29.77 inHg at 7 a.m. Monday to 30.36 inHg by 7 a.m. Tuesday.

Ms. Vanos, among others, says changes in barometric pressure also cause
headaches, migraines, arthritis, joint pain, and sinus and inner-ear problems.

But in an unexpected seasonal twist, Mississippi State University meteorologist
Grady Dixon said suicide rates drop during the winter. The peak season for
suicides is June, he said, but the reason remains a mystery.

"Usually the thing people are most interested in or surprised to hear is that
while people have depression in the cold, dark winter months, suicides around
the globe, with no exception, most commonly occur during the late spring and
early summer," he said. "It's the broken-promises effect. If you are clinically
depressed and have seasonal affective disorder, you expect spring to be better.
But if you are clinical ill, you probably won't get better in the spring when
you expect to feel better. It's not a weather effect but the lack of a weather
effect that causes the suicide."

January does bring the year's highest mortality rate, likely due to higher rates
of infections, including influenza deaths and other weather impacts on people,
especially the elderly.

The National Weather Service said temperatures will climb to the lower 40s
today, then to the low 50s on Saturday before dropping back to the low 40s on
Sunday. The weekend will feature drizzle, rain, freezing rain and snow, which
won't accumulate, with total precipitation of a half to three-quarters of an
inch.

Mr. Hendricks said this winter's weather extremes are occurring because we're in
a transition between el nino and la nina weather patterns, which are nearly
yearlong weather trends involving the heating and cooling of the north and
northeastern Pacific Ocean.

Despite the temperature extremes, with more likely to come, winter highs and
lows will average near normal by winter's end. We've also had more than double
the normal snowfall for the season, with 30.3 inches through Wednesday, as
compared to the normal of 13.5, he said.

Temperatures are expected to return to normal by Wednesday.

Weather and climate psychologist Alan E. Stewart of the University of Georgia
said men and women react differently to severe weather.

Women are more cautious than men. Maximizing reproduction requires caution, with
a slight tendency for expectant mothers to spend their final trimester during
late spring and summer months before giving birth in August or September. Winter
weather historically has posed harsh challenges for moms and babies to stay
warm, find food and avoid infections.

CDC statistics showed that 9 percent of all babies in 2010 were born in August
with 7.5 percent born in February. OK, the numbers aren't dramatic, but the
trend holds.

Men are a different story.

"Men take more weather-related risks than women, including driving across
roadways that have water flowing, or being outside during thermal extremes, or
not taking cover when thunder is heard and lightning is seen, or not sheltering
when there's word from the National Weather Service of a storm or tornado," said
Mr. Stewart.

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: David Templeton: dtempleton@post-gazette.com or 412-263-1578. /

CORRECTION-DATE: January 11, 2014



CORRECTION:  In a story Friday about the health effects of temperature shifts,
the swing of 57 degrees occurred from 12 a.m. Monday until 11:59 p.m. Monday. An
incorrect day was given in the story.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Harry Scull Jr./The Buffalo News: Lucas Hunter of Pittsburgh
walks to his hotel along Camp Road in Hamburg, N.Y. after a stretch of the New
York State thruway was closed Tuesday due to high winds. Data shows that extreme
fluctuations in temperatures and barometric pressures can have adverse effects
on health, especially among those with heart disease. \
INFORMATIONAL GRAPHIC: (Normal tempratures) (Barometic pressure)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2014 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              333 of 454 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                           January 15, 2014 Wednesday
                            PITTSBURGH PRESS EDITION

HOW OBAMA LOST HIS IDEALISM ON FOREIGN POLICY

BYLINE: Fred Hiatt

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A-8

LENGTH: 829 words


President Barack Obama's ambivalence about his own Afghanistan strategy,
described in a memoir by former defense secretary Bob Gates, should come as no
surprise. After all, when Mr. Obama went to West Point in 2009 to announce a
surge of troops, he also announced a date for their withdrawal, regardless of
whether they had accomplished their mission.

What Mr. Gates saw as a contradiction was, in fact, the beginning of a foreign
policy transformation that was still taking shape when Mr. Gates retired in
2011.

The president has evolved from someone who was perceived as - and maybe expected
himself to be - an inspiring world leader into one who may have the least
idealistic policy of any president in decades.

When he spoke to a vast crowd in Berlin as a presidential candidate in 2008, Mr.
Obama was expansive.

"America cannot turn inward," he declared. "This is the moment we must help
answer the call for a new dawn in the Middle East. . . . We must support the
Lebanese who have marched and bled for democracy. . . . We must come together to
save this planet. . . . With an eye toward the future, with resolve in our
hearts, let us remember this history, and answer our destiny, and remake the
world once again."

Five years later, Mr. Obama was explicitly declaring that promoting democracy
and human rights was not an American "core interest." He was dismissing the idea
of U.S. involvement in Syria, where 100,000 people had died and 6 million had
been forced from their homes, by labeling it "somebody else's civil war."

Mr. Obama had not become an isolationist. He continues to pursue ambitious trade
deals with Asia and Europe and a nuclear agreement with Iran. He wages the drone
war against terrorists.

But he had come a long way from standing with those who march and bleed for
democracy, preferring what he called "nation-building at home."

In retrospect, the Afghanistan troop surge represented the high-water mark of
the Berlin worldview. Mr. Obama's second thoughts can be seen in how he has
spoken of the Afghan mission ever since: almost always in terms of safeguarding
the United States from al-Qaida, rarely in terms of promoting democracy or
protecting Afghan women.

He was content to pull all troops from Iraq rather than negotiate a
train-and-support presence. After helping to hasten Moammar Gadhafi's downfall
in Libya, at the urging of allies, he washed his hands of the country,
disdaining any support missions until near-anarchy forced NATO's hand two years
later. He spurned his top advisers when they urged aid for the moderate
opposition in Syria. He is cutting funding for democracy promotion throughout
the Middle East.

The economic collapse that Mr. Obama inherited and Americans' fatigue with
foreign entanglements undoubtedly help explain the constriction of his vision.
The foreign-policy disappointments of his first term may as well.

Mr. Obama came to office with three big ideas, none of which entirely panned
out.

The first was that his predecessor had disdained diplomacy and that, by engaging
rationally and persuasively with adversaries, Mr. Obama could make more
progress.

But his bet on Russian President Dmitry Medvedev soured when it turned out that
Vladimir Putin had never really ceded power. China's leader cold-shouldered Mr.
Obama at a climate summit in Copenhagen. Israeli and Palestinian leaders proved
immune to his importunings for a peace settlement. Egypt's first democratically
elected president, Mohammed Morsi, ignored his advice to be more inclusive. Even
Obama's overseas trip to win the Olympic Games for Chicago came up short.

These disappointments limited the scope for his second big idea, which was to
promote nonproliferation and a world free of nuclear weapons, though the Iran
talks remain a possible bright spot.

Mr. Obama's third ambition was to "pivot" from an over-emphasis on countries of
little strategic value in Central Asia and the Middle East to the more vibrant
economies of Asia and the Pacific. A rebalancing was announced, but upheaval in
the Arab world, the continuing threat from al-Qaida and cuts in the defense
budget combined to limit the scope of any shift.

Given that Mr. Obama entered office with little foreign-policy experience, it's
not surprising that events would shape his perspective. You'd worry if he did
not evolve and adapt.

But his shift from idealism to what he sees as pragmatism may prove to be
anything but realistic. With violence and misery radiating outward from Syria to
Iraq, Lebanon and beyond, the United States is likely to be forced to re-engage,
and on less favorable terms than it might have found two or three years ago.
Presidential candidates in 2016 may find themselves paraphrasing the eloquent
Barack Obama of 2008.

"History has led us to a new crossroad, with new promise and new peril," the
candidate said. "A change of leadership in Washington will not lift this burden.
In this new century, Americans and Europeans alike will be required to do more -
not less."

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Hiatt is The Washington Post's editorial page editor

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2014 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              347 of 454 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                           January 30, 2014 Thursday
                                 SOONER EDITION

SOME EMBRACE COLD WITH OPEN, BARE ARMS;
PROPER WINTER ATTIRE A MATTER OF CHOICE

BYLINE: Mackenzie Carpenter, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: LIFESTYLE; Pg. A-1

LENGTH: 979 words


Standing in front of Posvar Hall on the University of Pittsburgh campus
Wednesday morning in 11-degree temperatures, John Schwende was a sight to
behold: Carhartt jacket, blue jeans -- and no hat.

"I don't want to mess up my hair," joked Mr. Schwende, 32, a Pitt graduate
student who also works part time at a snowmaking company, where, he noted, he
has been known to wear a hat. "But seriously, it's just a short walk to my car
from the building."

In this car-centric culture, it's relatively easy to move from one climate
-controlled environment to another (for bus commuters, not so much).

In Pittsburgh, we experienced our fifth below-zero morning in a row Wednesday.
It has been 17 years since the country experienced such a deep freeze, with the
average daily temperature for the lower 48 states dropping to 17.9 degrees on
Monday, according to government forecasters. That hasn't happened since 1997.

Retailers aren't making it easier. At L.L. Bean in Ross Park Mall, the store was
all sold out of its warmest down coat, the Acadia (warm to minus 55 degrees) and
had only two "Baxter State Park" parkas (warm to minus 33) available, in extra
small and large.

Given the mixed-up weather calendar in stores, plus years of being coddled by
double-digit winter temperatures, have Pittsburghers forgotten how to dress
properly for bitter cold weather?

Exhibit A: John Fetterman, mayor of Braddock, who arrived at President Barack
Obama's appearance in West Mifflin Wednesday wearing shorts.

"I love the cold. It's who I am," he said. "Just the way someone would love
lying in the summer sun, this cold weather really winds my clock."

Maybe, but U.S. Steel officials weren't having any.

"They pulled me aside and gave me pants to put on in their locker room," said
Mr. Fetterman, who met Mr. Obama once before at Carnegie Mellon University --
and he was wearing shorts then, too. "It was like I was going into the Duquesne
Club or something, but hey, I'm cool with U.S. Steel. They were very helpful."

Then there's Shawn Cessna, who grew up in Erie, and whose friends "believe I am
a basket case in terms of dressing correctly for the season at hand."

As a child, he always loathed wearing coats, pants and boots, and since the age
of 10, "I have been on the run in shorts, no coat and sneakers year-round. I
never really gave it much thought when people would ask me if I was insane, or
couldn't afford a coat."

Mr. Cessna, 34, now of Washington, Pa., just doesn't mind the cold, "although if
it is zero or below, I wear jeans, I'm not dumb. But coats are a burden. You go
to somewhere, you have to put it on, button it, zip it, put on a hood, scarf it
up, put on clunky boots, put on gloves you lose function of your hands with, and
lumber out into the outdoors. Then when you get there, you have to take all of
that stuff off, find a place to put it, or you have to lug it around with you
like you're carrying a child or suitcase."

The John Fettermans and Shawn Cessnas of the world perhaps do react differently
to cold than others do, although there isn't much science that tells us why.

Alan Stewart, a psychologist and atmospheric scientist at the University of
Georgia, is trying to figure out that question, collecting data from more than
3,000 people. He has developed a measurement of something he calls weather
salience -- "a construct that pertains to the psychological value, significance
and attunement that people have for the weather and its changes."

In a survey of 946 students at the university, Mr. Stewart found, perhaps not
surprisingly, that women are more "weather salient" than men, based on such
questions as whether the survey participant owned and used a thermometer,
whether they had evacuated from a hurricane or not and -- perhaps most telling
-- whether they could "correctly distinguish between weather watches and
warnings."

"I remembered that Ben Franklin once said, 'Some people are weatherwise, most
people are otherwise,' " he said. "People lived a lot closer to the wind then
than they do now. They were a lot more invested in keeping track of what it was
like outside, and I wanted to find out who those people are today."

Those who are weather salient "seem to notice that the air smells differently
after a thunderstorm, they notice the clouds, it affects their moods," he said.
And they're more likely to check the weather report before planning a trip or
even just taking a drive.

"I think some of the orientation and preparation just doesn't seem to be as
intense in men as in women," he said. "Perhaps they don't have as much a sense
of danger or risk."

In another study, Mr. Stewart measured what kind of weather people prefer.
Predictably, the majority opted for the prototypical mild, sunny weather day,
while about 20 percent preferred snowy, wintry weather.

Mr. Stewart, who is from Charlotte, N.C., is one of them, along with his wife,
who grew up in Florida.

"We love cold weather. We like to go to Chicago in the winter. We love Maine.
And Pittsburgh? I'm a Steelers fan, big time," he said.

He might want to talk to Mark Vento, a materials manager at Quest Diagnostics in
Green Tree, who always wears just a golf shirt to work.

"I did wear a sweatshirt to work once when it was minus 30, but that was an
exception. I walk from my car to my house, I walk from my car to the restaurant,
I walk from the Giant Eagle. I usually get yelled at by some little old lady,"
said Mr. Vento, who claims he once walked in a snowstorm Downtown from his
daughter's office on Stanwix Street to a restaurant on Sixth Street -- in a
short-sleeved shirt.

"And suddenly, there's Hines Ward coming out of a building. He sees me, points
at me, and starts laughing. But hey, he's from Georgia."

That's where on Wednesday commuters in Atlanta and other parts of the South
discovered it can get pretty cold when your car is stuck for 12 hours on the
freeway in an ice storm.

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Mackenzie Carpenter: mcarpenter@post-gazette.com, 412-263-1949 or on
Twitter @MackenziePG. /

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2014 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              360 of 454 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                              March 7, 2014 Friday
                                 SOONER EDITION

BILLION-DOLLAR BABIES;
RUSSIA'S THE LAND OF OLIGARCHS, BUT WE'RE GETTING THERE

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. B-7

LENGTH: 842 words


The Koch brothers are in the news more than Justin Bieber.

This week, the billionaire siblings from Kansas made the top 10 in Forbes' list
of wealthiest people on the planet. In fact, if you lump Charles and David Koch
together, they're No. 1.

Meanwhile, in the Senate, Majority Leader Harry Reid embarked on a rampage of
anti-Koch speeches, denouncing the brothers as cancer-causing polluters who pour
unlimited money into conservative political campaigns in an "un-American"
attempt to subvert democracy.

Then Charles Koch gave an interview to The Wichita Business Journal! I know, I
know. But given the supreme lowness of the brothers' low profile, it was an
electric moment.

"Somebody has got to work to save the country and preserve a system of
opportunity," Mr. Koch said, explaining his late-in-life calling as the nation's
premier right-wing mega-donor.

My question for today is: Do you think it's fair to call these guys oligarchs?

We have been thinking about oligarchs lately since our attention has been fixed
on the former Soviet Union, which is Oligarch Central. In fact, the new
Ukrainian government just responded to the tensions in its eastern region by
dispatching two billionaires to serve as provincial governors.

"Oligarch" sounds more interesting than "superrich person with undue political
influence." The Koch brothers have a genius for being publicly boring, while
plowing vast sums of money into political action groups designed to make it
difficult for anybody to make a good estimate of how much they've given to
promote their goal of, um, saving the country.

Maybe it would help focus the public mind if we started referring to them as the
Wichita oligarchs.

We do need to focus. The country has had very rich folks trying to influence
national policy forever. But these days they seem to be getting very richer by
the moment and, thanks to the Supreme Court, there's no longer any real lid on
what they can spend.

Who would you want to count as an oligarch?

I'd definitely vote for any billionaires who underwrite campaigns against
environmental regulation while their company shows up as No. 14 on the list of
Toxic 100 Air Polluters. We're looking at you, Kochs. (Thank you for the
information, Political Economy Research Institute, University of Massachusetts.)

Michael Bloomberg? Mr. Bloomberg bought himself 12 years as New York City mayor;
his final election cost him more than $100 million, or $174 per vote, which
sounds pretty darn oligarchic. Although when it comes to promoting a political
career, being mayor will get you a good seat at a large number of parades.

Warren Buffett? He's richer than any individual Koch. But, I'm sorry. I do not
see someone as an oligarch if he runs around demanding that the government raise
his taxes.

I would definitely have voted for the late Harry Simmons of Texas, who donated
$31 million to political action committees in the last presidential election
cycle. The collapse of campaign finance laws was a big time-saver for Simmons,
whose estranged daughter once said that he gave her $1,000 for each blank
political contribution card she signed. But Simmons died last year, as did Bob
Perry, a billionaire Texas realtor who shared Simmons' enthusiasm for that Swift
Boat campaign against John Kerry.

"The question we're asking is: Who's going to fill the oligarch vacuum?" said
Craig McDonald of Texans for Public Justice. "And what do you call the level
right under oligarchs? We've got plenty of them."

What comes below oligarchs? I guess mini-garchs. And below them, microgarchs. If
you have a chance, try to refer to Donald Trump as a microgarch. It will drive
him crazy.

But back to the real money: How about Paul Singer? He's a hedge fund billionaire
who's sort of famous as the conservative donor who supports gay rights. As
oligarchs go, however, he has a troubled track record: Rudy Giuliani in 2008,
Chris Christie in 2012, Chris Christie, um, now.

Tom Steyer? This is another hedge fund billionaire. He's also an environmental
activist who's investing $100 million in a fund to reward politicians who
support climate change legislation and punish those who don't. The Center for
Public Integrity, which dubs Mr. Steyer's new fund a "single-issue vanity super
PAC," is not a fan. But at least he's not crusading for healthier hedge funds.

Sheldon Adelson? You remember Sheldon Adelson. He's the billionaire casino owner
who's currently funding a campaign to combat online gambling. Mr. Adelson claims
he's propelled by a "moral standard," which apparently involves saving betters
from losing money in any venue that does not involve going to a casino. But we
will always remember him as the guy who invested more than $16 million in the
presidential prospects of Newt Gingrich.

This is truly only the billionaire beginning. Feel free to offer nominees. But
don't get carried away. We want to be selective here. Start calling everybody an
oligarch and it won't be special anymore. It'll just be like calling them
lobbyists.

Gail Collins is a syndicated columnist for The New York Times.

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2014 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              364 of 454 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            March 22, 2014 Saturday
                                 SOONER EDITION

METROPOLITAN PHILIP SALIBA;
DIED MARCH 19, 2014;
ANTIOCHIAN ORTHODOX LEADER SINCE 1966, HAILED AS VISIONARY

BYLINE: Peter Smith, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: OBITUARY; Pg. A-9

LENGTH: 886 words


At a church camp in Westmoreland County about four years ago, as children sang
the hymns of the Orthodox Christian faith, their elderly spiritual leader wept
with joy.

It was precisely to ensure that children learn and adopt their ancient religious
heritage that Metropolitan Philip Saliba had acted in 1978 to have his
Antiochian Orthodox Christian Archdiocese of North America establish the
Bolivar, Pa., site called Antiochian Village. It has ever since hosted camps and
conferences where children and adults from North America and beyond could
experience chanting, liturgy and iconography amid more common summer fare such
as campfires and challenge courses.

"He explained it was always his desire for young people to have a desire for the
church, and through the ministry of this camp that has been fulfilled," recalled
the Very Rev. Anthony Yazge, camp director at Antiochian Village.

To underscore that attachment, Metropolitan Saliba will be buried later this
month at the village following his death from heart failure Wednesday at age 82
in Florida, where he was staying during the winter and receiving medical care.

Born in Lebanon in 1931, Metropolitan Saliba was an outspoken advocate for Arab
Christians -- including Palestinian refugees and those displaced by Lebanon's
and Syria's civil wars. Yet he always insisted that his church adapt to American
ways and welcome converts with no ethnic connection to the Middle Eastern roots
of the church.

Metropolitan Saliba was the longest-serving bishop in any branch of Orthodoxy in
the United States -- having been in his role for nearly half a century since the
age of 35.

"The word that best describes him as a bishop would be a visionary," said the
Rev. Demetrios Makoul, dean of St. George Antiochian Orthodox Cathedral in
Pittsburgh's Oakland neighborhood. "The word people use today is strategic
planner."

He insisted the archdiocese modernize its operations, create a clergy retirement
program, a women's organization and new parishes and monasteries. Following his
predecessor's lead, he fostered the use of English rather than Arabic in
liturgies.

"His favorite song used to be 'The Impossible Dream,' " Kweilin Nassar of
Pittsburgh recalled of his early goals -- but he made many of them realities.

Ms. Nassar said Metropolitan Saliba was open to change. After she wrote an
article questioning why no women were on the archdiocese's board, he began
appointing some at the next convention. "And then looked at me from the podium
and said, 'Is that better, Kweilin?' He was responsive when there were things
that made sense and he knew it would be better."

Metropolitan Saliba presided in 1975 during the healing of a split between two
branches of Antiochian Orthodoxy and oversaw a quadrupling of parishes in the
diocese to about 275. While based at the Cathedral of Saint Nicholas in
Brooklyn, N.Y., his presence was particularly felt in Pennsylvania, with 22
parishes, and the Tri-state area, with one of the largest concentrations of
Orthodox overall in the country.

Orthodoxy -- the second-largest global branch of Christianity with roots in and
around the Middle East and Europe -- represents a small but historically rich
presence in America. It is steeped in intricate liturgy, sacraments and a sense
of spiritual unity with the saints whose images abound on the icons and walls of
incense-filled churches.

Metropolitan Saliba's tenure overlapped with a growing interest among some
American Catholics and Protestants in the Orthodox tradition. While numerous
immigrant groups had created Orthodox branches that they could choose from, "he
created a spiritual climate in the Antiochian archdiocese that made it very
inviting to converts," said Father Makoul.

That included the movement of the Evangelical Orthodox Church -- a group of
thousands of evangelical Protestants attracted to Orthodoxy -- which came under
the wing of the Antiochian archdiocese in 1987.

"Others turned them away because they didn't know what to do with them," said
the Rev. Thomas Zain, vicar general for the archdiocese. "He took the bold step
to say, 'Come home.' "

Metropolitan Saliba was born in 1931 in Lebanon and received initial education
there and in Syria. Ordained a deacon in 1949, he worked in church
administration and lecturing before continuing studies in Great Britain and the
United States. He was ordained a priest in 1959. He served at parishes in
Detroit and Cleveland, began serving on various church boards and was chosen in
1966 to succeed the late Metropolitan Antony Bashir.

Amid his duties Metropolitan Saliba maintained a sense of humor, those close to
him said. He chuckled about children who, unable to pronounced his title, "Your
Eminence," called him "Your M&Ms." And he quipped that he outlived most of the
medical team from the 1970s that had told him after open-heart surgery that he
only had a few years to live.

A series of memorial liturgies will be held next week at the cathedral in
Brooklyn. Metropolitan Saliba's body is then scheduled to be transported to
Antiochian Village on March 30, followed by a vigil and burial rites on March
31.

Christian Associates of Southwest Pennsylvania, an ecumenical group that
included Metropolitan Saliba's local representative, issued a statement of
sympathy on Friday to the Antiochian Orthodox faithful.

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Peter Smith: petersmith@post-gazette.com or 412-263-1416; Twitter
@PG_PeterSmith. /

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Metropolitan Philip Saliba

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2014 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              366 of 454 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            March 29, 2014 Saturday
                                 SOONER EDITION

WAIT TO SEE IF BLUE ATLAS CEDAR COMES BACK

BYLINE: Sandy Feather

SECTION: LIFESTYLE; Pg. B-2

LENGTH: 463 words


I have two blue atlas cedars (Cedrus atlantica 'Glauca') that are completely
brown after this winter. Are they dead or is the foliage just burned?

A. Blue atlas cedar is rated as hardy to USDA Zone 6. Much of Allegheny County
is listed as Zone 6a, with low winter temperatures ranging from minus-5 to
minus-10 degrees, but the City of Pittsburgh is rated as Zone 6b, with winter
lows from 0 to minus-5 degrees.

Whether they live or not depends in part on where you live. If you are in an
urban area, where buildings and pavement hold more heat than suburban and rural
areas, the foliage may just be burned and they will survive. If you live in the
suburbs, especially the northern suburbs, they may not.

It also depends on how long they have been growing -- established plants have a
better chance of surviving extremes than those that are newly planted. Likewise,
plants that go into winter well hydrated and healthy will fare better than those
that are stressed by drought or insect and disease problems.

In addition to brutally cold temperatures, strong winds play a role. While
needled evergreens usually have a waxy coating on their needles that helps
minimize moisture loss, blue atlas cedar needles are not as heavily waxed as
many spruce and pines. Strong winds pull moisture through the stomata (pores) in
the needles, but plants cannot take up additional moisture from frozen ground to
make up for the loss. The result is the browning you see on the foliage of your
blue atlas cedars. This type of damage is very evident on broadleaved evergreens
such as English ivy, euonymus, pachysandra and rhododendron.

The bottom-line with your blue atlas cedars: Wait until they should start
showing new growth as temperatures warm in spring. The brown needles will drop
and new growth will start covering those bare branches if the foliage was just
burned. If that does not happen, then they did not survive the polar vortex.

The revised USDA Hardiness Zone map and climate change have many gardeners
pushing hardiness zones with plants that are marginally hardy for us, including
crapemyrtle, camellia and photinia. That is fine, as long as losing these tender
gems to a harsh winter doesn't break the bank. Again, some of these plants might
die to the ground and come back from the roots, so do not be in hurry to dig
them up. Give spring a chance to finally arrive and see if they show any signs
of life, especially crapemyrtle -- it is very slow to come to life in spring.

Even plants that are generally hardy to Zone 5 may show dieback or other signs
of damage when spring arrives. Spring-bloomers such as forsythia, big-leaf
hydrangea and evergreen azaleas may only bloom close to the ground, where flower
buds were protected by snow cover. Be patient and see what spring brings.

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Send questions to Sandy Feather by e-mail at slf9@psu.edu or by regular
mail c/o Penn State Extension, 400 N. Lexington Ave., Pittsburgh 15208. /

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2014 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              371 of 454 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            April 23, 2014 Wednesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

DOWNTOWN LIBRARY EXPANDS SERVICES FOR CHILDREN

BYLINE: Mackenzie Carpenter, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT; Pg. C-1

LENGTH: 436 words


In the past, when parents walked through the public library door at 612
Smithfield St., Downtown, to ask about programs for children, a staffer would
have to direct them elsewhere.

Not any more.

On Saturday, the Downtown and Business branch of the Carnegie Library of
Pittsburgh kicks off a "Family Fun Earth Day" celebration, complete with a new
children's librarian and an expansion of children's services, reflecting the
changing demographics of Downtown as well as a more favorable budget climate.

"It's not officially a children's library with a separate space, but it's close
enough," said Karen Rossi, who manages the branch. She noted that there will be
more books, DVDs, audiobooks, story times and craft projects. Overall children's
materials will increase by about 25 percent, from 3,500 items to about 4,400.

They include new formats such as Playaways, an entire book on an MP3 player, and
Playaway View, which provides video content on small portable devices.

This represents a step forward, and in some ways, a step back: In 2005, at the
library's former location at the Bank Center on Wood Street, there was a
dedicated children's section, but it was closed when the library moved to its
current location.

But the children kept coming, as Downtown increasingly attracted new residents.
As of late 2013, there were 2,100 new housing units in the pipeline alone for
the Greater Downtown area, according to data provided by the Pittsburgh Downtown
Partnership. And since 2000, the resident population has grown 40 percent, with
an increase in younger people.

A 2012 survey by the partnership found that 27 percent of residents are younger
than 30, a number that included children, and 62 percent are younger than 50.

"We have children in the library every day," said Ms. Rossi. "There are more
families living Downtown, and with Downtown being the hub for buses and day care
centers, we had more and more parents stopping in with their kids asking about
programs," she said, noting that the library is open from 8:30 a.m. to 6 p.m.
and has new Saturday hours as well.

Her children's librarian doesn't represent a new staffer, just a
reconfiguration, but nonetheless the changes come at a time when the Carnegie
Library of Pittsburgh's budget has stabilized because of increased revenues from
a new property tax of 0.25 mill approved by voters in 2011 and money from a
casino gambling tax, along with support from the Regional Asset District,
private donations and state funding.

For more information on the library's Earth Day event Saturday for children, go
to www.clpgh.org/locations/downtown or call 412-281-7141.

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Mackenzie Carpenter, mcarpenter@post-gazette.com, 412-263-1949. On
Twitter @MackenziePG. /

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2014 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              410 of 454 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                           August 20, 2014 Wednesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

GRANTS AIMED AT REDUCING RUNOFF INTO LAKE ERIE

BYLINE: Tom Troy, Block News Alliance

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. A-2

LENGTH: 286 words


TOLEDO, Ohio - Farmers in 20 Ohio counties of the Lake Erie watershed will be
able to walk into a county federal conservation agency office today and apply
for grants paying $57 per acre to plant winter crops to keep fertilizer from
washing into the rivers.

U.S. Sen. Sherrod Brown, D-Ohio, and U.S Rep. Marcy Kaptur, D-Toledo, announced
the $2 million emergency fund Tuesday at a news conference near the Maumee River
at the National Museum of the Great Lakes in East Toledo.

They said the money will make a dent in the flow of fertilizer and manure that
is feeding the late-summer algae blooms that threaten Toledo's water supply. It
was an algae bloom that shut down Toledo's water supply Aug. 2.

Both Mr. Brown and Miss Kaptur stressed the $2 million grant is just a portion
of what needs to be accomplished to end the dangerous flow of phosphorous into
Lake Erie.

The $2 million will be spread over some 30,000 acres in 20 counties, Mr. Brown
said. Mr. Brown and Miss Kaptur are trying to pass a related $20 million
conservation program for Ohio, Michigan, and Indiana. Mr. Brown said he helped
to establish a program in the 2014 Farm Bill to provide up to $1.2 billion for
farmers to implement conservation measures, including those that could reduce
runoff into Lake Erie.

Farmers are going to be paid to plant cover crops like clovers, alfalfa, rye,
wild radish, wheat, oats, other crops, to hold back nutrients so they don't
leach out, Miss Kaptur said.

Terry Cosby, conservationist for the state Natural Resources Conservation
Service, said growing winter crops makes the ground absorb fertilizer and manure
better than when they are spread on hard ground. He attributed the growing algae
problem to climate change.

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: The Block News Alliance consists of the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette and The
Blade of Toledo, Ohio. Tom Troy is a reporter for The Blade.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2014 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              421 of 454 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                          September 25, 2014 Thursday
                                 SOONER EDITION

WOLF MAINTAINS FUNDRAISING LEAD OVER CORBETT;
DEMOCRATIC NOMINEE SITTING ON BIGGER CASH BALANCE IN FINAL WEEKS

BYLINE: James P. O'Toole, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: STATE; CAMPAIGN 2014; Pg. A-1

LENGTH: 970 words


As New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie appeared with Gov. Tom Corbett in the Strip
District this June, he predicted, "We'll be spending plenty of money here in
Pennsylvania."

The latest campaign finance reports bear out that pledge. In the reporting
period that ended Sept. 15, the Christie-chaired Republican Governors
Association gave $4 million to the campaign of his fellow former prosecutor.
That represented just under half of the Corbett campaign receipts for the latest
three-month cycle. But it wasn't enough to pull Mr. Corbett's fundraising
performance ahead of his challenger.

Tom Wolf, the Democratic nominee, raised more money than the incumbent in the
past three months and was sitting on a bigger cash balance as the candidates for
governor headed into the final weeks of the campaign.

Mr. Wolf took in $9.6 million between June 15 and Sept. 15, and ended up with
cash on hand of $6.5 million. The Republican raised $8.1 million in the same
period, and ended with a cash balance of roughly $4.8 million.

In the years since Pennsylvania governors have been allowed to seek a second
term, that's unprecedented. Should Mr. Wolf's financial lead continue, it would
be the first time that a challenger to a sitting governor had headed into the
final weeks of a campaign with a financial advantage. Big late contributions
could still change that, but polls and the donor culture that responds to them
suggest that's one part of the daunting challenge facing the Corbett campaign.

"The governor's best ads are the most recent ads; he really came into his own in
the debate Monday night, but he's hitting his peak at a time when fewer and
fewer people are paying attention," observed Keith Schmidt, a former state
director for another Republican incumbent who faced tough re-election odds,
former Sen. Rick Santorum. "It may be completely unfair to write things off this
early, but the perception is there - even with the party faithful - that it
ended a long time ago."

That perception has been fueled by a series of polls that have depicted big
advantages for the Democrat. A new survey conducted for a website, the Keystone
Report, by the GOP-leaning firm Magellan Strategies showed Mr. Wolf leading Mr.
Corbett 49 percent to 40 percent. Even that would be a significant lead for the
Democrat, but its margin is narrower than other recent surveys. The Franklin &
Marshall College poll earlier put Mr. Wolf's lead at 25 points and a Muhlenberg
College poll released Sunday showed a margin for the Democrat of 21 points.

RealClearPolitics' aggregation of recent polling shows an average lead of 17.3
percent for the Democrat.

"You have to be credible," said Mr. Schmidt, who is now with public relations
firm Bridge Connections. "You have to have a credible chance of overcoming a
margin to get people to give to you."

He pointed to the political fact that weak polling and fundraising numbers can
create a cycle of self-fulfilling prophecy that can boost or hobble a campaign.

"They have to show something that would energize people to write a check," said
Bill Green, a Republican consultant. "If you're perceived to be down that far,
it's pretty hard to raise money."

Billy Pitman, a spokesman for the Corbett campaign, said the campaign was "where
we want to be" to deliver its message through television and campaign media.

"We have an opponent who, right out of the gate, gave himself $10 million . [he
took] millions from the public sector unions. We'll see what that buys."

Philadelphia public affairs consultant Larry Ceisler, noted that there are two
sides to the self-reinforcing trends in political giving.

"Democrats smell the blood in the water; they are much more open to writing
checks," he said of the current climate in the state.

Besides the big infusion from the RGA, Mr. Corbett's biggest donor was John M.
Templeton, the head of the John Templeton Foundation in Bryn Mawr, Pa. His
$400,000 contribution in the latest report brought his total through the
campaign to $820,000, according to The Associated Press. Terrance M. Pegula, the
president of East Resources, gave $250,000 and the Pennsylvania Future Fund, a
political action committee headed by Mr. Corbett's longtime ally, Robert Asher,
donated $124,000. Comcast Corp.'s PAC gave $50,000, as did Lance Shaner, the CEO
of Shaner Enterprises in State College.

A variety of energy and construction interests also show up among the larger
donors to the governor's re-election bid. They include the First Energy PAC,
$30,000; Kelcy Warren, CEO of the Energy Transfer Group of Dallas, $50,000; and
John Mork of Colorado's Energy Corp. of America, $50,000. A. Ross Myers, the CEO
of Montgomery County's American Infrastructure, gave $100,000 to the Republican.

Elsie and Henry Hillman of Pittsburgh gave a combined $25,000 to the governor's
campaign over the summer.

Mr. Wolf, who gave his campaign $10 million to help him break away from the
four-person Democratic field in the primary, didn't have much labor support
before he won the nomination. But unions have rallied to him since then. His
latest report lists $2.9 million from labor PACs. That brings his total labor
donations to roughly $4.5 million.

The more recent labor contributions to the Democrat include $500,000 from the
Washington PAC of public employee union AFSCME; $400,000 from the national PAC
of the IBEW; $200,000 from the USW; and $100,000 from the teachers' group, PSEA.

The Democratic Governors Association gave the nominee $250,000, a hefty sum, but
far less than the RGA contribution to his rival.

Mr. Wolf's largest individual donor was John Grumbacher of the Bon-Ton store
chain, who gave $1 million on top of the $1.1 million he had already contributed
to Mr. Wolf, who shares his York County roots. Another York County business
figure, Louis J. Appell, gave $250,000 to the Democrat.

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Politics editor James O'Toole: jotoole@post-gazette.com or 412-263-1562.
/ The Associated Press and The Philadelphia Inquirer contributed.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2014 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              423 of 454 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                           September 26, 2014 Friday
                            PITTSBURGH PRESS EDITION

SCIENTISTS PROBE SECRETS OF DRY TORTUGAS

BYLINE: Cammy Clark, The Miami Herald

SECTION: HEALTH SCIENCE MEDICINE & TECHNOLOGY; Pg. A-8

LENGTH: 1504 words


MIAMI - In the remotest part of the Florida Keys, 70 miles west of Key West and
accessible only by boat or seaplane, there's an underwater world filled with
habitats as happening as Miami's hottest nightclubs.

Several species of grouper, snapper and other reef fish congregate to the Dry
Tortugas in masses when they are adults. Many species do so at specific spots
and at specific times. The reason: to mate.

This month, a group of scientists left Key West aboard the Nancy Foster federal
research ship for a 14-day mission to the isolated area - where the only
buildings are a Civil War-era fort and a lighthouse. They are continuing
studies, the monitoring and mapping of a magical and still-mysterious marine
world that has been closed off with great controversy to fishing, anchoring and,
in some parts, diving since 2001.

"Everybody always wants to know: Where's the science?" said Sean Morton,
superintendent of the Florida Keys National Marine Sanctuary, which is part of
the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA).

Because of funding, it's only the sixth such research trip since 2005.

Time on the Nancy Foster, one of NOAA's 16 research vessels, is competitive and
precious. Chief sanctuary scientist Scott Donahue said he has crammed as many
projects as he can into the itinerary, including fish tagging, mapping of the
sea floor for structure and fish abundance and ROV exploration of Riley's Hump,
the deepest part of the sanctuary with a maximum depth of about 1,700 feet.

The purpose is to learn more about the fish populations, behaviors, corals and
sea floor structure and to provide more data and information to justify the
continuing existence of two large ecological reserves that closed down 151
square miles of prime fishing: 91 around the northern area known as Sherwood's
Forest and another 60 in the southern portion around Riley's Hump.

This mission also is trying to help determine if recommendations made last month
by the Sanctuary Advisory Council to move the boundaries of the southern reserve
are scientifically sound.

"Part of the reason we keep doing the science: Are we protecting the right
areas?" Mr. Morton said.

It's all part of a comprehensive review that formally began in September 2011
with a sanctuary condition report and is scheduled to be completed in 2016.

Before the 2,800-nautical-square-mile sanctuary was established in 1990, there
was a bitter battle with independent Keys residents distrustful of allowing the
federal government to regulate the waters that provided many their livelihoods.

In 2001, fishing was allowed in most of it, but there were 23 small no-take
zones that still angered many. So when the sanctuary managers proposed closing
off another 151 square miles of prime fishing ground in the Dry Tortugas,
another battle ensued.

It was worth the fight for scientists, who said protecting the spawning grounds
and nurseries in the Dry Tortugas - called the "crown jewel of the reef" - was
deemed critical for the sustainability of important reef fish species not only
in this area but also Florida locations upstream.

For decades, the area was being exploited by fishermen and damaged by large
cargo freighters, which were dropping their large anchors on the corals and
dumping their waste into the waters.

Most of what's known about the Dry Tortugas' marine world has been discovered
through a collaborative effort that has included scientists from the National
Park Service, which oversees Dry Tortugas National Park; the Florida Fish &
Wildlife Conservation Commission, and the University of Miami's Rosenstiel
School of Marine and Atmospheric Science, led by marine biology and fisheries
professor Jerry Ault.

In 2007, the state established a 46-mile Research Natural Area (basically what
the feds call an ecological reserve) within Dry Tortugas National Park, which
includes 100 square miles of marine waters, seven small islands and the national
historic site Fort Jefferson. The goal was to protect shallow water habitats and
reef species near the two existing ecological reserves, which all were believed
to be interconnected.

"The state gave them five years to prove their case to see if it would stay a
reserve," Mr. Morton said. "It was all guns out to try to characterize corals,
birds, turtles and fish, fish, fish. It took a whole bunch of people working
together. But five years later, (FWC) said: 'OK, you've proven your case."

The National Park Service's five-year report on the Research Natural Area found
that both abundance and size increased in red grouper, mutton snapper,
yellowtail snapper and hogfish at or above legal size of capture inside the
protected area, while the measurements decreased or stayed the same in nearby
areas of the Tortugas region open to fishing.

The report concluded that protection given these reef fish in this critical
habitat was an important component for the recovery of their populations.

The report also strengthened the theory of interconnectivity between the
reserves thanks to an acoustically tagged mutton snapper. "We have fish
listening stations (like cell towers) all over to see the movement back and
forth between the Tortugas," Mr. Donahue said. "We could see the most famous
mutton snapper in the world. It hangs out in the North Tortugas reserve and
three times in one summer goes down to Riley's Hump on the same lunar cycles to
spawn, spawn, spawn."

One FWC biologist had nicknamed this migration corridor the "sexual highway."

Longtime commercial fisherman Manny Herrera said he is among the many anglers in
the Keys who are skeptical of the science that has been provided in the past.

"But I didn't accept being part of the working group (involved in the sanctuary
review) because I'm an anti-conservationist," he said. "I'm very much for
conservation. You see what happens in places like Japan that don't have
fisheries because they were not managed and taken care of."

Mr. Herrera said he believes the preserves in the Tortugas are successful,
especially because of their remote location with superior water quality and
limited human presence is limited. Higher gas prices also have helped reduce
fishing in the area. He'd like to see at least one other "true reserve with no
users and good law enforcement" in another part of the Keys as a test.

Chris Bergh, who led the working group on regulations and marine zoning that Mr.
Herrera participated in for the sanctuary's comprehensive review, said there has
not been much resistance to the Tortugas reserves now because "they have not
unduly harmed people's businesses or recreation."

The current battles have been over the protection of other habitats in the Keys
where there is great demand by commercial and recreational fishermen, divers and
boaters.

Evaluation of the Dry Tortugas reserves can help make the case for the
importance of other no-take zones in environmentally sensitive waters where the
marine world also is battling climate change, ocean acidification and pollution.

During this research trip on the Nancy Foster, divers, ROVs and high-tech sonar
equipment will gather information that later will be analyzed.

In one project, scientists will go under water to perform surgery on fish, Mr.
Donahue said. They will insert acoustic tags and sew them back up.

In another project, a Mohawk ROV will be used to help answer a question Morton
said he hears often: "Why are you protecting the super-deep areas in the
Tortugas South Reserve that go down about 1,700 feet?"

The ROV is going where divers can not.

The Nancy Foster will methodically cruise back and forth on the ocean's surface
as if it's "mowing the lawn" as a multibeam sonar creates a high-definition map
of the ocean floor by shooting a sound wave down at the bottom of the ocean and
listening to its reflection.

Simultaneously, another machine that is like a "fish finder on steroids" is
superimposing information about the marine life over an ocean-floor structure
map.

"This is a collaborative effort to look for critical bathymetric features that
fish might be using as cues for an aggregation site," Mr. Donahue said.

Mr. Morton added: "This information doesn't have the wow factor of fish tagging
and ROVs, but it's what really tells the story: 'What is the place and what is
the type of habitat? What is the depth? What are the features? Is it flat ledges
or deep drop-offs?' "

This time the science party is particularly interested in the west side of the
Tortugas bank, where large snowy grouper hang out. This western area is
currently not protected, but the Sanctuary Advisory Committee has recommended it
be added to the no-take zone. In exchange, the committee also recommends giving
a southern portion of the reserve back to fishermen.

"There's a perception in the community that the sanctuary only takes and never
gives back," said Mr. Bergh, the Florida Keys program director for The Nature
Conservancy. "I'd like to see the sanctuary prove that wrong. As new information
becomes available, the sanctuary can adapt, and it does listen to science and
the public."

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Photo courtesy University of Miami Rosenstiel School of Marine
and Atmospheric Science: Scientists are on a reseach mission in the Florida Keys
to learn more about several species of r

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2014 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              434 of 454 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                           October 16, 2014 Thursday
                                 SOONER EDITION

PITTSBURGH SYMPHONY CEO TO RETIRE NEXT YEAR;
NATIONAL SEARCH UNDERWAY TO REPLACE JAMES WILKINSON

BYLINE: Elizabeth Bloom, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT; Pg. B-5

LENGTH: 394 words


James Wilkinson, the president and CEO of the Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra
since 2011, will retire next year, the symphony announced Wednesday.

He will remain in his current position until a successor is named. The PSO has
created a board committee and hired Korn Ferry, a consulting firm, to help with
the national search. Mr. Wilkinson said his replacement "almost certainly will
not be [someone] within the PSO" and anticipated that the process will take five
to six months.

"It's a very challenging position to fill, and hopefully we'll find somebody who
comes close to being the perfect candidate," board chairman Dick Simmons said.

Following his retirement, Mr. Wilkinson, 69, will stay on as senior vice
chairman of the board and help with his successor's transition.

"It just seemed like now would be as good a time as any" to retire, he said. The
PSO has a full senior staff, plans to present a strategic plan to board members
later this month, and is replacing vacancies left by musicians' departures, he
said.

His replacement must fulfill the goals of the strategic plan and work in a
difficult financial climate for the orchestra, which has had a string of
operational deficits. Mr. Wilkinson said he expects the organization to balance
its budget at the end of this fiscal year or the next.

"We're close, but we're not quite there, so obviously we've got to lay out a
plan that gets us to a balanced budget," Mr. Simmons said.

Asked about his accomplishments as the symphony's top executive, Mr. Wilkinson,
of O'Hara, mentioned curbing expenses to shrink the deficit (from $2.9 million
for the 2012 fiscal year to a projected $1.4 million for 2014); replacing key
positions on the senior staff; and bringing the organization through the
strategic planning process.

"It's going to be a difficult task to replace Jim," Mr. Simmons said. "He has
such great communication relationships with the orchestra, and I think he enjoys
the support of the senior staff."

Mr. Wilkinson has been affiliated with the PSO since 1976, when he volunteered
as a labor negotiator, and joined the board in 1984, according to a news
release. He previously worked for U.S. Steel, Buchanan Ingersoll P.C. and
Meritcare Inc.

A life trustee of the Carnegie Institute, he also has served as executive
director of the Society for Contemporary Craft and co-chairman of the Andy
Warhol Museum.

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Elizabeth Bloom: ebloom@post-gazette.com or 412-263-1750. Twitter:
@BloomPG.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2014 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              441 of 454 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                           November 6, 2014 Thursday
                            PITTSBURGH PRESS EDITION

GUN LIMITS ARE A KEY WOMEN'S ISSUE

BYLINE: Rekha Basu

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A-8

LENGTH: 710 words


What wasn't said said everything.

Gabby Giffords came to Des Moines last week to talk with women about gun safety.
But after a few opening sentences, the former congresswoman from Arizona didn't
speak again.

And that fact spoke louder than anything anyone could have said about the need
to keep guns out of the wrong hands.

It was nearly three years ago that Giffords, now 44, was shot in the head while
holding a public meeting with constituents outside a Tucson supermarket. At
first it was unclear if she would survive - six other people at the scene did
not - and then if she'd be able to read or write, walk or talk.

She walks with a cane now. When there is something to applaud, she does it by
slapping one hand against a knee; the other is paralyzed. She still has trouble
talking thanks to a condition called aphasia, which sometimes makes it hard to
understand speech or writing, or to call up the right words. It's associated
with strokes and head injuries.

It happened to "Gabby," as she is widely known, because a mentally ill man with
a history of drug abuse who spouted conspiracy theories and didn't think women
should hold political office could buy a 9-mm pistol from a sportsmen's store
and fire on a crowd.

"Dangerous people with guns are a threat to women," Giffords said firmly but
haltingly. "Criminals with guns, abusers with guns, stalkers with guns. That
makes gun violence a women's issue - for mothers, for families, for me and you."

Giffords was on a nine-state tour with the organization she cofounded with her
husband, retired astronaut Mark Kelly (both gun owners) called Americans for
Responsible Solutions. They did so in the wake of the Sandy Hook Elementary
School shootings. Its fact sheet explains why this is a women's issue:

Women in America are 11 times more likely to be killed by a gun than women in
other advanced industrialized countries.

In the 12 years ending in 2013, more U.S. women were killed by intimate partners
using guns - close to 6,500 - than U.S. troops were killed in Iraq and
Afghanistan combined.

The risk of death in a domestic dispute increases five-fold when there's a gun
available.

This is the time of year, before elections, when organizations are out lobbying
hard for their issues. It might be human-services spending or the federal debt.
It may be climate change or agricultural subsidies. But it was clear from this
panel of women, in law enforcement, domestic violence prevention, human and
civil rights, that this one is already an issue for them.

The immediate priority for Giffords' organization is fixing weaknesses in
federal and state laws. At the federal level, even though people convicted of
domestic abuse and felony stalking can't legally buy guns, those convicted of
misdemeanor stalking can. And the domestic abuser prohibition doesn't apply to
dating relationships, though in 2008 almost half of all domestic violence
homicides were committed against someone who was or had been a dating partner.

Proposed fixes to the law also would prohibit people under temporary restraining
orders from owning firearms, expand federal background checks and improve
domestic violence records submissions to the national crime database. Another
gun-safety organization, Moms Demand Action, notes that in 29 states, convicted
stalkers can buy and own guns.

Giffords sat and listened as women talked about particular acts of gun violence,
polls and loopholes. She nodded, leaned forward, occasionally wrinkled her
forehead and applauded as the situation demanded. But she didn't talk.

I returned to the office stirred by her determined demeanor despite the horrible
reality of what was done to her, only to get another reality check. It was a
news release from the organization Iowa Gun Owners.

"Gun-grabbers will only be more emboldened if they can attack our gun rights in
the legislative session and feel no push-back in their districts when election
season comes along," it said. So it was distributing scorecards showing how
every state legislator had voted on guns.

"Gun-control zealots in Iowa are learning a painful lesson," said the news
release. "If you come after our gun rights, you will be held accountable."

Painful? They don't understand the meaning of that word. They should meet Gabby
Giffords.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Rekha Basu is a columnist for the Des Moines Register. Readers may send
her email at rbasu@dmreg.com

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2014 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              443 of 454 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                           November 18, 2014 Tuesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

INVEST IN RENEWABLES;
CONGRESS SHOULD REVIVE THE PRODUCTION TAX CREDIT

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. B-6

LENGTH: 329 words


As predictions about the effects of human-driven climate change grow more
alarming, lawmakers ought to be expanding programs that support still-nascent
clean-energy industries. One such program is the production tax credit, which
has benefited wind-power producers and other renewable electricity industries
since 1992.

But Congress let the tax credit expire last year. The PTC deserves to be
resurrected and renewed.

Every major energy industry in the United States has received taxpayer dollars
to develop its capacity. Some of these subsidies are written into the federal
tax code; others, such as the PTC, must be renewed by Congress periodically.

The PTC reimbursed wind producers at a rate of 2.3 cents per kilowatt hour for
their first 10 years of operation and was crucial to the development of wind
energy, according to Bruce Burcat, head of the Mid-Atlantic Renewable Energy
Coalition, a trade group for renewable energy. On the five occasions that the
credit was allowed to expire since 1992, he said, construction of wind farms
declined significantly.

Skeptics might dismiss such business incentives as market distortions that
create inefficiencies at the expense of taxpayers, but experience suggests that
they are good policy. Public investment in basic infrastructure alleviates
unemployment, develops the national economy and aids newer industries that might
not otherwise get off the ground.

A report by the Joint Committee on Taxation said the PTC cost the federal
government $1.3 billion in 2012, and the wind industry spent $25 billion on new
wind farms that year. After the PTC's expiration last year, new investment by
wind producers plummeted to $2 billion, and 25,000 wind-energy jobs were lost.

These numbers, paired with the benefits of decreased carbon pollution and a
diversified energy supply, should make extending the tax credit a no-brainer. If
the nation's supply of clean energy is to catch up with our urgent need for it,
the time to invest is now.

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2014 P.G. Publishing Co.
