
                               5 of 308 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            December 4, 2018 Tuesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

FILMMAKER SAYS PITTSBURGH LEADS CLIMATE-CHANGE EFFORTS

BYLINE: Don Hopey  Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: HEALTH SCIENCE MEDICINE & TECHNOLOGY; Pg. WEB

LENGTH: 629 words


Pittsburgh has a star turn in the new documentary film, "Paris to Pittsburgh,"
about how communities and individuals are taking the lead in initiating action
to combat climate change.

But Pittsburgh Mayor Bill Peduto, who hosted the advance screening of the film
Monday evening at Phipps Conservatory and Botanical Gardens in Oakland, told the
200 attendees that the cast needs to grow substantially for the sequel.

"There's no question that climate change is real and no question the rest of the
world is moving in a different direction than [the U.S.]," Mr. Peduto said. "But
wouldn't it be great if wind turbines were built with American steel and
assembled in West Virginia? If solar panels were built in Ohio?"

Prior to screening the film, Mr. Peduto asked representatives in the audience
from 20 cities that have taken steps to combat climate change to stand and be
recognized.

"It's happening now in different places and the film shows that, but we have to
make a better argument about how we can get it done, how Pittsburgh is a leader
and show how action against climate change is smart for our economy and our
future."

The movie, directed by Emmy Award-winning director Sidney Beaumont and shot in
Pittsburgh, Miami, California, Iowa, New York City, Puerto Rico and many
additional locations, looks at the efforts of individuals working to mitigate
impacts of climate change in their own backyards, even when those yards are
burned in wildfires, inundated by floods or parched by drought.

The film's title is a play on the link established by President Donald Trump
when, in June 2017, he announced he was pulling the United States out of the
Paris Climate Accord, saying, "I was elected to represent the citizens of
Pittsburgh, not Paris."

Paris was the city where the climate accord was adopted in December 2015.

"When Trump announced he was withdrawing from the accord, there was an outcry, a
groundswell of responses from people who had been working on this issue and
recognizing that climate change was a major problem," Mr. Beaumont said. "This
movie is a chance to highlight their vision and their work, and look at the
mounting evidence of climate change happening in the world and domestically."

Following the screening, a panel that included Mr. Peduto, Mr. Beaumont, and
Cindy Dunn, secretary of the state Department of Conservation and Natural
Resources, discussed how Pittsburgh and other communities, states and agencies
are responding to and working to mitigate climate change.

Ms. Dunn said the DCNR released a climate mitigation plan in June, is replacing
its fleet with electric vehicles and is installing solar panels to power its
park buildings.

"My agency has 4,700 buildings, mostly built in the 1970s, '80s and '90s when
energy conservation wasn't a concern," Ms. Dunn said. "We're installing solar
panels in our parks, which get 30 million visitors a year. We think it will be a
good way to educate the public and demonstrate that green energy doesn't have to
be a sacrifice."

In Pittsburgh, Point State Park has joined the Pittsburgh Green Building
Alliance's 2030 initiative, with a goal to reduce energy use and transportation
emissions by 50 percent by 2030.

Mr. Peduto subsequently signed an executive order pledging the city to adhere to
the goals of the accord signed by 174 nations and the European Union.

"Pittsburgh is the exemplar of how to address this issue," Mr. Beaumont said.
"It's a place that understands its history, its industrial legacy, but embraces
its future."

Monday's screening of the 78-minute documentary was in advance of its Dec. 12
broadcast premiere on the National Geographic Channel.

The film was produced by the Academy Award- and Emmy-winning production company
RadicalMedia in partnership with Bloomberg Philanthropies.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2019

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Don Hopey: dhopey@post-gazette.com, 412-263-1983, or on Twitter @donhopey

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2018 P.G. Publishing Co.


                               6 of 308 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                           November 15, 2018 Thursday
                                 SOONER EDITION

STUDY: PEOPLE DRINK MORE  ALCOHOL IN COLDER CLIMATES;
GLOBAL DATA SETS SHOW THE PATTERNS

BYLINE: Jill Daly Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: ASECTION; Pg. A-8

LENGTH: 678 words


Americans up North who hole up every winter with a hot toddy or two may not be
surprised that their drinking tradition has something to do with the climate.

Researchers at the University of Pittsburgh have confirmed, by studying global
data, that it's true around the world: Climate and drinking patterns are
inversely related, meaning the warmer and sunnier the climate, the less people
drink alcohol.

Reported in the journal Hepatology online by Meritxell Ventura-Cots and Ramon
Bataller, the study examined average temperatures and annual sunshine hours with
liters of annual alcohol consumption per capita for 193 countries.

In hot climates, alcohol increases the danger of dehydration. But because
alcohol increases blood flow to the skin, drinking can make a person feel
pleasantly warm in cold climates.

So it wasn't a surprise that the study found the percentage of binge drinking -
heavy episodic drinking - and the total number of drinkers went up in places
with lower temperatures and fewer hours of sunshine.

"Everybody assumed this, but nobody has demonstrated it," Dr. Bataller said,
adding that climate also correlated similarly with rates of cirrhosis of the
liver and alcoholism. It's not that people who live in colder climates are more
susceptible, he said, it is just one factor in higher rates of drinking.

The World Health Organization reports that 3 million deaths occur each year as a
result of alcohol overuse, which is also blamed as contributing to more than 200
diseases and injuries.

The study findings, which included maps that focused on the world, show
inversely related drinking/climate patterns that are obvious in northern
latitudes closest to the Arctic Circle, including Russia, parts of Europe and
Canada and Alaska. The continent of Africa shows the most obvious pattern in the
direction of a hot, sunny climate and less drinking.

The researchers used large public data sets, including from WHO and the World
Meteorological Organization, to confirm an idea already generally accepted. The
study was funded by the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism and
Mexican and Spanish organizations.

"Any factor that contributes to alcohol drinking is of interest to
policymakers," said Dr. Bataller, associate director of the Pittsburgh Liver
Research Center at Pitt. The connection to fewer hours of sunlight, he said,
"tells us to prevent alcohol abuse and alcoholism, resources should be focused
more in cold places."

The study made adjustments for various confounding factors, including religion,
especially in countries where Islam is the predominant religion. There are many
things, in groups of people and in individuals, that affect patterns of alcohol
consumption and alcohol problems, according to WHO.

The Pitt study also did a detailed analysis in the United States - for all 50
states and 3,144 counties. The same correlations of climate and alcohol drinking
were found, although only nine counties in Hawaii and Florida belonged to the
tropical category used in the global analysis and only two counties in Alaska
were in the polar category.

Alcohol consumption was measured as total alcohol intake per capita, percent of
the population that drinks alcohol, and the incidence of binge drinking.

For people with a genetic predisposition to alcoholism or with family members
who abuse alcohol, Dr. Bataller said, "maybe you should avoid living in a very
cold place ... If you are predisposed to drinking, don't go to Alaska; you'll
probably drink more."

Ms. Ventura-Cots, a postdoctoral researcher at the Liver Research Center, said
global data included some estimates of drinking in countries where it is
forbidden - that was not included in the study. She said confounding factors
that were adjusted in the final numbers included obesity, smoking prevalence,
diabetes and inequality - a factor that in the U.S. has been found to lead to
more alcohol drinking.

The research was needed, Dr. Bataller said.

"Alcohol abuse is one of the main preventable factors in reducing mortality in
the world."

Jill Daly: jdaly@post-gazette.com

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2018 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              10 of 308 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            October 16, 2018 Tuesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

CLIMATE  IS LIFE;
WE MUST PROTECT THE PLANET WE SHARE

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. A-11

LENGTH: 711 words


In one respect, the debacle in the Garden of Eden is an ur-climate change
narrative. If you can't use your natural environment the way you ought to, then
you'll lose it. And then where will you be? After their transgression, Adam and
Eve find themselves in a far less hospitable place than the one they used to
know. In their strange world, newly hard and unyielding, they proceed - almost
unthinkably -to have children. Circumstances then famously escalate.

Like our mythic forebears, we seem locked in a doomed cycle of escalating
damage. Last week, researchers at the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change
(IPCC) released a report stating that the world is not on track to limit global
temperature increase to 1.5 degrees Celsius, the goal of the 2015 Paris
agreement. In concrete terms, this means that humankind can -unless rapid,
extreme measures are taken -expect severe weather, disruptions to agriculture
and resulting political and economic jolts, along with irreversible climate
shifts such as the destruction of polar ice shelves and permanent sea-level
increases.

Nonetheless, many American politicians remain glibly indifferent to the threat
of climate change. In a very pragmatic sense, therefore, and in a moral one,
people seem to be the problem.

On the practical level, some scientists have argued that controlling human
population is key to slowing climate change. A 2010 article in the Proceedings
of the National Academy of Sciences calculated that "slowing population growth
could provide 16 to 29 percent of the emissions reductions suggested to be
necessary by 2050 to avoid dangerous climate change." A radical shift in
production methods and consumption habits could presumably have the same effect.
But tailoring production to provide for a sustainable future isn't something
most corporations seem enthusiastic about, and cutting consumption is, in our
culture, also a steep ask. Laws could help. But politicians seem even less
interested in protecting our shared future than their masters in industry. Our
condition isn't altogether hopeless. But it can feel futile.

Which raises a question that, while grim and disturbing, has come to me in
worried murmurs again and again as climate predictions continue to worsen. Why
have children at all, when the future seems so dire? Even if one assumes that
having a child won't contribute to the problem -that our progeny will take
seriously the creeping catastrophe their parents didn't -it still seems likely
that today's youths will be faced with a world vastly and unpredictably altered.

Why put them through it?

Every child is born to risk. One might argue that all parents know that they are
delivering their children from the blank constancy of nonexistence into a world
that is certain only to change, and that it's impossible to be sure of anything
except that life is not permanent and is prone to radical, sudden revolutions.
This is true, if a bit more determined, in the case of climate change. Bringing
a child into a world staring down the throat of its own deadly excesses is both
as reasonable and irrational as having a child in any other frightening epoch,
and there have been many.

But there's more to it than that. It also appears to me that a certain
disrespect for human life is how we arrived in the climactic fix we're in now.
Governments and corporations have for too long prized the license and lucre of a
handful of people over the well-being of the vast majority of the planet's
inhabitants, who are suffering thanks to their recklessness. Holding those
actors accountable will require an enormous amount of political will, but also a
recognition that the culprits of climate change are not pro- but anti-humanity,
and that it's their ethos which inclines to nihilism, despair and death.
Children are a clear statement of hope, a demand that we claim accountability
for the future. They are a rejection of cavalier disregard for the planet we
share.

After the Fall, in a wounded world, Adam and Eve still had children because life
is good. This is ultimately the greatest imperative for halting climate change,
and for bearing children, for the parents who want to do it: Life is good. Life
itself is good.

Elizabeth Bruenig is an opinion columnist at The Washington Post.

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2018 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              16 of 308 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            October 19, 2018 Friday
                                 SOONER EDITION

'MRS. MAISEL' ACTRESS TO NARRATE DOCUMENTARY ON CLIMATE CHANGE

BYLINE: Bob Batz Jr. Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: MAGAZINE; Pg. C-3

LENGTH: 375 words


That forthcoming National Geographic documentary on climate change titled "Paris
to Pittsburgh"?

It's going to be narrated by Mrs. Maisel - er, actress and activist Rachel
Brosnahan.

Ms. Brosnahan, who plays a 1950s housewife liberated by stand-up comedy on the
hit Amazon series "The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel," will be the voice of the
documentary from Bloomberg Philanthropies and RadicalMedia, which is to premiere
on National Geographic on Dec. 12.

She won an Emmy last month for her lead role as Mrs. Maisel in the comedy
series. She was nominated for one on her role in the Netflix series "House of
Cards."

In a statement about this new gig, she said, " 'Paris to Pittsburgh' shines a
light on the many forgotten communities and people who have been affected by
climate change in our country, as well as solutions for how we can fight back
and reduce our carbon footprint. I'm proud to be part of this poignant and
powerful documentary and admire the pro-active approach Bloomberg Philanthropies
has taken with this project and this issue; we need meaningful change."

Pittsburgh is one of the stars of the documentary, which "explores the very real
social and economic effects of climate change-fueled disasters," according to a
press release. "The film features stories behind climate-related recovery and
resiliency, as well as innovative efforts to reduce carbon emissions. It
showcases cities, states, businesses and citizens taking their own action in the
face of federal inaction."

The documentary's executive producer, Katherine Oliver, called the
Milwaukee-born Ms. Brosnahan "a forward-looking and engaged role model for these
times. We are thrilled that she has lent her strong voice and spirit of activism
to this project."

As the Post-Gazette's Rob Owen has reported, Pittsburgh gets a big role because
of Mayor Bill Peduto's decision to go in the opposite direction of President
Donald Trump when the president announced the U.S. withdrawal from the worldwide
Paris Climate Agreement. According to the release, "Mayor Peduto and
Pittsburgh's story is one of the many examples of bold economic and climate
leadership in the film."

See a trailer at ParistoPittsburgh.com.

Bob Batz Jr.: bbatz@post-gazette.com, 412-263-1930 and on Twitter @bobbatzjr.

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Amazon: Rachel Brosnahan, who stars in Amazon's "The Marvelous
Mrs. Maisel," will narrate the "Paris to Pittsburgh" climate-change documentary,
which will premiere on National Geographic Dec. 12.
PHOTO: Jordan Strauss/Invision/AP: Rachel Brosnahan will narrate the "Paris to
Pittsburgh" climate change documentary that will premiere on National Geographic
Dec. 12.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2018 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              21 of 308 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                           December 5, 2018 Wednesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

DRAMATIC CHANGES;
DRAFT VERSION OF CARBON-CUTTING PLAN ENVISIONS A SHIFT IN PENNSYLVANIA'S ENERGY
MIX

BYLINE: Laura Legere, Harrisburg Bureau

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. B-7

LENGTH: 739 words


HARRISBURG - A draft update to Pennsylvania's guidebook for combating climate
change sets a target for the first time on how much greenhouse gas emissions
should be cut by 2050 - and then describes how even major shifts toward cleaning
up the state's energy system will likely fall short of reaching it.

The draft 2018 update to Pennsylvania's Climate Action Plan - the fourth that
the state Department of Environmental Protection has produced since 2008 -
proposes dozens of actions that the state, its citizens and businesses can take
to cut down on the release of carbon dioxide and other climate-warming gases.

The strategies include 15 that were identified as the most practical and
effective - including cutting electricity demand from homes and businesses,
transitioning to electric vehicles, requiring more of the state's electricity
mix to come from wind and solar, and keeping the state's current nuclear power
plants open.

Collectively, the measured strategies are expected to have a positive, but
relatively small, impact on the Pennsylvania economy and job growth over the
next 30 years and "are not disruptive for the overall economic trajectory of the
state," the report found.

But the strategies would involve dramatic changes, including shifting away from
reliance on fossil fuels - especially coal-fired power plants - in electricity
generation.

The draft report says those changes or some similar mix of carbon-cutting tools
- combined with equal actions by other states and nations - will be necessary to
avoid the worst effects of climate change, which scientists expect will occur if
global temperatures continue their rapid rise and reach 2 degrees Celsius above
pre-industrial levels.

To stay clear of that threshold, the United States, and Pennsylvania, would need
to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from 2005 levels by 26 percent by 2025 - just
seven years from now - and 80 percent by 2050, the report says. DEP adopted
those percentages as its targets.

While the 15 "most practical and impactful" strategies quantified in the report
would "significantly reduce" greenhouse gas emissions compared to
business-as-usual in Pennsylvania, they would not meet the targets.

If all 15 of the quantified strategies were implemented, they would cut the
state's greenhouse gas emissions by 21 percent by 2025 and 36 percent by 2050
from 2005 levels.

Other jurisdictions' climate plans have hit similar hurdles, the report notes.

"Actions with large [greenhouse gas] reduction potential, such as those
quantified for this plan, are not quite enough to meet 2025 or 2050 targets,
when taken alone," the report says. "This finding further emphasizes the need
for more ambitious and quick climate action from all actors, including
leadership, businesses and citizens."

Pennsylvania has reduced greenhouse gas emissions over the last decade, largely
because natural gas is displacing coal for electricity generation and because
gradual policies to promote renewable energy and energy efficiency have matured.
Net greenhouse gas emissions statewide were about 13 percent lower in 2015 than
they were in 2005, according to the report.

But Pennsylvania cannot simply do what it has been doing and hope emissions will
keep falling, the report warns.

The business-as-usual case outlined in the report envisions that both the Three
Mile Island and Beaver Valley nuclear power plants will close in 2019 and 2021,
as their owners have announced, and that emissions from transportation, natural
gas production, industry and waste will rise over the next three decades, nearly
returning to levels last seen in 2005.

Pennsylvania is expected to face higher temperatures, increased air pollution
and more frequent extreme weather events and flooding because of climate change
in the coming decades, the report says.

A final draft of the DEP plan is expected to be released early next year and
will include letters of support or opposition from members of the state's
Climate Change Advisory Committee, some of whom expressed concerns with the
proposed strategies and targets at a meeting on Tuesday.

Terry Bossert, an energy attorney with the firm Post & Schell, noted that
Pennsylvania is a major exporter of electricity.

"To some extent, this report strikes me like Michigan doing a climate report
saying, 'we should stop making cars,'" he said. "We're in that kind of
conundrum: that the thing we make leads to the problem that we're trying to
address."

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: POWERSOURCE/ Laura Legere: llegere@post-gazette.com /

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Stephanie Strasburg/Post-Gazette: A pile of rubble stands where
a hillside home once was after a massive landslide forced crews to tear down
several homes in North Strabane, Washington County, in October 2018. Three homes
were condemned in June after heavy rains caused the hillside to start to slide.
\ \ CHART: Pennsylvania Departnebt of Environmental Protection; James
Hilston/Post-Gazette: PROPOSED GREENHOUSE GAS CUTS FALL SHORT OF
TARGETS/Greenhouse Gas Reductions Through 2050

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2018 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              25 of 308 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                             April 20, 2018 Friday
                                 SOONER EDITION

OUR PLANET IS SENDING SIGNALS THAT IT NEEDS OUR HELP

BYLINE: CYNTHIA KIRSCH, Edgewood

SECTION: EDITORIAL; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR; Pg. A-10

LENGTH: 262 words


I am a native of Wisconsin who has lived in Pittsburgh almost 30 years(and I
root for the Steelers, not the Packers). I think there's something about being
born in Wisconsin that predisposes a person to like snow.

The sight of snow makes me happy. But not in mid-April.Some individuals have
used these unseasonable snowfalls and coldsnaps to dispute the reality of
climate change, questioning how a warmer climate can produce colder weather.

While it can be difficult to think about global warming when April looks like
"White Christmas," we now that our global climate has warmed to serious levels.
When the climate warms, erratic and extreme weather events occur with more
frequency and intensity. Violent hurricanes, floods, heat, droughts and
prolonged wildfire seasons have become common events. And, snow in April.

Our planet has been sending us loud signals that we need to take action to
protect it -and ourselves. Scientists are virtually unanimous in agreeing that
reducing fossil fuel emissions is critical in this pursuit.

Citizens' Climate Lobby provides a sensible and effective solution.

CCL's national, revenue-neutral proposal would place a predictable,steady price
increase on carbon, with all the fees minus administrative costs returned to
households as a monthly energy dividend. Studieshave shown that in just 20
years, carbon emissions would be reduced to50 percent of 1990 levels, while also
adding 2.8 million jobs to the economy(citizensclimatelobby.org). We need to
encourage our political leaders to support solutions that will help heal our
planet.

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A car in a snow squall Thursday on the Parkway West

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2018 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              34 of 308 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                             April 30, 2018 Monday
                                 SOONER EDITION

OUR MILITARY  KNOWS CLIMATE CHANGE PUTS ITS FACILITIES AT RISK

BYLINE: MARC YERGIN, Squirrel Hill

SECTION: EDITORIAL; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR; Pg. A-12

LENGTH: 245 words


Don't try and tell the U.S. military that global warming and climate change are
nothing to worry about.

A study supported in part by the military expects that U.S. military facilities
in the Pacific Ocean may be flooded and uninhabitable by the middle of this
century. Reliable science-based estimates place the rise in ocean levels at a
possible 2 meters or more.

Greenhouse gases generated by burning coal and other fossil fuels trap heat in
our atmosphere. They normally would be radiated away into space. The oceans act
as a heat sink for the increased heat. The rise in ocean levels is a result of
melting Arctic, Antarctic and Greenland ice packs as well as the expansion of
sea water because warm water expands

More than half the oxygen we breathe comes from phytoplankton in the ocean.

The warming of the oceans is also having a dire effect on the phytoplankton that
live in the water. The amount of phytoplankton has decreased by more than 40
percent since the 1950s and has been decreasing around 10 percent every year.

If efforts aren't taken now to reduce the amount of greenhouse gases generated
by fossil fuels through increased use of renewable energy sources, we may find
ourselves living in a world that doesn't have enough oxygen in the atmosphere to
support us and other living organisms. A carbon fee and dividend program such as
the one from Citizens Climate Lobby could help to encourage more use and
interest in renewable, non-polluting energy sources.

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: \

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2018 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              35 of 308 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                              June 18, 2018 Monday
                                 SOONER EDITION

GLOBES AROUND TOWN PLACE FOCUS ON CLIMATE CHANGE;
WORLDWIDE EXHIBIT MAKES A STOP HERE

BYLINE: Adam Duke, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. B-1

LENGTH: 626 words


If you've been in Downtown within the past week, you may have noticed nearly 30
giant decorated globes dotted about Market Square, PPG Plaza and Gateway Center
and wondered what they are all about.

They're part of the public art exhibition "Cool Globes: Hot Ideas for a Cooler
Planet." The idea for the exhibition emerged in 2005 and became a nonprofit in
2006, raising awareness of solutions to climate change.

The following year, the globes - each weighing a ton - began their tour of,
well, the globe. In the summer of 2007, more than 120 globes were displayed in
Chicago. Some were auctioned off, raising $500,000 for environmental clubs at
Chicago public schools.

The public art was part of the Clinton Global Initiative, and according to
founder Wendy Abrams, was created with the idea that it would stop people in
their tracks to make them think about solutions to climate change.

"This was started when we still referred to climate change as 'global warming,'"
Ms. Abrams said. "It was before [the release of documentary] 'An Inconvenient
Truth.'"

She said the effort took a lot of time and that she recognized that leaders
weren't leading but were following public opinion instead. The goal was to
engage the public on a topic that can be hard to understand.

"Even small things, like taking mass transit or using cold water for laundry,
help," Ms. Abrams said. "You don't need an MIT degree to make change."

Pittsburgh is the Globes' 20th stop. The exhibit officially opens Monday and the
globes will be here through October. Since 2007, the globes have been displayed
in cities across the United States, including Boston, Houston, Los Angeles, New
York City and Washington, D.C. Starting in 2009, they were displayed worldwide
in Amsterdam, Jerusalem, Vancouver, Warsaw and other places.

Three globes were designed by local artists: Katy DeMent, Ashley Kyber and
Lindsay Wright. "Bee Mindful," was designed by Ms. Wright of Greenfield, who
said she received inspiration from the ideas of environmentalist and writer
Rachel Carson, who was born in Springdale Borough.

"I knew the globe was going to be in Pittsburgh," Ms. Wright said, "So I wanted
to tie in Pittsburgh themes."

Her globe is covered with a black-and-yellow honeycomb design to represent the
colors of the city as well as the color of bees and easy-to-identify warning
signs, such as caution signs on the street and poisonous animals in nature to
represent the cautiousness people should have in preserving this planet. It also
features small bee sculptures containing representations of different food items
pollinated by bees.

"If bees go, our favorite foods go," Ms. Wright said. "Let's pay attention to
even the little guys when we're talking about climate change." She added that
humans must work together like bees to make this world a better place to live.

Having done work as a science illustrator, typically drawing insect and dinosaur
illustrations for textbooks, Ms. Wright appreciated the new challenge the globe
brought as a 6-foot-tall, 5-feet-in-diameter public art sculpture. Because the
globe raises awareness and is displayed in her hometown, she was glad to apply
and accept the challenge when called upon.

Megan Scarsella, project manager at Cool Globes, said the group has worked with
a lot of cities and not all have been easy. But she said Pittsburgh has been a
joy to work with; the city leaders, rather than looking at the roots of
industry, are embracing the future of it. The exhibit was made possible, in
part, with support from the mayor's office, PNC Bank and local foundations.

Overall, approximately 200 artists have come together to design the globes. Each
time the exhibit visits another city, additional artists contribute to show off
global and local initiatives.

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Adam Duke: aduke@post-gazette.com /

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Andrew Stein/Post-Gazette: Artist Lindsay Wright attaches a cast
model of a honeybee to her globe in the Cool Globes art exhibit in Market
Square. Ms. Wright decorated the nearly 2,100-pound globe with a theme that
emphasizes the importance of bees.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2018 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              36 of 308 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            October 14, 2018 Sunday
                                TWO STAR EDITION

CLIMATE CHANGE CAUSING EXTREME WEATHER

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. D-2

LENGTH: 859 words


Climate change, scientists say, is responsible for the recent extreme weather in
Pennsylvania - heat waves, torrential rain and flooding. These weather changes
are not merely inconvenient, as demonstrated by a natural gas pipeline rupture
that caused a terrifying explosion and fire, destroying a house, several garages
and vehicles. The cause: a landslide brought about by heavy rain the previous
four days.

In my neighborhood, the South Side Slopes, we've lost several streets to
landslides, streets we're told there is no money to repair. As hillsides
continue to slide, several of my neighbors worry about losing their houses,
consulting engineers and building expensive retaining walls. If action isn't
taken, we will surely see more weather-related calamities in the future.

We can't count on politicians in Washington, D.C., to combat climate change as
the Trump administration's announced rollbacks of carbon and methane gas
emission limits make clear. And so far, state policymakers in both parties have
shown little inclination to enact policies that would make a difference in this
fight.

The problem of climate change and the underlying causes can no longer be
ignored. Fortunately, a statewide coalition has developed the PA Common
Conservation Agenda. Among its recommendations: increasing investment in clean
energy sources; restoring funding to the state agencies responsible for
permitting and monitoring pipeline construction; and encouraging more
energy-efficient green construction practices.

With a pivotal election on Nov. 6, it is time take our demands for action on
climate change directly to the candidates running for governor and the general
assembly.

Jessica Benham

South Side

Gender wars

As a senior who already fought the gender wars in the 1960s, when women were not
permitted to participate equally in work and in society, I find the labeling of
passionate protesters as a "mob" particularly unfair, but predictable.

Come on people, please step up. "Toxic masculinity" is infecting our society.
Most women in the workplace would tell you of the unwritten rule: In any
interview and on the job, don't appear to be too "hysterical."

Please stop and take a look at any hospital or educational system in Pittsburgh
and you will see an equal number of talented, professional women alongside
talented, professional men. No hysteria.

Please take a good look at the people around us; we will see a society that has
been improved by the American ideals of fairness, rule of law and access to
opportunity for all. Mislabeling passion as "mob rule" reveals our president as
a dinosaur whose warped understanding of women and all members of our society
who are not him, as less than him.

Hear him roar, but don't buy in. All American citizens deserve to be treated
fairly and equally in our democratic, not authoritarian, society. The only way
to preserve our democracy is to participate and vote. The stakes are high. Or
are we witnessing democracy dying?

Amy Kleissas

Robinson

Poisoned politics

American politics is poisoned with greed and self-interest. It is destroying the
best things we've done and, because of it, we are not a good country (and
getting farther from it every day). We have no moral or ethical mooring. Voters
are disenfranchised and confidence in our leaders is dwindling to nothing.

There are no penalties for those who would damage our government, and so they
stay to do more damage. The current ruling party is full of unmoving zealots,
clinging to the gospel of greed and in love with authoritarianism. They have no
desire to compromise or to debate; they just insult and demean and force their
way through. They fail up until they can cash out, like one of their failing
companies. It is disgusting.

EBEN ALGUIRE

Forest Hills

Power in voting

When unbridled power in the White House is backed up by "yes men" on the Supreme
Court, what is the result? The result is an authoritarian dictatorship.
President Donald Trump said he had the absolute right to pardon himself. Brett
Kavanaugh agreed: The president should not be encumbered by the law while he is
governing the nation.

The Democrats fought back. They put emphasis on sexual misbehavior by Justice
Kavanaugh (and Mr. Trump). That was a mistake. Most people have embarrassment of
some kind in regard to their sexual lives. In other words, they would have
"sympathy" for Mr. Trump and Justice Kavanaugh. People don't want their sexual
history on display. Therefore, sexual charges don't carry much weight in the
court of public opinion.

The Democrats should have shown that Mr. Trump is lawless and his U.S. Supreme
Court nominees are his support system. When Mr. Trump said that he had absolute
power, he was calling himself a dictator and his "yes-man" nominee was backing
him up. The Democrats used emotional charges instead of legal charges that
people could relate to.

Our Founding Fathers laid the foundation for democracy over 200 years ago. It's
up to us to finish the job. Our only hope is the November election. The
opportunity is only about three weeks away. Please get out and vote. And take a
voter with you. Your vote will count even more.

Gene Kuban

Eighty Four, Pa.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2018 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              39 of 308 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                             May 2, 2018 Wednesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

CLIMATE CHANGE RISKS

BYLINE: CHRIS MULLIN, Mt. Lebanon

SECTION: EDITORIAL; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR; Pg. A-10

LENGTH: 197 words


As we yearned for spring last week during yet another cool week in Pittsburgh,
it could have been easy to forget about global warming or conclude that the
problem can't be as urgent as the climate scientists say it is. But that
confuses local weather with the global climate. Although March was cool here,
the Global Climate Report from the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Adminstration points out that globally, it was the fifth-warmest March on record
(with the three warmest occuring in the previous three years).

The warming climate carries significant risks. We may be suffering from changes
already, from increasingly heavy rains like those that have led to local
landslides, to stuck weather patterns due to the jet stream getting trapped in a
loop over the Bering Sea. Hurricane Harvey hovering over Houston for four days
bears the hallmarks of stuck weather. We don't know exactly what changes a new
climate will bring, but we should not take such a large risk with our children's
future.

Congress should act now to pass a bipartisan climate fee and dividend law that
will harness the market to reduce our carbon footprint. The longer we wait, the
more difficult it will become.

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: The writer is a member of the Citizens' Climate Lobby.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2018 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              44 of 308 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            December 2, 2018 Sunday
                                TWO STAR EDITION

WE NEED A LIVABLE PLANET

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. D-2

LENGTH: 261 words


I noticed the stunning contrast between Larry Schweiger's op-ed on climate
change ("Our Two Worlds are Colliding")and Morgan O'Brien and Stacey Olsen's
op-ed on natural gas expansion ("We Need to Energize Pennsylvania's Economy") in
the Nov. 25 Forum section.

Immediately after reading about the record-breaking fires in California, I
turned the page to discover a plea by two business leaders to double down on
fossil fuels. If this investment in natural gas infrastructure occurs, it will
only exacerbate climate damages, such as those that we are witnessing in
California.

As an economics major at the University of Pittsburgh, I found the economic
claims of Mr. O'Brien perplexing. He and Ms. Olson, of Chevron Appalachia, cite
an econometric review pointing to "$60 billion in GDP growth, about 100,000 jobs
and billions in revenue to the state treasury" as a result of natural gas
development. Yet the authors omit discussion of the major climate report issued
by the government on Friday. The report says that climate change could eliminate
10 percent of the nation's gross domestic product by 2100. That translates to an
annual loss of hundreds of billions of dollars -more than the current GDP of
many U.S. states.

The effects of climate change described in the report overwhelm any positive
gains from natural gas. As a young person, I agree with Mr. Schweiger's claim
that "we cannot stop climate change by burning different kinds of fossil fuels."
A future built on natural gas is not compatible with a robust economy and a
livable planet.

SAMUEL RESSIN

Oakland

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Getty Images/iStockphoto:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2018 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              45 of 308 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                              May 25, 2018 Friday
                                 SOONER EDITION

LOCAL CLIMATE ACTION;
ENERGY EFFICIENCY TO REDUCE POLLUTION IS GOOD POLICY

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A-12

LENGTH: 496 words


Stripped of jargon, the Pittsburgh Climate Action Plan approved Tuesday week by
city council should come down to: Let's use less stuff. We'll save some money
and help clean up the air and water, too.

The plan, the third version since 2008, was formed with the input of more than
90 businesses and other organizations in the city. It stakes out laudable goals,
even if not all the targets may be reached by 2030. Why not shoot high and
expect that citywide, Pittsburgh will use half as much energy and water, cut
transportation emissions in half and get to "zero waste"? The goals of city
government seem more controllable - 100 percent use of renewable energy and a
government transportation fleet that runs without fossil fuels.

Some of the jargon works against comprehension (bullet point No. 2 of the Vision
is "Prioritize actions that build a foundation for future success, are scalable,
educational and achievable"). And a city transportation fleet that is "100
percent fossil-fuel free" will bear close inspection if electric power is part
of the mix. It's highly unlikely that coal and natural gas will disappear from
electricity generation within the next 12 years.

But a large-scale effort to improve energy efficiency, reduce consumption and
make use of the latest technology is not a pie-in-the-sky idea. It's common
sense and basic thrift.

It's also good capitalism, if PNC Financial Services is any example. One of the
nation's largest banks, it got the green message years ago, and not just as a PR
stunt. Its branch offices have been energy-efficient examples through better
lighting, HVAC and data analysis. Its central office Downtown, opened in 2015,
is billed as the greenest skyscraper in the world, consuming half the energy of
a comparable building. PNC treats environmental responsibility as good business
practice - which should be the underlying message of the city's plan.

In its broad outlines, the Climate Action Plan is about encouraging energy
savings (incentives to get a home energy audit) and changing city policies
(putting LED lights in parking garages), not mandating changes to private homes.
This is a good sign. Coercion will backfire.

The first Climate Action Plan emerged from the 2007 U.S. Mayors Climate
Protection Agreement, signed by Mayor Luke Ravenstahl and 1,059 other mayors.
That agreement sought to advance the goals of the Kyoto Protocol, the United
Nations climate accord that the United States ultimately did not ratify.

The new Climate Action Plan is inspired by the 2015 Paris Agreements, also
extending from the U.N. framework. Mayor Bill Peduto participated in those talks
and last year joined 175 other U.S. mayors in signing an executive order to meet
the targets set by the Paris Agreement. While the United States has withdrawn
from the Paris accord, nothing prevents a city or region from working to achieve
its goals. Pittsburgh may not save the planet all by itself, but any local
effort to reduce pollution is welcome.

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2018 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              48 of 308 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                           November 29, 2018 Thursday
                                 SOONER EDITION

GROUP PETITIONS PA. TO CUT EMISSIONS;
CAP-AND-TRADE ALSO TO HELP STATE BUDGET

BYLINE: Laura Legere, Harrisburg Bureau

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. D-1

LENGTH: 1056 words


More than 60 Pennsylvania environmental lawyers, businesses, faith groups and
local governments are petitioning the state to adopt a cap-and-trade program
that would gradually reduce, and eventually eliminate, emissions of greenhouse
gases from large sources across the Pennsylvania economy over the next three
decades.

In a petition submitted to the state's environmental rule-making board late
Tuesday, the coalition led by the Philadelphia-based Clean Air Council argues
that Pennsylvania is required by its constitution and air pollution law to
reduce emissions of climate-warming gases to levels that limit their threat to
people and the environment.

Pennsylvania is the third-largest U.S. emitter of carbon dioxide, the most
common greenhouse gas.

The petition comes in the wake of major new national and international
assessments detailing the devastating and costly repercussions of a warming
planet, including powerful storms, heat waves, rising seas and crop failures.
There is broad scientific consensus that the changes are being driven by human
actions, especially burning coal, oil and natural gas.

"The proposed regulation would create a measured and foreseeable path for the
commonwealth and its industry to do what is necessary to avoid the worst
consequences of climate disruption," the petitioners wrote to the secretary of
the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection.

A trading market created by the regulation would help nearly all of the state's
financially struggling nuclear plants stay open, they said.

It would also have the side-benefit of generating enough revenue to "solve
Pennsylvania's chronic budget deficits for decades to come."

The proposal is an ambitious strategy in a major fossil fuel- and
electricity-producing state where the oil, gas and coal industries enjoy
bipartisan support.

Democratic Gov. Tom Wolf's spokesman J.J. Abbott said in response to the
petition that the governor "believes that climate change is real, and that we
need to continue to take steps to address this issue, while at the same time
preserving and creating good paying jobs in the energy sector and growing our
economy."

Kevin Sunday, director of government affairs for the Pennsylvania Chamber of
Business and Industry, the state's largest business organization, said existing
case law does not support the petition's interpretation of the constitution's
Environmental Rights Amendment. He also said the proposal intrudes on the
General Assembly's power to craft laws.

"Certainly, a broad government action like this should involve the legislative
branch," he said. A market-based approach

Cap and trade is seen as a compelling but controversial mechanism for curbing
greenhouse gas emissions.

It is a market-based approach that both sets a shrinking limit on how much
pollution can be released and offers economic incentives for companies to make
further reductions and to earn valuable allowances they can sell to others.

A national cap-and-trade program for sulfur dioxide pollution that was started
in the 1990s is credited with lessening the problem of acid rain.

Attorney Robert B. McKinstry Jr., the petition's lead author, said the proposed
Pennsylvania greenhouse gas cap-and-trade program is based on California's, but
he adapted it for this region.

The Pennsylvania proposal would cover power plants; industrial plants that make
things like steel, cement and glass; coal mines; natural gas suppliers; and fuel
distributors.

The amount of allowable emissions would decline each year by 3 percent of the
levels as they were in 2016 until they reach zero in 2052.

Most of the covered companies would buy allowances at auction, starting with a
base price of $10 per metric ton of carbon in 2020 and rising each year by 10
percent plus inflation. Not driving business away?

Mr. McKinstry said he designed the program to avoid the pitfalls that have made
other cap-and-trade regimes weak - such as high caps that create a glut of
allowances or low prices that don't keep carbon-free nuclear plants afloat or
encourage companies to invest in technologies for capturing their emissions.

He also included provisions that aim to keep Pennsylvania economically
competitive, so businesses do not flee to states with looser rules.

"I've been practicing law representing industry for almost 40 years," he said.
"I can design things with the marketplace in mind."

If the petition is successful, Pennsylvania's program would send price signals
to other regional cap-and-trade programs, potentially pushing all of them toward
the commonwealth's more rigorous system.

But first, Pennsylvania would have to sign on to the plan. The legal process

The state's environmental rule-making body, called the Environmental Quality
Board, must review the petition and decide whether to adopt, reject or modify
it. The 20-member board is made up of the heads of 11 state agencies, five
members of a citizens advisory council and four members of the state Senate and
House.

Its decision would be appealable to state courts including, if necessary, the
Pennsylvania Supreme Court.

In a ruling last year, the high court revived the state's Environmental Rights
Amendment and reinforced the Pennsylvania government's obligation to act as a
trustee of the commonwealth's natural resources for current and future
generations.

That case provided the key legal precedent for this effort, the petitioners
said.

A petition with a similar goal to reduce greenhouse gas emissions was rejected
by the Environmental Quality Board in 2014 - a decision that was later upheld by
state courts.

But Joseph Otis Minott, executive director of the Clean Air Council, said this
effort is "fundamentally different."

"We're very specific about what we're asking the (Department of Environmental
Protection) to do," he said. The package presented to the board includes a
400-page petition with a 260-page draft regulation - everything that the board
needs to move forward with publishing a proposed rule.

The regulatory process presents a clearer, quicker, more flexible path for
action than asking the Republican-controlled Legislature to write a new law, he
said.

The recent national and international reports confirm that "climate change is an
emergency," Mr. Minott said. "Going slow and not taking decisive action to
protect us from climate change is just no longer acceptable."

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Laura Legere: llegere@post-gazette.com /

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Darrell Sapp/Post-Gazette: The Beaver Valley Nuclear Plant in
Shippingport.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2018 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              58 of 308 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                             July 10, 2018 Tuesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

AFTER DEFEATING POLIO, SALK TRIED SAVING THE WORLD FROM HUMANS

BYLINE: David Templeton Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: MAGAZINE; Pg. D-1

LENGTH: 1176 words


In developing his historic vaccine, Jonas Salk helped save the world from polio.
But he didn't quit there. Later in life, he would outline ways to save the
planet from overpopulation.

The University of Pittsburgh researcher focused brain power on world problems
with perceptions about population growth that were well ahead of their time.

So said his son Jonathan Salk, a psychiatrist in Los Angeles, who helped his
father write a 1981 academic book about population growth that sold few copies.

Now, he and David Dewane of Chicago have transformed that academic treatise into
a handsomely published book with a concise, step-by-step explanation of the
human attitudes and behaviors necessary to save the planet.

"A New Reality: Human Evolution for a Sustainable Future" is readable in an hour
or two with one simple graphic - a Sigmoid curve that Jonas Salk said
mathematically described population growth in some closed systems. Added to that
are explanatory paragraphs, each with singular focus and a clear message that
builds over 225 pages to a proclamation that is hard to ignore or forget. Some
may find it controversial or political, but his son said that was never the
famous doctor's intent.

"Our survival is not ensured," the book proclaims. "An urgency exists today that
did not when this book was originally written 35 years ago. The reality of an
increasing population is upon us; population pressures threaten our social,
agricultural and economic systems. Armed and unarmed conflict is frequent and
threatens stability both locally and globally. Human-influenced climate change
is only a handful of years away from a point of no return. Taking care of the
health and well-being of human beings in every part of the planet is now not
just a matter of humanitarian spirit; it is a matter of necessity."

The book, published by City Point Press and distributed by Simon & Schuster, was
published with help from a $40,994 Kickstarter campaign that stated the
following:

"The message of the book explodes from the past and sheds light on tensions that
plague us and the currents of discord that are raging as these words are
written," it said. "More importantly, it indicates a way forward out of our
current situation."

The younger Dr. Salk said the presentation is notably different from the
original, which was black and white with text on the left page and the
appropriate Sigmoid curves on the right page, or what Dr. Salk described as a
book-form slide presentation. His father, always a busy man, recruited him in
the late 1970s to help write the book.

"The biggest change is the redesign into a beautifully accessible book with
added photos," Dr. Salk said. It also has colorful pages and different fonts.
"We had the graphic design redone. In addition, I tried to make the text more
accessible and less academic."

Population dynamics are a scary topic these days, with mounting fears of runaway
population growth destined to doom the planet.

For developed nations, growth actually is slowing, the book states.

Jonas Salk's ideas are based on the Sigmoid curve - a flattened S-shape
mathematical curve that from left to right resembles a slope that is ever
steeper at first before an inflection point after which it begins leveling out
and soon plateaus.

The inflection point in population for some developed nations occurred in the
1970s, but undeveloped nations might not reach that point for decades. Overall,
the world already passed the inflection point, which means the rate of growth
will progressively decline until world population tops out at 10 to 11 billion
people.

Population growth also can be analyzed based on changing human conditions,
attitudes and behaviors.

The current world population of about 7.6 billion people still largely reflects
20th-century principles of promoting growth and development, fierce competition,
excess consumption, largely uncontrolled pollution and waste with exploitation
rather than preserving natural resources.

In developing countries, growth continues slowing, with Germany's population of
82 million already having plateaued, the book says.

As it slows, Jonas Salk argued, attitudes and behaviors accordingly must change
to cooperation rather than competition, collective decision-making rather than
independence, sustainability rather than resource exploitation. As developed
nations have proven, population declines when there are low infant-mortality
rates, improved health care, equity in income and an education, especially for
women.

But third-world populations continue to have high infant mortality rates, little
education, and limited resources and opportunity. In such cases population
growth will accelerate until developed nations step forward to provide resources
and services.

Jonas Salk, one of the 20th century's most notable scientists, was visionary in
developing the vaccine that has almost eradicated polio worldwide. He died in
1995.

"He perceived that we are moving from an era dominated by limitless growth,
competitive strategies, short-range thinking and independence to one
characterized by awareness of limits, cooperation, long-range thinking and
interdependence," his son said.

"It is a notable phenomenon that reducing problems and increasing well-being
accompany slower population growth," the book says. "We once thought that more
people would lead to more problems. But our approach and perspective have
shifted. Now we understand that more solutions lead to slower growth."

Key to the Salk message is the need to adapt "to limitations in terms of
resources - a set of conditions different from any we have faced in our
history."

Notable researchers and writers have endorsed the book, including Michael Mann,
the Penn State University climate scientist and author of "The Madhouse Effect."
He described it as "a truly beautiful book" with the "human condition captured
by a single mathematical curve" that shows that "a sustainable and harmonious
future remains within our reach."

Climate change involves issues the Salk book addresses - industrial competition,
resource exploitation, excess and pollution. But Mr. Mann, who holds a doctorate
in geology and geophysics, said international cooperation already has resolved
several environmental problems.

"Acid rain, ozone depletion - we solved those problems, based on market
mechanisms proposed by Republican presidents," he said. "The Environmental
Protection Agency was established by [Richard] Nixon. Ronald Regan signed the
Montreal Protocol. George H.W. Bush created cap-and-trade (to deal with acid
rain).

"It is only recently that support for environmental protection has become a
partisan political issue," he said during an email exchange. "So the short
answer is: To solve the specific problem [of climate change] we have to solve
the larger underlying problem - the loss of good faith in our political
discourse.

"The good news is I think that is achievable," he said. "It's simply a matter of
the American people saying enough is enough."

David Templeton: dtempleton@post-gazette.com or 412-263-1578. Twitter:
@templetoons.

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Salk Institute: Jonathan Salk, left, with his father, the
late Jonas Salk, at the Salk Institute, La Jolla, Calif., in 1981.
PHOTO: "A New Reality: Human Evolution for a Sustainable Future" by Jonas Salk
and his son Jonathan has gotten an update.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2018 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              59 of 308 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            January 21, 2018 Sunday
                                  EAST EDITION

2DO

BYLINE: Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: MAGAZINE; Pg. E-2

LENGTH: 529 words


TODAY

Word Cellar Readings will take place at City of Asylum@Alphabet City, 40 W.
North Ave., North Side, at 5 p.m. The premiere installment this new reading
series, co-curated by Pat Hart and Marc Nieson of the Free Association Reading
Series, will feature Words Without Walls co-founder Sheryl St. Germain, author
and photographer Michael Graybrook, New Yorker contributor and Buzzfeed essayist
Shannon Reed and writer/editor Geeta Kothari. Admission is free, but
registration is required: www.alphabetcity.org.

TUESDAY

JazzLive presents the Stevee Wellons Band at the Backstage Bar at Theater
Square, 655 Penn Ave., Downtown, at 5 p.m. This free music series showcases some
of the region's finest jazz musicians. Information: www.trustarts.org or
412-456-6666.

TUESDAY

Chamber Music Pittsburgh presents a concert and screening of the film "The Music
of Strangers," a documentary about the cross-cultural Silk Road Ensemble, at The
Mattress Factory, 500 Sampsonia Way, North Side, at 7 p.m. Before the screening,
Appalasia, a Pittsburgh-based ensemble of dulcimer, erhu, banjo and vocals, will
perform live. Admission is free; suggested donation, $10. The museum and box
office will open at 6 p.m. Galleries will be open for viewing from 6-7 p.m. For
more info: ?www.chambermusicpittsburgh.org.

WEDNESDAY

Duquesne University's "Human Rights in the Age of Trump" film series continues
in Room 105 of College Hall, on Locust Street, Uptown, at 7 p.m. on the
university campus. This week's film is "An Inconvenient Sequel: Truth to Power."
Written by former U.S. Vice President Al Gore, it addresses the progress made to
tackle the problem of climate change and Mr. Gore's global efforts to persuade
government leaders to invest in renewable energy, culminating in the signing of
the Paris Climate Agreement. A different film will be screened each Wednesday
through Feb. 7. "Constructing the Terrorist Threat" will be shown Jan. 31, and
Ai Weiwei's "Human Flow" will be screened Feb. 7. All screenings are free and
open to the public. For more information, www.duq.edu.

THURSDAY

City of Asylum hosts a conversation with conductor Rafael Payare, who leads the
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra over the weekend in music by Carreno, Rachmaninoff
and Mahler, at 8 p.m. at City of Asylum, 40 W. North Ave., North Side. Admission
is free, but registration is required: www.alphabetcity.org or
pittsburghsymphony.org.

FRIDAY through NEXT SUNDAY

Comedian/actor Bill Bellamy plays the Pittsburgh Improv, 166 E. Bridge St., at
The Waterfront, Homestead. He is probably best know for the TV show "The Billy
Bellamy Show" and for roles in the films "Love Jones," "How to Be a Player,"
"Love Stinks," "The Brothers" and "Any Given Sunday." Showtimes are 7:30 and
9:45 p.m. Friday; 7 and 9:30 p.m. Saturday; and 7 p.m. next Sunday. Tickets and
information: $25; www.improv.com or 412-462-5233.

SATURDAY

The acclaimed early music ensemble Baltimore Consort visits Pittsburgh to
perform the program "The Food of Love" at 8 p.m. in Synod Hall, 125 N. Craig
St., Oakland. The concert features music of the Elizabethan era alongside songs
and consort music from Shakespeare plays. Tickets are $10-$35 at rbsp.org.

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Bjorn Bertheussen: Conductor Rafael Payare.
PHOTO: Jensen Walker: Former Vice President Al Gore gives his updated
presentation on climate change in the film "An Inconvenient Sequel: Truth to
Power."
PHOTO: Marc Nieson, author and co-curator of the Free Association Reading
Series.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2018 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              72 of 308 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                           October 27, 2018 Saturday
                                 SOONER EDITION

ENVIRONMENT NEEDS EXPERIENCED PROFESSIONALS

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. WB-2

LENGTH: 707 words


There has been a much growing concern over the causes and effects of climate
change on our environment. Scientists are professionals with years of research
and experience in their field, and they have given warnings about our direction
in this matter.

Our president may be a good businessman but when it comes to the environment, I
believe he should not hold the "trump card." Protecting and making decisions
about our environment is more than running a business. Critical decisions about
our future are on the horizon and need to be made upon the advice of experienced
professionals.

If you have a leak in your sink, you do not seek the advice of an electrician.
If you need a new roof, you do not seek the advice of a doctor. If you need to
make educated decisions about climate change, you do not need the advice of a
politician or businessman.

Our environment is not a business for which you can declare bankruptcy, move on
to another venture and start over. Our president demands respect yet shows no
respect to other professionals. The excuse that "I believe they are saying that
just for political reasons" is getting old. It's time to sit down, party aside,
and really consider how to act on critical issues.

Will our future generations feel that we made educated decisions on climate
change to sustain life or will they see that our leaders were unwilling to work
together and were more interested in the almighty dollar?

Debra Boyko

White Oak

Good investment

As a senior nearing retirement, I thought it is worth weighing in on the
Allegheny County ballot proposal to create a children's fund to support early
learning, after-school and nutrition programs for children in our county through
a modest .25 millage increase.

If I understand this proposal, it will use these modest tax funds to invest in
our children's early education and childhood development so that they will be
more likely to do well in school and, later, as working adults. Certainly, early
learning and after-school programs have been shown to improve later school
success, and good nutrition certainly helps children develop into healthy
adults.

Seems like this is a modest and sound investment in one of the most important
county assets we have . our children. After all, they are our future workforce,
and well-educated young people also earn more.

With 10,000 baby-boomers entering retirement every day, it would seem wise to
invest in developing the well-educated and healthy young workforce that will be
needed to support all of us older folks. I see this Allegheny County Children's
Fund as an added investment in my own retirement. So, I am voting yes.

Tracy Soska

Pleasant Hills

Use sales tax

This November, Allegheny County wants to increase your property taxes by $25 per
$100,000 assessed value under the guise of helping the children. The county
already has an extra 1 percent sales tax it uses support nonprofit groups but
also to prop up for-profit organizations such as the Pirates, Steelers, Penguins
and the leaky David L. Lawrence Convention Center. Can you afford to go to any
of the games on a regular basis? Great if you can, but I should not have to pay
for you to do so.

The county can use the extra sales tax revenue for the children, and stop the
unnecessary support for the for-profit organizations. If necessary, the tax can
be rescinded, and replaced by one for the children.

Vote no on Nov. 6.

Dave Van der Voort

Franklin Park

Good representative

I would like to respond to a letter to the editor that contains false
information (Oct. 20, "Different values").

R.B. Surmacz commits three factual errors in the letter when writing about
congressional candidate Guy Reschenthaler. For the record:

1. Mr. Reschenthaler was born in New Kensington, Westmoreland County, which is
in the 14th Congressional District.

2. Mr. Reschenthaler lives in Peters, Washington County, once again in the
district.

3. Mr. Reschenthaler is registered to vote where he lives. That means Peters,
which is in the district.

On election day, Nov. 6, Mr. Reschenthaler will join thousands of fellow
residents in choosing a congressman who was born here, lives here and represents
the conservative, commonsense values of the people of the 14th District.

Chuck Konkus

Penn, Westmoreland County

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2018 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              73 of 308 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                           December 27, 2018 Thursday
                                 SOONER EDITION

AGREE ON A WALL;
AMERICANS WANT CONSENSUS, NOT PARTISAN PREENING

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. A-8

LENGTH: 570 words


The approaching switch of the U.S. House of Representatives from Republican to
Democratic majority means there will be a powerful temptation for Democrats to
play an oppositional role aimed at defining their party for the 2020 elections,
rather than solving the problems of the United States.

One House member, Eric Swalwell of California, said the young people in the
country are telling the Democratic Party to "go big." According to Mr. Swalwell,
he said his talks with "young people across the country" tell him there is a
consensus on what to do about gun violence, immigration, the Dream Act and
climate change.

There is no national consensus behind a party platform to go it alone, as is
implied in the phrase "go big." There is a national consensus in favor of
solutions to problems that have only festered and worsened over the past few
years.

Americans do want solutions that involve gun violence, immigration, the Dream
Act, climate change, the rising federal debt and many other things.

What they don't want is two years of phony, political preening for the cameras.

A Democratic Party that intends to "go big" is not unlike the Republican Party
that tried to "go big." What did the Republicans do? Try to repeal Obamacare
with meaningless votes on the House floor on multiple occasions but then fail to
engineer a replacement national health care policy.

What can be expected of a Democratic Party that comes to power determined to "go
big"?

A lot of investigations of President Donald Trump, a lot of empty votes on
climate change, voter suppression, LGBTQ rights, Medicare-for-all, bans on
semiautomatic weapons and other things that will accomplish nothing in the
contentious, partisan atmosphere that is the U.S. government now.

America deserves better than this.

The ongoing fight over the president's desire for a border wall and the
resulting government shutdown is the opening salvo of the relationship to arise
when Nancy Pelosi takes her place as the speaker of the House when the next
Congress begins in January.

Ms. Pelosi, of California, and Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer of New York
both state categorically that there is no money for "a wall." And yet, Mr.
Schumer, at least, has voted in the past for border fencing. The president has
already indicated that there does not have to be a 30-foot concrete barrier.

The president is a practitioner of declaring victory and getting out, as he
intends to do with American military still in Syria.

He should negotiate a border "wall" that supplies the security our nation needs
on the border with Mexico and then move on to other issues that require
bipartisan resolution.

Democrats may think that opposing a "wall" is good electoral politics for 2020.
It's not. Moderate, centrist, independent-mind Americans want robust border
security. Staking their party's future to a refusal to put up as impenetrable a
barrier as is needed on our Southern border is bad politics for the Democratic
Party.

The president may think standing tall for a "big, beautiful wall" stretching the
length of the Southern border is good electoral politics for 2020. It's not,
considering that Mexico has not stepped up to pay for the wall as the president
claimed it would.

America needs strong border controls, and Mr. Trump is cognizant of that. He is,
as he said, well aware that there are alternatives to a hard wall, such as
drones. Some of those are going to have to suffice.

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Evan Vucci/AP: President Donald Trump, pictured in front of a
border wall prototype in San Diego on March 13, may have to compromise to
achieve border security.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2018 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              74 of 308 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            January 6, 2018 Saturday
                                 SOONER EDITION

CLIMATE SOLUTIONS

BYLINE: DANA SILER, Squirrel Hill

SECTION: EDITORIAL; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR; Pg. A-6

LENGTH: 185 words


As I read the article about the president's tweet conflating cold weather with
climate (Dec. 29, "Trump says East Could Use Some 'Global Warming' This
Weekend"), I was angered and saddened - saddened by the gleeful misunderstanding
of science. Weather is a short-term blip while climate is a long-term trend. A
trend which 97 percent of climate scientists agree is changing due to human
greenhouse gas emissions. I was angered by the actions taken this year by the
president - leaving the Paris Accord, dismantling the Clean Power Plan,
installing fossil fuel insiders instead of scientists at the EPA.

This year, I resolve not to despair, but to hope and to act. The bipartisan
Climate Solutions Caucus gives me hope. The Climate Solutions Caucus has 30
Republican and 30 Democratic members who will work on legislation, such as
carbon fee and dividend, which will help us reduce our emissions. Fossil fuels
would be taxed at the mine or port, and the proceeds would be rebated back to
you and me to help with our utility bills. Let's work together this new year to
put the world's climate back on a stable path.

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2018 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              78 of 308 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                           December 13, 2018 Thursday
                                 SOONER EDITION

AMERICA MUST TAKE ON CLIMATE CHANGE

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. A-8

LENGTH: 717 words


Make America great again? When exactly was that time of greatness? It appears
now it was post-slavery to pre-Trump. In that 150-year period of true greatness,
America decisively took on the world's most critical threats.

America overcame slavery, fascist dictators, worldwide disease and famine. It
created a true American middle class with Social Security, Medicare and labor
reform. It preserved magnificent natural wonders by creating the National Parks
system. It cleaned the water and air with sound environmental regulations.

America was never without faults, but the world always looked to it as the one
bastion of hope during impending catastrophe. Now, the most devastating scenario
is imminent. The climate is dangerously changed, making the planet progressively
unlivable.

What is America doing to address this greatest threat to the human race in
millennia? Deny and run. Its leaders, the Donald Trump Republican Party, choose
to weaken environmental regulations, promote polluting fossil fuel energy over
renewable types and unilaterally reject the Paris climate agreement.

This is not the great America that never shied from challenge. If America is
truly to be great again, it must rediscover its legacy of bravely taking on the
world's greatest challenges, not selfishly running from them.

James Frank

Reading

Treating Alzheimer's

I have been an Alzheimer's researcher for almost 50 years, but I'm also a son
who recently lost his mother to this dreadful disease.

Alzheimer's disease is the sixth-leading cause of death in the United States and
affects 5.7 million Americans - including 280,000 in Pennsylvania. It's also our
nation's costliest disease at an estimated $277 billion annually. By 2050, the
number of people with Alzheimer's Disease is likely to triple and costs could
rise to $1.1 trillion per year. This is a crisis, but there is something each of
us can do.

The Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative, or ADNI, is the largest and
longest-running Alzheimer's clinical trial, and it's taking place at the
University of Pittsburgh. It's funded by the National Institutes of Health and
is focused on the detection of early Alzheimer's disease and tracking its
progression over time. We are looking for healthy volunteers, ages 55 to 90, who
have mild memory problems, as well as those who have been diagnosed with early
Alzheimer's disease. There is no medication involved.

Anyone who has witnessed someone battle this disease knows how devastating it
is. Alzheimer's robs people of both their future and their past. We need
volunteers to better understand what happens in the aging brain, so that we can
better diagnose, treat and - one day - cure Alzheimer's disease.

Please visit ADNI3.org for more information or to join us.

Michael Weiner

San Francisco, Calif.

The writer is the lead investigator for the ADNI study.

Natural resources

Yes, Secretary of Energy Rick Perry, we surely do find ourselves "awash in
natural resources" (Dec. 5, "It's Time to Build an Appalachia Energy Hub"). Just
ask the hundreds of folks in West Virginia who still have not recovered from the
devastating 2016 floods, or the folks in Millvale or Bethel Park who were
flooded this past spring, or the Allegheny County taxpayers looking for help
with the estimated $12 million bill to repair Route 30, severely damaged in one
of 80 active landslides in the tri-county area.

Perhaps the irony of using the word "awash" to describe our current predicament
escaped Mr. Perry, as has the irony of trying to relocate the petrochemical
industry from the hurricane-prone Gulf region. It is fossil fuel use that is
making hurricanes worse. Cities that understand this connection are moving off
fossil fuels as fast as they can; 100 U.S. cities have pledged to convert to 100
percent renewable electricity by 2030. Appalachia is already struggling; it's a
mistake to expand a doomed and dangerous industry here.

Sen. John Kerry, on his return from fighting in Vietnam, famously asked: "How do
you ask a man to be the last man to die for a mistake?" It's time to say: How do
you ask a community to be the last community to contaminate its water for a
mistake, to pollute its air for a mistake, to flood its homes and destroy its
roads for a mistake, and to invest its workforce in a mistake?

Kate Fissel

Regent Square

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2018 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              87 of 308 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            October 21, 2018 Sunday
                                TWO STAR EDITION

LEADERS NEED TO SAVE OUR COUNTRY, PLANET

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. D-2

LENGTH: 904 words


We recently received exciting news that we will become grandparents for the
first time. However, our joy is tempered by the "live for today" attitude
espoused by the current Trump administration.

First of all, we are spending our way to a fiscal disaster. The recent tax cut
for the wealthy will add a trillion dollars to the deficit, and the CBO says our
$21 trillion debt will spike to $33 trillion in 10 years. It will reach levels
that could spark a debt crisis, in spite of Mr. Trump's wild notion that the tax
cut will pay for itself. The burden of solving this crisis will be laid at the
feet of our children and grandchildren.

Secondly, our planet is in dire shape and this administration does not care. Mr.
Trump is deregulating and scrapping environmental protections for the sole
purpose of creating more jobs. He has gutted the EPA, pushed the use of coal,
rolled back fuel mileage standards for cars, suspended the Clean Water Rule and
withdrew from the Paris Climate agreement. The recently released UN scientific
panel on climate change report describes a strong risk of crisis as early as
2040 if we fail to act.

If I do the math, my hope is that this child will live into the next century.
But to have a chance to live a long and healthy life, we must elect leaders who
genuinely care about future generations, and take the necessary and painful
steps to save our country and our planet. Prayer couldn't hurt either.

Michael Yeager

Scott

Staffing issues

The recent article "Overtime Hours Rise at 911 Call Center" (Oct. 15) paints a
picture of what the day-to-day operations look like at the Allegheny County 911
Center, a picture that is not accurate.

The top two issues are staffing and morale. Management claims that staffing is
adequate. Staffing has been below budgeted numbers for years.

Currently, 40 percent of 911 dispatchers have less than two years of service and
less than half have five years of service.

This has created a revolving door. Staff who are simply overwhelmed by the
demands of the job, placing a greater burden on both new and senior workers.

Handling day to day emergencies on top of long hours that include forced
overtime weekly, places a major burden on workers and their families. Mandatory
overtime at our 911 centers places public safety at risk.

Due to a policy decision by county management, many 911 staff will no longer be
paid for the overtime that they are forced to involuntarily work. They will be
given "comp" time. This will impact their weekly paychecks and retirement
security.

County Executive Rich Fitzgerald needs to investigate staffing and morale at the
Allegheny County 911 Center and mandate the Chief of Emergency Services and his
managers to make immediate improvements.

Tom Troyan

Sharpsburg

The writer is chief shop steward at Allegheny County 911 dispatch center and is
the 911 committee chair for the SEIU Local 668 statewide executive board.

An inspiration

In a world gone mad in so many ways, what a wonderful story about the life of
Albert Lexie, the longtime shoeshine man, who donated all of his tips to the
kids at Children's Hospital for over 30 years (Oct. 17, "Shoeshine Man Donated
to Children's Hospital"). His life was a life well-lived. He is a great
inspiration to all.

Louis Lamanna

Jeannette

Women will protest

This is in regard to Edward Beck's letter "Stop the Tantrum" on Oct. 15, in
which he compared the female sexual assault victims protests to a child's temper
tantrum. I'd like to call his attention to the temper tantrum that Brett
Kavanaugh threw during the investigation into the allegations against him. If
that was a woman, it would have been called a hissy fit.

Also, isn't it odd that all these men who have come forward accusing thousands
of priests of sexual abuse that occurred 30 years ago have never had to show one
iota of proof for their allegations. They were taken at their word and,
furthermore, they were awarded money to compensate them for what they had
suffered. Female sexual assault victims, however, have to prove their
allegations even after they have positively identified their attacker and are
victimized again in the process. Statistics show that there are thousands of
rape kits sitting in police evidence rooms across the country that have never
even been tested.

So yes, Mr. Beck, women will continue to protest, and protest loudly, because
it's evident that at this time in our country, with this administration, women
sexual abuse victims are not treated equally or with respect.

Sally Flynn

Avalon

Assist victims

Pennsylvania Senate President Joe Scarnati faults lawmakers that wouldn't "meet
him halfway" for the Senate failing to pass legislation to assist victims of
Catholic Church sexual crimes. His pathetic deception, in concert with Sen. Mike
Turzai, the church and its insurers, was a law enabling victims to sue the
perpetrators - priests with little assets, retired or dead - while leaving deep
pocket dioceses and insurers unscathed.

His despicable alliance with clerical powers and the insurance industry to
enable a "tribunal" of pocketed judges oversight to dispense church approved
funds set aside for victims is no less than a theft of their right to redress.

Mr. Scarnati deserves eternal shame for standing with the evildoers in the
Catholic hierarchy. He is the worst example of what protections Harrisburg
offers its citizens, most notably it's most vulnerable injured children.

Paul Palko

Forest Hills

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2018 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              88 of 308 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                              June 22, 2018 Friday
                                 SOONER EDITION

STUDY: MUCH MORE NATURAL GAS IS LEAKING THAN GOVERNMENT INVENTORIES SUGGEST

BYLINE: Laura Legere, Harrisburg Bureau

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. B-3

LENGTH: 852 words


When fracking in tight shale deposits began to open vast new regions of the
United States to oil and gas development at the start of the decade, a question
troubled researchers: Just how much of the unearthed gas was leaking on its way
from deep wells to delivery points?

A new article in the journal Science, synthesizing five years of research by
more than 140 scientists at 40 institutions, offers the first comprehensive
answer on a national scale.

It estimates that the U.S. oil and gas industry emitted 13 million metric tons
of methane in 2015 across the supply chain - from new and old wells, pipelines,
processing equipment and gas lines beneath city streets.

The lost gas amounts to 2.3 percent of total U.S. gas production - below the
leak rate that is generally understood to preserve the climate benefits of
burning natural gas for electricity instead of coal, but more than 60 percent
higher than the official U.S. Environmental Protection Agency inventory reports.

Methane is the primary component of natural gas and is a powerful greenhouse gas
in the short term.

The amount of lost methane documented in the study "is large enough to really
have a material impact on the climate footprint of natural gas," said the
study's lead author, Ramón Alvarez, associate chief scientist at the
Environmental Defense Fund. "It is large enough to roughly double the climate
impact of natural gas use over a 20-year period."

The study integrated measurements taken at wells and pipelines with those
captured by sensors on airplanes and towers between 2012 and 2016 - combining
the specificity of ground-based measurements at individual sites with the broad
picture presented by aerial surveys.

It drew data from studies in six oil and gas-production basins, including the
Appalachian Basin with its prolific Marcellus and Utica shale wells and scores
of operating and abandoned shallower wells.

The study found that 85 percent of emissions across the supply chain come from
producing, gathering and processing oil and gas - meaning that leaks tend to be
concentrated where gas is drilled more than where it is delivered - although the
study relied on inventory estimates to count emissions from the local
distribution end of the system because data there are scarce.

Peter DeCarlo, a Drexel University atmospheric scientist who has studied methane
levels in the Marcellus Shale region but was not an author of the paper, said it
provides a valuable point of comparison - both for future studies and for
gauging how leakage rates may change as infrastructure ages.

"There is still some uncertainty in all this, but now we have a point of
comparison that is very broad-looking and covers much of the U.S. production,"
he said.

The paper found that the U.S. EPA's official inventory is generally not that far
off in terms of the emissions formulas it uses to estimate how much each piece
of equipment leaks.

The large discrepancy seems to come from what the EPA's count simply misses:
high emissions caused by unusual operating conditions, like equipment
malfunctions.

Earlier studies had demonstrated that outliers - so-called super-emitters - are
to blame for a disproportionate amount of total leakage.

The good news is that "a lot of the leaks, these abnormal ones, are not that
hard to fix," said Allen Robinson, one of the study's co-authors and a professor
of engineering and public policy at Carnegie Mellon University. "The challenge
is identifying them efficiently."

Another co-author, Pennsylvania State University atmospheric and climate science
professor Kenneth Davis, pointed out that the national 2.3 percent leakage rate
is "not at all" uniform across basins.

A study that his team did using aerial surveys in the northeastern Pennsylvania
region of the Marcellus Shale, for example, found only 0.4 percent emissions -
the lowest emissions as a percentage of production of any basin in the country.

But the official EPA inventory of Pennsylvania's oil and gas emissions is even
further away from actual measurements than the 60 percent underestimate
nationally, he said.

"So while the leakage rate is really small, our understanding of where it's
coming from is even worse."

An EPA spokesman said the agency is "looking forward to reviewing this study."

Companies have a natural incentive to cut down on methane leaks, since the more
product they keep in the system, the more they can sell. The lost methane
reported in the new study is worth about $2 billion a year, the researchers
said.

A report by the National Energy Technology Laboratory last month found that an
industry collaborative of major companies dedicated to curbing methane leaks
across the supply chain, known as the ONE Future Coalition, had lower than
average emissions rates, demonstrating that better practices make a difference.

The average lifecycle methane emission rate for the coalition was 0.67 percent,
NETL found, compared to 1.6 percent nationally.

Pennsylvania regulators recently released new permits that will directly control
methane emissions from new shale gas wells for the first time. They are
scheduled to go into effect in August.

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: POWERSOURCE/ Laura Legere: llegere@post-gazette.com /

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2018 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              90 of 308 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                             October 5, 2018 Friday
                                 SOONER EDITION

GLOBAL TEMPERATURE

BYLINE: DANA SILER, Squirrel Hill

SECTION: EDITORIAL; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR; Pg. A-10

LENGTH: 208 words


The article "Trump's NHTSA Sees a 7-degree Rise in Global Temperatures Amid
Climate Change" (Oct. 1) was tough to read because I have two small children.

A 7 degree increase in global temperature by the end of the century would have
devastating consequences - flooded coastal cities, crop failures, bleached coral
reefs, increases in armed conflict - to name just a few. It is up to us to act
now to not let this vision of our future come to pass.

To avoid the worst consequences of climate change, we need to cut greenhouse gas
emissions and we need to start cutting them now. One powerful tool for cutting
emissions is to put a price on greenhouse gas pollution.

We can charge a fee starting at $15 a ton of carbon dioxide (rising annually at
$10/ton). The fee can be charged at mines, ports, borders and wellheads. To help
the rest of us adjust to any increases in our utility bills, the money collected
would be refunded back to individuals. The price of energy from dirty fuels
would increase relative to clean energy, and people will switch to clean energy.

We can do this. We cannot let the nightmare scenarios come to pass. We can call
Sen. Bob Casey, Sen. Pat Toomey and Congressman Mike Doyle to demand a price on
greenhouse gas pollution now.

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2018 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              91 of 308 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                             June 7, 2018 Thursday
                                 SOONER EDITION

PITT NAMES SCHOOL'S FIRST DIRECTOR OF SUSTAINABILITY;
GREEN BUILDING ALLIANCE EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR HIRED

BYLINE: Joyce Gannon , Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. D-1

LENGTH: 589 words


Aurora Sharrard will leave her post as executive director of the Green Building
Alliance on July 1 to become the University of Pittsburgh's first-ever director
of sustainability.

Set to succeed her at the nonprofit GBA is Jenna Cramer, currently the
organization's vice president of transformation and community.

Founded 25 years ago as one of the first organizations in the U.S. to promote
environmentally sustainable construction and green building practices in
commercial properties, the South Side-based GBA has expanded its mission to
include sustainability programs for schools and local communities, climate
action plans and a grant program for development of green building products.

At Pitt, Ms. Sharrard, 38, will lead a new Office of Sustainability created as
part of the university's newly formalized sustainability plan.

"As a university community, we have embraced sustainable practices in our campus
operations, classrooms, research activities and local partnerships," said
Gregory Scott, Pitt's senior vice chancellor for business and operations.

"Aurora's leadership, collaborative approach and innovative thinking will focus
our expanded efforts to meet these ambitious and impactful new sustainability
goals."

The GBA collaborated with Pitt to create the university's Office of
Sustainability and hire a director, said Ms. Sharrard. "They've been working on
sustainability for a very long time internally," she said.

In her new position, she will be "a key connector and collaborator for
everything already going on."

That includes the university's use of energy, water and waste, and its health
and wellness programs, she said. "We'll be getting the faculty and students
engaged in the sustainability process."

Ms. Sharrard joined the Green Building Alliance in 2007 as a research manager
and served as director of innovation and vice president of innovation before
being named executive director in 2015.

Among the projects she has helped to develop and oversee are the Pittsburgh
Climate Initiative, which the alliance convened to bring together government,
residents, higher education institutions and businesses to address the city's
climate change goals.

She co-founded the Pittsburgh 2030 District, which encourages property
developers to commit to carbon-neutral new construction and asks existing owners
to reduce their energy and water use and transportation emissions by 50 percent
by the year 2030.

That initiative now includes more than 500 buildings in the Downtown, North
Shore, Oakland and Uptown neighborhoods, said Ms. Sharrard.

Going forward, Ms. Cramer, 36, said GBA's vision is for "every building and
community to be sustainable so every person can thrive."

Ms. Cramer joined the organization in 2008.

In her current role at the alliance, she leads programs that promote healthy and
sustainable practices in 26 counties in Western Pennsylvania and parts of West
Virginia. She launched and oversees the Green & Healthy Schools Academy and
GBA's Inspire Speakers Series.

Ms. Cramer credited the Green Building Alliance's founding a quarter-century ago
to Teresa Heinz, former chair of the Heinz Endowments, who wanted to impact the
overall health of people.

In addition to funding from the endowments, the alliance receives major support
from the Richard King Mellon, Benedum and Hillman foundations.

The nonprofit has more than 1,000 members, including businesses, nonprofits,
governments and individuals. Its annual budget is approximately $1.8 million and
it has 20 people on staff including fellows and interns.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Joyce Gannon: jgannon@post-gazette.com or 412-263-1580.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Green Building Alliance: Jenna Cramer, left, and Aurora
Sharrard.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2018 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              93 of 308 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            October 19, 2018 Friday
                                 SOONER EDITION

OUR CHILDREN ARE COUNTING ON US

BYLINE: PATRICE TOMCIK, Treesdale

SECTION: EDITORIAL; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR; Pg. A-10

LENGTH: 302 words


A well-respected UN panel on climate change has sounded its loudest call yet on
global warming: If we cannot keep the planet's temperature rise under 1.5
degrees Celsius over the next decade, we risk climate catastrophe. While this
dire prediction is heartbreaking on its face, it's all the more distressing
since there are concrete actions we can take to limit the worst impacts to come.

At the top of the list is reducing emissions of methane, a greenhouse gas whose
heat-trapping properties are far more potent than carbon dioxide in the short
term. This invisible gas also leads to the formation of ozone smog, which
exacerbates asthma attacks and other respiratory illnesses in vulnerable
populations including children and the elderly. Pennsylvania's place as the
second-largest natural gas producing state in the nation makes us an outsize
contributor to this public health and climate emergency.

Can we address the problem? Absolutely. Technologies exist today to reduce oil
and gas methane emissions by 75 percent below 2012 levels. And yet, the Trump
administration's Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) is in the process of
eliminating methane standards currently in place.

There are, however, steps we can take to put our lives and planet on a better,
safer track. Citizens should speak up by submitting a public comment to the EPA
asking the agency to preserve its methane rules. Here in Pennsylvania, we must
call on Gov. Wolf to enact state-based rules to cut methane from the thousands
of existing sources of oil and gas industry methane pollution. Find out more
about how to submit a comment to the EPA on MomsCleanAirForce.org.

Our children are counting on all of us to lead in this perilous moment. As
parents, we have a duty to protect our children from harm ? and that alone
compels us to act.

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: The writer is a field organizer and an oil and gas specialist for the
Moms Clean Air Force.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2018 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              108 of 308 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                           September 14, 2018 Friday
                                 SOONER EDITION

ROLLING BACK METHANE REGULATIONS HARMS EVERYONE

BYLINE: EDWARD C. KETYER, M.D., Peters

SECTION: EDITORIAL; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR; Pg. A-10

LENGTH: 175 words


As a physician, I pledged a solemn oath to protect the lives of my patients. The
Environmental Protection Agency seems to have forgotten that its mission is also
to protect.

The EPA's proposal to roll back regulations on methane emissions from the shale
oil and gas industry (Sept. 11, "Trump Rollback Would Ease Rules on Climate
-Changing Methane") will most certainly lead to more birth defects, chronic
disease and premature deaths as the explosive development of natural gas and
petrochemical infrastructure in this region continues.

Study after study has confirmed that methane and other chemicals released by
unconventional natural gas facilities, either accidentally or on purpose, lead
to health-related issues and shorten lives - a fact the EPA itself readily
admits. Fracked methane also accelerates global warming, which is damaging the
planet's climate system and threatens the safety and health of every human on
this shining ball of blue. More than ever, we need stronger environmental
protections and public health safeguards, not weaker ones.

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: The writer is a pediatrician and board member of Physicians for Social
Responsibility - Pennsylvania.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2018 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              112 of 308 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                             January 7, 2018 Sunday
                                TWO STAR EDITION

PRESERVING NATIVE PLANTS IN PENNSYLVANIA;
PA. DCNR SUGGESTS NEW CONSERVATION REGULATIONS

BYLINE: John Hayes Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: MAGAZINE; Pg. SX-1

LENGTH: 920 words


It's such a pretty little plant. A vertical column of magenta blossoms bursting
above green grasses in wet meadows.

But the purple fringeless orchid is its own worst enemy. A complex species
native to Pennsylvania with limited reproductive opportunities, its unique
beauty attracts admiring crowds who venture off the walking trails to sniff it,
photograph it and, too often, pick it.

The last time state botanists evaluated the wildflower in the 1980s, they were
concerned that its vulnerability to collection could jeopardize its survival in
Pennsylvania. Without enough evidence to prove it, however, they gave it a
placeholder ranking, "tentatively undetermined."

Now the orchid is on a list of native plants whose conservation classifications
may change pending a series of votes by the Pennsylvania Legislature. In
November, the Department of Conservation and Natural Resources recommended an
update of regulations that apply to the conservation of native wild land and
aquatic plants.

"Pennsylvania is home to about 3,000 plant species - about two-thirds of those
are considered native to the commonwealth, and 347 of them are currently
considered rare, threatened or endangered," according to a statement from DCNR
secretary Cindy Adams Dunn.

The department proposes updates that include the addition of nine plants, moving
another nine to a higher bracket, downgrading two, dropping 31 from special
protections and updating the scientific names given to 79 native plant species.
If the updates are made to the Chapter 45 laws governing the management of wild
plants, the purple fringeless orchid would bump up two protection grades.

The regulations were last updated in 1993. Prior to proposing the changes, DCNR
staff reviewed more than 20 years of field notes and taxonomic data.

"That's the challenge," said Rebecca Bowen of the department's Bureau of
Forestry. "There are so many plants in Pennsylvania it's hard to be an expert on
all of them."

But the updates are necessary, she said. Natural ebb and flow of plant ranges is
complicated by loss of habitat, range fragmentation, introduction of invasive
plants, changes in the populations of animals that impact them, loss of
pollinators and gradual changes in Pennsylvania's climate. While some species
have gained protections through state and nonprofit acquisition of land tracts,
other plants like the purple fringeless orchid have been put in jeopardy by the
opening of new trail systems that expose the flowers to their adoringif
detrimental human nemesis.

"It's a robust process to give something a [conservation] listing," said Ms.
Bowen. "It's more than just one person saw one plant and thinks it's in danger -
more than just keeping a running list."

Wild plants are ranked in eight conservation categories, each attached to a
level of protection enforced by law, with violators subject to escalating fines.

The good news - kind of amazing - is that the overwhelming majority of
Pennsylvania's 2,000 native plant species are doing fine and ranked in a
category with no need for special protections. No plants are currently included
in the "special concern population" category, but ginseng, goldenseal and yellow
ladyslipper are classified "vulnerable" because they can be legally picked for
their economic value. More information was required for "tentatively
undetermined" species, and "rare" plants are contained by geographic limitations
that could pose a threat to their regional survival. If proper management isn't
applied to "threatened" plants, including the purple fringeless orchid, they
could become endangered, and "endangered" plants are at risk of extirpation -
becoming extinct in this state. "Extirpated" species once existed in
Pennsylvania, but there is no evidence that they remain. Federal conservation
classification are separate from those issued by states.

The classifications are important because they impact land and water use
decisions. The presence of a threatened or endangered plant could influence the
routing of a new highway or force a change to industrial outflow patterns.
Development of new neighborhoods could be approved in a location where the
native plants are not vulnerable.

Vast amounts of new data were available to DCNR's plant classification staff,
including improvements in collection techniques and the advent of genetic
science and speed-of-light information exchange that didn't exist when the
plants were last classified. Researchers in the 1980s, for instance, didn't know
that the purple fringeless orchid could keep up with the pace of human plucking
if only it reproduced like most other plants.

"Orchid seeds are extremely small and are produced in large numbers," said Ms.
Bowen. "However, the seeds have no developed embryo and carry no food with them
and must encounter very specific environmental conditions, including the
presence of a suitable fungus, in order to germinate and grow."

The seeds develop a symbiotic relationship with a particular fungus species. If
they fall anywhere else the seeds cannot germinate, and the fungus thrives under
patches of purple fringeless orchids.

Predominantly an Allegheny Mountain species, the flower was previously
documented in 44 locations in 11 Pennsylvania counties, including Allegheny,
Westmoreland, Indiana, Fayette, Somerset, Bedford and Cambria. Today DCNR
botanists can confirm only 21 populations of purple fringeless orchids in seven
counties. Among them are Westmoreland, Fayette, Somerset and Indiana.

John Hayes: 412-263-1991, jhayes@post-gazette.com

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: DCNR photo: The beautiful purple fringeless orchid, threatened
by decades of human collection, is among dozens of native plants that could
receive updated conservation listings.
PHOTO: Larry Roberts/Post-Gazettes: The top of a ginseng plant after the berries
fall off.
PHOTO: Larry Roberts/Post-Gazette: Dorothy Butz explains how to measure the age
of a ginseng root in her shop in Westmoreland County. This one was 30 years old
when it was dug up.
PHOTO: Larry Roberts/Post-Gazette photos: Ray Butz points out a ginseng berry in
Westmoreland County while digging up the root. Pennsylvania classifies ginseng
as "vulnerable" because they can be legally picked for their economic value.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2018 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              113 of 308 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            January 23, 2018 Tuesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

UNDERSTAND THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN CLIMATE AND WEATHER

BYLINE: ELEANOR MAYFIELD, Squirrel Hill

SECTION: EDITORIAL; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR; Pg. A-8

LENGTH: 218 words


The president of the United States recently tweeted that the East Coast, in the
grip of unseasonably cold weather, "could use a little bit" of global warming.
The other night, I heard a radio interview with a coal company executive who
cast doubt on the existence of global warming because temperatures in West
Virginia, his home state, have recently been in the single digits.

I would respectfully ask both of these men to spend a few seconds reading a
brief news article in the Jan. 19 Post-Gazette. "2017 Among Earth's Hottest
Years on Record." This article reminds us not to conflate the weather we happen
to be experiencing locally with climate patterns affecting the entire planet.

While our corner of North America recently experienced colder than normal
temperatures, Alaska recorded its warmest December on record. In southern
Australia, people are facing possible power outages because of a record heat
wave, with temperatures exceeding 104 degrees.

Weather fluctuates daily and seasonally. Climate, by contrast, relates to
patterns of weather over time across regions, continents and the globe. As this
news article reminds us, those patterns indicate that the Earth is getting
warmer and that, depending on what measurement technique is used, 2017 was
either the second- or third-hottest year on record.

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2018 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              118 of 308 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            April 28, 2018 Saturday
                                 SOONER EDITION

THE ENERGY REVOLUTION IS WELL UNDERWAY;
FOR THE FIRST TIME IN HISTORY, HUMANS (AMERICANS) ARE CREATING SUSTAINED
ECONOMIC GROWTH WHILE NOT CONSUMING MORE ENERGY

BYLINE: David Von Drehle

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A-5

LENGTH: 782 words


Between the science-denying trolls who say climate change is a hoax and the
"we're-all-doomed" Cassandras who picture the last human remnant escaping to
Mars, there is an exciting frontier. It's populated by people too busy making
progress to indulge in political shouting matches.

Likely for the first time in history, a human society (ours!) has broken the
linkage between sustained economic growth and greater consumption of energy. An
iron law, burn more to make more, has been erased. In its place, the United
States - by far the world's leading energy consumer - has chalked up a
near-record nine consecutive years of economic growth while keeping its total
consumption of energy flat.

Or take a longer view: In 1990, according to the U.S. Energy Information Agency,
the equivalent of more than 9,000 BTUs of energy was consumed for each real
dollar of growth in the U.S. economy. Last year, a real dollar of growth
consumed fewer than 6,000 BTUs. The agency projects consumption will fall to
about 3,000 BTUs per buck of growth by 2050. Carbon dioxide emissions (the most
abundant of the greenhouse gases) per dollar of growth have been falling since
2008.

What does this tell us? That change is not just possible, it's real. Your Energy
Star appliances, LED lightbulbs, aluminum vehicles and weather-stripping are not
merely symbolic efforts. They are part of an efficiency revolution at home, at
work and on the road that's producing meaningful results without disrupting our
way of life.

We're also seeing significant shifts in the sources of our energy. Coal
consumption is sharply down; cleaner natural gas is surging. But the steepest
angle of growth is in the renewable energy sectors (though they admittedly
started at a much smaller base). Wind is projected to exceed water in
electricity generation within the next year.

Imagine that. In the 20th century, water power, source of about 7.5 percent of
U.S. electricity, modernized the Tennessee Valley, turned darkness to dawn in
the Pacific Northwest and gave the Nevada desert its garish neon Vegas glow.
Now, in the space of a single generation, windmills will overtake dams.

Solar power is also trending briskly upward as panels improve and prices drop.
The next billion people to escape poverty around the world may be powered up the
economic ladder by solar cells rather than oil or coal. If progress continues in
battery storage technology, as it surely will, solar energy will play a larger
role in juicing the world's homes and industry - as it already does in heavily
subsidized China.

But while the arrows are pointed in the right direction for energy consumption
and energy mix, we're still destined to emit many billions of tons of carbon
dioxide over the coming decades if not generations. The essential challenge on
the other side of the equation is to find ways to capture and safely store those
gases.Here, too, the news is promising.

Perhaps, like me, you were too distracted by a tempestuous presidential campaign
to notice a scientific breakthrough announced in 2015 and patented the following
year. At Sandia National Laboratories in New Mexico, a team led by the esteemed
inventor Jeff Brinker came up with a highly efficient, durable and low-cost
technology for scrubbing carbon dioxide from power plant emissions. A thin
membrane (the inventors call it a "memzyme" in honor of the microscopic enzymes
engineered on its surface) isolates carbon dioxide molecules and rapidly sucks
them from the surrounding plume. This reusuable, non-toxic technology easily
outperforms government goals for carbon scrubbers, and does so at a fraction of
the cost of previous devices, according to Mr. Brinker and his colleagues.

Even better, scientists in Norway may have found a good way to store the
captured carbon. At a conference in Vienna last summer, a team from the
University of Bergen unveiled a promising advance in high-pressure oil and gas
extraction. Rather than "fracking" underground rock formations to free trapped
fuels, the scientists successfully injected carbon dioxide into core samples to
force out trapped oil, leaving the carbon dioxide locked in its place.

Fracking has been a game-changer for the U.S. economy, offering cheaper, cleaner
fuel and the prospect of energy independence. But this process could be even
better if the Norwegian experiment can be proved in field tests.

Congress can goose this progress by creating a revenue-neutral tax on carbon
dioxide emissions and steering the proceeds into further research and incentives
for investment. But don't hold your breath. It will be enough for now if the
government simply sticks with policies already in place. Because clearly,
they're working.

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: David Von Drehle is a columnist for The Washington Post.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Christian Hartmann/Reuters: Wind turbines near Reims, France

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2018 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              119 of 308 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                              May 21, 2018 Monday
                                 SOONER EDITION

GET THE FACTS STRAIGHT ABOUT HOMELESSNESS IN SEATTLE

BYLINE: JOHN KENSTOWICZ, Morningside

SECTION: EDITORIAL; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR; Pg. A-10

LENGTH: 154 words


The Post-Gazette's recent editorial concerning the homeless crisis in Seattle
reflects a serious lack of understanding about this issue and projects a blatant
political bias (May 18, "Debiting Amazon: Seattle Can't Tax Housing Problems
Away").

A large percentage of the homeless people in Seattle have moved there from
locales across the country that are not providing services for the homeless. To
be clear, people are relocating to Seattle because Seattle provides more
comprehensive social services and has a warmer climate. Real estate interests
and conservative politicians have created the nationwide homeless problem we
have.

Progressive public officials are trying to find realistic solutions to this
challenging problem and have implemented some innovative approaches. Projecting
the problem of homelessness on liberals and people trying to solve this crisis
is like blaming polar bears and penguins for climate change.

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Getty Images/iStockphoto:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2018 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              129 of 308 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            February 25, 2018 Sunday
                                TWO STAR EDITION

URGENCY, ANGER, LOCAL FOCUS FUEL BLACK ACTIVISM IN PITTSBURGH

BYLINE: Julian Routh, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. A-1

LENGTH: 1053 words


On a bitter cold January afternoon in Uptown, the chatter started as a low
murmur - and then it got louder. As more people crowded the sidewalk outside
Pizza Milano, it was becoming clear that this wasn't just a show of unity on
Fifth Avenue, but a demand for action.

Until they got it, they wouldn't stop.

"We're not standing for it anymore," said Anthony Hall, 33, of the North Side.
"This is going to be a catalyst. We're taking back our community."

And so it happened - a few hours later, the restaurant's manager was fired, a
speedy victory for the citizens-turned-activists who demanded retribution for
his assault of a black woman, Jade Martin, in the restaurant a few days earlier,
an incident recorded on video. It is this kind of impact, this urgency, that has
become the new normal for black activism in Pittsburgh in 2018.

Immersed in a two-year stretch of significant political change, black activists
in Pittsburgh describe a movement of young people - particularly women of color
- who are making a bid for political and social power locally, using social
media to coalesce around small but meaningful causes that make an immediate
impact.

Their activism is rooted in a desire for equality and a distrust of the
political process, and takes its shape in the causes they support, protests they
organize, art they create and campaigns they run.

"We're at a crossroads in America, and we can confront this in a brave,
intentional way or we can cower," said Summer Lee, who is running for state
office. "I believe how we react to this right now will dictate the culture of
this nation moving forward."

Several activists described the election of Donald Trump as a "wake-up call,"
reinvigorating a discussion that has always existed below the surface about
race, blackness and white supremacy in America.

But grass-roots activism in Pittsburgh - though galvanized by all things Trump -
isn't focused on changing the White House. Instead, they fight small. They fight
local. At Chatham University, student activists fought for more diverse
programming and for a minority dinner during orientation. Another group of
activists successfully elected four people to the Woodland Hills school board.

And then there was the Justice for Jade movement, when Pizza Milano became a
microcosm for the movement.

"You have a group of primarily black women come together, in zero-degree
weather, and shut this pizza place down," said Jasiri X, head of the prominent
Pittsburgh activist group 1Hood Media. "It was a really organic thing. This
wasn't, like, the NAACP organizing."

More and more across Pittsburgh, black activists haven't turned to traditional
organizing to fight for change. Instead of forming by-the-books organizations,
they've used social media to galvanize people around shared values - a trend
that also has emerged nationally in activism.

"People are trying to find ways to heal from traumas that have been going on
amongst black activists and come together authentically," said Celeste Scott, an
activist who helped assemble an alternative march to the Downtown Women's March
after Mr. Trump's inauguration in 2017.

Ms. Scott's collective, the Black Femme Excellence Co., grew out of the Our
Feminism Must Be Intersectional March, which labeled the main march a display of
traditional feminism exclusive to white middle-class women. In the year since
then, her collective has organized events for black women, including a
Beyonce-themed baby shower that gathered baby supplies to distribute to pregnant
black and brown women in the community. "We decided we wanted to serve and fill
the gap for black femme leadership that was needed," she said.

The journey of an activist leader can oftentimes start in politics. Daeja Baker
volunteered on Barack Obama's campaign, then fought for change at Chatham as one
of 11 African-American students. Now her activism focuses on giving people of
all genders, races and sexual orientations a voice. She helped organize a Black
Brilliance march in August in Homewood, a showing of black unity in response to
the white nationalist marches in Charlottesville, Va.

Ms. Baker said a greater communication between activists has empowered causes.

"I think that part of it does have to do with the political climate nationally,"
Ms. Baker said. "I think that people have just kind of moved toward coming
together and coalition building a lot more."

Some are vying for political power, bidding to win seats on the councils,
boroughs and committees that have been "very old" and "very white" for a long
time, said Ms. Lee. The 30-year-old Howard University graduate said it's no
longer necessary to ask for a seat at the table. She wants black people to start
their own table by grooming candidates for local offices.

"We have this narrative that if black people just voted more, everything would
be OK," Ms. Lee said. "I challenge that. I used to believe in the importance of
voting, but now, like MLK said, I feel like I've integrated myself into a
burning building. That should light a fire under us to start supporting diverse
candidacies."

Jasiri X, the longtime activist, said he has noticed a new political fervor
among black activists, and said it is important to "get some younger, more
forward-thinking, progressive folks on the ballot." A heightened interest in
activism has impacted his own group. More than 40 people applied to be a part of
the collective during a recent sign-up period, showing an unprecedented interest
in using art to talk about issues of black pride and blackness.

It's showing in their art. On Wednesday, Jasiri released a video for his song
"The Whitest House," which flashes images across the screen of the "sea of white
men" holding the presidency. He said it is becoming more mainstream to talk
about one's blackness. In January, the collective launched its first Artivist
Academy. Billed as "assembling an Artivist Army in Trump's America," the academy
will focus on mentoring artists and activists to use their talents to fight
injustices and advocate for social change.

"Now is the time more than ever for action. Trump being president might be one
of the best things to happen to black people," said artist Jordan Howard, who
performs under the name LiveFromTheCity. "I felt like us seeing that mobilized
us in such a way, OK. 'Oh, we gotta do something.'"

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Julian Routh: jrouth@post-gazette.com, 412-263-1952, Twitter
@julianrouth. /

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Steve Mellon/Post-Gazette: Members of 1Hood Media pose for a
selfie in East Liberty on May 17. \ \ PHOTO: Andrew Rush/Post-Gazette:
Protesters gather outside Pizza Milano in Uptown on Jan. 1. The protesters were
responding to a video that shows a Pizza Milano manager, Mahmut Yilmaz, striking
Homewood resident Jade Martin. \ \ PHOTO: Antonella Crescimbeni/Post-Gazette:
Summer Lee, right, a state House District 34 candidate, jokes with Lauren
Lynch-Novakovic of North Braddock in a gathering of the Pennsylvania Student
Power Network onFeb. 14 on the North Side.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2018 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              132 of 308 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                              May 27, 2018 Sunday
                                TWO STAR EDITION

REAL NEWS: PIRATES HONOR SMIZIK, SAVRAN

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. C-1

LENGTH: 911 words


Jim Campanis, a backup catcher and pinch hitter who'd had cups of coffee with
the Dodgers and the Royals of the mid-20th century, was enjoying his last big
league latte with the Pirates in 1973, a call-up that would last all of six
games, or just long enough to save Bob Smizik's life.

Smizik, in the Three Rivers Stadium clubhouse doing the first serious beat work
of the seriously accomplished career that would make him a Pittsburgh
sportswriting legend, was about to be dismembered by Pirates pitcher Bob
Johnson, when, well, I'll let him tell it.

"I was near where you come into the room, where Hebner, Robertson and Zisk were,
and I'm involved in a little media scrum there, when I can hear someone behind
me mimicking me," Smize was remembering the other day. "I didn't turn my back,
but I know it's Johnson. So the interview's finally over, I turned around and
there's Johnson, continuing to mimic me, but what I didn't know was, a
significant portion of the team was watching. So in the greatest stroke of
genius of my life, this thought came to me, and I said, 'Johnson, if you think
my questions are stupid, you should hear your answers.'"

Interestingly, Johnson did not did pause reflectively and say, "That's an
excellent point Bob."

"He charged across the room at me," Smize said. "It was mayhem! And Jim Campanis
put him in a bear hug, restrained him."

And?

"Saved my life."

Johnson was 6-4, 230. Smize was not.

But over the next 50 years, there would be very few more towering figures than
Smizik in the always complex, often contentious, yet occasionally even wondrous
relationship between the Pirates and their city. It was only three years after
Campanis's greatest catch that Stan Savran arrived in Pittsburgh for a career
that would parallel Smizik's in both prominence and ready criticism when
warranted, another legendary career that endures to this day.

On Thursday, the Pirates will add Smizik and Savran to their Media Wall of Fame,
a little known press box landmark (it's on the way to the bathrooms) in the PNC
Park press box.

Dedicated at old Three Rivers Stadium in 1989, the WOF has undergone zero
alterations since 1993, when the decorated newspapermen Al Abrams and Les
Biederman joined The Original Six: Pally, Sally, Chilly, Rosey, Gunner, and Art
McKennan. If you've forgotten, that's the Post-Gazette's Hall of Fame beat
writer Charlie Feeney; Sally O'Leary, a Pirates public relations ace for more
than 40 years; Charles "Chilly" Doyle, who covered the Pirates for the old
Sun-Telegraph for 43 years beginning in 1914; Rosey Rowswell, the club's first
radio broadcaster; Bob Prince, the Voice of the Pirates; and their public
address announcer of 38 years at two stadiums Art McKennan.

The Wall of Fame, the club says, is for long and meritorious service in covering
the Pirates, and while Thursday's modest ceremony -drinks and snacks and brief
remarks heavy on the snark -might not amount to much in, as Antonio Brown might
say, "the big grand of schemes," it's a great credit to the Pirates in this
view, who aren't afraid to honor their critics in a contemporary media climate
that absorbs a fresh poison just about every day.

"If I thought this whole thing was just about people who've given the Pirates
nothing but plaudits over the years, well, I don't want to be in that club,"
said Savran.

"I think the Pirates should be profoundly congratulated for basically
understanding what our job is, even if it means offering an opinion that they
don't like. I don't think a lot of other teams do."

Journalism requires that the relationship with the institutions it covers, even
the sports teams, be naturally adversarial. There was an era when this was a
near-universal understanding, but it never kept even the Halls of Fame, which
honor those teams and players, from honoring writers and broadcasters as well,
including the P-G's outstanding Ed Bouchette and Dave Molinari.

But that was all pre-climate change.

"Unfortunately we see less and less people in power, or corporations, coming out
and thanking journalists for good reporting," said Lynn Walsh, Emmy-winner and
past president of the Society of Professional Journalists. "We're seeing more
attacks on their reputations, allegations of fake news, and physical attacks."

This was the week that an Associated Press reporter got shoved out of an EPA
meeting, when the number of journalists arrested in the United States this year
mercifully held at 34, when CBS correspondent Lesley Stahl told the Deadline
Club of New York that when she asked Donald Trump before a 60 Minutes interview
why he continues to bash the media, he said, "You know why I do it? I do it to
discredit you all and demean you all so that when you write negative stories
about me no one will believe you."

That's the president talkin'.

Of the United States.

I'm acutely aware that Smizik and Savran did not cover the White House, so hold
your conflation charges. I'm only saying that given where we are today, this
small gesture by the Pirates, illustrating how somebody still gets it, is almost
courageous in the full context.

"I don't know if courageous is the right word," Smize corrected. "I think it's
the classy thing to do. In today's climate it's pretty cool that they would
honor someone who often dishonored them."

You could make the case that in all of Pirates history, they've never known a
more strident critic than Smizik.

"I'd like to think so," he said.

I knew he would.

Gene Collier: gcollier@ post-gazette.com.

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Robin Rombach/Post-Gazette: Bob Smizik, left, and Stan Savran
join Media Wall of Fame.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2018 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              136 of 308 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                           December 11, 2018 Tuesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

PA. LEGISLATURE LACKS REPRESENTATION

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. A-7

LENGTH: 806 words


Elections are over and the Pennsylvania Legislature's makeup for the 2019-2020
session has been set. The question is whether this new Legislature will be any
more effective than the old Legislature, particularly on the issues of
gerrymandering and election reform. Voters in four other states overwhelmingly
approved significant changes to both during the November elections. Yet
Pennsylvania lags behind because of the reluctance of our Legislature to address
the issues, as well as the fact that Pennsylvania has no means by which citizens
can get initiatives on the ballot.

This can change if our state House of Representatives, particularly the newer
members, demand changes to the general operating rules. A vote on the rules the
first item scheduled for a vote on the first day of the new session, which is
Jan. 1.

Suggested reforms include:

1. Bills with bipartisan support should be given a vote in committee. Had this
rule been in place, HB722, which created an independent citizens redistricting
commission would have been brought to a vote in the State Government committee.

2. Bills reported favorably from committee should be guaranteed debate and a
vote on the House floor.

3. A bipartisan committee in the House should be convened to review the
committee process.

4. A mechanism to remove committee chairs unable to moderate fairly should be
explored.

It's far past time for Pennsylvania's statehouse to return to being a truly
representative body, presenting the concerns of its citizens and legislating on
our behalf. Reform the rules.

Maureen Grosheider

Marshall

Judicial power

In his Dec. 4 letter "Arrogant Attitudes," Dave Majernik takes Chief Justice
John Roberts to task for criticizing President Donald Trump's calling a judge
who disagreed with him an "Obama judge." He says the judiciary was interfering
with the president's right to regulate immigration and cannot "obstruct every
decision the president makes that they don't like."

Mr. Majernik, the Constitution gives the judiciary the power and the obligation
to decide whether laws passed by Congress or imposed via executive order are
within the powers granted to the Congress or the president by the Constitution.
Now, there are many approaches to interpreting the Constitution that do not
agree with each other yet are completely valid. Justice Clarence Thomas'
approach is certainly different from Justice Elena Kagan's, but all reports
indicate that each respects the other's opinion. That's why there are nine
justices on the Supreme Court rather than one.

Mr. Trump has shown an expansive view of his own powers and a disregard for the
Constitution, witnessed in his stated intent to issue an executive order
nullifying "birthright citizenship" regardless of the 14th Amendment. Such
tendencies should be curbed, hence the balance of powers mandated by the
Constitution.

A judge's decision is normally accompanied by an explanation of the reasoning
that led to the decision. Those reasons are based on the Constitution and the
myriad of applicable laws that have been passed to implement its terms. Mr.
Trump's disagreement with the reasoning does not make it wrong or serve as proof
that the judge is biased against him.

In my opinion, judges, with very rare exceptions, are people of integrity who
try to do their jobs in the best way possible. I may not agree with all of their
decisions, but I believe they use a valid process of reason to arrive at them.
To suggest otherwise tends to undermine, not support, the letter and the spirit
of the Constitution. In this case, Chief Justice Roberts was quite right to
criticize Mr. Trump.

Bruce Antonoff

Murrysville

A solar solution

Cindy Veloric's letter (Nov. 29, "U.S. Needs to Uphold Pollution Limits for
Power Plants") shows the sad state of the electric power industry. It keeps
trying the same thing over and over, expecting a different outcome.

Thirteen concentrated solar power (CSP) plants with heliostat (mirrors on
pedestals) solar concentrators have been built over the past four decades, and
they all performed poorly. For example, the $2.2 billion CSP plant in Ivanpah,
Calif., produces a meager 200MW. Meanwhile, mobile-mirror solar concentrators
would increase output 800 percent, reduce cost 25 percent and solve the climate
change problem.

Five patents have been issued for such concentrators, but none has been tried.

GEORGE RATLIFF

Churchill

End gerrymandering

As a voter in Pennsylvania, I enthusiastically welcome the news that Gov. Tom
Wolf has appointed a nonpartisan commission to find the most effective means to
end gerrymandering.

For far too long, the voices of the voters of Pennsylvania have been silenced by
the shameful, partisan redistricting process wrought by both parties. Now, we
must insist that those in Harrisburg listen to the voices of the people and let
fairness reign.

Gene Watson

Moon

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2018 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              147 of 308 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                             May 10, 2018 Thursday
                                 SOONER EDITION

TRUMP GOT IT WRONG ON IRAN;
HE SHOULD HAVE LISTENED TO OUR EUROPEAN ALLIES INSTEAD OF REJECTING THE NUCLEAR
ACCORD

BYLINE: Dan Simpson

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A-9

LENGTH: 890 words


President Donald Trump chose Tuesday to withdraw America from the 2015 agreement
between China, France, Germany, Russia, Britain, the United States and Iran to
exchange limits on Iran's nuclear arms program for relaxation of Western
economic and financial sanctions levied against Iran.

Unfortunately, Mr. Trump responded to a drumbeat of pressure from Israeli Prime
Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to dump the Iran agreement despite vigorous support
for the agreement by America's senior NATO allies - France, Germany and Britain.

It is also unfortunate that Mr. Trump's decision on the Iran agreement precedes
by only a month or so his planned meeting with North Korean leader Kim Jong Un
regarding the fate of North Korea's nuclear weapons program and of the Korean
Peninsula. The Iran decision follows on Mr. Trump's withdrawal from the Paris
climate-change pact and the Trans-Pacific Partnership, and his failure in
negotiations toward the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership, talks
with Canada and Mexico to revise the North American Free Trade Agreement and
negotiation with China on the terms of U.S.-China trade.

Those who are optimistic that Mr. Trump won't mess up the efforts of the North
and South Korean leaders to improve prospects for long-term peace on the Korean
peninsula and in volatile Northeast Asia have so far looked the other way on the
president's track record of either tearing up or being unable to complete
international agreements. Relationships with rival civilizations are
considerably more complex than real estate and casino maneuvering.

The decision on the Iran agreement was an opportunity for the United States to
act responsibly, to behave as a nation that understands long-term regional and
global issues, or to do something short-term and stupid, ditching an agreement
that contributes to peace and America's economic advantage in what used to be an
important U.S. market.

It is likely that the other parties to the Iran accord won't drop out. U.S.
companies will be left not only unable to compete in Iran with those based in
the other five signatory countries, including China, but also will be obliged to
help block companies of partners France, Germany and Britain from doing business
in Iran. In particular, a sale by Boeing of some $16 billion in aircraft to Iran
will almost certainly be switched to Boeing's foreign rival, Airbus, resulting
in a loss of an estimated 118,000 American jobs.

Given that one of Mr. Trump's pledges to the people who voted for him in 2016
was growth in jobs and exports, I honestly don't know what was in his mind as he
decided to go with Israel rather than Europe by exiting the Iran agreement.

Mr. Netanyahu recently unveiled documents the Israelis stole from the Iranians
regarding Iran's pre-agreement nuclear activities. Mr. Netanyahu says they
reveal earlier Iranian lying. (Why wouldn't they have lied at that point?) He
argues that Iran's past actions indicate what they will do once they are freed
from their commitments under the 2015 accord, now or later. That is, in fact, a
strong argument for showing the Iranians the value of the accord so that they
would want to extend it.

Another weak link in accepting the Netanyahu position on the Iran accord is
what's happening in Israel at the moment. Mr. Netanyahu is on the ropes
politically. He is accused of bribery. Worse, for him, the Israeli electorate
has tired of his leadership. It is not entirely clear why he put his political
reputation on the line by rolling the dice on the U.S. decision on the Iran
accord.

Mr. Netanyahu clearly was betting, first, that Mr. Trump would leap to reject
any accord that his predecessor, President Barack Obama, negotiated during his
eight years in office. Second, the Israeli prime minister probably continued to
have confidence that the votes and money that the America Israel Public Affairs
Committee swing would move Mr. Trump to accept his advice, rather than that of
America's European allies and the wisdom of America's respecting its
international engagements.

One might think that Israel has more important fish to fry than sabotaging the
Iran agreement. One might even imagine that Israel would appreciate the belling
of the Iranian cat represented by the nuclear arms deal.

There are actual security threats to Israel out there. One of them, easy to
underestimate, is the increasing temperature in Gaza among the 2 million
Palestinians cooped up there by Israeli security forces. Some Gazan
Palestinians, led by Hamas and Islamic Jihad, are willing to die to make their
case to the world, which is ominous for Israel.

Another threat to Israel lies on the other side of its borders with Syria and
Lebanon, where Hezbollah, fresh from combat in the Syrian war, is capable of
causing trouble for Israel. Israel recently has been sidling up to the Middle
East's Sunni Muslim states, led by Saudi Arabia, against Shiite Iran, which is
allied with Hezbollah and now Shiite Iraq, to gain their acquiescence if Israel
annexes the Palestinian West Bank. This is a high-risk play and one the United
States should not be involved in.

Mr. Trump should have listened to America's long-time allies France, Germany and
Britain and remained in the Iran accord. Israel at this point is too uncertain a
reed to seek to please by jettisoning one more international agreement.

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Dan Simpson, a former U.S. ambassador, is a Post-Gazette associate editor
(dsimpson@post-gazette.com, 412-263-1976).

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2018 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              152 of 308 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                             October 5, 2018 Friday
                                 SOONER EDITION

TEACHER PREPARES FOR RESEARCH TRIP TO ANTARCTICA;
DECK HED GO HERE AND HERE YYYYYYYYYYY

BYLINE: Jamie Schuman

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. LX-1

LENGTH: 509 words


Students at Shaler Area Elementary School are trying on extreme cold weather
gear, tracking South Pole temperatures, and conducting a countdown for teacher
Michael Penn, who will be leaving in November for a research trip to Antarctica.

Mr. Penn, STEAM coordinator and teacher at the elementary school, is
participating in PolarTREC (Teachers and Researchers Exploring and
Collaborating), a program through which middle and high school teachers and
university academics conduct polar science research together.

He will work with researchers from the University of Wisconsin to install and
maintain weather stations in Antarctica for a few weeks in November and
December. He will stay at the McMurdo and South Pole stations, and fly to remote
locations to work on the machines, which provide useful data for climate-change
research.

Mr. Penn, of Economy, Beaver County, hopes the trip will make science more
approachable for his students.

"It makes me a better teacher, and it makes me better able to communicate
science to the kids," said Mr. Penn, who has taught at Shaler for 27 years.
"Hopefully, they can look at me and see, 'If he can do that, I can be a
scientist, too.'"

The trip already is bringing science to life at Shaler. Students are using GPS
data to find Antarctic weather stations, whose precise locations move because of
glacial shifts.

The school also received a grant for its own weather station, so students can
compare temperatures in Shaler and Antarctica. While Mr. Penn is away, students
will broadcast his locations and weather conditions on the school's television
news station.

Besides trying on the gear, students have posed interesting questions, wondering
what people eat in Antarctica and how they go to the bathroom in such cold
weather.

Lori Robinet Mish, an assistant principal at Shaler, said she is most excited
about what the trip can teach about problem-solving.

"What we want the kids to learn and gain aside from all of the factual stuff
about Antarctica . is perseverance and resiliency," Ms. Mish said.

She said she hopes that Mr. Penn uses his travels to develop new "missions" for
the school's spaceship simulator, IKS Titan. Mr. Penn runs this program, through
which students use technology and teamwork to try to solve difficult
interdisciplinary problems.

Mr. Penn said that the entire PolarTREC application process has helped students
learn about tenacity and problem-solving. He didn't get selected the first time
he applied, so he had his students help him revise the application and he became
one of 11 U.S. teachers chosen.

His background makes him a natural for the program. A self-proclaimed "weather
geek" with a deep interest in exploration, he also has served in the Army and as
a Scoutmaster for the Boy Scouts.

Mr. Penn went on a training trip in Alaska in March, and has been working with
researchers from Wisconsin to get up to speed on the science.

"I can't be any more excited," Mr. Penn said. "I'm just tickled that they've
chosen me to go."

Jamie Schuman, freelance writer: suburbanliving@ post-gazette.com

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Submitted: Michael Penn went on a training trip to Alaska in
March, where he tried out some of the gear he will wear during his visit to
Antarctica.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2018 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              162 of 308 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            March 22, 2018 Thursday
                                 SOONER EDITION

WE NEED A TALK SHOW FOR AMAZON HQ2 GEEKS

BYLINE: Brian O'Neill

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A-11

LENGTH: 728 words


The only sport I care much about is baseball, which means I don't tune into
sports radio in the wintertime. I don't care who's skating on the Penguins'
third line, who Pitt will hire to coach hoops or whether the Steelers will draft
another long snapper.

But I sometimes envy the passion I hear from callers when my radio grazes across
sports talk. Would that we all had such outlets. Sure, there's talk radio that
touches on all topics, but wouldn't it be great if there were some
hyper-specialized show for, say, classical music?

"Hey, Biff, first time caller. Do ya think the Pittsburgh Symphony has any shot
at drafting this cellist Wang down at Julliard?"

Or what about "The Pittsburgh Infrastructure Show"? Sure, 90 percent of the
calls would be about potholes, bike lanes or snow removal, but it could also be
where people get into the nitty-gritty of Pittsburgh's pitch to get Amazon's
second headquarters here.

We don't know what the city and Allegheny County are offering (which is
outrageous), but we do know a successful bid could change Pittsburgh forever.
Like most change, it would be neither all good nor all bad, but meantime it
would be nice to at least hear educated guesses on the odds of landing Amazon
HQ2.

That's why a long email from Samuel Koda, a 1990 Pitt graduate with a degree in
economics who has worked for IBM and The Hershey Co., intrigued me so.

Mr. Koda, 49, likes Pittsburgh's chances in what is said to be a 20-city
competition, but he hasn't found a good outlet for his analysis. His take, which
I've shamelessly shortened to adapt to our soundbite era, goes something like
this:

"Mainstream media's analysis has been disappointing." Some early "favorites"
such as Minneapolis and Detroit didn't survive the first cut, and there's no way
the Washington, D.C., area is going get Amazon HQ2. Sure, three finalists are in
and around the nation's capital, but Amazon desperately needs a counternarrative
to the perception that the company is too powerful a force in the American
economy.

Apart from the greater expense of locating in or near D.C., "a retailer relies
on the trust of its customers as much as - if not more than - other businesses."
This public selection process is largely about giving Amazon executives a
feel-good marketing story, and landing among the pols wouldn't provide that.

"They don't want to be seen as the job killer. They want to be seen as the job
creator. If they go to D.C. or New York, that won't be the story."

Atlanta? It has a busy airport and tech jobs, but it's also "a car-centric
commuting nightmare, an L.A. East that one would think Amazon wants to avoid at
all costs."

Toronto? It might have an easier task attracting foreign talent than an American
city in the Trump era, and it has a "Seattle vibe," but locating in Canada would
mean an international trip anytime an employee goes to another Amazon location.
Next.

Dallas and Austin? As with Atlanta, Mr. Koda believes hostility to LGBTQ issues
within the state dim Texan chances. The climate change that has turned the Sun
Belt into the Drought Belt is likely a concern, too.

Pittsburgh? It has the cheapest housing and proximity to the Northeast. Amazon
would rather not pay Boston or New York wages to its software engineers. "If
Amazon is to beat the the Googles and Walmarts and Nordstroms in online retail,
it will need to keep its costs down." The company's recent initiatives in health
care, pharmaceuticals, banking and logistics also play to Pittsburgh's
strengths, he said.

The HQ2 branding by Amazon might be a misnomer, he said, as this new location
may be more back office than second headquarters. He and I both believe it
possible that Amazon won't put all its eggs in one basket; it could pick a
winner but also drop thousands of jobs among a handful of other cities. Given
the choice, Mr. Koda would rather see Pittsburgh get 5,000 jobs than 50,000 -
"it wouldn't be that massive disruption" - but he doesn't want to see the city
miss out altogether.

Mr. Koda earned a law degree from Brooklyn Law School in 1997, and he's watched
as Brooklyn has gone from a beaten-down borough to a global brand (and among the
most expensive places to live on Earth). From his home in Hershey, he's watched
the Pittsburgh brand growing in stature, too.

His would have been a great call for "The Pittsburgh Infrastructure Show," but
it lacks a dial tone.

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2018 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              191 of 308 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                              May 3, 2018 Thursday
                                 SOONER EDITION

MARKET SQUARE TRANSFORMED BY ART INSTALLATION 'OTHER SIDE OF THE WORLD'

BYLINE: Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. B-5

LENGTH: 268 words


There's a colorful island in the middle of Market Square.

It's actually the 2018 Market Square Public Art Installation, "Other Side of the
World," which makes its official debut Thursday. The work, created by the
internationally lauded Ball-Nogues Studio in Los Angeles, was inspired by
Amsterdam Island in the South Indian Ocean.

The installation is an abstract representation of the island that visitors may
explore. Interpretive programming will be offered during its run, through May
25.

The artwork's creators hope to encourage visitors to think outside the box and
to reflect upon the world's vast geography and the histories and stories of
largely unknown places.

Amsterdam Island, on the opposite side of the world, is farther from Pittsburgh
than any other habitable place on earth, Benjamin Ball of Ball-Nogues said in a
press release. "By exploring this unfamiliar locale - far from what we know and
without using a lens of tourism - we can deepen our understanding of how we
shape our own place in the world."

The installation's alternative title, "L'autre bout du monde," reflects the
island's colonial history. The Spanish were the first Europeans to discover it,
in 1522, followed by the Dutch. France claimed it in 1843 and it is currently
inhabited by only 25 French climate scientists.

The artwork is presented by the City of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh Downtown
Partnership and the Office of Public Art. Additional funding is provided by the
Richard King Mellon Foundation, The Fine Foundation, The Heinz Endowments, The
Art Works program of the National Endowment for the Arts and an anonymous donor.

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Darrell Sapp/Post-Gazette: The lunchtime crowd looks over a new
art installation in Market Square, "Other Side of the World," by the Ball-Nogues
Studio in Los Angeles. It debuts Thursday.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2018 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              196 of 308 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                              July 9, 2018 Monday
                                 SOONER EDITION

PRUITT WAS THE SWAMP;
THE NEXT EPA SHOULD RESPECT ITS MISSION TO PROTECT

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A-10

LENGTH: 416 words


The resignation of Scott Pruitt as administrator of the Environmental Protection
Agency is an opportunity for President Donald Trump to correct a mistake.

In Mr. Pruitt, the president made a bad appointment that brought discredit on
his administration.

With his penchant for pricey trips with first-class airline seats, a $43,000
soundproof booth for making private phone calls, a swollen personal security
detail and a helping hand for his wife's business career, Mr. Pruitt almost made
swamp-thing behavior - corruption and entitlement - an art form.

He certainly made it easy for his enemies.

At the time of his resignation, Mr. Pruitt was under more than a dozen federal
and congressional investigations.

Rather than emptying the swamp, as Mr. Trump promised to do, he was stocking the
swamp with the appointment of Mr. Pruitt.

And though Mr. Pruitt was fulfilling the pro-business goals of the president in
rolling back environmental regulations, Mr. Pruitt finally embarrassed the
president enough to be asked for his resignation.

A former attorney general of Oklahoma, Mr. Pruitt built his career on suing the
EPA. As EPA administrator, he rolled back regulations aimed at mitigating global
warming pollution from the United States' vehicles and power plants. And he
played a leading role in encouraging Mr. Trump to pull the U.S. out of the 2015
Paris climate agreement, under which most countries in the world committed to
reducing emissions of planet-warming fossil fuel pollution.

Mr. Pruitt lacked not only an ethical compass but also policy balance. He was a
zealot.

Mr. Trump's next choice to head up the EPA should be someone who has run
something - a state, a federal agency or a large business, and who is a
pragmatist and a realist. That is, he should not be a zealot of a left that
bends the laws and regulations to say far more than they do and to make doing
business in America impossible, and he should not be a zealot of a right for
which clean air and water have no importance.

A person who does not believe in the EPA should not head the EPA any more than a
person who does not believe in taxation should head the IRS.

The administrator should respect science and not try to muzzle scientists.

The next administrator should be a bipartisan figure who will make a good-faith
effort to run the agency honestly and fairly.

The president might look for a GOP governor, or ex-governor, with a business
background.

The EPA exists for a reason. If we destroy it, we will only have to reinvent it.

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2018 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              215 of 308 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                           November 7, 2018 Wednesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

FRUSTRATION GREETS SOME AS TURNOUT AT POLLS IS HIGH;
ELECTION OFFICIALS DEAL WITH PROBLEMS

BYLINE: Daniel Moore Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. B-1

LENGTH: 1259 words


More than 57 percent of Allegheny County voters cast ballots in the the midterm
elections Tuesday, magnifying reports of malfunctioning machines and mishaps at
polling locations that frustrated some voters.

As polls closed at 8 p.m., county officials stressed the election overall played
out without any major issues and that county elections staffers rushed to fix
issues that popped up.

Yet the heavy interest in the midterms - which, across the state, would
determine an 18-seat congressional delegation, a U.S. senator, Pennsylvania
governor and lieutenant governor, half of the state Senate, and a full state
House - brought more attention to an array of problems seen throughout the
county.

Of the county's 941,033 registered voters, 57.34 percent of them cast ballots.

Absentee ballots, an early measure of voter interest, surged to a higher total
than any midterm contest since at least 2006, according to the county. Absentee
ballots submitted in the county reached 26,840 this year, compared with 10,295
ballots in 2014, the county said.

The county cited the high volume of absentee ballots this year as it faced
criticism by the American Civil Liberties Union over how it managed some of
them.

Earlier Tuesday, ACLU attorneys at the Allegheny County election court argued
that there were unprecedented problems this election with absentee ballots not
arriving to voters on time.

Caroline Mitchell of the ACLU of Pennsylvania and VotePA has worked election
integrity for years and said, "We've never seen this much of a problem with
absentee ballots before."

The problem was exacerbated by a county elections division that did not answer
phones or offer updates to applicants who were concerned about the status of
their ballots, she said. If a ballot was not returned to the county by Friday,
Nov. 2, it would not be legitimate, even if the application requesting it was
submitted in a timely fashion.

People who showed up to vote at the Carnegie Library's Squirrel Hill branch at
Murray and Forbes avenues faced long lines after the polling place did not open
on time. The judge of elections there had a medical emergency and could not open
the poll as scheduled at 7 a.m., according to officials.

At least 30 people were waiting outside the library by 8 a.m. Many more were
waiting inside the library's entrance on Marlborough Avenue.

Kara Tinker, 28, waited for nearly two hours.

"I have the flexibility with my work, and I think it's important for people to
know what's going on," she said. "So I'm texting and tweeting. I want to see
what the outcome of this situation will be."

The equipment needed to open the machines also was not on site. Emergency
ballots were delivered shortly after 8 a.m. and three voters at a time were
allowed inside to fill out the ballots.

An election worker said the ballots would be sealed and counted after the polls
closed.

At 9:15 a.m., 45 voters had cast emergency paper ballots. At that time, voting
machines were still not up and running.

Laure Swearingen, 64, of Squirrel Hill, noted that the library is near Tree of
Life synagogue, where a gunman killed 11 worshipers on Oct. 27.

"This is like a slap in the face," she said.

County officials also contended with voting machine irregularities. Calls into
the county and Pittsburgh Post-Gazette described instances of "vote switching,"
the term for when a voter selects one candidate and another is chosen instead.

Tanner Ivol, 34, of South Fayette, said he voted a straight Republican ticket at
the Hunting Ridge Meeting House near Bridgeville and the voting machine instead
showed that he had voted straight Democrat. He recast his vote, picking every
individual Republican candidate separately and was assured by poll workers that
he'd voted for all Republican candidates for office. Still, he said he was
unsure.

"You hit one party and the whole other party came up," he said. "You can't
switch the party affiliation at the top for some reasons. After you hit that
vote button, you don't know what happens."

Allegheny County spokeswoman Amie Downs said elections officials were sent to
the South Fayette polling place to investigate the report, but the problem had
not been confirmed.

Saul Markowitz, a communications professional, was voting at Kerr Elementary
School in O'Hara when the machine automatically selected Republican state Senate
candidate Jeremy Shaffer when he wanted to vote for Democrat Lindsey Williams.

The poll workers told him that "we've never seen this happen before," and, after
numerous tries to reset his ballot, eventually achieved his vote for Ms.
Williams. He said poll workers gave him a number to call to report the machine
problems, but no one picked up when he tried in the afternoon.

"Why can't we bring back the paper ballots?" Mr. Markowitz wondered.

Officials said vote switching had been reported in West Deer (7th District),
Plum (20th District) and Moon (6th District). In each case, they said, a
technician was sent out to try to replicate the issue and possibly recalibrate
the machine.

Despite the issues, many polling locations recorded heavy turnout.

Some of the heaviest voting took place at Penn State University and the
University of Pittsburgh, both of which surpassed 2014 overall turnout in the
first five hours, according to NextGen Pennsylvania, a progressive organization
focused on turning out youth to vote.

Turnout at Penn State's main precinct Tuesday was four times as much as it was
in the 2014 midterms, and Pitt was closing in on tripling its own 2014 total,
according to an official with NextGen Pennsylvania.

At the William Pitt Union in Oakland, nearly 100 students waited in a line that,
at 2:30 p.m., snaked outside the building. The building serves as a polling
place for the city's 4th Ward, 8th District. Students from Pitt's 18 residence
facilities filled six polling places in Oakland.

Several of the waiting students listed gun control, climate change and the
environment, human rights, racial equality, and education as their top
priorities for the midterm election.

Chief among the issues important to recent Pitt graduate Miranda Boca, 24, are
racial equality and public health. She said both issues hit close: Her boyfriend
is a person of color and her cousin is a cancer survivor who can no longer
receive vaccines.

"I don't like the direction the country is going in," said Ms. Boca, who
graduated with a degree in chemistry. "Everyone's anti-science and anti-each
other. All the hateful rhetoric is just appalling. I feel like the only thing we
can do is vote."

Just ahead of Ms. Boca, Pitt senior Ben Engel, 22 and an information science
major, waited in line wearing a black T-shirt with a gold broken heart on the
front -an image that became popular following the mass shootings in Squirrel
Hill.

"I'm hoping to try and make change," he said.

Other problems the county reported throughout the day included:

? Bellevue, Ward 1, District 2: The judge overslept and the polling place opened
late.

? Pittsburgh, Ward 4, Districts 10 and 11: Voting started late due to issues
with opening a machine.

? McCandless, Ward 1, District 1: The polling place opened at 7:15 a.m. Paper
ballots were used until that time.

? County authorities said a Duquesne Light Co. transformer failed on Old
Clairton Road, leaving 14 voting districts - along with nearly 2,000 customers -
without power. A utility spokeswoman said the outage lasted a little less than
an hour.

Staff writers Christopher Huffaker, Ashley Murray and Kris Mamula
contributed.Daniel Moore: dmoore@post-gazette.com, 412-263-2743 and Twitter
@PGdanielmoore.

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Andrew Rush/Post-Gazette: Poll workers clean water from the
floor of the engine house at 5868 Northumberland St. in Squirrel Hill before the
start of voting. A fire truck leak caused the pool of water.
PHOTO: Pam Panchak/Post-Gazette: Teri Trice of Wilkinsburg, left, laughs, while
her sister, Toki Trice of Beechview, second from left, gives a voter a high-five
after she voted at the Community Forge in Wilkinsburg.
PHOTO: Pam Panchak/Post-Gazette: The Democratic candidate for the 21st state
House District, Sara Innamorato, greets voters at St. Teresa of Avila Church in
Ross.
PHOTO: Jessie Wardarski/Post-Gazette: Jack Perkins of Crafton opens his jacket
to reveal an "I Voted. Pittsburgh Stronger than Hate" sticker.
PHOTO: Jessie Wardarski/Post-Gazette: Denaja Lowry, right, 8, of the Hill
District, peers inside a polling location where adults vote in the midterm
elections as her relatives and friends play outside Tuesday, Nov. 6, 2018, at
the Multipurpose RMK Leroy Irvis Towers in the Hill District.
PHOTO: Andrew Rush/Post-Gazette: A woman leaves Temple Sinai after voting in the
midterm elections on Tuesday, Nov. 6, 2018, in Squirrel Hill.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2018 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              230 of 308 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                           October 13, 2018 Saturday
                                 SOONER EDITION

EXPECT AN AUTUMN OF BLAH-COLORED FOLIAGE

BYLINE: John Hayes Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. WA-7

LENGTH: 577 words


At the height of Pennsylvania's fall foliage season, folks travel throughout the
state to get a look at 45,000 square miles of kaleidoscopic colors.

This year, not so much.

A wet summer that brought floods and landslides is slipping into an autumn of
mostly muted oranges, browns - and blah.

But even that will be more color than European settlers saw when they crested
the Allegheny Front and got a clear view of autumn in Penn's Woods. In its
natural state, most of post-summer Pennsylvania was hunter green.

"Most of our forests, historically, were more conifer species than hardwoods,"
said Jessica Slater, a forester with the state Department of Conservation and
Natural Resources. "Most of Pennsylvania was cutover at the turn of the last
century . [and] the trees didn't grow back the way they were before."

Logging itself doesn't necessarily determine the course of regeneration. In most
cases, soil composition dictates which species are likely to take root. After
the clear-cutting of Pennsylvania's native hemlocks, Virginia pines, red pines
and Eastern white pines to provide lumber for railroads, cities and America's
rapid growth, subsequent uses of the land determined what would grow back.

Ms. Slater explained the history of Pennsylvania's forests at a meeting Friday
of Pittsburgh Sportsmen's Luncheon Club held Downtown.

Some of the cutover lands regenerated in the existing soil. Other areas were
burned over or tilled for farming, and much of it eventually went feral. In the
last century, hardwood species replaced natural pines that had towered for
hundreds of years.

"Oak favors fire," Ms. Slater said, "so in areas that were burned, you might see
the brilliant yellows of an oak forest. Right now in the northern part of the
state, you'll see really bright red leaves on black gum trees, one of the first
to change in the fall."

Sugar maples that grew from properties once tilled for agriculture turn yellow
to orange.

"In areas around Pittsburgh, you see a lot of sugar maples," Ms. Slater said.
"After it's sold for residential, people plant whatever they want - exotics or
other things that don't really belong there."

Often, feral farmlands are neglected, spoiling their autumn appeal.

"If the forest isn't cared for well, deer eat the small hardwood trees and
they're replaced by opportunistic invasives that aren't as pretty in the fall,"
she said.

Ideally, the clear-cut Pennsylvania forest lands were tilled and farmed for
generations before erupting into diverse, healthy forests.

"That's where you'll see the more brilliant displays in autumn," she said.
"Right now the northern part of the state is the prettiest, and in the Laurel
Highlands leaves are beginning to change. Up around Moraine State Park, the oak,
hickory and some black cherry are turning red-brown and yellow."

Springlike weather since the end of winter does not portend a particularly
bright fall foliage display.

"Warm, wet weather doesn't help foliage color," Ms. Slater said. "There will be
more fungal diseases this year. More trees will have dropped their leaves early
[and there will be] black spots on them."

Is a browner autumn evidence of global warming?

"I would say not at this time," she said. "Trees can be influenced by weather.
Prolonged weather patterns create a shift over time. Possibly changes could
occur, with the appearance of more southern species. What we'll see this fall is
just a lack of optimal colors."

John Hayes: 412-263-1991. jhayes@post-gazette.com

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Andrew Rush/Post-Gazette: By Oct. 27 of last year, trees at
Beaver Cemetery had reached this brilliance. Colors are expected to be muted
this fall because of the wet summer the region experienced.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2018 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              242 of 308 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                           February 22, 2018 Thursday
                                 SOONER EDITION

COUNTY MUST CRACK DOWN ON ODOR EMISSIONS VIOLATIONS

BYLINE: RACHEL FILIPPINI, Executive Director, Group Against Smog and Pollution
(GASP), Edgewood

SECTION: EDITORIAL; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR; Pg. A-10

LENGTH: 234 words


Most often our immediate interactions with air are through our noses. Even when
the skies look clean, our noses can tell there is a problem because of foul
smells. How often does this happen? It happens a lot, according to the "Smell
Pittsburgh" app (smellpgh.org) developed by CREATE Lab at Carnegie Mellon
University.

In fact, that all-too-familiar "rotten egg" smell - usually hydrogen sulfide
(H2S) - was reported to the Smell Pittsburgh app hundreds of times in the past
year. Most smelly airborne chemicals have no regulatory concentration limit, but
in Allegheny County, there is a limit for hydrogen sulfide. The H2S standard is
monitored by the Allegheny County Health Department and has been violated on
average more than 50 times a year, over the past six years, at the Liberty
Borough monitor in the Mon Valley.

Where is the enforcement? Noxious odors disrupt sleep; discourage people from
spending time outdoors; can irritate the eyes, nose and throat; and generally
make life extremely unpleasant. ACHD appears unwilling to aggressively
investigate violations of the H2S standard or the county's odor emissions
regulation, which says that no company is allowed to let malodorous emissions
leave its property. H2S is a significant emission from some facilities in the
Mon Valley. The ACHD must do more to crack down on companies that let their bad
odors foul the air we all must smell and breathe.

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2018 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              245 of 308 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                             March 18, 2018 Sunday
                                TWO STAR EDITION

THE  POWER OF THE UNCONSTRAINED MIND;
STEPHEN HAWKING'S WORK MAY HAVE BEEN ESOTERIC, SAYS LEONID BERSHIDSKY, BUT HIS
LIFE HELPED SHAPE HOW WE SEE THE WORLD

SECTION: FORUM; Pg. D-1

LENGTH: 774 words


In "Professor Dowell's Head," a 1925 science fiction novel by Alexander Belyayev
that was a must-read when I was a kid, a dying scientist bequeaths his body to a
colleague who then revives just the heart and the head. In this form, Professor
Dowell lives on but hates it. The life of British physicist Stephen Hawking, who
died Wednesday, had been almost like fictional Dowell's since the 1980s, and he
cherished it.

Hawking's scientific achievements are too obscure for most people, even though
he was outstanding at popularizing his work. "A Brief History of Time," his 1988
work on cosmology, sold 10 million copies but has been described as "the most
popular book never read." Most of those who helped crash the website on which
Hawking's 1966 Ph.D. thesis, "Properties of Expanding Universes," was published
last year probably couldn't get through the manuscript.

The origins and size of the universe and the inner workings of time are esoteric
matters, and to get at Hawking's bird's-eye view, one would need to be quite a
high-flying bird. "The subject of this book is the structure of space-time on
length-scales from 10^-13 cm, the radius of an elementary particle, up to 10^28
cm, the radius of the universe," a monograph Hawking co-authored with
mathematician George F.R. Ellis in 1973, states boldly on Page 2.

So for an overwhelming majority of people, Hawking's real value has been in
proving that a powerful brain doesn't really need a functioning body to survive,
thrive and even have fun. Hawking arguably did more for the ascendance of nerd
culture than Bill Gates and Steve Jobs put together. They were visionary and at
times eccentric, but Hawking has been more than that: disembodied, a living
challenge to the laws of nature he wanted to bring into a single "theory of
everything." That's why Silicon Valley CEOs grieve his death. And the space
entrepreneurs - Elon Musk, Jeff Bezos, Richard Branson - have merely been
following his most famous advice: "Look up at the stars and not down at your
feet."

"Strange, when I lived, it seemed to me that I only lived by the work of
thought," Dowell's head said in Belyayev's novel. "I really didn't quite notice
my body, I was so absorbed in scientific work. And only when I lost my body did
I feel what I was missing." It continues, "Oh, I'd gladly give up my chimeric
existence for the joy of hefting a simple cobblestone in my hand!"

Hawking must have gone through similar suffering after being diagnosed with
amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, but uninterested in posing as a tragic figure, he
remained both cheerful and pragmatic. "My advice to other disabled people would
be, concentrate on things your disability doesn't prevent you doing well, and
don't regret the things it interferes with," he said. "Don't be disabled in
spirit as well as physically."

Had Hawking not lived this advice with what looked like supernatural ease, many
of his quotes would read like the inspirational garbage one often finds on the
social networks. He didn't need religion or any other spiritual crutches to
sustain him - perhaps as big a contribution as any to millennials' increasingly
frequent atheism.

Hawking merely appeared to enjoy what he did, including making scary predictions
about an end of the world brought about by amok artificial intelligence or
climate change. He enjoyed the headlines and the celebrity that had little to do
with his research and everything to do with his flawless demonstration that an
agile intellect didn't need arms, legs or even a working voice. The software
that allowed Hawking to speak is available to anyone under an open license, a
reminder that the human body can fail but that doesn't have to bring down the
mind it houses.

Hawking wasn't exactly a cyborg: Though he lived extraordinarily long for
someone with his condition, he didn't live long enough to get artificial "spare
parts" or have his brain transfered to a computer so it could live on in a robot
body. Hawking thought it would be possible someday. "I think the brain is like a
program in the mind, which is like a computer, so it's theoretically possible to
copy the brain on to a computer and so provide a form of life after death," he
said in 2013.

As in everything else he said and did, Hawking wasn't weighted down by the
present, just as he was minimally constrained by his paralyzed physical shell.
This nonchalance about living outside an uncomfortable frame and Hawking's
enormous courage in facing both death and the future will live on, even if his
cosmological theories remain unproven or end up rejected.

Leonid Bershidsky is a Bloomberg View columnist (lbershidsky @bloomberg.net)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Getty Images: Theoretical physicist Stephen Hawking

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2018 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              254 of 308 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                             June 6, 2018 Wednesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

PICTURING POLLUTION;
CMU TEAM DOCUMENTS BAD AIR TO CONFRONT VIOLATORS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A-10

LENGTH: 505 words


The unblinking eyes Carnegie Mellon University just deployed to monitor air
pollution in the Monongahela Valley represent the latest in a series of steps
parties outside of government are taking to agitate against the region's
still-poor air quality. While the Allegheny County Health Department has
resolved to take a hard line with violators, it can only help to have CMU's
world-class researchers collecting data that regulators and polluters will have
to confront head on.

CMU's CREATE Lab, which previously installed pollution cameras Downtown, on
Mount Washington and in the Mon Valley, on Tuesday activated additional cameras
to better monitor three Mon Valley mills: U.S. Steel's Edgar Thomson Plant in
Braddock, the Irvin Plant in West Mifflin and the Clairton Coke Works. The new
Breathe Cam units will keep watch around-the-clock for visible pollution from
the plants, all of which have been the focus of complaints and compliance
issues.

While the American Lung Association's report on air quality provides a jarring
annual reminder of how much cleaner Pittsburgh's air could be - last spring's
report ranked the region 10th worst among 201 areas nationwide - many of the
people living and working here have a daily awareness of the problem. Some have
pollution-related asthma while others know the telltale sulfur smell of
industrial emissions.

In fact, CMU was induced to install the new pollution cameras because the CREATE
Lab's SmellPGH app, which tracks industrial, diesel and other pollution through
crowdsourcing, was receiving many complaints from the Mon Valley. The cameras
not only provide visual proof of pollution but can provide clues to the chemical
makeup of emissions, possibly helping to tie them back to violators.

This is all an excellent use of CMU's world-class research skills and a natural
fit for the CREATE Lab, which calls itself"both a technology breeding ground and
a community partner."

Other arms of CMU are involved in still more air-quality efforts. In partnership
with the startup SenSevere, the university's Center for Atmospheric Particle
Studies has fielded up to 50 Real-time Affordable Multi-Pollutant, or RAMP,
sensors to gather hyper-local pollution data at homes and businesses. The Center
for Air, Climate and Energy Solutions' mobile monitoring unit is another tool
for mapping pollution across the city.

Over the years, residents and environmental groups have complained about
inadequate enforcement of air quality standards by the county health department.
Some have taken matters into their own hands by suing violators, hosting RAMP
sensors, complaining at the department's public meetings or supporting
environmental groups engaged in the fight for cleaner air.

The department has promised that it's on the case- it announced a"strategic
change" in enforcement last year- but data from CMU's cameras will help to hold
violators and regulators accountable.

There will be no disputing pollution the cameras record. As one CMU researcher
noted, a picture is worth a thousand words.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Darrell Sapp/Post-Gazette: U.S. Steel's Clairton coke plant as
seen from Fifth Street in Clairton

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2018 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              255 of 308 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                              June 10, 2018 Sunday
                                TWO STAR EDITION

OIL EXECUTIVES CHALLENGED BY POPE FRANCIS

SECTION: ASECTION; Pg. A-14

LENGTH: 432 words


VATICAN CITY - Pope Francis has told world oil executives that the transition to
less-polluting energy sources "is a challenge of epochal proportions."

Francis told the gathering Saturday that modern society with its "massive
movement of information, persons and things requires an immense supply of
energy." And still, he said, as many as 1 billion people lack electricity.

The pope said that meeting the energy needs of everyone on Earth must be done in
ways "that avoid creating environmental imbalances resulting in deterioration
and pollution gravely harmful to our human family, both now and in the future."

The Vatican said the two-day conference with oil executives is a follow-up to
the pope's encyclical three years ago calling on people to save the planet from
climate change and other environmental ills.

Child porn indictment

A Catholic priest who once was one of the church's top diplomats in Washington
was indicted by the Vatican on accusations of possessing and sharing "a large
quantity" of child pornography.

In a statement obtained by Reuters, the Vatican said Monsignor Carlo Capella
would face a trial starting June 22. He is being held in a cell in the Vatican's
police barracks.

Conviction thrown out

PARIS - Appeals judges in an international court have thrown out the war-crimes
conviction and 18-year prison sentence for Jean-Pierre Bemba, a former vice
president of the Democratic Republic of Congo. It was a blow to prosecutors, who
had accused him of condoning the public rape of women and men, the killing of
unarmed villagers and the pillaging of property.

The ruling, announced on Friday at the International Criminal Court in The
Hague, did not question that the atrocities occurred during a five-month rampage
by a militia that Mr. Bemba founded and financed in 2002 to assist his ally,
then the president of the neighboring Central African Republic. But in a 3 to 2
vote, the court found that the trial judges had made legal errors. As a "remote
commander," the court said, Mr. Bemba would have difficulty knowing what his
1,000-fighter militia was doing and adequately investigating and stopping any
crimes.

Fund theft probed

SINGAPORE - Malaysia's new leader is moving aggressively to investigate the
apparent theft of billions of dollars from a state investment fund under the
previous government, including seeking the arrest of a key figure in the
scandal, financier Jho Low.

The U.S. Department of Justice estimates $4.5 billion went missing from the
fund, 1 Malaysia Development Berhad, which was overseen by former Prime Minister
Najib Razak, who denies wrongdoing.

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2018 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              261 of 308 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                              June 25, 2018 Monday
                                 SOONER EDITION

SAVING THE FROG - WITH A PAINTBRUSH

BYLINE: Diana Nelson Jones

SECTION: LOCAL; WALKABOUT; Pg. B-1

LENGTH: 700 words


A Panamanian golden frog plants its arms on top of what looks like a wall, its
foot hitched as if to climb up and over.

The wall is a pink and white batik-like design achieved by pouring a mix of
acrylic paint and an additive that makes the paint break up into little circles.
A biology student could see the similarity of these circles to microscopic
cells, and that's the image Ashley Cecil achieves with one of her most enigmatic
paintings - of a frog in serious trouble.

It is one work in her show "Edged Out," an exhibition to run Thursday through
Aug. 31 at the Frick Environmental Center in Squirrel Hill, presented by art
curator Jeffrey Jarzynka.

This frog species is endangered, and the microscopic cells represent a fungal
pathogen that is threatening all frog species worldwide. The work was an
outgrowth of Ms. Cecil's residency at the Richards-Zawacki Lab at the University
of Pittsburgh, where she immersed herself in the research of scientists, and a
previous residency at the Carnegie Museum of Natural History.

Since she began painting and working with textiles, her work has depicted flora
and fauna, but her designs of late have delivered an edgier message without
being any less beautiful. The message is that the human impact on the rest of
this planet's denizens is untenable for their health and for ours. We are
putting the squeeze on the habitats of every animal we live among.

Our survival depends on the health and balance in the habitats of birds, frogs,
snakes, mammals, insects and fish, but we have lost the understanding of our
interconnection. We have faked ourselves into believing that our constructs set
us apart.

"One of my goals is to share these messages with Pittsburgh in a digestible
manner" through art, Ms. Cecil said. "There are a lot of research topics - fatal
diseases, habitat loss, last-ditch conservation efforts.

"I don't think I understood the magnitude of the human impact on nature before."

The realization grew as she began initiating a series of residencies with
scientists. In 2015, she began "poking around" at the Carnegie Museum of Natural
History, the Phipps Conservatory and the National Aviary, she said. "I got to
know the scientists."

She started getting grants to develop art projects based on the collections,
starting with birds. At the Museum of Natural History, she saw a spectogram of
frog calls on a scientist's computer - spiky ups and downs that resemble audio
levels in a sound studio - and incorporated them into a floral frog painting.

Her exhibition's title painting, "Edged Out," shows agricultural land - like
patterns seen from an airplane. The gaps in the patterns are constricted
enclosures of colorful tropical habitat and animals.

Cori Richards-Zawacki, an associate professor of biology at Pitt and lead
investigator at the herpetology lab, said she had never had an artist in
residency.

"That was all Ashley's doing. Our department was excited to have an artist help
us to express our science in different ways," she said. "I thought it was
amazing" to have artist and scientist in outreach together.

"Scientists try to figure out how to communicate to a young audience," she said.
"A growing part of what we do is taking our science to the public."

The lab developed middle school curriculum on the impact of climate change on
ecosystems, she said, "and the cool part is that we've found a way for students
to collect data we can use in our research, so the research is informing the
education and the education is feeding our research.

"Having Ashley has enabled us to have better visual sets of tools."

Ms. Cecil's studio is in a co-working space, a former mechanic's shop that she
and her husband renovated in Homewood. She has done outreach with youth in the
neighborhood and said she is hopeful that children and adults alike are capable
of seeing that individual actions can reverse the ill effects of our species'
destructive ways.

"This is an all-hands-on-deck problem," she said. "I hope to, at the very least,
shift someone's thinking. If people start following a different path, the
movement to right this ship promises jobs galore. The fixing is a huge
opportunity."

Visit www.ashleycecil.com to see more of her work.

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Diana Nelson Jones: djones@post-gazette.com or 412-263-1626. /

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2018 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              278 of 308 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                           August 22, 2018 Wednesday
                              Correction Appended
                                 SOONER EDITION

DELIVERING A MESSAGE;
AT NATIONAL CONVENTION, POSTAL SERVICE WORKERS PROTEST TRUMP'S PRIVATIZATION
PLANS

BYLINE: Daniel Moore, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. B-6

LENGTH: 921 words


Roughly 2,000 U.S. Postal Service workers gathered Downtown on Tuesday to call
attention to mail delivery services they believe face an existential threat
under the Trump administration.

The rally, organized by the American Postal Workers Union, protested a
forthcoming report from the White House that will likely recommend the
privatization of the Postal Service, which critics say has lost money and
struggled with the rise of electronic communication.

The union argued that privatization would bring an end to universal service,
leading to higher prices, unequal treatment of Americans in rural areas and an
undoing of the agency's heritage.

"The American people should not tolerate selling off a national treasure to
corporate pirates who will cut postal service, raise prices and destroy
good-paying jobs," said Mark Dimondstein, president of the APWU, which
represents 200,000 U.S. Postal Service workers. The union is holding its
national convention this week at the David L. Lawrence Convention Center.

Mr. Dimondstein said the e-commerce industry was at stake.

"It's easy to click on a website to make a purchase, but to deliver packages to
every possible address in America - no matter how distant - thousands of
companies and tens of millions of consumers depend on hard work of the women and
men of the U.S. Postal Service," he said.

This is not the first time the government has looked at ways to reorganize the
Postal Service, which has struggled to fund operations with the rise of
electronic communications. The service reported a net loss of $2.7 billion in
2017 and has lost a total of $65.1 billion in the last decade.

But the union argued much of those losses are because of a 2006 congressional
mandate that required the Postal Service to fund future retirees' health
benefits - to the tune of about $5 billion a year through 2017.

The reported numbers "have nothing to do with reality," said Mr. Dimondstein,
who insisted the service's operational finances are strong. "It's a way to
create this climate that there's all this financial hardship."

In 2006, as the internet ate away at traditional mail volumes and revenue,
Congress ordered the agency to review ways to restructure. A report by the
Postal Regulatory Commission, which oversees the Postal Service, recommended
against cuts to universal service or selling off assets to private companies or
nonprofits.

The reasons behind the current review are a little murkier.

President Donald Trump, who has targeted federal agencies for widespread cuts
since coming into office, called out the Postal Service in a tweet in April for
losing a "fortune" to Amazon and promising "this will be changed." Mr. Trump has
escalated a personal feud with Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos, who also owns The
Washington Post.

Mr. Trump ordered a task force - led by Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin, the
Office of Management and Budget and the Office of Personnel Management - to
provide a report by Aug. 10. The report is expected to support privatization and
the termination of daily services to regions of the country, according to a
separate document in June from the White House that proposes sweeping changes to
all reaches of government.

"A private postal operator that delivers mail fewer days per week and to more
central locations [not door delivery] would operate at substantially lower
costs," that document states.

It also contained a direct message to the four Postal Service unions: "Freeing
USPS to more fully negotiate pay and benefits rather than prescribing
participation in costly federal personnel benefit programs ... could further
reduce costs."

It is unclear how much of the Postal Service's losses are related to Amazon.

Congress has required the Postal Service to price parcel delivery at least high
enough to cover costs, though PolitiFact reported that the service was charging
on average $1.46 below market rates for all parcel delivery - which includes but
is not limited to Amazon.

"By law, our competitive package products, including those that we deliver for
Amazon, must cover their costs," Joseph Corbett, the Postal Service's chief
financial officer, wrote in an op-ed last year.

Mr. Corbett placed blame for the Postal Service's financial woes on rules
governing mail on which the agency enjoys a virtual monopoly. He argued, for
example, a price cap on First-Class Mail, Marketing Mail and Periodicals was
"wholly unsuitable to ensuring the Postal Service's continued ability to provide
prompt and reliable universal services."

Some with the American Postal Workers Union - the National Letter Carriers
Association is the second major postal union - think cooler heads will prevail,
even during the deregulatory fervor of the Trump administration.

The U.S. Postal Service has long been - by a large margin - the most popular
federal agency, according to polls by Gallup. Earlier this year, 74 percent of
Americans believed the Postal Service was doing an "excellent or good job,"
while only 5 percent thought their service was poor, according to the polling
group.

The unions are prepared to roll out their largest campaign to date, a spokesman
said, hoping to build on recent campaigns to block the Postal Service's
partnership with Staples. Beginning in 2013, the office supply retailer tested
"mini post offices" at some of its retail locations in Pittsburgh and three
other cities. The partnership was discontinued last year.

The convention, held every two years in various cities, hosted Sen. Bernie
Sanders on Monday and will continue through Thursday.

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Daniel Moore: 412-263-2743, dmoore@post-gazette.com Twitter
@PGdanielmoore /

CORRECTION-DATE: August 24, 2018



CORRECTION:  Postal Service workers rallied Tuesday in Downtown Pittsburgh to
urge the Trump administration not to privatize the U.S. Postal Service. A
headline on a story Wednesday about the rally incorrectly classified the
workers.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Lake Fong/Post-Gazette: Nannette Corley, president of APWU
Montgomery County Area Local in Gaithersburg, Md., chants with other supporters
Tuesday in the American Postal Workers Union rally at David L. Lawrence
Convention Center.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2018 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              285 of 308 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                           September 30, 2018 Sunday
                                  EAST EDITION

OBAMA DID NOT HAVE 'TOTAL CONTROL' OF SENATE

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. E-2

LENGTH: 333 words


While reading the Bobby Jindal op-ed column "Preventing single-payer,"published
Sept. 24, I was disgusted to read the oft-repeated lie about former President
Barack Obama squandering his "total control" of the Senate in his first two
years.

But back to the lie. This is a favorite of those on the right to blame Mr. Obama
for not getting more done in those first two years, except to get the Affordable
Care Act passed, which was a very big thing! He did not have a 60-vote majority
in the Senate for those two years, but I wouldn't expect a Republican to
fact-check this. It is repeated constantly by the GOP, and their base, of
course, believes it.

On Jan. 20, 2009, 57 Senate seats were held by Democrats with two Independents,
so a possible 59 votes, one shy of 60. That 59 included Ted Kennedy and Al
Franken. Mr. Kennedy had a seizure on inauguration day and never returned to
vote in the Senate. Mr. Franken was not officially sworn in until July 2009 and
could not vote until then. Score -actually 57 votes.

In April 2009, Republican Sen. Arlen Spector switched parties, but Mr. Kennedy
was still stricken at home, and Mr. Franken was still not seated. Score -58
votes.

In May 2009, Senator Robert Byrd took ill and was out several weeks. Mr. Franken
was finally seated on July 7, 2009 and Mr. Byrd returned on July 21, but
Democrats still only had 59 votes in the Senate because Mr. Kennedy died on Aug.
25, 2009. Score -59 votes.

Mr. Kennedy's seat was temporarily filled on Sept. 24, 2009, which finally gave
the Democrats the 60 votes they needed. This lasted until Feb. 4, 2010, when a
Republican was sworn in to replace Mr. Kennedy. Score -back to 59 votes.

So the truth is that Mr. Obama only had control of the Senate for a grand total
of four months! Thankfully, he was able to get the ACA passed. Since then the
Republicans have been wasting time and money trying to repeal it, and now are
taking it apart piece by piece instead of improving it for the American people.

Mary Beerman

Robinson

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Pablo Martinez Monsivais: FILE - In this Friday, Dec. 16, 2016,
file photo, President Barack Obama speaks during a news conference in the
briefing room of the White House in Washington. Obama said one of his missions
after leaving office will be to develop a new generation of leaders on issues
such as climate change, criminal justice reform and expanding health insurance
coverage. Obama said in the interview with NPR airing Monday, Dec. 19, that the
issues he cares most about will be well served when that new generation moves
into positions of authority. (AP Photo/Pablo Martinez Monsivais, File)
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS: FILE - In this Tuesday, March 23, 2010 file photo,
President Barack Obama signs the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act in
the East Room of the White House in Washington. "Obamacare" led to health care
coverage for some 20 million Americans, including about 4 million Hispanics and
3 million blacks, according to federal statistics. However, its fate is
uncertain because of Trump's vow to repeal and replace it. (AP Photo/J. Scott
Applewhite)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2018 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              290 of 308 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                           October 27, 2018 Saturday
                                 SOONER EDITION

REPUBLICANS GIN UP HATRED TO AVOID TALKING ABOUT POLICY;
HATE IS HOW REPUBLICANS CHANGE THE SUBJECT FROM POLICY

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. WB-3

LENGTH: 851 words


Until recently, it looked as if the midterm elections might be defined largely
by an argument about health care. Over the past few days, however, the headlines
have been dominated instead by hatred - hysteria over a caravan of migrants a
thousand miles from the U.S. border, and now the attempted assassination of
multiple prominent Democrats.

But whoever sent the bombs and why, the caravan hysteria is no accident:
Creating a climate of hatred is how Republicans avoid talking about health care.
What we're seeing in this election is a kind of culmination of the strategy the
right has been using for decades: Distract working-class voters from policies
that hurt them by promoting culture war and, above all, racial antagonism.

When it comes to substance, the modern conservative policy agenda, which centers
on cutting taxes and tearing up the social safety net, is consistently
unpopular. By large margins, voters want to raise, not lower, taxes on
corporations and the wealthy. They overwhelmingly oppose cuts in Social
Security, Medicare and Medicaid. Even self-identified Republicans favor
preventing insurers from discriminating against people with pre-existing medical
conditions - something Obamacare does, but Republican health proposals wouldn't.

So how do Republicans manage to win elections? Partly the answer is that
gerrymandering, the Electoral College and other factors have rigged the system
in their favor; Republicans have held the White House after three of the past
six presidential elections, despite winning the popular vote only once. And they
will probably hold the House unless Democrats win by at least 6 percent.

Also, let's not forget about voter suppression, which is putting an increasingly
heavy thumb on the scale. Still, given how unpopular Republicans' policy
positions are, how do they even get close enough to cheat?

One way they have traditionally gotten there is with red-baiting, portraying any
and all progressive policies as the next thing to communism. More than half a
century ago, Ronald Reagan warned that Medicare would destroy American freedom.
(It didn't.) A few days ago, the Trump White House issued a report equating
Medicare for All with Maoism.

Another key tactic involves lying about both their own positions and those of
their opponents. During the administration of George W. Bush, the lies were
relatively subtle by current standards, involving things like pretending that
tax cuts favoring the rich were actually aimed at the middle class. These days,
the lies are utterly shameless, with candidates who have worked nonstop to
dismantle protections for pre-existing conditions posing as champions of such
protections, and accusations that Democrats are the ones trying to destroy
Medicare.

But lies about policy, while they may confuse some voters, aren't enough. Hate
has always been part of the package.

Let's not romanticize the past. When Reagan talked about welfare queens driving
Cadillacs, or a "strapping young buck" using food stamps to buy steaks, he knew
exactly what he was doing.

Under Donald Trump, however, the strategy of hatred has gone to a whole new
level.

For one thing, after decades of cloaking its strategy in euphemisms, the GOP is
back to letting racists be racists. Hardly a week goes by without the revelation
that some Trump official or prominent Republican supporter is a bigot and/or
white nationalist.

At the same time, the mainstream GOP has gone all in on the kind of conspiracy
theorizing - tinged with anti-Semitism - that used to be restricted to the
fringe. For example, not only Mr. Trump but also senior senators like Charles
Grassley have bought into the false claim that people protesting Brett Kavanaugh
were paid by George Soros.

Finally, threats of retribution against political opponents and critics have
become standard fare on the right, and not just in the chants of "lock her up" -
which Mr. Trump led on the same day someone sent Hillary Clinton a bomb. Ted
Cruz may have been joking when he suggested sending Beto O'Rourke to jail, but
that kind of joke would have been unthinkable not long ago.

And it's hard to see calling the news media "enemies of the people" as anything
other than an incitement to violence.

So will this ramped-up strategy of hate work? It might, in part because those
same news media still dance to the haters' tune. Take the story of the migrant
caravan. The right's hysteria is obviously insincere; it's clear that it is
hyping the story to take attention away from health care and other substantive
issues: Never mind pre-existing conditions! Look at those scary brown people!

Yet major news organizations have given the caravan saturation coverage, more
than they've ever given health care, all the same.

The thing is, if this strategy of hate works in the midterms, the right will
pursue it even more avidly. Don't expect anyone involved to experience any pangs
of conscience. Indeed, after CNN and several prominent critics received bombs in
the mail, Mr. Trump blamed . the media.

I have seen the future, and it's full of menace.

Paul Krugman is a columnist for The New York Times.

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2018 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              300 of 308 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                           November 22, 2018 Thursday
                                 SOONER EDITION

GOING BLUE IN THE BURBS;
IF DEMS CAN KEEP GAINS IN SUBURBS, IS IT 'GAME OVER' FOR GOP IN PA.?

BYLINE: Christopher Huffaker Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. B-1

LENGTH: 1272 words


Rachel Meta, 47, a personal trainer from Mt. Lebanon, says she doesn't usually
vote in midterm elections. But this year she did, and she voted for Democrats.

"I was trying to vote against Donald Trump," she said recenty, outside the
Panera at the Galleria in Mt. Lebanon.

Julie Slaughter, a 34-year-old restaurant manager from Dormont, does not always
vote for Democrats. In the 2008 presidential election, for example, she said she
voted for John McCain.

But in 2018, "I voted straight blue," she said.

"I want to see more consistent checks and balances," she said. "I think it's
more about making sure [Mr. Trump] doesn't think he can get away with anything."

Barbara Marasco, 71, of Dormont, said her vote changes election to election, but
she "voted for the Democratic slate this time."

Why? "Trump. One guy. I don't care for him."

Ms. Meta, Ms. Slaughter and Ms. Marasco were part of a wave of suburban voters
who swung hard toward the Democratic Party in the the 2018 midterms, giving the
party a gain of over 30 seats in the U.S. House of Representatives.

But party candidates weren't so successful in U.S. Senate races -Republicans
increased their majority to 52 seats, up from 51-49 before the midterms.

Two years ago, racking up huge margins in rural Pennsylvania, Mr. Trump, a
Republican, eked out a win, and incumbent U.S. Sen. Pat Toomey, R-Pa., beat his
Democratic challenger, Katie McGinty.

Two years later, incumbents U.S. Sen. Bob Casey and Gov. Tom Wolf, both
Democrats, each won by more than 10 points. And the Pennsylvania congressional
delegation went from 15 Republicans and three Democrats to being evenly split,
and not just because of redrawn districts. In two races, simultaneous special
elections were held to fill the final months of the term in the old districts.
Democrats flipped both. In the Pittsburgh area, the new 17th District, which was
narrowly won by Mr. Trump in 2016, went to Democrat Conor Lamb by over 10
points.

Republicans held their rural gains in the midterms. Turnout fell everywhere, as
it always does in midterms, and there was little room for Democratic gains in
Philadelphia and Pittsburgh.

As Christopher Borick, a professor of political science at Muhlenberg College,
put it: "This election in some ways was a completion of 2016's election in terms
of the sorting of rural and urban into their respective camps."

So the Democratic gains came in large part from the third category: the suburbs.
Democrats swung suburban voters, especially in higher income areas, by huge
numbers. Allegheny County is no exception.

In the county, Mr. Casey's biggest gains in 2018 compared with Ms. McGinty's
votes in 2016 occurred in Bradford Woods, Thornburg and Glen Osborne, three
small municipalities with median household incomes over $100,000, according to
the Census Bureau.

Ms. McGinty won Mt. Lebanon, the county's third-largest municipality, with 55
percent. Mr. Casey got 69 percent there. Mt. Lebanon's median household income
is $86,000 per year.

High-income suburbs also saw high turnout. Mt. Lebanon's turnout increased
almost 20 percent over 2014.

These types of communities were not the only ones to see big shifts. One of the
biggest jumps came from Swissvale, which is 39 percent nonwhite and has a median
income of $40,391. Turnout surged 20 percent there, relative to the last
midterm, and Mr. Casey did 8.7 points better than Ms. McGinty.

The Democratic base - generally African-American and city-dwelling voters - was
vital to the party's wins. In Allegheny County, Mr. Casey won over 90 percent in
three municipalities: Braddock, Rankin and Wilkinsburg, all of which are over 60
percent black.

"The African-American population was probably the most stable," Mr. Borick said.

Mr. Casey's vote share in Braddock, Rankin and Wilkinsburg exceeded Ms.
McGinty's, but not by much: She won over 85 percent in each. They did see big
turnout increases: Each jumped over 14 points compared to 2014. But there was
not a lot of room for Mr. Casey to grow his share.

"Suburban voters who are often higher educated and wealthier make some of the
most dramatic breaks in recent cycles," Mr. Borick said.

"A few years ago, in 2012, they were more likely to vote Republican," he said.
"Now people with professional degrees are voting 2-to-1 for Democrats."

That happened partly because of Mr. Trump, he said.

"There's multiple factors, but one certainly is the president. The president's
popularity in that group is extremely low."

Ms. Slaughter, who is currently in an MBA program, said, "He's polarizing and
divisive, not a unifying figure."

"He's a very crude person," Ms. Marasco said. "He continually criticizes people.
He twitters too much, doesn't listen. We want to look up to our leader, and he
isn't one to look up to," she said.

"I've definitely gotten more invested since Trump got elected," said Elizabeth
Reidz, a 39-year-old psychologist from Upper St. Clair, who added, however, that
she was already very invested in 2016. "That was a sad day in our house," she
said of the 2016 election.

"We always consider [the suburbs] in between rural America and urban America,"
Mr. Borick said. "But if they're drawn to one direction, they're drawn more
toward urban areas."

Part of the shift was also Democrats who "were not all-in for Hillary Clinton
but who have been absolutely activated by the politics of the day to engage,"
Mr. Borick said.

Turnout was high in Pennsylvani,a partially because of the newly competitive
congressional map.

"How many people have voted in in-play congressional elections over the past
years? Very, very few," Mr. Borick said.

This election saw four races decided by less than 10 points, compared to two in
2016.

There were exceptions to the trend of suburban voters swinging toward the
Democrats. U.S. Rep. Brian Fitzpatrick of Bucks County held his seat, winning
more votes than Mr. Trump did in the same area.

"Take Pennsylvania, New Jersey, all the districts in play, and he's on an
island," Mr. Borick said of Mr. Fitzpatrick. "It really is the one survivor."

He added, "It was hard to find a Republican that was more averse to President
Trump than Congressman Fitzpatrick."

Allegheny County's suburbs had their fair share of Republican voters, too,
though they did not rescue Republican Keith Rothfus, who lost to Mr. Lamb in the
new 17th District.

Ed Schrieber, 79, of Moon, said, "I voted for Trump and I'd do it again."

And even in a wave, candidates matter. Ms. Slaughter was more driven to vote
against Rick Saccone, Mr. Lamb's opponent in the March special election for the
18th District, than she was to vote against Mr. Rothfus, she said.

And just because suburban voters helped give the Democrats the House, it does
not mean they agree on what the Democrats should do with their majority.

Ms. Marasco said, "I'd like to see [Mr. Trump] impeached," while Ms. Meta said
of extensive investigations, "I think their time could be better spent on other
things."

Ms. Meta was instead most energized by Mr. Trump pulling the United States out
of the Paris Climate Accord. Other voters called for action on health care or
gun control.

The diverse demands of the suburban demographic might pose a problem for
Democrats, but if they can solve it, their prospects in Pennsylvania are very
good, Mr. Borick said. "If Democrats continue to win the suburbs in
Pennsylvania, it's game over, really."

Even holding every demographic's vote constant, Mr. Borick does not think Mr.
Trump's 2016 win would be repeated in 2020 due to population growth in urban and
suburban Pennsylvania, particularly around Philadelphia.

Christopher Huffaker: 412-263-1724, chuffaker@post-gazette.com, or @huffakingit.

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jake Danna Stevens/The Times-Tribune: U.S. Sen. Bob Casey,
D-Pa., gives a victory speech during his election night event Nov. 6 at the
Scranton Cultural Center at the Masonic Temple in Scranton, Pa.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2018 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              301 of 308 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                           December 11, 2018 Tuesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

GREECE DRAGS ITSELF BACK TOWARD NORMALITY;
NEXT YEAR'S ELECTION OFFERS A REAL CHOICE OF LEFT AND RIGHT ECONOMIC PROGRAMS

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. A-9

LENGTH: 859 words


As the cradle of democracy, Greece knows better than most countries what
politics is all about. Yet, for the past eight years, any discussions between
lawmakers from the left and right there have been overshadowed by the country's
economic collapse and the string of rescue programs put together by the European
Union and International Monetary Fund.

Athens has been locked in permanent confrontation with its European partners,
culminating in the showdown of 2015 when Greece very nearly exited the euro
after a dramatic referendum. Politicians of every persuasion had little room for
maneuver, as economic policy was dictated by the "memoranda of understanding"
with Greece's financial rescuers, who imposed budget consolidation and
structural reforms.

Greece left its third adjustment program in August, and it's refreshing to feel
a hint of a return to politics as usual ahead of next year's general election.
Politicians have largely stopped blaming Brussels and seem more focused on what
they might do for voters. The confrontation between Syriza, the left-wing
governing party, and New Democracy, the center-right opposition that's leading
in the polls, is fierce. But it offers the impression of a country that's
longing for normality.

An improving economy helps. Greece's gross domestic product is on course to
expand by about 2 percent this year as exports start to pick up. Unemployment
has finally fallen below 20 percent after peaking at nearly 30 percent in 2013.
Of course, many companies remain reluctant to invest because of high taxes and a
deteriorating business environment. Poverty levels remain intolerable. But there
is a slight break from the endless woes -some self-inflicted -that marred the
Greek economy for most of this decade.

The fiscal outlook is brighter too. Greek national debt still stands at nearly
180 percent of GDP. But the country is meeting the targets demanded by its
creditors. The primary surplus in the first 10 months of this year stood at
nearly 6.5 billion euros ($7.4 billion). That gives the government room to avoid
more cuts and raise discretionary spending.

The political debate has shifted. Both Syriza and New Democracy now accept that
Greece needs the confidence of its European partners and international
investors. Brussels and Berlin are still blamed for deepening the crisis, but
that's no longer the main focus of Greek politicians. Their eyes are set on next
year's general election: a political battle that might define Greece's economic
model for years to come.

Alexis Tsipras, the prime minister who took Greece to the brink of a euro exit
and then back, believes it's time to help those left behind during the
recession. Syriza pays lip service to helping companies, proposing a corporate
tax cut from 29 percent to 25 percent over the next four years. But the party's
main interest lies elsewhere. It wants to beef up the public sector by hiring
more workers in education and local government; restore collective wage
bargaining; and increase the minimum wage, pensions and social benefits.

The priorities of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, New Democracy's leader, are radically
different. The Harvard-educated businessman wants spending cuts to help him fund
a generous tax reduction. He would outsource public services, while slashing
corporation taxes to 20 percent. He also wants to overhaul pensions,
strengthening private provision.

Syriza politicians dismiss New Democracy as "neoliberal" and incapable of
repairing Greece's torn social fabric. But they have a very sketchy record to
defend. The last recession was largely self-caused, as Mr. Tsipras and his
then-finance minister Yanis Varoufakis insisted on confronting creditors. Greece
has lost out on some of the best years of the European recovery. The comparison
with Portugal -which grew by more than 12 percent between 2014 and 2017, while
Greece stagnated -is brutal.

Domestic investors are desperate for change. Some moved to Bulgaria and Cyprus,
attracted by lower taxes. Others point to the lack of progress on reform, as
well as the attack on independent institutions such as the Bank of Greece. But
for all New Democracy's appeal to the richer classes, Syriza's message still
resonates with the poor. The incipient economic recovery could help Mr. Tsipras.

The country still faces formidable challenges, which will make governing hard
for whoever has power. Nearly half the loans in the banking system are
nonperforming, and bank shares have lost almost 50 percent of their value this
year. The global economic slowdown could turn into recession by the time a new
government came to power. That would make it much harder to maintain the
promised primary surpluses and could create new tensions with the EU.
Productivity is still well below pre-recession levels as the brain drain sucks
talent out of the country. Domestic consumption remains sluggish after a
dramatic drop in living standards.

But at least Greece appears ready to take its destiny back into its own hands.
While this won't be enough to succeed, any signs of hope are welcome.

Ferdinando Giugliano writes columns and editorials on European economics for
Bloomberg Opinion.

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Getty Images/iStockphoto:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2018 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              303 of 308 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                           December 15, 2018 Saturday
                                 SOONER EDITION

HUMILITY SHOULD HAVE THE LAST WORD

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. WB-2

LENGTH: 708 words


As the world said goodbye to George H. W. Bush, humility was the character trait
most used to describe our former president. People who exhibit this quality seem
not to be recognized while they are demonstrating it, yet humility always has
the last word.

The same media outlets who are singing his praises now were saying he was the
"wimp president" during his presidency. Humility is a character trait in our
culture that flies mostly under the radar. As former Sen. Alan Simpson said at
Bush's funeral, "Those who traveled the high road of humility in Washington,
D.C., are not bothered by heavy traffic."

As many noted about Bush, it was always about others and not himself. Therefore,
the limelight was deflected away from him, often the plight of a faithful
servant. He shared his successes with others but took responsibility for his
failures. His words may not have been memorable, but his actions were. His
greatest accolades were not spoken by the great and mighty, but by his family
and friends, who mattered most to him.

It appears that modesty is not fully recognized or appreciated in public
servants while they are still alive. The media often overlook or even denigrate
meekness in our presidents until they are eulogized. In spite of this, the
events of the last few weeks have shown us that humility always has the past
word and triumphs over power and fame. Mr. President, those who spoke last,
spoke best.

Ken Barnes

Mechanicsville, Va.

The writer is a native of Brownsville.

Lead green energy

I am responding to the op-ed by Secretary of Energy Rick Perry on Dec. 5, "It's
Time to Build an Appalachia Energy Hub." I am disturbed and dismayed by his
presentation of an Appalachian energy hub as a totally positive proposition. I
certainly don't see it that way.

In my experience, this kind of venture benefits the corporations and factory
owners, rather than the local residents. New jobs are used to convince us that
this is a boon for our economy, but it has been shown that there are many more
long-term jobs available in developing a green, alternative energy economy than
by putting more effort into creating jobs in the fossil fuel sector.

Even if there are new jobs created through this energy hub, I don't believe that
our health is worth the risk. We know that pollution from these factories is
making us sick. Pittsburgh has some of the worst air quality in the nation. Do
we believe that these factories will not have an effect on our air and water
quality?

Pennsylvania has an opportunity to be a leader in the new green energy economy.
I urge our elected officials, both at the local and state level, to move forward
into the future of renewable energy rather than continuing to extract fossil
fuels (and build an economy around extraction). Climate change is real, and it
is past time we recognize and deal with the consequences of relying on fossil
fuels.

Gaye Fifer

Regent Square

American capitalism

I read with interest David Leonhardt's op-ed (Dec. 9, "American Capitalism isn't
Working") regarding the failure of capitalism to serve constituencies beyond
corporate greed. I was struck by Sen. Elizabeth Warren's proposed bill to
require corporate boards to take into account the interests of customers,
employees and communities. Of course, whether such a bill stands a chance in
Congress, even the next one, remains to be seen.

As it happens, more than 20 years ago the Pennsylvania Legislature made a small
step in that direction by adopting a provision in the law governing Pennsylvania
corporations that permits (but does not require) corporate boards to consider
the effects of any action they take on groups including employees, customers and
communities where establishments of the corporation are located (Title 15, Sec
5715(a)).

This was the first legislation of its kind in the U.S. Moreover, it was
supported not only by organized labor but by the Pennsylvania Chamber of
Commerce as well. No doubt the moving force behind this legislation was the
threat of a hostile takeover of a Pennsylvania corporation by a foreign raider.
The threat and the consequences were deemed serious enough to bring together
these two often opposing interests to join in drafting this groundbreaking
legislation.

Carl B. Frankel

Point Breeze

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2018 P.G. Publishing Co.
