
                               6 of 419 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            December 8, 2015 Tuesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

EXXONMOBIL IS OK WITH A CARBON TAX;
EVEN BIG OIL IS AHEAD OF THE REPUBLICAN PARTY WHEN IT COMES TO CLIMATE CHANGE

BYLINE: Fred Hiatt

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A-11

LENGTH: 817 words


Even ExxonMobil says climate change is real. So why won't the GOP?

To understand how dangerously extreme the Republican Party has become on climate
change, compare its stance to that of ExxonMobil.

No one would confuse the oil and gas giant with the Sierra Club. But if you
visit Exxon's website, you will find that the company believes climate change is
real, that governments should take action to combat it and that the most
sensible action would be a revenue-neutral tax on carbon - in other words, a tax
on oil, gas and coal, with the proceeds returned to taxpayers for them to spend
as they choose.

With no government action, Exxon experts told us during a visit to The
Washington Post last week, average temperatures are likely to rise by a
catastrophic (my word, not theirs) 5 degrees Celsius, with rises of 6, 7 or even
more quite possible.

"A properly designed carbon tax can be predictable, transparent, and
comparatively simple to understand and implement," Exxon says in a position
paper titled "Engaging on climate change."

None of this is radical. Officials negotiating a climate agreement right now in
Paris would take it as self-evident.

Republican leaders in the 1980s and 1990s would have raised no objection. But to
today's Republicans, ExxonMobil's moderate, self-evident views are akin to
heresy. Donald Trump, the leading GOP presidential candidate, says, "I don't
believe in climate change." Sen. Ted Cruz of Texas says, "Climate change is not
science, it's religion." Sen. Marco Rubio of Florida at the moment seems to
acknowledge that climate change might be real but opposes any action to deal
with it.

Well, you may say, Mr. Trump revels in his stupidities, and most of the
presidential candidates are appealing to the rightmost wing of their primary
electorate at the moment. What about the grownups in the party, such as Senate
Majority Leader Mitch McConnell of Kentucky?

Glad you asked.

In an op-ed for The Washington Post published as President Barack Obama traveled
to Paris for the opening of the climate talks, Mr. McConnell slammed Mr. Obama's
policy for harming the middle class without measurably affecting climate change.

Does that mean, I asked the majority leader's press secretary, that he believes
climate change is real, and are there policies he would favor to mitigate the
risk?

The spokesman answered: "While the leader has spoken often on energy and the
president's policies, I don't believe he'll have anything new today. And as to
the president's policies, the president says he's for 'all of the above.' He got
that line from us. But as to his climate proposal and the Paris proposals, I
think he's spoken clearly on that in his op-ed. I hope that helps."

I tried once more: "So as to whether he believes climate change is real, or
would favor any policies to mitigate it, I should just say, declined to answer?"

I didn't hear back.

A genuine conservative, as Ronald Reagan's secretary of state George P. Shultz
has written, would acknowledge uncertainties in climate science but look for
rational, market-based policies to lessen the risk without slowing economic
growth. A revenue-neutral carbon tax, as in a bill Rep. Chris Van Hollen, D-Md.,
has introduced, fits the description precisely.

What then explains the know-nothingism of today's Republicans?

Some of them see scientists as part of a left-wing cabal; many of them doubt
government's ability to do anything, let alone something as big as redirecting
the economy's energy use. Almost all of them, along with quite a few Democrats,
would rather not tell voters that energy prices need to rise for the sake of the
environment.

Their donors in the oil and gas industry encourage their prejudices. Three years
ago, Grover Norquist, the Republicans' anti-tax enforcer, said that a carbon tax
wouldn't violate his no-tax-increase pledge if the proceeds were returned by
lowering the income tax, though he made clear he didn't like the idea.The next
morning, the lobbying arm of the oil and gas industry swung into action.
"Grover, just butch it up and oppose this lousy idea directly," the American
Energy Alliance said. "This word-smithing is giving us all headaches."

For most of us, the reaction to this would have been: Butch it up? But Mr.
Norquist got the message and within hours issued a clarification: Only a
constitutional amendment banning the income tax could justify a carbon tax.

So the industry deserves its share of blame, and that includes ExxonMobil, which
hardly trumpets its views on the advantages of a carbon tax. But blaming it all
on Big Oil lets the politicians off too easily. Yes, Mr. McConnell represents a
coal state, and, yes, he wants to preserve his Senate majority. If those
considerations are more important to him than saving the planet, let him say so
to our children and grandchildren. Let's not blame the oil companies for the
pusillanimity of people who are supposed to lead.

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Fred Hiatt is the editorial page editor of The Washington Post.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2015 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              25 of 419 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                             April 7, 2015 Tuesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

EPA CARBON LIMITS

BYLINE: RUSSELL ZERBO

SECTION: EDITORIAL; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR; Pg. B-4

LENGTH: 220 words


If former Secretary of State George P. Schultz was concerned about climate
change he would not be calling for "eliminating burdensome existing laws and
regulations" all aimed at curtailing carbon dioxide emissions ("Act Against
Climate Change: Follow Reagan's Example and Empower Entrepreneurs," March 24
Perspectives).

I thank Mr. Schultz for acknowledging that climate change is real, but if the
problem is carbon dioxide (and it is) why allow the big energy companies to pay
off their pollution? Returning carbon tax funds to taxpayers will do nothing to
slow climate change.

We just witnessed the warmest winter ever recorded in the Northern Hemisphere,
even with record snowfalls in New England. The Environmental Protection Agency's
carbon limit for existing power plants is set to be finalized in June, and Mr.
Schultz is proposing that we scrap that plan and legislate a carbon tax that
would never make it out of Washington.

Ronald Reagan's peers understood that CFCs (chlorofluorocarbons) were a problem,
so why are our representatives spending taxpayer dollars denying American
industry's lead role in climate change? This is not the same political climate,
and an EPA limit is the only way to get energy companies to reduce their role in
climate change.

RUSSELL ZERBO

Advocacy Coordinator

Clean Air Council

Philadelphia

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2015 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              49 of 419 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                             August 9, 2015 Sunday
                                TWO STAR EDITION

CLEAN POWER;
THE U.S. MUST GIVE OBAMA'S PLAN A CHANCE

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. D-2

LENGTH: 327 words


Before the ink had dried on the Obama administration's new plan to limit power
plant emissions, business interests and their political allies began gearing up
to fight the rules in court. But compared with the scale of human-created
climate change, the plan is modest and anti-regulation politicians offer no
credible alternatives.

The Clean Power Plan unveiled last week marks the first national effort to slash
climate-warming carbon emissions from power plants. The Environmental Protection
Agency says it will reduce carbon emissions 32 percent below 2005 levels by
2030.

State regulators will be allowed to create their own plans to achieve that goal,
choosing from options such as increasing renewable energy production and trading
emissions credits with other states, a market-based system that has drawn
bipartisan support.

Phasing out coal, the dirtiest form of power generation, will figure into many
states' plans. That has riled the coal industry and other trade groups that know
the heavy reliance on the dirty fuel is inconsistent with any solution to
climate change.

Gov. Tom Wolf said he will work with the Legislature, industry and citizens to
fashion a specific plan for Pennsylvania, which has achieved a 12 percent drop
in carbon emissions since 2008. Proximity to and greater use of Marcellus Shale
natural gas will no doubt be part of the package.

The United States accounts for 16 percent of carbon emissions globally and has
the highest rate of carbon consumption per person of any large nation. It's
incumbent on America and other big polluters to lead global efforts to end
reliance on fossil fuels.

Together with Mr. Obama's vehicle-emissions standards, the Clean Power Plan is
the most serious step any administration has taken to combat climate change.
Fossil-fuel lobbies complain that regulation harms their business, but they fail
to show how to address the life-threatening effects of climate change without
it. What is their alternative?

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2015 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              85 of 419 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                          December 30, 2015 Wednesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

UNSEASONABLY WARM WEATHER BEARING FRUIT FOR LOCAL FARMERS

BYLINE: Daniel Moore, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. A-1

LENGTH: 629 words


Come December, Don Kretschmann has gotten used to seeing only root-based
vegetables - carrots, beets, potatoes - growing at his 80-acre organic fruit and
vegetable farm near Zelienople. Greens like lettuce, collard and kale are often
frozen in the winter cold by Thanksgiving.

This year, Mr. Kretschmann feels like he's living on another planet.

"Up to Christmas, we had really beautiful lettuce coming from the field," Mr.
Kretschmann said. "We're fully expecting to have collard and kale being picked
in January. It's just unbelievable."

As crop yields live and die by weather patterns, abnormally warm temperatures
have been a godsend, particularly for farmers who depend on a late fall harvest
for crops such as green vegetables.

"There's no question that this warm weather has been a boom to us vegetable
growers this fall," said Art King, owner of Harvest Valley Farms in Gibsonia. In
most years, Mr. King is pleased if the greens can survive until Thanksgiving.

"We actually picked and sold broccoli all the way up to Christmas. ... I can't
remember ever doing that," he said.

There are caveats, however. Fruit trees have a more nuanced growing pattern
before they can be pruned, said Thomas Butzler, horticulture educator for Penn
State Cooperative Extension in Clinton County. The fruit needs a certain number
of hours in gradually cooler weather to harden enough to survive the winter
cold.

If the trees have not properly hardened, they're susceptible to a sudden cold
snap that would destroy the tissue of the fruit.

"Did we reach those hours [of hardening] yet? If not, will they? And if they
don't, then fruit production will suffer," Mr. Butzler said. "We don't know how
this is all going to play out."

Mr. Kretschmann said he normally begins pruning some of his fruit trees as early
as December and through March. This year, he is letting them go, and he's
worried that when the cold does sweep in, the normally monthslong window to
prune will be too short. If the weather changes quickly, the sap can freeze and
the bark can split open, damaging the tree.

"That's what I would be fearful of going forward," Mr. Kretschmann said. "Sooner
or later it's going to get cold."

Long-term consequences

And while warmer temperatures encourage quicker crop growth in the short term,
scientists and environmental officials are concerned about the longer-term
consequences of climate change on the growing season.

The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency has warned crop yields tend to wane
with warmer weather because faster growth can reduce the amount of time seeds
have to grow and mature. Pennsylvania farmers could encounter weeds, pests and
fungi that thrive under warmer and wetter conditions and increased carbon
dioxide levels.

One of Mr. Kretschmann's biggest worries involves soil erosion and the impacts
of major weather events like flooding. In November, Kretschmann Family Farms
hosted a field day sponsored by the Pennsylvania Association for Sustainable
Agriculture that focused on mitigating climate change.

"A lot of it is continuing with increased urgency what we've always tried to
do," he said, including putting off vegetable production on a patch of land and
let it lay fallow for an extended period of time.

Both farmers said they don't trust the long-range weather forecasting and will
continue to tie their planning to averages established over the years.

"It's sort of mixed bag, but we're trying to make lemonade," Mr. Kretschmann
said. "The best thing you can do is to not put all your eggs in one basket and
to have a wide variety of things out there."

Mr. King, of Harvest Valley Farms, said he considered whether he should buy
seeds now in preparation for planting more next winter.

"It's not going to be like this every year," Mr. King said. "This was a gift."

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Daniel Moore: dmoore@post-gazette.com, 412-263-2743 or on Twitter
@PGdanielmoore.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Pam Panchak/Post-Gazette: Art King of Harvest Valley Farms in
Richland shows off blueberry buds Tuesday that are forming because of the
unusually warm weather.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2015 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              86 of 419 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                             June 11, 2015 Thursday
                                 SOONER EDITION

IN TWIST, OBAMA EMISSIONS PLAN SATISFIES INDUSTRY, WORRIES ENVIRONMENTALISTS

BYLINE: Valerie Volcovici, Reuters

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. A-5

LENGTH: 520 words


WASHINGTON - For two years, President Barack Obama has used his executive power
to impose new rules to cut carbon emissions, targeting cars and power plants,
buoying environmentalists and infuriating industry, But his latest foray,
regulating commercial aviation, had the opposite effect.

The administration took a first step Wednesday toward cutting greenhouse gas
emissions from the nation's fleet of aircraft, releasing a scientific finding
that said emissions from plane engines pose a risk to human health because they
contribute to climate change.

But the Environmental Protection Agency did not immediately propose new
regulations. Instead, the EPA signaled that it would implement a global
emissions standard being developed by the United Nations' International Civil
Aviation Organization, or ICAO, that is due to be released next year. Those
rules are expected to apply only to new aircraft designs beginning in 2020,
leaving most of the world's existing fleets unaffected for years to come.

That EPA decision was greeted with cautious optimism from the aviation industry,
which says it is making strides on energy efficiency and wants the United States
to coordinate any new regulations with the rest of the world.

That was precisely what worried environmentalists, who warned that relying on a
global agreement forged under U.N. auspices seeking consensus would be doomed to
produce weak rules. "The EPA is declaring aircraft greenhouse gases to be
dangerous to all of us, but is passing the buck on doing anything about it,"
said Vera Pardee, an attorney for the Center for Biological Diversity, which was
among several green groups pushing the administration for years to adopt new
regulations.

Indeed, the EPA was prodded to act on aviation only after a long legal fight. A
collection of environmental groups petitioned the agency to bring in new
aviation regulations in 2007 and sued it to do so in 2010, winning a federal
court ruling two years later that ordered the U.S. government to regulate
aircraft emissions under the Clean Air Act.

On Wednesday, the EPA acknowledged "certain classes of airplane engines
contribute to air pollution that causes climate change, endangering public
health and welfare," and promised to follow the ICAO's lead on new rules.

Airline companies were broadly supportive of the administration's approach. The
industry favors a global standard over national standards because carriers
operate all over the world and want to avoid a patchwork of rules and measures.

"We feel this is the right thing for the EPA to be doing, as a precursor to be
able to adopt what comes out of ICAO," said Paul Steele, senior vice president
at the International Air Transport Association. "If you're a big airline and
you're flying to 100 countries a day, then complying with all those different
regimes is an administrative nightmare."

Controlling aviation emissions is seen by climate scientists as a vital cog in
the wider attempt to curb global warming. The U.S. industry was responsible for
nearly 30 percent of global aircraft emissions in 2010, the latest year with
complete global emissions data.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2015 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              88 of 419 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                             August 14, 2015 Friday
                                 SOONER EDITION

STATES SEEK DELAY ON CLIMATE RULES

SECTION: NATION/WORLD; Pg. A-5

LENGTH: 488 words


WASHINGTON - Fifteen states, led by coal-rich West Virginia, asked a federal
court to stall Obama administration rules intended to cut use of the mineral and
slow the advance of climate change.

The request on Thursday is the first move by states to block President Barack
Obama's landmark initiative. It would freeze matters as they prepare a lawsuit
to reverse the rules.

The rules, dubbed the "Clean Power Plan," aim to reduce carbon dioxide emissions
from U.S. power plants by 32 percent by 2030, based on 2005 emission levels, by
requiring states and utilities to use less coal and more solar power, wind power
and natural gas.

Obama to visit Arctic

CHILMARK, Mass. - President Barack Obama will become the first sitting commander
in chief to visit the Alaskan Arctic, the White House announced Thursday, the
latest in a string of stops this summer that have been presidential firsts.

In a trip from Aug. 31 to Sept. 3, Mr. Obama will visit the state's rapidly
melting glaciers and meet with hunters and fishermen whose livelihoods are
threatened by global warming as he seeks to draw attention to his fight against
climate change.

Coastal erosion in La.

NEW ORLEANS - New Orleans Mayor Mitch Landrieu said that 10 years after
Hurricane Katrina the city is moving in the right direction, but coastal erosion
is still a big threat.

Little has been done to stop the coastal erosion that takes an estimated 17
square miles a year from Louisiana. Pointing to the oil and gas that comes from
Louisiana and the importance of the city's port to Mississippi River shipping,
Mr. Landrieu said coastal erosion should be a concern for the whole country.

Civil rights investigation

SENECA, S.C. - The Department of Justice confirmed it will launch an
investigation into the July 26 shooting in Seneca, S.C., of Zachary Hammond, an
unarmed white 19-year-old, to determine if his civil rights were violated during
a marijuana sting, officials said.

Mr. Hammond's death bears similarities to fatal police shootings of unarmed
black men in the last year but has not sparked the kind of outcry that
surrounded those killings.

DOJ defends homeless

BOISE, Idaho - Like many cities, Boise, Idaho, has an ordinance banning sleeping
or camping in public places. But such laws, the Department of Justice says,
effectively criminalize homelessness.

The Department of Justice argues that it violates the 8th Amendment protections
against cruel and unusual punishment, making them unconstitutional. By weighing
in on this case, Justice's first foray in two decades into this still-unsettled
area of law, the federal government is backing up its goals to treat
homelessness more humanely.

Also in the nation .

Eight years after the Virginia Tech massacre, survivors and families announced a
program, called the 32 National Campus Safety Initiative, on Thursday intended
to make colleges and universities safer, hoping it will serve as a legacy to the
32 people killed.

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2015 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              93 of 419 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            November 23, 2015 Monday
                                 SOONER EDITION

BATTLE LINES;
THE CLEAN POWER PLAN IS WORTH FIGHTING FOR

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A-6

LENGTH: 332 words


The Obama administration's Clean Power Plan is a sensible, doable, legally sound
proposal to reduce dangerous carbon emissions from power plants and to promote
renewable energy and greater energy efficiency.

Unfortunately, the Republican-majority U.S. Senate - including Pennsylvania Sen.
Pat Toomey - voted last week to block the plan; similar legislation is before
the GOP-controlled House. There aren't enough votes in Congress to override
President Barack Obama's inevitable veto, but that won't stop lawmakers from
trying to discredit the proposal before the global climate conference in Paris
at the end of this month.

The Clean Power Plan, overseen by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, sets
the first-ever national limits on emissions from power plants of carbon dioxide,
the primary greenhouse gas that contributes to human-made climate change. The
plan seeks a 32 percent reduction in emissions nationwide from 2012 levels by
2030, and 33 percent in Pennsylvania.

It gives each state flexibility and incentives to figure out how to tailor the
rule to its own circumstances. States that refuse to do so can expect Washington
to impose its own solution.

Gov. Tom Wolf is committed to developing a plan for Pennsylvania, which already
has cut carbon emissions by 12 percent in the last seven years. He'll need the
input of lawmakers, industry and citizens to create a state-specific approach,
one that is likely to rely on greater use of lower-emissions natural gas from
the Marcellus Shale.

The U.S. Supreme Court has ruled three times that the EPA can regulate
greenhouse gases such as carbon dioxide under the clean air law. Previous legal
challenges to the new power plant rule have failed.

The Clean Power Plan promotes rational economic growth, public health, an
improved environment and the use of science to make policy. Many of its
opponents make priorities of maintaining polluters' profits and denying
human-made climate-change. At least the battle lines are not ambiguous.

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2015 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              100 of 419 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                           January 31, 2015 Saturday
                                 SOONER EDITION

ENERGY AND OPTIONS

BYLINE: KATHLEEN KREBS, R.N.

SECTION: EDITORIAL; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR; Pg. B-6

LENGTH: 221 words


Just because "Coal Still Plays a Big Role in Pennsylvania" (Jan. 21 Perspectives
piece by John Pippy, CEO of the Pennsylvania Coal Alliance) doesn't mean we have
to give up slowing down climate change.

In spite of the addition of 160 million Americans since 1950, the growth of
energy demand has slowed every decade since. Currently, generation capacity is
outpacing demand while the coal industry cries poor. The Environmental
Protection Agency's proposed limits on carbon emissions are necessary and
achievable if the states that import Pennsylvania's electricity account for its
emissions.

The money coal puts into our economy cannot replace the $50 billion in damage
from Hurricane Sandy. Increased carbon dioxide levels have raised the planet's
temperature almost a full degree Celsius, and the United Nations estimates that
if temperatures rise 2 degrees (which seems inevitable), climate change will
destroy 2 percent of the world's economy by 2050.

Pennsylvania and the country have another option. We can adopt the latest
building codes, creating jobs in construction and saving energy without giving
workers black lung.

If Pennsylvanians need help paying their electric bills I suggest the coal
industry pay the $120 million a year in sales tax the coal industry is currently
exempt from.

KATHLEEN KREBS, R.N.

Brighton Heights

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2015 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              104 of 419 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                              May 5, 2015 Tuesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

DIPLOMACY ON ICE;
U.S.-RUSSIAN RELATIONS ARE A FACTOR IN THE ARCTIC

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. B-4

LENGTH: 386 words


A meeting of the Arctic Council in Canada's far north last month underlined the
growing importance of the region as climate change proceeds and the necessity of
U.S.-Russian cooperation in determining its future.

The Arctic Council, founded in 1996, includes Canada, Denmark, Finland, Iceland,
Norway, Russia, Sweden, the United States and six indigenous Arctic groups. It
meets every two years and the chairmanship rotates among the members.

The United States, represented by Secretary of State John Kerry, succeeded
Canada as chairman at this meeting, held at Iqaluit on Canada's Baffin Island on
April 24-25. The next session, scheduled for 2017, will take place in Alaska.

The council's work when much of the Arctic Ocean's 13 million square miles was
frozen for much of the year was relatively mundane. Now, as more and more of the
ice melts, a Northeast Passage shipping lane and access to undersea oil, gas and
mineral resources make the region and the council's work considerably more
interesting.

Russia, with a large stretch of oceanfront property on the Arctic, has become
more active under President Vladimir V. Putin in that part of the world. The
country has an offshore oil platform, raising environmental questions, and it
established a scientific research station at the North Pole just prior to the
Iqaluit meeting. U.S.-imposed sanctions on Russia over Moscow's involvement in
the Ukraine conflict prevent the sale of American technology and services in the
energy sector in the Arctic.

Sen. Lisa Murkowski, R-Alaska, was part of the U.S. delegation at the meeting
and has faulted the Russians for their stepped-up activity in the region. "The
Arctic should be this zone of peace," she said in an earlier speech.

As chair, the United States will set the council agenda for the next two years.
Mr. Kerry wants the group to concentrate on ocean safety and security, economic
development and, as a top priority, combating the effects of climate change.
Because temperatures in the region are rising faster than in any other place on
Earth, Mr. Kerry said the resilience of Arctic communities and the ability of
future generations to prosper there are in jeopardy.

Those are worthy concerns, but it will be difficult to make progress on them
without simultaneously dealing with the U.S.-Russian political rivalry.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2015 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              105 of 419 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                             May 20, 2015 Wednesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

TRANSPORTATION FUNDING BILL CLEARS HOUSE

BYLINE: Compiled from news services

SECTION: NATIONAL; NATIONAL BRIEFS; Pg. A-4

LENGTH: 524 words


WASHINGTON - The U.S. House of Representatives overwhelmingly passed a two-month
extension of spending authority for federally funded transportation projects,
delaying a decision on longer-term funding until the Highway Trust Fund is
depleted in July.

The bipartisan 387-35 vote sends the measure to the U.S. Senate for approval.
Federal spending authority on road, bridge and rail transit projects is due to
expire on May 31.

Prior to the vote, President Barack Obama indicated he would support a two-month
extension for highway and other infrastructure funding proposed by the House to
give lawmakers time to craft a longer-term solution, the White House said on
Tuesday.

Arctic drilling

Royal Dutch Shell Plc defended its planned return to Arctic drilling, saying new
spill-containment systems would prevent a disaster in the event of an oil leak.

Shell has carried out tests in an environment that replicates Arctic conditions,
Chief Executive Officer Ben Van Beurden said Tuesday at a shareholder meeting in
The Hague. The company would be able to deploy equipment within an hour of an
accident, he said.

Shareholders raised concerns at the meeting as Shell outlined plans to return to
the Arctic three years after its rig ran aground in a storm and it was fined for
air pollution.

Climate change pact

SACRAMENTO, Calif. - California Gov. Jerry Brown signed an agreement Tuesday
with leaders from 11 other states, 2 Canadian provinces and countries pledging
cooperation to battle climate change.

Although the terms are not legally binding, by signing the agreement the leaders
are committing to specific targets for reducing greenhouse gas emissions by
2050. At that point, emissions would either need to be at least 80 percent below
1990 levels, or less than 2 metric tons per capita.

Minimum wage boost

LOS ANGELES - The Los Angeles City Council voted to raise the minimum wage of
the second-largest U.S. city to $15 by 2020, a move expected to boost the
salaries of about 800,000 workers.

Congress hasn't moved to raise the federal minimum wage of $7.25 an hour since
2009. That's left states and cities to take action on their own.

Gang shootout

WACO, Texas - A deadly weekend shootout involving rival motorcycle gangs
apparently began with a parking dispute and someone running over a gang member's
foot, police said Tuesday.

Authorities offered few details. It was not clear which gang was responsible for
running over the biker's foot, or which gang the aggrieved biker belonged to.

Also in the nation

Matthew Apperson, a Florida man charged with shooting at George Zimmerman last
week, had "a fixation" on the former neighborhood watch leader and had recently
been admitted to a mental institution, according to a Lake Mary Police
Department report made public Tuesday. ... Authorities in Billings, Mont., are
considering whether to bring criminal charges against a Montana 17-year-old who
fired a bullet through his bedroom window, killing his friend in a case that an
investigator described as an accident. The unidentified suspect had been
startled when 15-year-old Mackeon Schulte and another friend knocked on his
window early Sunday, police said.

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2015 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              110 of 419 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                           August 12, 2015 Wednesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

CLEAN AIR CAN'T WAIT

BYLINE: KATE LUCE ANGELL, Squirrel Hill

SECTION: EDITORIAL; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR; Pg. A-6

LENGTH: 172 words


I'm writing to add my voice to the editorial board's Aug. 9 support of President
Barack Obama's Clean Power Plan ("Clean Power: The U.S. Must Give Obama's Plan a
Chance").

By raising my children in Pittsburgh, I know I am exposing them to air pollution
that may have already impacted their health. According to the American Lung
Association, exposure to the kind of power plant pollution for which Pittsburgh
is known shortens the lives of residents an average of one to three years.

And this is only one way their future will be impacted if our legislators fail
to support the Clean Power Plan. The effects on all our youth as a result of
climate change - a world of increased hunger, severe weather events and
curtailed opportunities - should make the plan something every parent in the
state supports.

It will slash carbon pollution by 32 percent and set Pennsylvania on the path to
addressing global climate change. Opponents counsel waiting to adopt these
regulations. I'd say we - and our children - have lost enough time already.

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2015 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              111 of 419 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            August 18, 2015 Tuesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

CLEAN POWER BENEFITS

BYLINE: AVIVA DIAMOND, Mt. Lebanon

SECTION: EDITORIAL; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR; Pg. A-6

LENGTH: 211 words


President Barack Obama's recent announcement of the Environmental Protection
Agency's Clean Power Plan provides tremendous leadership in addressing the
urgency and morality of the crisis of climate change. Our nation must change its
course and serve as a constructive model for other nations in implementing
strategies and concrete actions to curb the deleterious effects of climate
change.

This plan establishes the first-ever national standards on carbon emissions from
coal-fired power plants. The public health benefits are both numerous and
significant, including 3,600 fewer premature deaths, 1,700 fewer hospital
visits, 90,000 fewer asthma attacks in children and 300,000 fewer missed work
and school days due to illness by 2030. These benefits would be directly felt by
those who live near the Cheswick Generating Station in Springdale. Our children
are at the greatest risk from air pollution but we have the opportunity now to
improve their health and their future by enacting these standards.

As President Obama stated, "This is our moment to get this right and leave
something better for our kids. Let's make the most of that opportunity." Thank
you, President Obama, for valuing the health of our children and setting the bar
for other countries to follow.

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: The writer is field coordinator, Moms Clean Air Force, Western
Pennsylvania.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2015 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              113 of 419 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                           September 18, 2015 Friday
                            PITTSBURGH PRESS EDITION

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. A-3

LENGTH: 720 words


US EASES CUBA TRAVEL RULES

WASHINGTON - The Obama administration eased rules today for U.S. citizens
wishing to travel to Cuba or do business with its growing ranks of independent
entrepreneurs, hoping to kindle greater economic freedom on the island.

The Treasury and Commerce departments said the regulations that take effect
Monday simplify procedures for tourism, telephone and Internet investments, and
money transfers to Cuba.

By the end of the year, the former Cold War foes should resume direct postal
service for the first time in five decades and clinch an agreement on regularly
scheduled commercial flights.

"A stronger, more open U.S.-Cuba relationship has the potential to create
economic opportunities for both Americans and Cubans alike," Treasury Secretary
Jack Lew said in a statement. Easing the embargo on Cuba, he said, will "support
the Cuban people in their effort to achieve the political and economic freedom
necessary to build a democratic, prosperous and stable Cuba."

Commerce Secretary Penny Pritzker said the new rules could "stimulate long
overdue economic reform across the country." WACO POLICE SHOT BIKERS IN MELEE

FORT WORTH, Texas - Waco police shot bikers with their rifles in the deadly May
shootout that erupted outside of a restaurant.

The acknowledgement comes for the first time in a 724-page incident report that
was included in more than 8,800 pages of evidence reviewed by the Associated
Press.

The evidence includes video footage of people fleeing the scene while shots ring
out, and audio of police threatening to shoot people who rise from the ground.

It still isn't clear whose bullets caused the nine deaths. At least 20 people
were injured in the May 17 melee.

Waco Police Chief Brent Stroman said in June that three officers fired a total
of 12 shots, but declined to say whether the shots struck anyone. CATHOLIC
CONGRESSMAN TO BOYCOTT POPE

WASHINGTON - Admission to Pope Francis' upcoming address to a joint session of
Congress is easily one of the toughest tickets in Washington in years. But one
Catholic congressman says he will not be taking his seat for the speech, in
protest of papal activism against climate change.

Rep. Paul Gosar, R-Ariz., said in an op-ed published today on Townhall.com that
he has "both a moral obligation and leadership responsibility to call out
leaders, regardless of their titles, who ignore Christian persecution and fail
to embrace opportunities to advocate for religious freedom and the sanctity of
human life."

"If the Pope stuck to standard Christian theology, I would be the first in
line," he wrote. "If the Pope spoke out with moral authority against violent
Islam, I would be there cheering him on. If the Pope urged the Western nations
to rescue persecuted Christians in the Middle East, I would back him
wholeheartedly. But when the Pope chooses to act and talk like a leftist
politician, then he can expect to be treated like one."

The Vatican has not indicated which themes and topics might be included in the
papal address. But climate change is widely expected to be among them, given the
publication earlier this year of "Laudato Si," Francis' encyclical on the global
environment, which calls climate change a "global problem with grave
implications." ABANDONED BOSTON GIRL IDENTIFIED

The child known as "Baby Doe," a young girl found in a trash bag in June along a
Boston Harbor beach, has been identified after a long and exhaustive search,
sources told Boston media today.

Her identity is expected to be released after a positive ID by the state medical
examiner, but sources told WBZ-TV in Boston that she is from Boston.

Dave Procopio of the state police said the investigation is ongoing. Police are
questioning multiple people in custody in connection with the case.

The girl's body was found in a trash bag June 25 by a woman who was walking her
dog along the beach on Deer Island.

Boston police obtained a tip into possible information about the girl and passed
it on to Massachusetts State Police, WBZ said. As a result of that information,
state police executed a search warrant at a home on Maxwell Street in Mattapan
Thursday.

Investigators are still searching for the child's parents.

The girl is believed to have been about 4 years old. She had brown eyes and
brown hair, weighed about 30 pounds, and stood about 3½ feet tall.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2015 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              115 of 419 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                           September 20, 2015 Sunday
                                TWO STAR EDITION

FEDS UNVEIL PLAN THAT WOULD PROTECT AQUATIC SPECIES

BYLINE: JOHN HAYES

SECTION: OUTDOORS; NOTEBOOK; Pg. C-15

LENGTH: 464 words


Many of the most imperiled organisms are native non-plant aquatic species. Last
week, the federal government released a new five-year plan to protect them.

When there are few barriers to expansion invasives spread readily in water,
whether by natural range growth or human-assisted transportation. According to
the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, of more than 1,000 native fish and mussel
species that have been documented in the United States, 155 fish species and 88
kinds of mussels are currently endangered.

The U.S. Geological Survey counts 39 species and 18 subspecies of fish that were
declared extinct in North America between 1898 and 2006. And the rate of
extinction is accelerating. Analyses of current population trends for fish
species deemed threatened and endangered led USGS researchers to estimate that
an additional 53 to 86 species of freshwater fish might be extinct by 2050.

Last week the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service unveiled a new five-year strategic
plan that intends to enhance existing policies designed to slow the loss of
aquatic species. The plan addresses habitat loss, fragmentation and degradation
of habitats; overharvest, competition for water, climate changes and the
introduction and establishment of invasive species.

"The strategic plan will help us direct our resources toward our highest
priorities," said David Hoskins, USFWS Fish and Aquatic Conservation program
director, in a written statement. "As a result, we will be better positioned to
fulfill the plan's goals and will ensure the Fish and Aquatic Conservation
Program is fit for the future.

Whenever the feds say they're focused on topics like overharvest and climate
change, many hunters and anglers brace for new restrictions. Drafts of the new
plan were reviewed and commented upon by eight U.S. states and conservation
organizations including Trout Unlimited, the Sport Fishing and Boating
Partnership Council, National Fisheries Friends Partnership, National Fish
Habitat Partnership and Association of Fish

Fly tying

The Upper St. Clair Fly Fishing Club is back from summer vacation. It's next
meeting at 7 p.m. Sept. 23 at the "old" recreation center at 1170 McLaughlin Run
Road, will look back at summer fishing adventures and, as always, feature demos
from a local tyer. 412-835-6107.

Blood Dot

Jeff Blood, the fisherman from Cranberry who developed the popular and effective
Blood Dot egg pattern, will give a free presentation on Great Lakes steelhead at
6:30 p.m. Sept. 23 at International Angler, Robinson. 412-788-8088.

Steelhead trip

Join outdoors editor John Hayes on a daylong steelhead-fishing bus trip to a
Lake Erie tributary from 6 a.m.-9 p.m. Nov. 14. Spin and fly fishing education,
hands-on coaching and more for $50. Register at www.post-gazette.com/pgu or
412-263-1741.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2015 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              125 of 419 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                           December 15, 2015 Tuesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

CLIMATE HOPE;
A SWEEPING ACCORD NOW REQUIRES ACTION

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A-10

LENGTH: 341 words


President Kennedy's challenge to put a man on the moon in less than a decade was
ambitious, but it only became a reality because the necessary resources were
aimed at reaching the goal. The agreement on climate that earned the consent of
195 countries over the weekend is like that.

President Barack Obama called it "the best chance we have to save the one planet
we have" and leaders around the world agreed.

No previous world conference on climate has produced an accord with so many
participants, nearly all of the world's nations. It establishes a commitment to
limit, by the year 2100, the emissions of greenhouse gases to the amount that
the Earth can reabsorb naturally. That would mean keeping the warming to no more
than 2 degrees Celsius above pre-industrial levels.

To reach the goal, the world will have to turn away from fossil fuels -oil, gas
and coal -and transition quickly to air, solar, nuclear and other sources for
power. To prevent developing nations from following in the fossil-fuel footsteps
of polluting industrialized countries, the richer states would contribute $100
billion a year starting after 2020 to help those that are less advanced.

The agreement relies on each nation to set its own standards, and, other than
shame, there is no enforcement mechanism. In 55 nations, the deal must win
ratification at home, where it will encounter assorted resistance. The quest
will be complicated by the fact that even the voluntary plans that nations
submitted before the Paris sessions don't go far enough to hit the targets.

In the U.S., the final wording of the agreement -it says nations "should" rather
than "shall" commit to reducing emissions -leaves open the question of whether
an OK from Congress is necessary. Regardless, Mr. Obama will have to deal with
the usual "just say no" approach from deniers in the Republican Party.

Carrying the Paris agreement forward will require unprecedented change and
consistent follow-through around the globe. The planet's future demands it. The
question is whether nations will do it.

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2015 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              127 of 419 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            August 18, 2015 Tuesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

TOO FEW AIDES AT NURSING HOMES IS A PROBLEM

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. A-6

LENGTH: 877 words


In his essay "Pa. Nursing Homes Are Fine" (Aug. 12 Perspectives), Dr. Stuart
Shapiro invited his readers to "visit your local nursing home to see firsthand
the good work they do every day." I did just that prior to deciding upon a
facility for my dad last spring.

Although Dad stayed in the facility for only three months before I brought him
home, he did receive good care from a caring staff. Yet too few aides had to do
the bulk of the work with the residents. Without more aides, nursing homes
cannot possibly meet the needs of all the residents.

Prior to deciding upon a facility a 30- to 40-minute drive from my home, I
visited several places that I never would have considered for my father. Aides
congregated at the nurses' station rather than walking the halls to monitor the
residents; many places reeked of urine and other unsavory odors. Residents sat
in wheelchairs in the hall, their trays of food untouched because of their
inability to feed themselves. In one place, four residents had to share one
bathroom, a situation not suitable for the needs of the elderly.

Dad and I lucked out by finding a good facility, but I still question whether
all nursing homes in Pennsylvania are fine. I know there are ones that have room
for improvement.

RONNA L. EDELSTEIN

Oakland

Chautauqua's amp

Regarding the Aug. 7 article "Governance of New York's Chautauqua Roils Property
Owners":

While there has been a lively discussion on the future of our amphitheater at
Chautauqua, it is by no means a mass protest or revolt concerning the governance
or the amp reconstruction.

I have attended several of the open sessions on the amp and the two property
owners' meetings this summer. A large majority of the attendees (my estimate is
90 percent) fully support the administration and its decision to revitalize the
amp.

The anti-amp reconstruction group is made up of a small number of media-savvy
people who have channeled social media to create the illusion of a large
presence.

While they have 2,500 signatures on their petition, I believe that many people
signed it early on before they realized the true agenda of the group and are now
regretful that they did sign the petition.

These few individuals have started a smear campaign and are now desperate to
create new issues to sow doubt on any decisions made by the institution board.
They do not represent the thousands of us who enjoy the wonderful programs that
Chautauqua offers each year.

I highly value history and historic preservation, but very little of the
original 1893 amp remains. It has been remodeled many times since 1893 and is in
desperate need of refurbishment. It is time for the Chautauqua administration to
move on to provide us with a safe and modernized amp for the next 100 years.

DAVID SCHERB

Murrysville

Thanking Trump

It seems that the GOP has finally "jumped the shark."

Headlines that Donald Trump leads in the polls for the Republican presidential
nomination might have some folks spitting out their "tea."

A year from now, having Mr. Trump in the lead would be good news for Democrats
because, of course, he would not be able to win the election against anyone.
However, Mr. Trump leading the pack now is probably a good thing for Republicans
- perhaps now the sane contingent of that party (hopefully that's still a
majority) will realize this is the culmination of years of lies, distortion and
propaganda that has backfired.

Maybe now conservatives will start thinking things through, rather than simply
perpetuating false stories and cheering on concerted and unpatriotic efforts to
obstruct every proposal from the other side of the aisle, even when it would be
good for the country- just to avoid the possibility of President Barack Obama
looking good.

This is a wake-up call. Mr. Trump has done the right a favor by holding a mirror
up to them, showing what their party has come to.

Wasso Kozlina III

Aliquippa

Clean power benefits

President Barack Obama's recent announcement of the Environmental Protection
Agency's Clean Power Plan provides tremendous leadership in addressing the
urgency and morality of the crisis of climate change. Our nation must change its
course and serve as a constructive model for other nations in implementing
strategies and concrete actions to curb the deleterious effects of climate
change.

This plan establishes the first-ever national standards on carbon emissions from
coal-fired power plants. The public health benefits are both numerous and
significant, including 3,600 fewer premature deaths, 1,700 fewer hospital
visits, 90,000 fewer asthma attacks in children and 300,000 fewer missed work
and school days due to illness by 2030. These benefits would be directly felt by
those who live near the Cheswick Generating Station in Springdale. Our children
are at the greatest risk from air pollution but we have the opportunity now to
improve their health and their future by enacting these standards.

As President Obama stated, "This is our moment to get this right and leave
something better for our kids. Let's make the most of that opportunity." Thank
you, President Obama, for valuing the health of our children and setting the bar
for other countries to follow.

AVIVA DIAMOND

Mt. Lebanon

The writer is field coordinator, Moms Clean Air Force, Western Pennsylvania.

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2015 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              132 of 419 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            February 15, 2015 Sunday
                                TWO STAR EDITION

PITTSBURGH'S COLCOM FOUNDATION PLAYS MAJOR ROLE IN IMMIGRATION CONTROL DEBATE;
ALSO FUNDS ENVIRONMENTAL GROUPS IN ITS MISSION TO 'MAINTAIN BALANCE' ALSO FUNDS
ENVIRONMENTAL GROUPS, AS PART OF ITS MISSION TO 'MAINTAIN A BALANCE' WITH
EARTH'S RESOURCES

BYLINE: Chris Potter and Mark Roth Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. A-1

LENGTH: 1504 words


"I have a little quiz for you," Rick Santorum told attendees of the Iowa Freedom
Summit last month. "Since 2000, there have been 6 million net new jobs created
in America. . How many of those net new jobs are held by people who were not
born in this country?

"All of them."

The former Pennsylvania Republican senator has been something of a migrant
worker himself: He was among several presidential hopefuls who had come to Iowa
for the summit. And his job statistic, which has been disputed by critics, also
has Western Pennsylvania roots: It was furnished by the Center for Immigration
Studies, which receives much of its funding from the Downtown Pittsburgh offices
of the Colcom Foundation.

Colcom ranks among "the most important foundation donors to immigration-control
organizations," said Mark Krikorian, the center's executive director.

"If Colcom didn't exist, it's questionable this movement would exist," said
Heidi Beirich of the Southern Poverty Law Center, a staunch critic of some
Colcom-funded groups.

But while politicians like Mr. Santorum typically press for stricter immigration
limits on economic or national-security grounds, Colcom's concerns spring from
an environmental ethos that few Republicans embrace. While many Republicans
support a "drill baby drill' approach to energy, for example, Colcom backs
groups that are wary of gas drilling.

Its beneficiaries include both conservative immigration groups and left-leaning
organizations like Pittsburgh United, which advocates on behalf of low-wage
workers while espousing "green" solutions for the county's aging sewer system.

John Rohe, Colcom's vice president of philanthropy, said he sees no conflict in
Colcom's approach. Sustainability is all about limits, he said, whether it's
protecting clean water or controlling the impact of immigration on natural
resources.

"To maintain quality of life, you have to maintain a balance with your
surroundings," he said. "That is the consistent theme."

Inspired by Margaret Sanger

Colcom founder Cordelia Scaife May, a Mellon banking heiress who died in 2005,
had a lifelong interest in population issues inspired by Margaret Sanger, a
family friend who launched America's family planning movement. Ms. Sanger's
portrait hung in Ms. May's Ligonier home of Cold Comfort - source of the
foundation's name.

Ms. May, whose charitable giving dates to the 1950s, was also interested in
environmental concerns. High birth rates were an early focus of the
environmental movement, though by the time Ms. May founded Colcom in 1996, birth
rates in industrial countries had dropped significantly.

Even so, the U.S. population grew from roughly 179 million in 1960 to 281
million in 2000. Demographers agree growth rates in industrial countries are
driven by immigration, and Mr. Rohe warned that unless the trend changes, the
U.S. could have 1 billion people by 2100. "You can't just wait until you get to
a billion and say, 'This doesn't feel good, let's scale back,' " he said.

Such concerns brought Ms. May into contact with John Tanton, a Michigan
ophthalmologist and avid environmentalist.

Mr. Tanton founded a chapter of the Audubon Society and established a local land
trust, among other initiatives. But in a widely circulated 1975 essay, he argued
immigration could undermine such efforts.

Countries with lower birth rates and better environmental protections "will
doubtless increase their attractiveness" to foreigners, he wrote. The resulting
immigration, he argued, would threaten a country's environmental progress.

"If you look at the immigration-reform movement, that [essay] is where it
started," said Mr. Rohe.

Mr. Tanton helped establish three prominent immigration-control groups: the
Federation for American Immigration Reform; the Center for Immigration Studies,
an immigration think tank; and NumbersUSA, a lobbying and advocacy group.

The organizations produce reports and regularly testify before Congress on
immigration, said Aaron Flanagan, the research director for Chicago-based Center
for New Community. Together, they have "massive impact," he said, and Colcom's
support is "the crux of why this movement has become successful."

Between 2010 and 2012, Colcom gave those three foundations $23.7 million and
spent at least $32.1 million on immigration or population issues overall.

"They have been our largest financial supporter," said NumbersUSA executive
director Roy Beck. Begun as a website in Mr. Beck's home, NumbersUSA now spends
more than a $500,000 a year lobbying Washington. The New York Times and other
observers credit it with defeating President George W. Bush's 2007
immigration-reform effort.

Mr. Beck lauded Ms. May for "standing up for the defenseless," including
wildlife and working-class Americans. But critics say it's the immigrants who
are often most vulnerable, and that groups like Mr. Beck's use environmentalism
as a pretext for attacking them.

In 2010, the Southern Poverty Law Center accused Colcom of funding a campaign by
"right-wing nativists ... to seduce the mainstream environmental movement."

Mr. Tanton himself has been a lightning rod for such concerns.

"[T]hose with their pants up are going to get caught by those with their pants
down!" he wrote of Latino birth rates in one memo later made public. "One of my
prime concerns is about the decline of folks who look like you and me," he wrote
in another letter.

Mr. Tanton has Parkinson's disease, and typically declines interview requests.
"Maybe he could have been more careful in saying the things he said," said Mr.
Rohe, but "you will not find a person who has cared more for people of all
races."

Mr. Rohe is a longtime Tanton ally, having written a 2002 biography of Mr.
Tanton and his wife. The movement's goal, he said, was to limit immigration "in
a pro-immigrant way that is not racially oriented." Its concern, he said, was
with the overall number of immigrants, not their ethnicity.

Unchecked immigration would consume natural resources and drive down wages, he
said, harming quality of life for immigrants and native-born Americans alike.

"The fact that you go on a diet," he added, "doesn't mean that you're
anti-food."

Colcom's wide range

As the diversity of Colcom-funded groups shows, accepting its money doesn't
necessarily make an organization anti-immigrant. Or conservative.

Pittsburgh United executive director Barney Oursler, a longtime labor activist,
said receiving Scaife family money is "definitely weird." Ms. May's brother was
Richard Mellon Scaife, a leading funder of conservative causes.

Still, said Mr. Oursler, large foundations will "always [make] grants we
wouldn't agree with."

Colcom has also funded those keeping an eye on "fracking" for natural gas, like
the Center for Coalfield Justice's effort to map water sources threatened by
coal and gas extraction.

Active in Greene and Washington counties, the Center "confronts and aggressively
opposes reckless operators," said executive director Patrick Grenter. Often
"that scares funders off."

Without Colcom, Mr. Grenter said, "the work done not just by us but many other
organizations wouldn't be possible." As for Colcom's immigration stance, he
said, "It's outside the work that we do, so it's never come up."

But where John Tanton sees immigrants bringing new environmental pressures to
America's doorstep, others see chickens coming home to roost.

Human activity, especially in developed countries, is causing climate changes
that could drive future immigration. A 2010 study predicted that one
climate-change effect, declining crop production, could prompt up to 6.7 million
adults to emigrate from Mexico alone.

"You can draw some pretty direct lines between rising temperatures and varying
rainfalls in [Latin] America, whose people did relatively little to contribute
to those swings," said Alexander M. de Sherbinin, a researcher at Columbia
University's Earth Institute.

Given America's role in causing those problems, he said, "It's distasteful to
say, 'We have to stop people coming to our country because our water supplies
will be squandered.' "

While Mr. Rohe acknowledged the need to engage population concerns outside the
U.S, "Mrs. May said, 'We cannot be all things to all people.' There are so few
people that understand the need for a sustainable, nondiscriminatory
pro-immigrant immigration policy."

Some predict support for that cause will dwindle, at least outside the core
conservatives Mr. Santorum addressed in Iowa. Democrats broadly support
liberalizing immigration, while Republicans are divided.

"We've been in a defensive position for a long time," said Mr. Beck of
NumbersUSA. But even as the political tide shifts, "We're not losing ground with
the citizens."

"The long-term outlook is not good for [Colcom-funded groups] as the country
becomes more diverse," said Ms. Beirich, of the SPLC.

But in part because of those groups, she allowed, such a change "could still be
a long time coming."

Chris Potter: cpotter@post-gazette.com or 412-263-2533; Mark Roth: mroth@
post-gazette.com, 412-263-1130 or on Twitter @markomar.

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Cordelia Scaife May Circa: 10/03/1965
PHOTO: Pittsburgh Post-Gazette: Steve Mellon/Post-Gazette Slug:
20150129smRohebiz001.jpg John F. Rohe is vice president for philanthropy and
secretary of the Colcom Foundation, located at Two Gateway Center in Pittsburgh.
Story for Business by Chris Potter. Photo shot in the PG studio on Thursday,
Jan. 29, 2015.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2015 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              139 of 419 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            April 15, 2015 Wednesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

SORRY, HILLARY, BUT I'M NOT THAT EXCITED

BYLINE: Reg Henry

SECTION: LIFESTYLE; Pg. A-2

LENGTH: 719 words


Warning: The subject of this column has been known to cause drowsiness in some
readers, who are advised not to operate heavy machinery after exposure.

The fatigue-inducing words are these: Hillary Clinton. I say this with some
regret.

Of course, her shockingly unsurprising news Sunday that she was running for
president no doubt moved her supporters to say without the usual irony, "Be
still, my beating heart." To me, heavily invested in irony, it was instead a
case of "Be still, my dull throbbing brain" and "Yawn."

Whose brain would not throb and who would not suffer fatigue because of word (or
name) overuse within the cranium? For good or ill, Bill and Hillary Clinton's
name recognition has morphed into painful name over-recognition.

This is not exclusively their problem. Why, the old brain would throb from
disturbed sleep if someone named Bush were running. Woe is us if it ever comes
to that.

The irony in my glum observation is that I want Hillary Clinton to succeed. She
is more qualified than anybody else. More importantly, she stands in theory for
many issues that I believe in. As moderate Republicans have gone the way of the
dodo, a victory for the GOP threatens to bring a plutocracy for the people, in
defiance of the people and to heck with the people who will never perish from
the earth.

This may seem like an exaggeration just to get your attention, which, of course,
it is. But between the GOP's climate change denials and its never-ending efforts
to kill health care for millions, it is an opinion honestly arrived at.

Probably only Hillary Clinton among Democrats can stop a Republican candidate
set on making ideological mischief. As a bonus, victory by her would place a
woman as president, correcting what is an historical absurdity.

So hurrah for Hillary and pass the headache pill and percolate the coffee. The
strength of the Clintons has always been that they are consummate politicians.
Their weakness is that they have always been consummate politicians.

A President Hillary Clinton could be expected to deliver a more competently run
government. As much as the public dislikes politicians, a good political mind is
an asset in a bad political world.

To his cost, President Barack Obama lacks the instinct for selling his
initiatives, so much so that he gives the impression he might not be able to
sell ice cream in a desert. He started out fresh and sincere - yet while he
brought the hope, he didn't have the political skills to bring the change.

But those as good at political charming and cajoling as the Clintons run the
risk of seeming too calculated. When Secretary of State Clinton sent private
emails on the job, she surely knew exactly what she was doing and why. The
alleged Benghazi scandal - tragedy though it was - can be explained as the fog
of war, but in this she was making her own fog.

Further to that point, The New York Times reports that Ms. Clinton's campaign
will avoid the term "middle class," instead using "everyday Americans," on the
theory that middle class no longer suggests a stable life.

Well, yes, but that is way too much thinking. Besides, how are "everynight
Americans" like myself supposed to feel about being left out? I suppose we will
just have to just stay in the discredited middle class while everyday Americans
look down on us.

The short video that announced her candidacy was a masterpiece of calculation.
It took about a minute and a half before Ms. Clinton appeared. Before that
various families talked about their lives and the changes they face. In a nod to
them, she said she was running "because it's your time."

Let's face it: She is running because it is her time. And as the diverse
characters told their stories, it was easy to imagine a political operative
ticking off the constituencies Democrats have to please. It's a wonder vegans or
performance artists didn't get a shout-out.

We are about to embark on the longest and most expensive political campaign in
history. You'd think for all that money our politics would deliver a contest
free of a sense of been there, done that. Unless a sensible Republican emerges
against all odds, it's the same old-same old for the next 19 months.

Forgive my one hand clapping for Hillary Clinton, but the other hand is holding
my head. I fear everyday and everynight Americans may feel the same.

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Reg Henry: rhenry@post-gazette.com

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2015 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              148 of 419 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            March 18, 2015 Wednesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

THIS NEW HOME IS ALSO OLD AND THE LAST

BYLINE: Reg Henry

SECTION: LIFESTYLE; Pg. A-2

LENGTH: 694 words


Sometimes in life you just have to challenge Thomas Wolfe's proposition that
"You can't go home again."

True, the novelist had it mostly right. "You can't go back home to your
childhood," because for one thing your pants won't fit. "You can't go back home
to the old forms and systems of things which once seemed everlasting," although
somebody forgot to tell conservatives.

But you can go back to "places in the country" for the simple reason that this
is America, and mobility has been going on since the wagon trains rolled
westward, there to be greeted by early Realtors.

And you can go "back to your family" (and friends) if they never left your
affections in the first place, assuming they are not long gone from their old
haunts. This is the place I find myself in once again.

This leaving and returning is something of a habit with me. I came to Pittsburgh
(via long spells in England and Australia), then went to California, then left
California and went back to Pittsburgh.

In December, I finally left Pittsburgh to visit Australia and play the
grandfather and meet my old mates where I grew up - yet another episode in going
home again.

A week ago, I returned from Australia to retire in the area around California's
Monterey Peninsula, where once I was editor of The Herald newspaper, which still
survives despite whatever I did at the time. It is different now, of course, but
who or what isn't?

While death and taxes are said to be the great constants, the process of change
deserves equal billing among major facts of the human condition. So does the
phenomenon that if a husband has a plan, his wife will think up a better one.
(That is the one thing that never changes.)

When it comes to change, the French as usual have an expression for it: Plus ca
change, plus c'est la meme chose - which, as you know, literally means "Give
your mistress my best regards," but also has the sense of the more things
change, the more they remain the same.

This has proved true wherever I have happened to go home. As I have reported
intermittently over the past few months, Australia is in a constant state of
flux but is gloriously the same, no worries, mate.

In the 21 years since I was last in the Monterey area, the traffic has grown
noticeably heavier, the result no doubt of more development. Still, it remains
stunningly beautiful. The view from heaven's veranda is surely of the rugged
coastline and hills of this area.

Here the climate is of the Goldilocks variety - not too hot, not too cold. While
drought is a problem, I will do my part in managing the water shortage by
conserving every drop and drinking only wine.

It was, in short, a happy homecoming to this, my latest and hopefully last home,
troubled only by the arrival of the moving van packed with Pittsburgh memories.
Every spoon or toaster told a story and every chair suggested an anecdote from
the past.

Every box was a time capsule. Each was stuffed - of course! - with old
Post-Gazettes, the first choice of inquiring minds and careful packers. I would
pull out a vase and find it wrapped in one of my old editorials or columns.

In this nostalgic way, I learned a greater truth: You can go home again, but you
can't actually leave home. Not emotionally. You carry with you what you have
been - not just the household effects that were witnesses to a previous life,
but the attitudes and sympathies that made it such a full life.

For 31 years of my life, I lived in and around Pittsburgh, the most time I have
ever spent in one place. That has shaped me in ways that could not be left
behind. You can take the boy out of Pittsburgh, but you can't take Pittsburgh
(and in my case, Australia) out of the boy.

I have always wondered what someone starting retirement does. Now I know: You
empty boxes, which at the present rate of unpacking will be done in 2025, and
entertain visitors, because everybody in your life eventually comes to visit if
you live in Monterey, Calif.

You will find me in the garden here reading The Herald and thinking curmudgeonly
thoughts, just as I remember its readers did back in the day. (My wife is sure
to have another plan for me.) I am back. It's different, but it's the same.

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Reg Henry: rhenry@post-gazette.com

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2015 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              152 of 419 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                            PITTSBURGH PRESS EDITION

SECTION: LOCAL; LOCAL; Pg. A-5

LENGTH: 1348 words


GAS PRICES FALL HERE, RISE IN US

The national average price of gas has increased 2.7 cents per gallon in the past
week to $2.05 per gallon, according to GasBuddy.com, a price tracking website.
But Pittsburgh-area drivers continue to see lower prices at the pump - though
the decrease is much smaller than those in recent weeks.

Average retail gasoline prices in the Pittsburgh area averaged $2.27 this
morning, falling 3.5 cents per gallon in the last week, according to the
GasBuddy survey of 731 retail stations in Allegheny, Washington, Beaver, Butler,
Armstrong, Westmoreland and Fayette counties. Prices are down 34 cents per
gallon from one month ago and down $1.24 per gallon from one year ago.

But analysts say a seasonal price increase is imminent.

Since Jan. 7, output at oil refineries has waned as the facilities prepare to
transition to produce a cleaner "summer blend" of gasoline. This has pushed
wholesale prices up an average of 23 cents per gallon, according to Gregg
Laskosk, a senior petroleum analyst with GasBuddy.

"The four-month slide in gasoline prices has indeed come to a halt," Mr. Laskosk
wrote today in a GasBuddy blog post. "There's no doubt now that the
first-quarter climb is under way and is already being reflected in rising prices
at the pump."

Average prices in 24 states remain below $2 per gallon. Pennsylvania has the
eighth-most expensive gas at $2.22 per gallon. MAN ADMITS KILLING, IS SENTENCED

A man accused of killing his ex-wife's new boyfriend pleaded guilty to
third-degree murder this morning.

David Edick, 28, was sentenced by Allegheny County Judge Kevin G. Sasinoski to
20 to 40 years in prison as part of a negotiated plea agreement. He also pleaded
guilty to burglary.

Edick admitted killing Ryan Beal, 27, of Swissvale. His body was found Aug. 31,
2013, in the Duquesne Avenue apartment building where he lived with his
girlfriend. He had been shot four times.

Edick fled to Mexico and was arrested in September 2013 by U.S. Border Patrol
agents who caught him trying to swim across the Rio Grande River to get back
into the United States.

Police said he had the revolver used to kill Mr. Beal.

Edick and Mr. Beal knew each other because they both were part of the same local
steampunk community, which combines an interest in steam technology and science
fiction. LICENSE SUSPENDED FOR CONVICTED LAWYER

The state Supreme Court has suspended the law license of a former deputy
attorney general who was convicted along with his wife of endangering the
couple's two adopted Ethiopian children.

Douglas Barbour, 35, is serving five years' probation after pleading no contest
to child endangerment counts in June along with his wife, Kristen Barbour, 32.

Allegheny County prosecutors say the couple underfed their 6-year-old adopted
son, and his 18-month-old sister had multiple head fractures that were healing
before the Barbours were first charged in October 2012.

The couple, who lived in Franklin Park, have since moved to Mercer County, where
he works at his family's nursery. They still have custody of two biological
children who were not abused. The Ethiopian children have been adopted by
another couple. WORK SET ON I-79 IN BUTLER COUNTY

Lane closures are possible in both directions of Interstate 79 in Butler County
starting today, PennDOT announced.

Work to replace a pipe will cause round-the-clock shoulder closures and
intermittent daytime lane restrictions between Exit 96 at Portersville and Exit
91 at Little Creek Road.

The speed limit in the work zone will be reduced to 55 mph.

Work is expected to be completed in late March. MYLAN TO BUY ANOTHER INDIAN FIRM

Mylan Inc. announced this morning that it had agreed to buy certain women's
health care businesses from Famy Care Ltd. based in Mumbai, India, for as much
as $800 million.

The Cecil-based generic drug giant agreed to pay $750 million in cash plus
contingent payments of up to $50 million if Famy Care fulfills certain
regulatory and development milestones, Mylan said.

Privately-held Famy Care is a global leader in generic oral contraceptives.

"The Famy Care businesses will make Mylan a hormonal contraceptives leader in
high-growth emerging markets around the world," Mylan said.

Since 2008, Mylan and Famy Care have had a partnership under which Famy Care
develops and supplies oral contraceptives to Mylan for distribution in the U.S.
and certain other markets.

The latest transaction will complement Mylan's pending acquisition of a major
chunk of Abbott Laboratories' specialty and branded generics business overseas,
the company said. As part of the Abbott deal, Mylan plans to reincorporate in
the Netherlands to lower its tax bill in a process known as an inversion. The
acquisition, valued at $5.3 billion when it was announced last summer, is
expected to close this quarter.

The deal with Famy Care, which will add about 900 employees to Mylan's
operations, is expected to close in the second half of this year. The
acquisition comes on the heels of Mylan's roughly $1.7 billion acquisition of
Strides Arcolab's Agila Specialties injectable drug unit in India in 2013. PIPE
PLANTS PLAN LAYOFFS

A Russian-based pipe manufacturer says the falling price of gasoline is fueling
its decision to lay off 10 percent of its workers at two Beaver County plants.

Roger Bentley, a spokesman for OAO TMK, said the firm is laying off workers at
plants in Koppel and Harmony Township.

The plants had about 750 workers combined before the layoffs and are two of 12
plants that are part of TMK IPSCO, part of the Russian firm's American division.

The Koppel plant makes pipe used to drill and explore for oil. The Harmony works
makes seamless metal tubes.

The company says its business is strongly affected by global oil prices that
have dropped from more than $100 a barrel to less than $50 in recent months. BUS
DRIVER, STUDENT HURT IN CRASH

A bus driver and student were injured this morning when a North Hills School
District bus crashed into another vehicle in Ross.

The crash occurred shortly before 7 a.m. at Evergreen Heights and Rochester
roads, an Allegheny County dispatch supervisor said.

The bus was traveling on Evergreen Heights when it went around a disabled
vehicle and struck an oncoming car, according to school district officials.

The bus driver and a high school student were taken to UPMC Passavant with minor
injuries, the district said. MAN ARRESTED AFTER SHERADEN STANDOFF

A SWAT situation at a Sheraden home ended late Sunday night, after police
arrested a man who threatened police and firefighters with a shotgun and
baseball bat.

Shortly before 9 p.m., Pittsburgh police took 59-year-old Nick Bitsura into
custody, public safety spokeswoman Sonya Toler said. He had barricaded himself
in for more than four hours after firefighters responded to a call around 4:30
p.m. of a fire on the front porch of his home in the 3200 block of Sacramento
Avenue.

When firefighters arrived, he threatened them and ran back inside his home.
Officers who arrived were also threatened and attempted to call the suspect on
his phone and use a loudspeaker to talk to him, asking him to come outside.

Windows of the home were shattered as police deployed gas in an attempt to draw
him out. Police eventually got into the home and found him hiding on the third
floor in a bathroom, Ms. Toler said.

Charges were to be filed, she said. Mr. Bitusura has a history of mental
illness, she said, and lived alone in his home. ROCK VETERAN RUNDGREN SETS STAGE
AE SHOW

Rock legend Todd Rundgren will make his debut at Stage AE on the North Shore on
April 25.

It will be a seated show. Tickets are $29 for a general admission seat and $42
for a pit seat. They go on sale Saturday at all Ticketmaster locations, charge
by phone at 800-745-3000 or online at www.ticketmaster.com. For more information
visit www.promowestlive.com.

Presale tickets are available 10 a.m. Thursday through 10 p.m. Friday (password
"north").

Also, the Melanie Martinez concert that was scheduled for last Saturday at The
Club at Stage AE, and postponed due to illness, has been rescheduled for March
13. All tickets will be honored.

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Sarah Collins/The Pittsburgh Press: A FROZEN VIEW PPG Place
rises above a frozen Point State Park today. \ \ \ PHOTO: Larry Roberts/The
Pittsburgh Press: STAYING WARM Jay Rivera, a CCAC student, battles the cold
today by ducking into a coffee shop in Market Square for some reading. \

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2015 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              155 of 419 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                             August 21, 2015 Friday
                                 SOONER EDITION

STOCK MARKET ENDURES WORST DAY OF LOSSES IN 18 MONTHS

BYLINE: From Staff and Wire Reports

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. C-1

LENGTH: 573 words


The U.S. stock market endured its worst performance in 18 months on Thursday,
driven lower by another slump in Chinese shares and heavy selling by technical
traders.

The global rout started in China, where sharp declines in energy and property
stocks pushed the Shanghai Composite down more than 3 percent. That selling soon
spread to European and U.S. markets, where the Standard & Poor's 500 index moved
further below a closely watched trading level.

Investors, facing screens full of red, retreated to their usual places of
safety: bonds, gold and cash.

The Dow plunged 358.04 points, or 2.1 percent, to 16,990.69. The S&P 500 lost
43.88 points, or 2.1 percent, to 2,035.73 and the Nasdaq composite lost 141.56
points, or 2.8 percent, to 4,877.49.

It was the biggest percentage decline for the Dow and S&P 500 since February
2014. The blue-chip average is now at its lowest level since October 2014.

Only two of the 55 stocks in the Post-Gazette/Bloomberg index of regional stocks
gained ground. Shares of industrial equipment maker Ampco-Pittsburgh rose 4
cents to finish at $12.43 while Saxonburg laser and infrared technology company
II-VI closed at $17.82, up 3 cents.

Losers were paced by The ExOne Company. Shares of the North Huntingdon 3-D
printing concern fell 9 percent to close at $6.19, off 64 cents.

Other regional stocks registering large percentage losses included generic drug
maker Mylan, off $2.06 to $53.03; Cranberry safety products maker MSA Safety,
down $1.67 to $45.21; rail industry supplier Wabtec, down $3.57 to $96.80; and
Dick's Sporting Goods, off $1.86 to $51.55.

Buyers of stocks were few and far between. Selling outweighed buying by a ratio
of more than eight to one in heavy trading. Still, even with the steep sell-off,
the S&P 500 is down just 4.5 percent from its record close of 2,130.82 on May
21.

As the selling picked up, investors moved money to traditional havens in times
of uncertainty.

Gold rose $25.30, or 2.2 percent, to $1,153.20 an ounce, the metal's best day
since April. Demand for ultra-safe U.S. government bonds rose, pulling down the
yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note to 2.07 percent from 2.13 late
Wednesday. The bond was trading at a yield of 2.19 percent only two days before,
and the decline since is major move.

Strategists and traders said the heavy selling of stocks was also likely tied to
programmed selling after the S&P 500 moved below one of the most closely watched
indicators, its 200-day moving average.

While many investors pick and choose stocks based on a company's business
outlook, there is an entirely different class of trader who relies on such
technical indicators to make investment decisions.

"I see this drop as likely because we crossed the 200-day moving average, and
that's causing us to have further selling," said Scott Wren, chief global equity
strategist at the Wells Fargo Investment Institute.

The price of benchmark U.S. oil rose slightly but remains near its low point of
March 2009. U.S. crude rose 34 cents to $41.14 in New York. Brent crude, a
benchmark for international oils used by many U.S. refineries, fell 54 cents to
$46.62 in London.

In other futures trading, wholesale gasoline fell 2.4 cents to close at $1.535 a
gallon. Heating oil fell 2.2 cents to close at $1.496 a gallon. Natural gas rose
3.9 cents to close at $2.755 per 1,000 cubic feet.

In metals, silver rose 34 cents to $15.52 an ounce and copper rose 4 cents to
$2.32 a pound.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Post-Gazette staff writer Len Boselovic and Associated Press writer Ken
Sweet contributed to this report.

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2015 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              162 of 419 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                              June 9, 2015 Tuesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

UNCERTAINTY SURROUNDS BIOFUEL PROPOSAL

BYLINE: Laura Legere, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. C-1

LENGTH: 845 words


The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency announced in late May, long past its
deadline, how much biofuel should be blended into the nation's supply of
gasoline and diesel this year and next. But it is too soon to tell whether the
proposal will settle the uncertainty that the delay caused in the renewable
fuels market.

The Renewable Fuel Standard, which was created and expanded by laws in 2005 and
2007, sets annual volumes for how much traditional corn-based ethanol and
advanced fuels made from things like plant waste and recycled cooking oil have
to be mixed in with the fossil fuels used for transportation.

With its new targets, EPA said that the law was too aggressive: Both the
consumption of gasoline and the development of cellulosic ethanol - lower
carbon-emitting fuel made from inedible plants like wood and grass - have been
slower than Congress expected when it set the mandates in 2007. Many vehicle and
other engines are not designed to run on fuel blends with higher than 10 percent
ethanol, so mandating more biofuels could spur more production than the
transportation system is ready to absorb.

EPA set the long-overdue 2014 renewable fuel volumes at the levels that were
actually used last year, and set growing targets for all renewable fuels through
2016 and for biomass-based diesel through 2017.

Those targets represent "ambitious responsible growth" in the biofuels market,
Janet McCabe, the acting assistant administrator for EPA's Office of Air, said.
EPA is proposing to require refiners to use 16.3 billion gallons of renewable
fuel this year and 17.4 billions gallons next year. But the proposed quotas are
lower than the levels established in the law, which called for using 20.5
billion gallons of biofuel this year and 22.25 billion gallons next year.

"We're balancing two dynamics: Congress's clear intent to increase renewable
fuels over time to address climate change and increase energy security and the
real-world circumstances that have slowed progress to these goals," Ms. McCabe
said in a conference call with reporters.

None of the industries waiting for the announcement were satisfied with that
attempt at balance, and the proposal is likely to end up in court after the EPA
finalizes the targets in November.

"No one's happy with what EPA did," said Kevin Sunday, government affairs
manager with the Pennsylvania Chamber of Business and Industry, which thinks the
renewable fuel standards should be scrapped. "The ethanol lobby is mad that more
biofuel isn't being mandated. The refineries aren't happy because [the
standards] are a year-and-a-half late and it still costs an awful lot of money.
Some of the fuel stations are at a loss as to what they are going to be expected
to do because some of their equipment isn't necessarily designed" for a fuel mix
with a higher percentage of ethanol.

U.S. Sen. Pat Toomey, R-Pa., introduced legislation this year with Sen. Dianne
Feinstein, D-Calif., to repeal the corn ethanol mandate in the Renewable Fuel
Standard. Mr. Toomey pointed in particular to the costs that Philadelphia-area
refineries have to bear from purchasing renewable fuel credits under the
program.

"I will continue to fight to get rid of the renewable fuel standard altogether,"
he said in a statement. "This requirement drives up the price of corn and many
food products, making it harder for families to put a meal on their table. It
also drives up gas prices, damages car engines, and is harmful to the
environment."

EPA admitted that its delay in setting the standards "led to uncertainty in the
marketplace," Ms. McCabe said, but she said the targets proposed on May 29 will
"help provide the certainty that the marketplace needs to allow these low-carbon
fuels to further develop."

The targets come too late to help some biofuel producers. Keystone Biofuels, a
Cumberland County biodiesel plant, filed to reorganize under a Chapter 11
bankruptcy in 2013, but an early version of EPA's proposed 2014 biofuel targets
and delays in finalizing the rule scared off potential investment partners, the
company's founder, Ben Wootton, wrote to EPA Administrator Gina McCarthy in
January.

"My business was liquidated and I lost everything," he wrote.

A proposed Monaca biodiesel plant also cited uncertainty caused by the EPA's
indecision as one factor that put plans for the plant on hold late last year.

"If you're a bank and you want to finance a company that wants to build a
refinery, for example, why would you want to invest your money into a regulatory
environment that was that uncertain and that subject to change?" said Lara
Fowler, a research fellow at Penn State's Institutes of Energy and the
Environment.

Whether the announced volumes will restore some certainty to the marketplace and
increase investors' confidence in the biofuels sector is unclear, she said. The
rule still has to go through a public comment period before the final targets
are set in November.

"I think people will be watching for what commentary comes out, and then what
EPA does in November of this year, and then who sues them," she said.

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: PowerSource/ Laura Legere: llegere@post-gazette.com

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Camelina is one of many plants grown for use in biofuels. This
planting was part of a project by Penn State University in Crawford County.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2015 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              180 of 419 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                           January 28, 2015 Wednesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

BEAT THE CLOCK;
SCIENTISTS SOUND A NEW DOOMSDAY WARNING

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. B-4

LENGTH: 234 words


Global catastrophe and humanity's extinction are a mere three "minutes" away,
according to the scientists who set the symbolic Doomsday Clock.

Once again, the Science and Security Board of the Bulletin of Atomic Scientists
has weighed in on the likelihood of the species' demise - and they don't like
the odds. Taking into consideration disparate threats to the world, the
scientists last week advanced the minute hand by two minutes since it was last
moved in 2012.

"In 2015, unchecked climate change, global nuclear weapons modernization and
out-sized nuclear weapons arsenals pose extraordinary and undeniable threats to
the continued existence of humanity," the bulletin said in a statement. "World
leaders have failed to act with the speed or on the scale required to protect
citizens from potential catastrophe. These failures of political leadership
endanger every person on Earth."

The closest the Doomsday Clock ever got to midnight - the planet's theoretical
destruction - was in 1953, when it read two minutes till, due to a thermonuclear
test. As threats waxed and waned over the years, scientists pulled the minute
hand back. After the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991, they moved the clock
to 17 minutes before midnight.

With the clock now back at three minutes to midnight, it's time for the world to
heed its warning. The clock is symbolic, but the dangers behind its message are
very real.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2015 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              183 of 419 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                          February 11, 2015 Wednesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

CMU PROFESSOR MAKES NEW POLLUTION MAPS PUBLIC

BYLINE: David Templeton, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. B-1

LENGTH: 636 words


When it comes to the particulate matter, Pittsburgh is the sixth-most polluted
city in the United States and the most polluted city east of California, the
American Lung Association says.

But the big question has been how these pollution levels of particulate matter,
or PM2.5, affect specific municipalities in Allegheny County and city
neighborhoods. Albert A. Presto, a research professor in Carnegie Mellon
University's Center for Atmospheric Particle Studies, finally has some answers.

Maps he has generated after monitoring air pollution levels at 70 key sites
countywide for two years reveal levels of black carbon, which is a component of
PM2.5; sulfur dioxide (SOX), nitric oxide (NOX), carbon dioxide, carbon
monoxide, benzene and toluene, among others. Ozone levels were measured but not
mapped.

Mr. Presto, who holds a Ph.D. in chemical engineering, will present his
air-quality maps during a free public forum at 7 tonight at the First Unitarian
Church of Pittsburgh, 605 Morewood Ave., Shadyside.

Deborah Gentile, an asthma and allergy physician at Allegheny General Hospital;
Ted Popovich of Allegheny County Clean Air Now; and Stephen Riccardi, a field
associate with Penn Environment, also will make presentations during the forum.

The black-carbon map, for example, shows high pollution levels concentrated in
industrial sites and along heavily traveled roadways. But one conclusion is
clear: Pittsburgh's three rivers are pollution highways.

"You see heavy loading of pollution in valleys," said Philip Johnson, director
of the Heinz Endowments' Breathe Project. The Endowments funded Mr. Presto's
research. "We all worry about black carbon because it is a significant
contributor to climate change and health problems with associations to many
adverse health outcomes from birth to death, including reproductive outcomes,
heart attacks and stroke, and exasperation of [Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary
Disease] and asthma."

Pollution concentrations in river valleys, he said, should raise public concern
about parks, bicycle trails and recreational facilities along the rivers, he
said.

"We are encouraging people to go outside, to recreate, play and enjoy parks,"
Mr. Johnson said. "But what can the city say about itself if it has the highest
levels of black carbon in the most intimate areas of human experience? You have
pollution trapped in areas where people live, work and play."

In coming phases of pollution mapping, the project will identify specific
sources of pollution and human exposure levels to show "where it is, where it is
coming from, and whom it is affecting," Mr. Johnson said.

Already, Mr. Presto said, the maps he generated represent the most detailed
measurement of pollution by location, noting that other cities also are
producing similar pollution maps. Until now, pollution levels largely were
limited to county averages or the eight sites where the Allegheny County Health
Department has placed pollution monitors.

To generate the maps, Mr. Presto said he identified 70 sites, both hill and
dale, but also including busy highways with pollution largely linked to diesel
fuel emissions and such industrial sites as the Cheswick power plant in
Springdale, U.S. Steel Corp.'s Clairton Coke Works and the Shenango coke works
on Neville Island.

The Heidelberg-Carnegie area showed unexpectedly higher pollution levels likely
due to their valley locations, proximity to Interstate 79 and the Parkway West,
and smaller industrial plants that are major sources of pollution, he said.

An area along the East Busway in the Oakland-Squirrel Hill area also had high
pollution levels.

"People still think that industry is big steel mills," Mr. Presto said. "But
when you have close proximity to small facilities, you can be exposed to
elevated concentrations of pollution and associated health risks."

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: MAP: Center for At,ospheric Particle Studies, Carnegie Mellon
University; Post-Gazette: (Blace carbon pollution readings)\

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2015 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              196 of 419 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                              June 5, 2015 Friday
                                 SOONER EDITION

CANDIDATES, THIS IS WHAT I CARE ABOUT

BYLINE: BOB HEFFERNAN

SECTION: EDITORIAL; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR; Pg. B-4

LENGTH: 241 words


To all the candidates running for president in 2016:

I really don't care whether you grew up in Hope, spent your summers at Lake
Winona or are the son of immigrants. I really don't care that you swept floors,
ran a pool hall or learned to work hard.

I really don't care if you are the first to go to college from your family, were
raised by a single mother or that your father flew combat missions in a
Liberator. I especially don't care that you think someone else is all wrong!

Almost all Americans have a similar story. Your story is typical, unremarkably
American. I'm glad it worked out for you.

I do care to know about your plans for defense, how you feel about committing
troops to war in the Middle East, China, Russia, Iran, Israel.

I would like to know your stance on police actions, crime and incarceration,
women's rights, LGBTQ rights, immigration, affordable medical care, terrorism,
the National Security Agency vs. privacy and guns. I want to know if you will
deny climate change and sea-level rise.

I care about how you think about our country's finances, education,
infrastructure, Social Security and Medicare and how you would pay the bills. A
vision and specific policy would be appreciated. Skip the part about "waste and
abuse."

As a voter, I have a right to know your policies and from whom you take money.

If you would like to hear my family story, it will take about five minutes.
Maybe we can have a coffee.

BOB HEFFERNAN

Fox Chapel

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2015 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              213 of 419 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            November 15, 2015 Sunday
                                TWO STAR EDITION

SENATE CANDIDATE MCGINTY'S ROLE IN ENERGY INDUSTRY QUESTIONED

BYLINE: Chris Potter, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. A-1

LENGTH: 870 words


Democrat Katie McGinty's bid for U.S. Senate is being powered by a longtime
commitment to clean energy and natural gas. But skeptics say the way she's moved
between the public and private sector puts her resume under a cloud.

Ms. McGinty's environmental credentials include advising former Sen. Al Gore and
heading the Council on Environmental Quality during the Clinton administration.
She also headed Pennsylvania's Department of Environmental Protection between
2003 and 2008 under Gov. Ed Rendell, on whose watch the state pursued both
renewable energy and natural-gas development.

"Energy is critical to our environment, our economy, our national security," Ms.
McGinty said. "We have to develop energy cleanly, tackling climate change and
keeping jobs here at home."

But her work since leaving state government in July 2008 has generated
criticism.

"She's used her role as a government official to profit from the revolving
door," said Alleigh Marre, a spokeswoman for the National Republican Senatorial
Committee, which hopes to see incumbent Sen. Pat Toomey re-elected next year.

In October 2008, Ms. McGinty took a board position with NRG Energy, an
increasingly green-focused power provider with natural-gas, coal, wind and other
energy facilities across the state. Between 2008 and 2013, when Ms. McGinty left
the board, she received $1.1 million in cash and stock awards, SEC filings show.

Ms. McGinty also took a board position at Iberdrola USA in 2009. The wind-energy
and natural gas firm had previously acquired Community Energy, a
renewable-energy developer from which the state purchased power. The two firms
parted ways in 2009, but in 2010, Iberdrola received a $10 million federal
stimulus grant through the state, to help build a Fayette County wind farm. Ms.
McGinty would say only that she earned "the same as all the board members made"
at Iberdrola, a privately held subsidiary of a Spanish firm that does not
publicly report such compensation.

Ms. McGinty said she didn't lobby the Rendell administration on behalf of those
firms or others she consulted for; state lobbying-disclosure records show no
such activity on her part. "I'm proud to have served as a board member of
Iberdrola and NRG, both recognized leaders in renewable energy," she said. "I
was involved in encouraging management in investing in clean energy."

But Ms. Marre noted that Ms. McGinty was still on Iberdrola's board in 2014,
when she was campaigning for governor, and criticizing incumbent Tom Corbett's
energy policy.

"It's not just that she is benefiting financially," Ms. Marre said of Ms.
McGinty's Iberdrola ties. "She then turns around and campaigns on it."

Other than a one-year ban on lobbying, there's no state law barring officials
from post-government employment. But when high-level officials work in
industries they once oversaw, it can "call into question who they were serving
in their final months: the public, or a future employer?" said Barry Kauffman,
executive director of Harrisburg watchdog group Common Cause.

Some environmental activists echo that concern.

Most environmentalists regard Ms. McGinty warmly. They tout accomplishments like
the Rendell administration's Alternative Energy Portfolio Standard, which is on
pace to have sources like solar, wind and new coal technologies providing 18
percent of the state's power by 2020.

"The Rendell administration spearheaded many of the commonwealth's top
environmental initiatives," said David Masur, executive director of
PennEnvironment. "It might not have happened at all if Secretary McGinty wasn't
tenaciously working the halls."

But Ms. McGinty also presided over the onset of "fracking" for natural gas in
shale deposits - a practice hotly debated by some environmentalists.

"Her work on clean energy is like community service: It hasn't absolved her of
the original crime" of backing natural gas, said Alex Lotorto, shale gas program
coordinator for the Energy Justice Network.

Mr. Lotorto was particularly concerned about Ms. McGinty's ties to firms in the
gas industry, which include consulting work along with her NRG post. "She was
DEP secretary when it was time to make the call on whether this industry should
be welcomed, and then she went to work for the industry," he said.

A spokeswoman said NRG did not comment on former board members. Ms. McGinty
noted that shale drilling "was only in its infancy" during her time at DEP, and
that "Pennsylvania was a nationally and internationally renowned environmental
leader during my tenure."

Mr. Rendell said Ms. McGinty "was the first person who came to me and said 'this
is going to be good for the economy, but we've got to pass regulations to do
it.' " The administration later crafted new rules governing well construction
and the disposal of contaminated frackwater.

Mr. Rendell said Ms. McGinty's "fabulous job" of pursuing wind and solar firms
helped the state rank third nationwide in a 2009 Pew Charitable Trust survey of
green jobs. As for the conflict-of-interest complaints about her private-sector
work, he said, "All you're doing is fighting for the things you fought for in
office. Where you'd have to worry is if Katie McGinty was hired by someone and
then starts attacking wind companies."

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Chris Potter: cpotter@post-gazette.com or 412-263-2533.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: U.S. Senate candidate Katie McGinty worked in public, private
energy.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2015 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              223 of 419 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                             April 28, 2015 Tuesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

PREPARING FOR THE CLEAN POWER PLAN;
ENERGY INDUSTRY WILL NEED MORE TIME TO REACH ITS GOALS, REPORT SAYS

BYLINE: Laura Legere, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. C-1

LENGTH: 915 words


A vastly changed power generation mix will be the result of the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency's plan to reduce greenhouse gases from existing
power plants, but industry and utilities will need more time to build it, said a
federally designated overseer of the nation's grid reliability in an analysis
last week.

The North American Electric Reliability Corp. predicts a wave of retirements of
coal-fired power plants and the rise of natural gas-fired plants to replace
them. But the organization designated by the Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission to ensure the grid's resiliency said it will take longer to dig
pipelines, string transmission lines and erect wind farms than the EPA's
earliest compliance targets in 2020 allow.

The assessment suggests that the final EPA rule should include a safety valve
clause to ensure that grid reliability issues can be addressed if they arise so
that energy will be available to meet consumer demands.

The proposed EPA rule, known as the Clean Power Plan, aims to cut carbon
emissions from existing power plants by 30 percent from 2005 levels by 2030. The
issue is that a significant amount of carbon reductions - about 80 percent, the
NERC analysis said - are supposed to be achieved a decade earlier than the final
deadline.

"The transformative shift in resource use leads to the need for more
transmission and gas infrastructure reinforcements, which will require
additional time beyond currently proposed interim targets," John Moura, NERC's
director of reliability assessments, said in a statement.

NERC expects that the Clean Power Plan will accelerate a national shift from
coal-fired to gas-fired power generation that is already underway: About 60
gigawatts of additional gas-fired capacity is estimated to be in service by 2020
and 80 GW by 2030, NERC said.

Coal-fired generation is expected to dwindle by 36 GW between 2016 and 2030, a
decline that could trigger a fundamental change in coal's role from a stalwart
baseload source to a seasonal peaking source whose infrequent use might erode
the economics of keeping even the remaining plants running, NERC said.

NERC expects 8 GW of new wind capacity to be built by 2020 plus 15 GW by 2030.
As for solar, NERC expects 5 GW of new capacity to be built by 2020 and another
7 GW by 2030.

The U.S.'s total generating capacity was 1,060 GW in 2013, according to the U.S.
Energy Information Administration.

The EPA has criticized the report since the final rule has not been established
yet and it isn't expected to be published until this summer.

Others say NERC's vision of a gas-fueled grid underestimates the substantial
role that renewable energy sources and energy efficiency will have in cutting
carbon pollution.

Lauren Azar, a former senior energy adviser on grid issues at the U.S.
Department of Energy under President Obama and a former Wisconsin state utility
commissioner, said a U.S. map in the report that plots a relatively small number
of scattered green dots to represent new renewable power generation is a glaring
sign of problems with the report's underlying assumptions.

"The moment I saw that figure I would have gone to the modelers and said, 'Stop,
there's something wrong with your modeling,'" she said, "because that doesn't
even reflect today's reality, let alone predict what it is going to look like
when the [Clean Power Plan] is implemented.'"

The EIA says 33 GW of net combined wind and solar generating capacity is planned
to be added in the U.S. from 2014 through 2018, according to data the statistics
agency released in March based on plans as of Dec. 31, 2013.

Ms. Azar said flawed assumptions undermine the NERC report's broader findings,
including the conclusion that industry needs more time to build the
infrastructure for meeting the 2020 emissions targets.

"This industry time and time again has shown whenever they need to do something,
they get it done," she said. "What they need is certainty. They need a final
rule so they can actually go out and start making their plans."

Kevin Sunday, manager of government affairs for the Pennsylvania Chamber of
Business and Industry, defended NERC's analysis, which raises questions about
whether the rule is practical with the targets and timeframes outlined in the
current draft.

NERC "exists almost solely to talk about reliability," he said. "They know what
they're talking about."

For example, because generators identify their available units three years in
advance to PJM Interconnection - the regional grid operator that manages the
flow of electricity in 13 northeastern states and the District of Columbia -
"generators are basically going to have one year," he said, "to make their
decisions about whether they are going to be online by 2020."

"EPA has characterized it as, 2030 is a long time away," he said. "In reality,
almost everything has to happen by 2020."

PJM is conducting its own review of how meeting the proposed EPA targets would
impact reliability on the grid.

Preliminary results of a PJM study in November that looked at how much
compliance with the Clean Power Plan would cost its constituent states, showed
that Pennsylvania will already be below its 2020 carbon emissions target based
just on coal plant retirements announced since 2012.

Mr. Sunday said the question remains whether new sources of power generation
will step up to replace it in time.

"EPA's rule would drastically change the makeup of our energy portfolio much
faster than the market will be able to respond to," he said.

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Laura Legere: llegere@post-gazette.com / PowerSource

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2015 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              226 of 419 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                           September 22, 2015 Tuesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

DEP SEEKS INPUT ON GREENHOUSE GAS CURBS;
STATE HEARS PUBLIC AS IT FORMULATES PLAN

BYLINE: Don Hopey, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: STATE; Pg. B-1

LENGTH: 637 words


Some proponents of the federal Clean Power Plan to reduce greenhouse gas
emissions are pushing for an even bigger and more aggressive state response than
what the federal government is requiring.

L. Ray Roberts, Pittsburgh regional group leader for the Citizens Climate Lobby,
was one of several people who testified Monday night in support of a
revenue-neutral fee on greenhouse gas emissions, coupled with a rebate
distributed to all Pennsylvania residents, as a fast and simple way to get to
and even surpass the 33 percent emissions reductions mandated by the federal
rule.

"A $10-a-ton fee on fossil fuel emissions would reduce emissions quickly and
would protect all Pennsylvania households from rising electricity costs," Mr.
Roberts said at a listening session at Carnegie Mellon University, the second of
14 sessions scheduled by the state Department of Environmental Protection.
Seventy-five people attended.

"We are starting with a blank page," said DEP Secretary John Quigley, who
chaired the session. "This is an opportunity to engage citizens and get public
feedback before we write a plan."

The far-reaching federal mandate - some industry and Republican leaders have
called it over-reaching - is the first to target carbon emissions from power
plants, the biggest single source of climate-changing greenhouse gas emissions
in the U.S. It seeks emissions reductions of 32 percent nationwide from 2012
levels by 2030, and 33 percent in Pennsylvania.

States have the flexibility to tailor emissions reductions to meet their
individual reduction targets, and the DEP listening sessions will help the state
stitch together what promises to be a diverse and complex plan, Mr. Quigley
said.

John Pippy, chief executive officer for the Pennsylvania Coal Alliance,
testified that the state needs a balanced emissions-reduction plan that accounts
for electric reliability and cost impacts. He said bills to slow the process
down have been introduced in 31 states, and he urged DEP to delay action on
Clean Power Plan implementation for two years.

But Brian Macwainney, a CMU professor, said the federal mandate is an
opportunity, not an obligation.

"It can be a trigger to a low-carbon society, not an obligatory response to a
government mandate," Mr. Macwainney said. "We need to plan forward and we need
to be players and should go further."

Rachel Golman, a resident of Greenfield, testified while holding her 7-month-old
daughter, Sylvie, urging the DEP to stick to its schedule in developing a plan,
focus on energy efficiency and develop a plan that is fair to the most
vulnerable residents.

Mr. Quigley, in an interview Monday afternoon, said that In addition to reducing
emissions, Pennsylvania's plan will address environmental justice issues, energy
efficiency and conservation, all while the state maintains its positions as a
net energy exporter and the second- largest electricity generator.

"Clearly there is a role for natural gas going forward," Mr. Quigley said. "And
the governor's expectation is there must be a role for coal."

Pennsylvania gets about 40 percent of its electricity from coal, but
coal-burning power plants also produce about 40 percent of the nation's carbon
emissions and 48 percent of Pennsylvania's.

Twenty-seven people spoke at the first listening session in Harrisburg last
week. Mr. Quigley said the public sessions are part of the 60-day comment period
that ends Nov. 12. Two more, in Johnstown and Waynesburg, are scheduled for
Tuesday.

The DEP will then produce a draft emissions-reduction plan, followed by another
public comment period, and hopes to submit a final plan to the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency by Sept. 6, 2016.

The EPA has set a 2022 deadline for states to implement the plans, though most
observers expect that industry legal challenges will delay the timetable.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Don Hopey: 412-263- 1983, dhopey@post-gazette.com or on Twitter
@donhopey.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2015 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              233 of 419 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                             April 19, 2015 Sunday
                                TWO STAR EDITION

NEW TECHNOLOGY ALL ABOUT THE SHOES \

BYLINE: GERRY DULAC

SECTION: SPORTS; GOLF; Pg. C-12

LENGTH: 1054 words


Jason Day was standing on a heat-sensor mat, pounding drivers from a covered
hitting bay and watching the ball land more than 300 yards away. It was Monday
morning, less than 24 hours after he finished tied for 27th at the Masters, and
Day was being tested for new equipment using the latest product technology.Day,
though, wasn't being fitted for a new driver or set of irons or even testing a
new golf ball. He was at the Kingdom at Reynolds Plantation - a testing site for
TaylorMade tour professionals and amateurs alike - demonstrating why a new golf
shoe has been constructed to help a player with comfort, stability and balance.

"When you're watching someone swing a golf club, you can't really tell what's
going on inside their shoe," said Masun Denison, director of global product
marketing for adidas Golf. "We were able to unlock that. You can see where the
pressure was being put through the shoe to the ground. You can see the
percentage of body shift from heel to toe through the swing."

For the past several years, equipment manufacturers have stressed the need to be
fitted for drivers and irons, making sure the clubs you are about to buy for
anywhere from $299 to $1,000 have the proper loft, length, shaft and lie angle.

Now, with the aid of heat-map technology, footwear manufacturer adidas has
introduced a golf shoe with an asymmetric cleat pattern and sole support
designed for what the right foot and left foot are doing in the golf swing.

The shoe is called asym energy boost and is available for right and left-handed
players. Gone are the days when players bought a pair of saddle-shoe golf shoes
merely because they looked good.

"We always knew the front foot and back foot were different," Denison said.
"They worked completely different in the golf swing. What we didn't know was how
differently they worked."

Heat-map technology tracks weight distribution and pressure points in the feet
from the takeaway to the finish position in the golf swing.

For example, when Day was completing (or loading) his backswing, 94 percent of
his weight shifted to his right side, with 66 percent of that weight on his
right heel. As he started his downswing, his weight shifted to 54 percent on his
left foot at impact, with nearly 100 percent of that weight on his toes. At
follow-through, Day had 68 percent of his weight on his left foot, with most of
that weight transferring to the outer wall of his foot.

Using that type of data, adidas designed a right shoe (for a right-handed
player) that has specifically sized cleats for increased traction on the
backswing and extra toe grip for the follow-through. The left shoe has larger
cleats on the lateral (or outer) wall for increased stability on the
follow-through.

"Clearly, both feet do something totally different in the golf swing," said
noted swing instructor Hank Haney, who was watching the demonstration.
"Typically, you're wearing shoes where both shoes are exactly the same. This
technology blows me away. I don't think you can say it's going to take five
shots off your game, but it can't do anything but help."

The shoes are not designed to improve performance or increase yardage, Denison
said. But the testing can show how an improper weight transfer in your feet can
negatively affect a golf swing. The testing is not available to the public just
yet, but it will be.

"If you haven't experienced it, you should get a chance," Haney said. "It's
pretty cool."

Among legends

Charley Hoffman found a different way to calm his nerves at the Masters, and it
was purely by accident.

Because he was playing in the first group of the day Thursday, he was warming up
on the range with Arnold Palmer, Jack Nicklaus and Gary Player - golf's Big
Three who were preparing to hit the ceremonial first tee shots.

During his warmup, he went over to Palmer and Nicklaus and asked them to
autograph an Augusta National pin flag.

"It was cool getting up this morning and warming up with Jack, Arnie and Gary
Player," Hoffman said. "It puts the nerves at ease, really, watching those guys
warm up.

"I actually got Jack's and Arnie's autograph; they were nice enough to do that.
I was sort of scared - 'Should I ask them, should I not ask them?' My mind
wasn't really on golf really; I was watching those guys."

It must have worked. Hoffman, 38, made three birdies in the first five holes,
then closed his round with an eagle at No. 15 and birdies at Nos. 16 and 18. He
shot 67, then followed that Friday with a 68 that left him in second place
behind Jordan Spieth.

Chip shots

* Now that the oldest and most revered club in the world has invited and
accepted Carol Semple Thompson as one of its first female members, don't you
think it's time the most revered club in America did the same thing? If Royal &
Ancient Golf Club of St. Andrews, considered the home of golf, wants to have one
of the most decorated female amateurs in the world as a member, then certainly
Augusta National Golf Club should extend the same courtesy to Thompson, a
Sewickley native. Not only has she won seven USGA titles and is a member of the
World Golf Hall of Fame, she is a lifelong amateur just like Augusta's revered
founder, Bobby Jones. Not to mention she won the prestigious Bob Jones award in
2003, the USGA's highest honor named for Augusta's paragon.

* Tiger Woods said he merely popped his bone and joint back into place after
hitting a root in the pine straw and injuring his wrist at the ninth hole last
Sunday. Wow, if he can do that, why didn't he re-activate his glutes when he
said they shut down and he withdrew in San Diego?

* Another reason to like Spieth: When other players have won the Masters or a
major championship in the past, they have pulled out of the PGA Tour event the
next week. Spieth didn't because he said he made a commitment to the people at
the RBC Heritage Classic. He also said the tournament gave him a sponsors
exemption two years ago when he was 19 and he hasn't forgotten.

Dissa and data

* Cullen Boltey, a caddie at Oakmont CC and honor-roll student at Central
Catholic High School, has earned the prestigious Evans Scholarship - a full
housing and tuition college grant awarded to golf caddies. Boltey will attend
Penn State. The award is presented by the Western Golf Association of Chicago
and named for famed Chicago amateur golfer Charles "Chick" Evans.

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ezra Shaw/Getty Images: A Jason Day swing last week at Augusta
reveals the twists, torque and pressure on a golfer's feet.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2015 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              238 of 419 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            October 30, 2015 Friday
                                 SOONER EDITION

BYLINE: From staff and wire reports

SECTION: BUSINESS; BUSINESS BRIEFS; Pg. C-1

LENGTH: 690 words


Sales rose for Bayer AG

Sales for Bayer AG rose 11 percent in the third quarter, boosted by strong
demand for prescription pharmaceuticals and over-the-counter consumer drugs. Net
income jumped nearly 21 percent for the Germany-based company that has the North
American headquarters for its Covestro subsidiary in Robinson. Bayer said
third-quarter global sales totaled 11 billion euros ($12 billion) and net income
was 999 million euros. Covestro, which makes plastics for auto parts,
electronics and other products, had worldwide revenues of 3 billion euros
including 729 million euros in North America, up 7.5 percent from third-quarter
2014.

Kraft Heinz to sell factory in Italy to Newlat

The Kraft Heinz Co., co-headquartered in Pittsburgh and in Northfield, Ill., has
agreed to sell an infant milk and nutrition products factory that employs 168
workers in Ozzano Taro, Italy, to Italian company Newlat Spa for an undisclosed
amount. The deal includes a three-year arrangement for Newlat to make Plasmon
and Bi-Aglut brand products for Kraft Heinz. All factory staff are expected to
transfer to Newlat. The company also confirmed to Crain's Chicago Business that
it expects to make an announcement soon about the future of three factories in
New York. Crain's quoted sources as saying the former Kraft Foods Group plants
could be closed and 950 jobs cut, as the company looks to cut expenses.

Ampco-Pittsburgh reports third-quarter loss

Ampco-Pittsburgh said it lost $1.5 million, or 14 cents per share, in the third
quarter vs. a loss of $343,000, or 3 cents per share, in the same period a year
ago. Sales fell 11 percent to $58.1 million, the Carnegie industrial products
company said.

Alcoa opens expanded plant in Indiana

Alcoa opened a $100 million expansion of its La Porte, Ind., plant, an
investment that will broaden its offerings in the commercial aircraft market.
The new facility employs 155, a number that is expected to rise to 329 by 2019.
The metals producer's project will receive up to $11.1 million in state and
local tax incentives based on the number of jobs it creates.

PPG's chief technology officer to retire March 1

PPG Industries said its chief technology officer, Charles Kahle II, will retire
March 1. The company named David Bem as vice president, science and technology,
and chief technology officer-elect effective Nov. 16. Mr. Bem will join the
Pittsburgh coatings company from Dow Chemical, where he was most recently vice
president, research and development, consumer solutions and infrastructure
solutions.

Wal-Mart tweaks discount strategy for holiday season

Wal-Mart Stores Inc. said it would offer fewer "this weekend only" short-term
deals during the holiday shopping season while discounting thousands of items
for 90 days as it seeks to entice customers by being more consistent on pricing.
The retailer also said it was launching a new mobile application to reduce
waiting times for in-store pickup of online orders as part of an effort to
expand a service in which it believes it has an advantage over rivals, like
Amazon.com Inc., which lack a bricks-and-mortar presence.

Bombardier gets Quebec investment of $1 billion

The Quebec government will invest $1 billion in Bombardier Inc.'s CSeries jets
in return for a near 50 percent stake in the struggling project. Shares of
Bombardier fell 12.4 percent to C$1.41 on the Toronto Stock Exchange as the
company burnt through $816 million in the third quarter due to weaker order
flows. The fortunes of Quebec's aerospace sector are closely tied to Bombardier,
which has part of its transportation division in Pittsburgh.

Cranberry firm targeted in acquisition plan

A Mountain View, Calif.-based health group plans to buy Cranberry-based Aesynt
Inc., a medication management firm, the companies announced Thursday. The deal
with Omnicell Inc. is worth around $217 million and should create a combined
group with about 2,200 workers and more than $650 in annual revenue, according
to the companies. Aesynt sells a variety of medication-dispensing robots for
pharmacies, as well as medicine storage cabinets and logistics management
software, among other products.

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2015 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              246 of 419 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                           February 26, 2015 Thursday
                                 SOONER EDITION

OBAMA'S ENERGY POLICIES HURT WORKING FAMILIES

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. B-6

LENGTH: 390 words


It has been more than six years since Barack Obama bluntly stated before the San
Francisco Chronicle editorial board that during his administration, "if someone
wants to build a new coal-fired power plant they can, but it will bankrupt them
because they will be charged a huge sum for all the greenhouse gas that's being
emitted."

A few short months later, President Obama took office and thus began a
systematic decimation of coal communities and the hard-working men and women who
have dedicated their lives to blessing our nation with the manifold benefits
from affordable and reliable coal-based electricity.

Unfortunately for the once-prosperous middle class, this is one campaign promise
President Obama kept. In June of last year, the Environmental Protection Agency
proposed what is expected to be the most costly regulation in its history. The
plan the EPA put forth stipulates a completely unrealistic timeline that poses
dire consequences for America's workers, their families and their communities.

Even more tragic for working families is the acquiescence we have seen from some
in the labor community, most recently in comments to the Environmental
Protection Agency from the United Steelworkers. Despite the acknowledgment that
workers at eight coal-fired power plants will be directly impacted by this
regulation, the USW mentioned that "we believe actions to curb U.S. emissions of
greenhouse gases are necessary." While the comments also make some valid points
as to problems with the regulation, the USW ultimately puts misplaced faith in
EPA to develop a "well-crafted rule" with "job-focused supporting policies."

Neither is a possibility as EPA's past behavior gives no hope that things will
change in the future. The EPA has crafted an unworkable, overreaching proposal
that will endanger the reliability of our electric grid, burden working families
with more lost jobs and higher electricity prices and neuter any hope of a
manufacturing renaissance in the United States.

The United Steelworkers should stand in opposition to these job-killing
policies, or President Obama and the EPA will keep pursuing their radical
environmental agenda while America's working families pay the price.

STATE REP. JEFF PYLE

Chairman

House Coal Caucus

Harrisburg

Mr. Pyle of Ford City is a Republican representing the 60th Legislative
District.

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2015 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              247 of 419 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                             March 22, 2015 Sunday
                               FIVE STAR EDITION

A CAUTIONARY TALE FOR SHALE;
MY GRANDMOTHER'S COMMUNITY NEAR PITTSBURGH WAS DOSED WITH RADIATION DURING AN
EARLIER ENERGY BOOM, WARNS WRITER HEATHER THEORET ROCKWELL

BYLINE: Heather Theoret Rockwell

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. F-1

LENGTH: 936 words


For most of my life, my grandmother, who died in 1998 at the age of 84, was
plagued with paranoid thoughts about a massive conspiracy that threatened the
health and well-being of her family. When I was a child, she conducted a "sweep"
for listening devices at my house while helping my mom tidy up. Holidays at her
house were spent talking in hushed tones so "the people in the walls" wouldn't
hear us. She repeatedly shoved a dog-eared, highlighted copy of the book
"Silkwood" in our faces in a fruitless attempt to prove her point that we were
at risk. Over time, we had to accept that our otherwise intelligent and
productive grandma was losing her mind.

The catalyst for her obsession? A nuclear fuels company called Nuclear Materials
and Equipment Corp., which sat right across the river from her home in
Vandergrift, Pa.

NUMEC began operations in 1957 in two separate plants in Apollo and Parks
Township, located along the Kiskiminetas River in Armstrong County. The opening
of NUMEC was considered a financial boon for the modest community. My uncle got
a job there and my mom remembers "the euphoria of having money" many residents
felt at the time.

My uncle didn't love working at NUMEC and wearing a radiation-detection badge
raised some concern about just what employees were being exposed to, but there
were few other career options in the community. I'd love to talk to my uncle
more about his experiences but he's been gone since 2004 - a casualty of cancer
like so many others in the area.

A 1996 Pennsylvania Department of Health study found that residents living
within one mile of the NUMEC plants had an 11 percent higher cancer incidence
than the rest of the state; many residents believe it is even higher. To date,
$92 million in legal settlements have been paid to area residents with cancer
and the families they left behind.

The environmental impacts to the community have been just as devastating and
remain in the news almost 30 years after the plants closed in 1986. Just this
past January the Army Corps of Engineers estimated the clean-up of residual
hazardous nuclear waste buried at the Parks Township site will cost at least
$350 million more than originally estimated.

Just how dangerous are these materials? "Our policy is not to talk about the
stuff that we think is in there, and we do not talk about the material we
excavate," project manager Michael Helbling told the Post-Gazette. "And that is
not going to change."

This recent news about NUMEC's nuclear legacy has me thinking a lot about the
latest energy boom to hit our region: natural gas extracted from shale by
hydraulic fracturing, or "fracking."

As with the nuclear plants a generation ago, promises of jobs, cleaner energy
and strict oversight make natural gas an attractive industry to many. But don't
be fooled by these simple promises. While fracking is undoubtedly helping to
revitalize the economy of small towns in Western Pennsylvania and elsewhere, the
benefits may not be worth the risk. The potential for short- and long-term harm
to our health and environment is enormous.

Though the natural gas industry claims that water contamination from its toxic
(and often secret) brew of hazardous fracking chemicals and radioactive waste is
rare, in 2014 the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection revealed
243 cases of contaminated private drinking wells as a result of oil and gas
operations.

Air quality is also affected as gas wells release toxic chemicals such as
benzene and toluene, which are linked with neurological problems, blood
disorders, cancer, infertility, miscarriage, impaired fetal growth and low birth
weight. One study reported an increase in the prevalence of congenital heart
defects and neural tube deficits in newborns whose mothers live within a 10-mile
radius of wells.

Workers in the industry also are at risk of developing serious health problems
due to exposures to high levels of benzene and silica dust on job sites.

Other risks include accelerated climate change, earthquakes, gas well fires,
residual chemicals and potential hazards posed by abandoned wells and mines.

Do we really know enough about the consequences of fracking to continue as is?
How can we balance job and energy creation with potential hazards? Can we trust
industry and government to be honest about the materials and procedures
involved? Do gas companies target communities with fewer resources to fight back
against harmful practices? And how will fracking impact our health and
environment a generation from now?

History from cases like NUMEC's shows that short-term benefits do not always
outweigh long-term consequences, especially for communities directly affected by
exposure to potentially dangerous industries.

So what does this all have to do with my grandmother?

Well, to add even more color to the NUMEC story, there is considerable evidence
to suggest that one purpose of NUMEC was to smuggle weapons-grade uranium to
Israel. After "losing" at least 200 pounds of uranium in 1965, the company and
its workers were investigated by the FBI, CIA and other government agencies, but
a definitive answer as to where all that uranium went has never been made
public. Like many other NUMEC employees, my uncle was questioned about the
missing nuclear materials during the investigations.

About 10 years ago, I was discussing my family's ties to NUMEC with a good
friend who worked as an executive in the energy industry. Laughingly, I told him
that my grandmother thought her phone had been tapped because of the missing
uranium. "Oh," he said casually, "it probably was."

Maybe Grandma wasn't so crazy after all.

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Heather Theoret Rockwell is a student in the Master of Professional
Writing Program at Chatham University and lives in Regent Square
(htrockwell@hotmail.com).

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Andrew Rush/Post-Gazette: A sign warns of radioactive material
at the Parks Township Shallow Land Disposal Area, where it was dumped during the
1960s an '70s, primarily by the Nuclearn Mateirials and Equipment Corp.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2015 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              256 of 419 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                              July 31, 2015 Friday
                                  EAST EDITION

DISCIPLINE POLICY EARNS HIGH HONOR;
DISTRICT'S OVERHAUL RECOGNIZED BY NATIONAL EDUCATION OFFICIALS

BYLINE: Clarece Polke , Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: METRO; Pg. EZ-4

LENGTH: 582 words


In the midst of a districtwide disciplinary overhaul, Woodland Hills School
District has received national recognition for its efforts to revise
discriminatory practices.

Little more than a week after a team of administrators presented a revamped code
of conduct to board directors at a legislative meeting, select members of that
team - superintendent Alan Johnson, curriculum coordinator Licia Lentz and
instructional coach Lori McDowell - were chosen to participate in a daylong
White House school discipline summit.

The new code was designed to severely reduce the number of suspensions given to
students, particularly black males, by lessening zero-tolerance practices. New
policies will require each building in the district to track the gender,
ethnicity and disability status of students subjected to any measurable
disciplinary practice and submit a monthly report to the administrative office.

Representatives from more than 40 districts around the country - including LA
Unified, Baltimore City Schools and Houston Independent School District - were
invited in recognition of progress made in improving the school climate of their
respective districts. Woodland Hills, with a total student population of almost
4,000 students across 12 municipalities, and York City Schools were among the
few Pennsylvania schools in attendance.

U.S. Education Secretary Arne Duncan and Attorney General Loretta Lynch were
among speakers discussing the impact of the school-to-prison pipeline and
discipline biases that impact minority students.

"Creating and sustaining safe, supportive schools is absolutely essential to
ensuring students can engage in the rich learning experiences they need for
success in college, work and life," Mr. Duncan told attendees. "We are proud to
stand as partners with these educators to say that we have to continue to do
better for all of our students."

The district made headlines when, in February, it was ranked among the top 10
school districts nationwide for having the highest percentage of out-of-school
suspensions of elementary students for the 2011-12 school year. The report,
released by the Center for Civil Rights Remedies at the University of California
at Los Angeles, showed almost 25 percent of elementary students in Woodland
Hills were suspended from school at least once. An internal disciplinary study
found the average suspension length for a black male student was 3.3. days,
while the average for a white male was 0.3 days.

The data mirrors disciplinary trends seen nationwide. Federal data show that,
among students with disabilities, black females have higher rates of suspension
than white males at both the elementary and secondary levels.

The superintendent has also spoken about changes to the district's process for
transitioning students in and out of its alternative education program - Rankin
Promise. Enrollment records show that students who left during the 2013-14
school year spent an average of more than 230 enrolled days in the program.

The Rankin Promise program will fall under the new leadership of former Edgewood
Elementary principal Janet Carter in the fall, and a redesigned system will now
require a thorough review for students after 45 days in the program.

"We know we're on the path to change; now it's about the implementation and
using the resources available to us to make it right," Ms. Lentz said. "We still
have things to work on, but it's good to know and be recognized for the fact
that we're on the right track."

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: WOODLAND HILLS / Clarece Polke: cpolke@post-gazette.com, 412-263-1889 or
on Twitter @clarepolke.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2015 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              265 of 419 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                          September 24, 2015 Thursday
                                 SOONER EDITION

THE POPE IN AMERICA;
FRANCIS ENGAGES THE HUMBLE AND THE MIGHTY

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A-10

LENGTH: 337 words


Pope Francis arrived Tuesday in the United States on a tide of goodwill. More
than two-thirds of Americans think favorably of the head of the Roman Catholic
Church - a better rating than they give the institution he leads, polls suggest.

Part of the pope's appeal, along with his charisma, is that he offers something
for everyone. Liberals, both Catholic and otherwise, appreciate his criticisms
of economic inequality, rapacious capitalism and inaction on climate change.
Conservatives cite the pope's defense of church opposition to abortion,
artificial birth control, divorce and same-sex marriage, even as he calls for
less emphasis on divisive social issues.

More broadly, the pope's six-day itinerary reflects values that all Americans
can share. On Wednesday he paraded through Washington, met with President Barack
Obama and canonized Junipero Serra, an 18th-century Franciscan friar who founded
missions in California. He will visit an anti-homelessness program in the
nation's capital, a parochial school in East Harlem and a prison in Philadelphia
- stops that illustrate the 78-year-old pontiff's concern for young, poor,
powerless and marginalized people.

The pope also is scheduled to address Congress today, celebrate Masses before
large crowds and speak to the U.N. General Assembly on Friday - the latter two
appearances giving him an opportunity to speak difficult but necessary truths to
powerful audiences.

Before Francis - the first pope from Latin America - arrived in the United
States, he spent four days in Cuba, where he met President Raul Castro and his
brother, Fidel Castro. It might have seemed preferable for the pope to challenge
the Castros more directly on their regime's denial of economic, political and
religious freedom to its people, but the Vatican's strategy toward Cuba, like
the Obama administration's, is based on seeking change through engagement rather
than ostracism.

The pope's message of compassion, humility, action and inclusion is one that
Americans especially need to hear now.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2015 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              269 of 419 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

MONEY TALKED IN MISSOURI, BUT JUSTICE WAS DONE

BYLINE: Tony Norman, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: LIFESTYLE; Pg. A-2

LENGTH: 732 words


Tim Wolfe, the former president of the University of Missouri, must have known
he was a dead man walking the moment he saw the tweet sent out by Coach Gary
Pinkel on Sunday backing the football team's decision to strike: "The Mizzou
Family stands as one. We are united. We are behind our players.
#ConcernedStudent1950GP."

Coach Pinkel makes $4 million a year running the Missouri football program. When
the school's highest-paid and most influential administrator publicly backed the
team's demand that he resign, Mr. Wolfe knew going into the emergency meeting
with the university curators on Monday that he had very little room to maneuver.

It's an uncomfortable fact of life that money swears a lot louder than moral
indignation 99 percent of the time. With Mizzou liable for $1 million for
skipping Saturday's game against Brigham Young, the price for accommodating Mr.
Wolfe's odd diffidence to racial unrest was no longer acceptable. The ancillary
benefits to the local economy from sales of food, merchandise and lodging on
football weekends is the kind of money that makes a football strike an
existential threat.

This is not to minimize the heroic weeklong hunger strike by graduate student
Jonathan Butler, but it was clear that Mr. Wolfe wasn't going to heed his demand
that he step down. The former university president also had ignored complaints
by black students and their allies about a campus climate they insist condones
racism.

Until the football team unexpectedly grew a conscience worthy of Lebron James
and Muhammad Ali and announced it was done generating millions in profits for a
school that disrespected them, Mr. Wolfe probably thought he could brazen his
way through the crisis. But the realities of capitalism in a university town
like Columbia meant Mr. Wolfe was a goner the moment the football team, the
hunger striker, the coach and Concerned Student 1950 formed an alliance of
mutual support.

Graduate school workers also were planning to walk out en masse this week if Mr.
Wolfe refused to go. This was the kind of rebellion engineered to get results -
not just headlines. It also was significant that Mr. Wolfe had proven himself
tin-eared to a variety of non-racial issues including shoddy treatment of
adjuncts, the ending of a decades-long relationship between medical students and
Planned Parenthood and stripping the only doctor affiliated with the agency of
hospital privileges because he performed abortions.

For his part, Mr. Wolfe showed a modicum of self-awareness during his
resignation speech, prompting many to wonder why he refused to show any empathy
when students first complained about troublesome incidents. Just a smidgen of
concern might have saved his embattled presidency.

"This is not - I repeat, not - the way change should come about," he said. "
Change comes from listening, learning, caring and conversation," Mr. Wolfe said,
though he had steadfastly refused to do any of the things he advocated. "Use my
resignation to heal and start talking again."

Oh, the students will heal, all right, but first they're going to celebrate
bringing down a university president who ignored them until critical mass kicked
in. At least Mr. Wolfe finally had enough residual honesty to take "full
responsibility for the inaction that has occurred." His failure as a leader in a
community that needed a clear, forceful voice for tolerance on a campus that has
yet to fully emerge from its Jim Crow past has clouded whatever positive legacy
he could've claimed.

Now that Mr. Wolfe is headed out the door, the hard work of addressing student
concerns about racism on campus will begin with an interim or new president who
won't have the previous president's baggage. The danger for the students
obviously is that, flush from such a major victory, they might be tempted to
overplay their hand. Some may now believe they're entitled to a veto over
anything they don't like.

After Mr. Wolfe's resignation, there was already a hint of intolerance on the
students' part creeping in. A section of campus was designated a "No media safe
space." Reporters were harassed by students of all races who linked arms and
tried to prevent interviews from taking place.

It was the kind of mindless anti-media petulance that threatens to torpedo
goodwill generated by their admirable battle against university incompetence.
Let's hope this misstep isn't a sign of things to come.

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Tony Norman: tnorman@post-gazette.com or 412-263-1631.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2015 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              270 of 419 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            November 13, 2015 Friday
                                 SOONER EDITION

PENNDOT AIMS TO STOP FLOW OF FLOODING COSTS

BYLINE: Ed Blazina, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: STATE; Pg. B-1

LENGTH: 295 words


The numbers are startling.

For the past 10 years, flooding has cost the state Department of Transportation
more than $210 million in damage to state roads and bridges.

As a result, PennDOT Secretary Leslie S. Richards announced Thursday that the
state will conduct a four-phase study to identify current flood-prone areas and
areas with the potential to flood in the future and recommend ways to mitigate
flood damage to transportation assets.

The first phase of the study is expected to be finished by September and cost
$338,000. It will review flood-prone areas, identify roads and bridges that have
been or could be damaged, and project where flooding could occur as a result of
changing weather patterns.

It will rely on the Pennsylvania Climate Impacts Assessment updated annually by
Penn State University. The latest update in May predicts an 8 to 12 percent
increase in precipitation annually.

"Flooding issues are very expensive," Ms. Richards said. "Over the last 10
years, it has cost PennDOT just over $210 million to fix assets that have been
damaged by flooding."

Beyond the direct cost to PennDOT, she noted, road and bridge closures cause
economic hardship to communities and create public safety concerns by limiting
access for emergency vehicles. Local emergency management and public safety
officials will be consulted.

Although no time frame has been established for the other three phases of the
study, Ms. Richards said the project is a priority.

She said the department is "open to everything" that could mitigate or eliminate
flood damage. That could mean something as simple as applying a waterproof
sealant to a road surface or as complicated as relocating a road. In addition,
PennDOT will use the information as it considers locations for future projects.

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Ed Blazina: eblazina@post-gazette.com or 412-263-1470.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2015 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              278 of 419 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            January 6, 2015 Tuesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

PILES OF PROBLEMS;
AS EMISSION RULES LOOM, OPERATORS OF WASTE-COAL FIRED ELECTRICITY PLANTS PUSH
FOR CARBON-NEUTRAL DESIGNATIONS

BYLINE: Laura Legere, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. C-1

LENGTH: 933 words


FRAILEY TOWNSHIP, Pa. - First there was the pile: a 100-foot-high hill of
discarded anthracite coal built up during decades of sorting purer carbon, left
behind on this marred pocket of eastern Pennsylvania to spoil the land and
streams.

Then came the plant to burn it down.

The Westwood Generating Station began operating in Schuylkill County in 1987 as
part of the first wave of power plants designed to clean up the state's culm
banks and gob piles by using the mounds of coal waste to generate electricity.

Pennsylvania has 14 of these plants, more than any other state, and the
commonwealth embraces them as a way to solve an otherwise intractable problem -
how to get rid of hundreds of millions of tons of polluting waste left by
companies that no longer exist without burdening taxpayers with the cleanup
costs.

Now, as the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency prepares to tell states to curb
their emissions of greenhouse gases from existing power plants, electric
generators that burn waste coal are asking regulators to weigh their
environmental benefits against their environmental harms and count their carbon
emissions as zero.

The industry isn't alone in asking that it be given special consideration. The
Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection and Sen. Bob Casey, D-Pa.,
are among those urging the EPA to protect waste coal-fired plants as it
calculates how much carbon Pennsylvania should cut.

Vince Brisini, DEP's deputy secretary for waste, air, radiation and remediation,
said the department believes "there is a special place" for waste coal plants
because the coal refuse piles that they burn in controlled systems would smolder
anyway and release more pollution if they were set alight by lightning or a
spark.

"One could make a strong case that they are net neutral from a carbon standpoint
because the material is going to burn and be released anyway," he said. Because
electricity produced by the waste coal plants displaces energy that would have
been produced by other, probably carbon-emitting, sources, the plants might even
be seen to provide a carbon reduction, he said.

"What we believe is that because they are net neutral they don't need to be part
of the strategy as part of the targets."

The plants provide environmental benefits not involved in a strict carbon
calculation: The alkaline ash from waste coal-fired plants forms a concrete-like
material that is used to remediate mine-damaged land. More than 7,200 acres have
been reclaimed by using the coal refuse as a fuel, according to DEP, and the
industry estimates there are still 170,000 acres in the state to be reclaimed.

Even some of the state's broad-interest environmental groups have said they
recognize the value of the plants' cleaning up waste coal, but weighing the coal
piles' land and water pollution against the power plants' air pollution is
difficult.

"Whether a waste coal plant is advantageous or not, you really have to look at
the community that's impacted," said Rob Altenburg, senior energy analyst for
the environmental group PennFuture.

He suggested that the EPA does not need to make a broad exemption for the plants
because the draft Clean Power Plan leaves room for states to tailor their
greenhouse gas reduction strategies to accommodate unique interests.

Waste coal plants make up only about 5 percent of Pennsylvania's installed
electric generating capacity.

"The Clean Power Plan, as EPA wrote it, doesn't require specific controls on
specific plants," Mr. Altenburg said. "The target is a statewide goal and within
that goal the state has the flexibility to do whatever they choose, pretty much.

"If the state determines that exempting waste coal from any requirement is the
correct choice, they can do it."

Waste coal plant operators worry that being small and special can be a
disadvantage if policymakers do not recognize their differences from the
traditional coal-fired power plants at the center of the carbon reduction plan.

For example, there are limits to how much more efficient a power plant can be
when its principal fuel is what Westwood Generating's plant manager John
Oelbracht described as "rock with some coal stuck to it."

"Too often, we're collateral damage because we're small," said Gary Merritt,
regulatory affairs manager for Northern Star Generation, which has two coal
refuse-fired plants in Pennsylvania.

Inside Westwood's rumbling heart, Mr. Oelbracht pointed to its boiler, a box
nine stories high, in which crushed coal and limestone are suspended by jets of
air and burned. In systems like this one, called a circulating fluidized bed,
any unburnt material is circulated through a cyclone that funnels it back to the
furnace to be combusted again.

"We burn every last bit that we can," he said, "but we still have the rocks. No
market for hot rocks."

The technology results in relatively low emissions of some conventional air
pollutants, like mercury, without additional pollution control equipment. But
carbon dioxide is the system's Achilles' heel, he said, because the best bits of
coal were sorted out and burned long ago and the leftovers are a low quality
fuel. Plants have to inject more limestone into the mix to control sulfur
dioxide emissions, but that same process causes carbon emissions to rise.

Unlike plants that can switch to a cleaner fuel, like natural gas, to meet Clean
Power Plan goals, waste coal plants were designed to get rid of the otherwise
valueless garbage in their backyards.

"This plant was built to burn a specific type of fuel in a specific geographic
area," Mr. Oelbracht said. "This is a child of the pile that was here."

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: PowerSource/ This is the last in a series looking at the state of the
coal industry as it deals with increasing regulations and a changing market. /
Laura Legere: llegere@post-gazette.com {SERIES} COAL UNDER PRESSURE

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Robert J. Pavuchek/Post-Gazette: The Champion Processing Inc.
coal waste pile in Robinson Township, Washington County. Pennsylvania's
landscape is dotted with such piles, particularly in the eastern part of the
state, where mining for anthracite coal left a large numbers of them. This photo
is from 2002.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2015 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              281 of 419 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            January 20, 2015 Tuesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

LET'S NOT PRETEND;
WHAT THE PENN STATE DEAL DOES AND DOES NOT DO

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. B-4

LENGTH: 401 words


As the result of an unprecedented legal settlement announced Friday, Penn State
legend Joe Paterno once again is the winningest coach in major college football.

Hundreds of students paraded down College Avenue in celebration and "409"
T-shirts bearing Jo-Pa's total wins will be available at the Student Book Store.

The NCAA's decision to erase 112 Penn State victories was an unrealistic attempt
to rewrite history, part of the wide-ranging sanctions that it leveled in 2012
and that have been under fire since. Taking away the wins on paper did not
change the fact that Nittany Lion athletes had won 111 of those games under Mr.
Paterno's direction, and reinstating them is a correction of the record.
Restoring the wins, however, must not be misinterpreted as an alteration of the
wretched child sexual abuse scandal perpetrated by his long-time assistant,
Jerry Sandusky.

Some fundamentals were unchanged by the NCAA's rollback of its sanctions.

It is still true that Sandusky preyed on at least 10 boys and richly deserves
his prison term, which should last the length of his life.

It is still true that Joe Paterno failed to do as much as he should have to
prevent a climate where Sandusky could use the football program as a grooming
ground to lure and then molest boys. Even the late Mr. Paterno himself had said,
"I wish I had done more."

It is still true that the culture spawned by the adoration of football and Mr.
Paterno cowed grown men who feared the consequences of reporting horrible deeds
they'd seen - a janitor who witnessed the rape of a child but feared he'd lose
his job if he spoke up and a graduate assistant, witness to another sexual
assault, who did tell Mr. Paterno. The coach passed the information along to
administrators, and they still are awaiting trial on related cover-up charges.

Much has changed at Penn State. Former Sen. George J. Mitchell, who had been
working with the university to assure its compliance with the consent decree,
has credited Penn State with significant advancements in creating an ethical
culture and enhancing security. He will continue those efforts under the new
settlement, which mandates that the university pay $60 million toward the
prevention of child sexual abuse in Pennsylvania.

But let's not forget the horrors that were committed within earshot of the
winningest coach in major college football. And let's not pretend that
everything's fine now.

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2015 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              283 of 419 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                           January 22, 2015 Thursday
                                 SOONER EDITION

WISH LIST;
OBAMA AND CONGRESS MUST WORK FROM THE CENTER

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. B-6

LENGTH: 398 words


President Barack Obama's State of the Union message Tuesday could have been more
conciliatory than defiant to the new Republican majority in Congress if he
really believed that body might cooperate with him - and if he really wanted to
work with them on achieving solutions.

Instead, he made popular proposals that Congress is not likely to approve - free
community college, a tripled child care tax credit and paid sick leave, all
funded in part by raising the capital gains tax on the rich.

Along the way, he cited achievements during his administration: the Affordable
Care Act, which has given health insurance to an additional 10 million
Americans; the surge in new jobs; the drop in the unemployment rate to 5.6
percent and, more disputably, U.S. successes in fighting terrorism around the
world.

The Democrats' assets in any political showdowns are the presidential veto and
enough seats in the Senate to sustain a filibuster. The Republicans' strengths
are majorities in the House and Senate, as a result of gains in the midterm
elections.

Despite his dead-on-arrival wish list, Mr. Obama's overall target is a worthy
one: improving the lagging economic situation of America's middle class. Wages
have failed to rise, manufacturing isn't what it used to be and two spouses must
work these days to provide what one brought home in the past. There are plenty
of opportunities for Republicans and Democrats to address the plight of working
Americans, if they'd work realistically.

It's one thing to wave "income inequality" as a political slogan, but Mr.
Obama's pledge to pursue "middle class economics" is worth the attention of
everyone in Washington.

The president, no doubt, will do what he can by working around Congress, but he
could accomplish more if he worked with it. He also is trying to set an agenda,
as head of his party, that will shape the platforms of Democratic candidates in
2016.

On foreign policy, he called for easing relations with Cuba, pursuing the Iran
nuclear talks, increasing cyber protection, addressing climate change, closing
the Guantanamo Bay prison and seeking fast-track trade authority. He also sought
congressional approval to wage war against the Islamic State group.

Regardless of the issue, the Democratic president and Republican Congress will
achieve more for the country if they work from the center. Hollow talking points
won't help the middle class.

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2015 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              321 of 419 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                              March 2, 2015 Monday
                                 SOONER EDITION

WOODLAND HILLS WORKS ON REDUCING SUSPENSIONS;
OFFICIALS EMPHASIZE THE NEED 'TO BUILD RELATIONSHIPS'

BYLINE: Eleanor Chute, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: EDUCATION; Pg. A-1

LENGTH: 836 words


If Woodland Hills superintendent Alan Johnson succeeds, the school district
won't make another national list of the 10 districts with the highest
out-of-school suspension rates of elementary school students.

A week ago, the Center for Civil Rights Remedies at UCLA issued a report saying
that Woodland Hills had a rate of 23.8 percent of elementary students suspended
out of school one or more times during 2011-12. The national average is 2.6
percent, and the state average is 2 percent.

The report - "Are We Closing the School Discipline Gap?" - also showed racial
disparities in Woodland Hills, with 30.2 percent of elementary black students
and 8.51 percent of elementary white students suspended one or more times. A
student who is suspended more than once counted only once in the report.

Woodland Hills has been trying to reduce its suspension numbers, and the
national report prompted Mr. Johnson to ask staff to compute the most recent
rate to see how much progress has been made.

The district's 2013-14 rate shows that 16.48 percent of elementary students were
suspended one or more times, a drop of more than 7 percentage points from
2011-12. Racial disparities remained, although rates had dropped to 22.93
percent of black students and 7.23 percent of white students.

While he said the numbers aren't down "nearly enough" and expressed concern over
the disparities, Mr. Johnson said, "We're trying to change the culture. I think
we're starting to be successful."

About 65 percent of the students in the district are black. Elementary school
enrollment is about 2,200.

Mr. Johnson believes one initiative that has made a difference is the opening in
2012-13 of the Rankin Promise, which is an alternative program for students in
grades 4-12. Previously, the district had an alternative program only for grades
7-12. About 120 attend Rankin, including 25 or 30 in grades 4-6. Their
suspension numbers are included in their home schools.

He said the Rankin Promise has resources to address behavior concerns, including
time-out rooms, therapeutic classrooms, a psychologist and a behavior
interventionist. He said the regular elementary schools, which serve K-6, do not
have enough resources.

If a child is acting inappropriately in the alternative program, he said, "We
don't have to automatically suspend." Instead, the specialists can work with the
child and try to develop a plan to keep the student in the classroom.

He said the district also has done professional development to help staff better
understand a range of socioeconomic situations. Given many students come from
low socioeconomic backgrounds, he said most teachers and administrators -
including himself - have participated in a daylong "poverty simulator" to help
them better understand students.

He said he also uses the "bully pulpit," adding, "Every year on the opening day,
I stress the need to build personal relationships with kids."

He said the district also is trying to improve instruction, including a school
realignment plan that puts grades 4, 5 and 6 in one building and uses STEAM -
science, technology, engineering, arts and math - to try to better engage
students.

Mr. Johnson noted that some districts have banned or severely restricted
suspensions, but he said, "I could send out a directive this afternoon: Thou
shalt not suspend any more students in grades K-3. I don't want to do that."

He said such an edict might improve numbers but wouldn't improve the school
environment.

The issue of school suspensions is attracting attention across the nation. A
year ago, the U.S. Department of Justice and the U.S. Department of Education
issued guidance on school discipline, calling on schools to examine their
policies and practices and eliminate disparities.

The American Civil Liberties Union of Pennsylvania last week updated its 2013
report called, "Beyond Zero Tolerance." The online version, available at
www.aclupa.org, includes links to the latest research as well as resources for
parents, students, educators, administrators and advocates.

Harold Jordan, senior policy advocate for the American Civil Liberties Union of
Pennsylvania, said it is critical for school districts to take a close look at
why students are suspended and to look for patterns.

He said research shows that black students tend to be suspended at higher levels
for offenses that are subjectively measured, such as disrespect, while white
students tend to be suspended for offenses that are objectively measured, such
as smoking.

"We're not in favor of disorderly schools," Mr. Jordan said. "We're saying
what's happening now is not fair to people, and it's not working and it has
dramatically negative social consequences, especially kids becoming disengaged
with school."

Mr. Johnson said school suspensions create a "vicious cycle" in which suspended
students fall behind academically, get frustrated, act out and get suspended
again.

In working to reduce the number of suspensions, Mr. Jordan said, "The goal is to
create a better school climate for everybody."

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Education writer Eleanor Chute: echute@post-gazette.com or 412-263-1955.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Pam Panchak/Post-Gazette: Woodland Hills School District
superintendent Alan Johnson: "I could send out a directive this afternoon: Thou
shalt not suspend any more students in grades K-3. I don't want to do that."

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2015 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              330 of 419 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            April 23, 2015 Thursday
                                 SOONER EDITION

SECTION: ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT; MOVIE GUIDE; Pg. W-16

LENGTH: 2006 words


Note: Where there are no stars, see reviews Friday, except where noted (some
films are not previewed for critics).

Key: Movies are rated on a scale of * (bomb) to **** (classic).

OPENING FRIDAY

The Age of Adaline

A beautiful woman who miraculously stops aging at 29 finally finds true love
eight decades later, but a secret from her past could destroy her new life
before it begins. Starring Blake Lively. PG-13 for a suggestive comment. 110
min. AMC-Loews; Carmike Greensburg; Cinemark Monroeville, North, Robinson &
Tarentum; Cranberry; Galleria; Phoenix CV & NV; Southland; SouthSide;
Waterworks; Wynnsong.

Ex Machina

Sci-fi thriller, about artificial intelligence, from writer-director Alex
Garland starring Oscar Isaac, Domhnall Gleeson and Alicia Vikander. R for
graphic nudity, language, sexual references and some violence. 108 min.
AMC-Loews; Carmike Greensburg; Cinemark Monroeville, North, Robinson & Tarentum,
Cranberry, Phoenix CV, SouthSide, Waterworks.

Little Boy

Roma Downey and Mark Burnett are among the executive producers of the
inspirational story of a 7-year-old boy who is willing to do whatever it takes
to end World War II so he can bring his father home. Cast includes Jakob Salvati
as the title character, Emily Watson and Michael Rapaport as his parents and Tom
Wilkinson as a priest. PG-13 for some thematic material including violence. 106
min. AMC-Loews, Carmike Bethel Park & Greensburg, Cinemark Robinson & Tarentum,
Cranberry.

Merchants of Doubt

Inspired by the book by Naomi Oreskes and Erik Conway, this film lifts the
curtain on a secretive group of highly charismatic, silver-tongued pundits for
hire who present themselves as scientific authorities yet want to spread
confusion about threats such as toxic chemicals and climate change. PG-13 for
brief strong language. 93 min. Manor.

The Road Within

Coming-of-age road trip movie about a young man with Tourette's, another with
OCD and a young woman with anorexia who make a break from a center for those
dealing with psychological disorders. They borrow a vehicle with the idea of
heading to the ocean to spread a loved one's ashes. With Robert Sheehan, Dev
Patel, Zoe Kravitz, Kyra Sedgwick and Robert Patrick. R for language throughout,
some sexual content/nudity and drug use. 101 min. Parkway.

She's Beautiful When She's Angry

Documentary about the early years of the women's movement, 1966 to 1971, when
women (and some men) fought for job equality, educational opportunities, day
care, reproductive rights, sexual freedom and more. No MPAA rating. 92 min.
Regent Square.

The Water Diviner

Russell Crowe makes his directorial debut and stars as an Australian farmer who,
four years after the Battle of Gallipoli, risks his life to search for his three
sons who never returned home from the war. R for war violence including some
disturbing images. 111 min. AMC-Loews.

OPENING SATURDAY

Aspie Seeks Love

Indie film, from Julie Sokolow, about a man from Aliquippa trying to find a
meaningful relationship and success as a writer, while navigating a late-in-life
Asperger's syndrome diagnosis that put him on the autism spectrum. Back from a
single sold-out showing in late March. No MPAA rating. 73 min. Harris.

CURRENT MOVIES

American Sniper ***

Clint Eastwood directs Bradley Cooper in the real-life story of Navy SEAL Chris
Kyle, known as the most accurate sniper in U.S. military history. R for strong
and disturbing war violence, and language throughout including some sexual
references. 132 min. Pittsburgh North.

The Boy Next Door *1/2

Jennifer Lopez is a divorced high school teacher who has an affair with a
teenage neighbor who then causes a world of trouble for her. R for violence,
sexual content/nudity and language. 91 min. Pittsburgh North.

Child 44

Not reviewed.

Tom Hardy and Noomi Rapace, who appeared in "The Drop," are reunited in a
thriller set in Stalinist Russia where a member of the secret police is framed
and exiled to a remote outpost where he discovers a series of murders and vows
to catch the killer. R for violence, some disturbing images, language and a
scene of sexuality. 137 min. AMC-Loews, Cinemark Robinson, Galleria.

Cinderella ***

Lily James is Ella, a young woman determined to honor her mother's dying words
to "have courage and be kind." But her father dies and leaves her at the mercy
of her stepmother and stepsisters, who rename her Cinderella, in this
live-action feature. PG for mild thematic elements. 105 min. AMC-Loews; Carmike
Bethel Park & Greensburg; Cinemark Monroeville, North, Robinson & Tarentum;
Dependable; Phoenix CV & NV; Pittsburgh North; Wynnsong.

Danny Collins ***

Al Pacino is an aging rock star who receives a letter from John Lennon 40 years
after it was sent and decides to belatedly heed its advice. With a soundtrack
featuring nine classic Lennon songs plus original music by Ryan Adams and Don
Was. R for language, drug use and some nudity. 106 min. AMC-Loews, Galleria,
Waterworks.

The Divergent Series: Insurgent ** 1/2

Second installment of the "Divergent" series starring Shailene Woodley as Tris,
searching for allies and answers in the dystopian ruins of a futuristic Chicago.
In 3-D and IMAX in select theaters. PG-13 for intense violence and action
throughout, some sensuality, thematic elements and brief language. 118 min.
AMC-Loews, Carmike Bethel Park & Greensburg, Cinemark Robinson, Cranberry,
Phoenix CV & NV, Pittsburgh North, SouthSide, Waterworks, Wynnsong.

Fifty Shades of Grey *1/2

The first of a trilogy about the erotic liaisons of young, innocent Anastasia
Steele, and her older, domineering billionaire lover Christian Grey. R for
strong sexual content including dialogue, some unusual behavior and graphic
nudity, and for language. 125 min. Pittsburgh North.

Focus ***

Will Smith stars as a seasoned master of misdirection who becomes romantically
involved with a novice con artist, played by Margot Robbie. She gets too close
for comfort, he breaks it off, but she turns up three years later in Buenos
Aires as an accomplished femme fatale who throws his plans for a loop. R for
language, some sexual content and brief violence. 104 min. Pittsburgh North.

Furious 7 ***

This is the last Paul Walker movie. He was filming it when he died, but the
production pressed ahead, retooling the script and using stand-ins and digital
expertise to keep his character of Brian O'Conner alongside Vin Diesel's Dom
Toretto and others in this popular franchise. PG-13 for prolonged frenetic
sequences of violence, action and mayhem, suggestive content and brief strong
language. In IMAX in select theaters. 137 min. AMC-Loews; Carmike Bethel Park &
Greensburg; Cinemark Monroeville, North, Robinson & Tarentum; Cranberry;
Dependable; Penn Hills; Phoenix CV & NV; Pittsburgh North; Southland; SouthSide;
Waterworks; Wynnsong.

Get Hard **

Will Ferrell is a millionaire hedge-fund manager who is given 30 days to get his
affairs in order before heading to San Quentin. He wrongly assumes that a
businessman (Kevin Hart) has been to prison and turns to him for advice on how
to get hard in this comedy. R for pervasive crude and sexual content and
language, some graphic nudity and drug material. 100 min. AMC-Loews; Carmike
Greensburg; Cinemark Monroeville, Robinson & Tarentum; Phoenix CV & NV;
Pittsburgh North; Southland; SouthSide; Wynnsong.

Home ***

Jim Parsons, Rihanna, Steve Martin and Jennifer Lopez provide key voices in this
animated movie based on the Adam Rex children's novel "The True Meaning of
Smekday," about Earth being taken over by an alien race. PG for mild action and
some rude humor. 94 min. AMC-Loews; Carmike Bethel Park & Greensburg; Cinemark
Monroeville, North, Robinson & Tarentum; Cranberry; Dependable; Galleria;
Phoenix CV & NV; Penn Hills; Pittsburgh North; Southland; SouthSide; Waterworks;
Wynnsong.

It Follows *** 1/2

After a seemingly innocent sexual encounter, a 19-year-old woman is plagued by
nightmarish visions. R for disturbing violent and sexual content including
graphic nudity and language. 100 min. AMC-Loews, Dependable, Phoenix CV & NV.

Kingsman: The Secret Service **1/2

Matthew Vaughn directs and co-wrote this thriller based on the comic book about
a secret spy organization that recruits an unrefined but promising street kid
into its ultra-competitive training program. R for sequences of strong violence,
language and some sexual content. 129 min. AMC-Loews.

The Longest Ride ** 1/2

Based on Nicholas Sparks' novel about two love stories. One is about an elderly
man and his late wife and the other focuses on a man fighting to save his
family's ranch and a sophisticated young woman. PG-13 for some sexuality,
partial nudity and some war and sports action. 139 min. AMC-Loews; Carmike
Bethel Park & Greensburg; Cinemark Monroeville, North, Robinson & Tarentum;
Cranberry; Galleria; Phoenix CV & NV; Southland; Waterworks.

Monkey Kingdom ***

Sixth theatrical release for Disneynature, focusing on a newborn monkey and its
mother. They struggle to survive within the competitive social hierarchy of the
Temple Troop, a dynamic group of monkeys who live in ancient ruins in the
jungles of South Asia. Rated G. 81 min. AMC-Loews; Carmike Bethel Park &
Greensburg; Cinemark Monroeville, North, Robinson & Tarentum; Cranberry; Phoenix
CV & NV; Southland; SouthSide; Waterworks; Wynnsong.

Paul Blart: Mall Cop 2 *

Kevin James returns as Paul Blart, but this time he's headed to Vegas for a
security guard expo with his teenage daughter. While there, he inadvertently
discovers a heist. PG for some violence. 94 min. AMC-Loews; Carmike Bethel Park
& Greensburg; Cinemark Monroeville, North, Robinson & Tarentum; Cranberry;
Dependable; Penn Hills; Phoenix CV & NV; Pittsburgh North; Waterworks; Wynnsong.

SEVENTH SON * 1/2

Jeff Bridges is the sole remaining warrior of a mystical order who travels to
find a prophesied hero with incredible powers, the last Seventh Son (Ben
Barnes). PG-13 for intense fantasy violence and action throughout, frightening
images and brief strong language. 102 min. Pittsburgh North.

The SpongeBob Movie: Sponge Out of Water ** 1/2

When the secret recipe for the popular Krabby Patty sandwich disappears, bad
things happen, and it's up to SpongeBob and a team to save the day in this blend
of animation and live action. PG for some mild crude humor. 87 min. Pittsburgh
North.

TRUE STORY ***

James Franco portrays accused killer Christian Longo, who takes on the identity
of a disgraced New York Times reporter played by Jonah Hill. Based on actual
events. R for language and some disturbing material. 100 min. AMC-Loews,
Cinemark North, Cinemark Robinson & Tarentum, Galleria, Manor.

UNFRIENDED **

A teenager and her friends are stalked by an unseen figure who seeks vengeance
for a shaming video that led a bully to kill herself a year earlier in this
horror movie that unfolds through a computer screen. R for violent content,
pervasive language, some sexuality and drug and alcohol use -- all involving
teens. 82 min. AMC-Loews; Carmike Bethel Park & Greensburg; Cinemark
Monroeville, North, Robinson & Tarentum; Cranberry; Dependable; Phoenix CV & NV;
Southland; Waterworks; Wynnsong.

While We're Young ***1/2

Cross-generational comedy of manners about aging, ambition, success and the
forces of youth starring Ben Stiller and Naomi Watts as a New York married
couple in their early 40s and Adam Driver and Amanda Seyfried as their new
friends in their 20s. R for language. 96 min. Cinemark North & Tarentum, Manor.

Woman in Gold ***

Helen Mirren portrays Maria Altmann, a Jewish refugee who in her 80s waged a
legal battle to force the Austrian government to return Gustav Klimt paintings
stolen by the Nazis. PG-13 for some thematic elements and brief strong language.
109 min. AMC-Loews; Carmike Greensburg; Cinemark Monroeville, North, Robinson &
Tarentum; Cranberry; Galleria; Manor; Phoenix CV & NV; Southland; Waterworks;
Wynnsong.

* Closing today: "McFarland, USA," "Run All Night," "Spring," "Wild Tales."

* Screening times in many of the movie theater ads in this section are for
Thursday only. See Friday's Magazine for Friday show times.

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: WEEKEND MAG

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jakob Salvati goes all out to bring his father home from war in
"Little Boy."

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2015 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              333 of 419 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                             April 28, 2015 Tuesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

AUDIT SAYS STATE SYSTEM STUDENTS CONTINUE TO PAY FOR LACK OF FUNDING

BYLINE: Bill Schackner, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: EDUCATION; Pg. A-1

LENGTH: 768 words


Should students attending Pennsylvania's 14 state-owned universities pay a flat
four-year tuition rate? What about a partial refund for timely degree
completion?

A university system already experimenting with alternate pricing amid enrollment
losses and deep state funding cuts should at least be open to those and various
other ideas emerging around the nation, Pennsylvania Auditor General Eugene
DePasquale said Monday.

In releasing results of an audit of the State System of Higher Education, Mr.
DePasquale said the commonwealth's least expensive option for a bachelor's
degree nevertheless has seen a 27 percent jump in tuition in six years, even
with cost containment efforts he deemed "laudable" but still not enough.

The otherwise favorable audit also found shortcomings in the system's monitoring
of campus crime reporting and cited inconsistencies in policies and practices to
prevent discrimination on individual campuses based on sex. But it found no
evidence that actual crimes were going unreported or that discrimination cases
had been mishandled, his office said.

Mr. DePasquale said escalating prices during those years should be no mystery,
noting a 20 percent cut in state support per student since 2008-09. That is part
of a larger trend that has left the state covering 28 percent of the system's
costs, down from a high of 60 percent.

"In other words, the reduction in state appropriations has increased the
financial burden on students and their families," Mr. DePasquale's 59-page
report concludes.

He said more must be done to curb operating costs, including health care and
other personnel expenses.

"If costs are not contained, and tuition continues to rise, many students will
likely incur higher amounts of debt to pursue a college education," the audit
said. "For some other students, the rising costs could prevent them from
completing their degrees."

The report, released at a Harrisburg news conference, was the first modern-day
comprehensive performance audit evaluating the effectiveness of operations and
policies in the State System.

The system enrolls 110,000 students, including those on the Western Pennsylvania
campuses of California, Clarion, Edinboro, Indiana and Slippery Rock
universities. Affordability is a large part of the system's mission, and its
base in-state undergraduate tuition price of $6,820 a year is less than half
that charged by Penn State University and the University of Pittsburgh.

The auditor general took issue with a system decision to suspend conducting
audits for compliance with the Clery Act, which requires reporting of campus
crimes. The system has done only four campus Clery audits since 2011 and decided
to hold off on others while studying changes to the Clery Act.

Mr. DePasquale said the audits are critical to ensuring that campuses lawfully
report crimes and should be reinstated, something State System chancellor Frank
Brogan said would occur.

The U.S. Department of Education, if it found campus violations, could levy
$35,000 in fines per violation. But beyond that threat, the audit said, the
State System "has a duty to ensure that its universities comply with all aspects
of the Clery Act . to provide the transparency and campus safety awareness that
the law intended."

The audit also found that the State System had not established system-wide
uniform procedures to comply with Title IX, which prohibits discrimination on
the basis of sex, and that inconsistencies exist among individual campuses.

The auditor general's report generally covered three years ending June 30,
though some aspects including tuition involved a longer period. The audit found
three areas where current State System practice was sufficient and did not
require modifications:

* The system's board of governors is handling its duties under Act 188
effectively;

* The system has taken steps to ensure compliance with state and federal laws
pertaining to sexual violence and sexual harassment;

. It has established campus safety-related policies and procedures required by
state and federal law.

At the news conference, Mr. DePasquale said the system already had begun a
number of improvements, including the hiring of a Title IX coordinator almost a
year ago to enhance compliance by serving as a liaison with the campuses.

The State System has expressed support for a tuition freeze if large aid
increases in Gov. Tom Wolf's proposed state budget pass the Legislature.

Mr. Brogan said the system has an ongoing cost containment program and holds
security and campus climate as top priorities. If a setting is unsafe, he said,
"You cannot teach and you cannot learn."

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Bill Schackner: bschackner@post-gazette.com, 412-263-1977 or on Twitter
@BschacknerPG.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2015 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              343 of 419 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                              June 14, 2015 Sunday
                                TWO STAR EDITION

ECONOMIC LIBERTIES ARE ESSENTIAL FOR CIVIL LIBERTIES

BYLINE: JOHN DUNN, Sewickley Heights

SECTION: EDITORIAL; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR; Pg. D-2

LENGTH: 324 words


The May 31 Forum had a disappointing article, "Let's Try Regenerative
Capitalism." The authors, Jock Gill and Richard C. Bell, offer a critique of
capitalism, about which they know little. I teach an introductory course in
economics at Robert Morris University to more than 180 students each semester.

In the United States there are three aspects of our economy: free markets,
capitalism and the rule of law. Contrasting the list of politically free
countries by the liberal Freedom House with a similar list of economically free
countries by the conservative Heritage Foundation, there is an almost one-to-one
correlation.

The failure of Marxist societies is that without the economic liberties of
private property and open markets, the civil liberties of freedom of speech,
religion and assembly are unattainable.

The rule of law prevents exploitation of labor in wages and safety and
exploitation of the environment and insures that contracts, private property and
a functioning market exist.

The laws of supply and demand operate with greater efficiency than a central
government. The consumer accounts for 68 percent of our gross domestic product
versus 18 percent for our government entities, reflective of individual choice
and liberty.

An example of the private sector's inventiveness is the fact that low-cost
natural gas production has allowed America to meet the unsigned Kyoto agreement.

In pollution, municipalities pollute rivers when rainfall exceeds the
capabilities of their water pollution systems, with no prospect of fines or
penalties unlike the private sector. China and India have government-owned
polluting industries and answer to nobody.

For authors ignorant of facts or of economics itself, the best recourse is to
find bogeymen in the form of the Koch brothers and the Republican Party. Yet
America's Democrats favor the same economic system; both parties strive for
improvements. For every Koch brother there is a George Soros.

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2015 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              348 of 419 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                              June 21, 2015 Sunday
                                TWO STAR EDITION

CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATES SPREADS WORD OF FATHER'S DAY PLEDGE AGAINST GENDER VIOLENCE

BYLINE: Peter Smith, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: RELIGION; Pg. A-1

LENGTH: 690 words


Worshipers at some churches on this Father's Day Sunday may be hearing sobering
messages on gender violence and ways to prevent it.

Christian Associates of Southwest Pennsylvania, a coalition of Protestant,
Catholic and Orthodox denominations, has distributed 300 copies of a 12-page
document containing everything from a fact sheet on gender violence and
emergency phone numbers to ideas for prayers, sermons and Scripture readings.
The group also made the materials available online.

The document, "Peace, Be Still!." is based on a Gospel passage in which Jesus
calmed a raging storm.

"Gender violence is something that all people of faith can easily stand against,
and it's something the church has a mixed record on," said the Rev. Liddy
Barlow, executive minister for the group.

"We have not always done a good job as a church in loudly rejecting violence
against women," she said. "We've come to realize that the churches are an
extremely important moral voice in the community, so we have the responsibility
to make clear our rejection of all kinds of violence and abuse."

It's being distributed in conjunction with the Father's Day Pledge, being
promoted locally and nationally, in which men sign a statement agreeing not to
use violence in relationships, to speak up if a man is abusive to a woman or
girl, to work with wo-men to end gender violence and to mentor boys and young
men to treat women and girls with respect.

Local corporate and other community leaders are also promoting the pledge, led
by the Downtown-based Fisa Foundation. The foundation is distributing a video on
the topic featuring local leaders on the website Southwest PA Says No More
(southwestpasaysnomore.org). On Friday at the Allegheny County Courthouse,
dozens of leaders from government, business and the nonprofit sector gathered
for a ceremony to sign the pledge.

Rev. Barlow said at least 750 people signed poster-sized copies of the Father's
Day pledge when she brought them to recent regional conferences of Lutherans,
Methodists, the United Church of Christ and Christians United in Beaver County.
Bishops and other leaders in Christian Associates also signed.

The booklet includes suggestions for hymns, prayers and readings. It suggests a
call to confession that begins, "The silence of bystanders can have terrible
consequences. When we refuse to speak out against violence, when we refrain from
offering a word of kindness, when we bottle up our own feelings and failings,
evil can result."

Among the contributors to the booklet is the Rev. Kimberly Greway, chief
operating office and director of chaplaincy services at the Foundation of HOPE,
an interfaith group working with inmates at Allegheny County Jail.

She said the broad-based support for the pledge "can really make a difference."

"In the jail, we definitely see both victims and perpetrators of gender
violence, and we work with folks who have had a lot of abuse and trauma in the
past. We see the toll that can take on their lives."

The "sermon starters" include ideas for preaching on domestic violence, tied in
with Bible passages that are scheduled to be used by churches that follow a
prescribed cycle of readings.

For example, Joshua Bullock, Christian Associates executive administrative
assistant, writes on Psalm 107, where God calms a raging sea.

"Our work in opposing gender violence is not only to provide life rafts for
those who are battered by the waves, but also to call on the storm itself to
cease," he wrote. "Not only can we help those who are already victims of
violence, but we can work to change the climate, so that destructive storms are
never able to form. By addressing the root causes of gender violence, with God's
help, we can make the storm be still."

In another, Rev. Barlow quotes from Psalm 133, which begins, "How pleasant it is
for kinfolk to dwell in unity," then noted that passage subtly speaks about
connections across national and cultural borders. "The Psalm, then, is
celebrating the unity of those who are diverse. Southwest PA Says No More is an
excellent example of kinfolk throughout our region coming together to work in
unity to help our neighbors."

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Peter Smith: petersmith@post-gazette.com or 412-263-1416; Twitter
@PG_PeterSmith.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2015 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              361 of 419 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            August 11, 2015 Tuesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

MANY ANIMALS HUNTED AS TROPHIES ARE ENDANGERED

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. A-6

LENGTH: 283 words


Regarding the article "Sometimes, Big Game Trophies Can Wind Up in Big Museums"
(Aug. 5):

While I agree that examining the legality of a trophy hunt is important,
focusing on that alone does not highlight the bigger issue at hand. Many animals
hunted as trophies are at risk of being endangered or are already endangered:
the black rhinoceros, cheetah, leopard, lion, elephant and white rhinoceros.

They are also keystone species, which are species that exist in low numbers in
the wild but have an amplified influence on the environment. Reducing
individuals within these species can create large ecosystem consequences such as
ecosystem degradation, massive population shifts of other species or decreases
in overall diversity.

In some regions in Africa, certain species populations are already struggling to
remain stable due to human encroachment and climate change. The overall lion
population has fallen 50 percent over the past 30 years, and black and white
rhino deaths might outnumber births as soon as next year; these animals are
already struggling to survive.

Trophy hunters are not killing the weak, sick or old animals with the aim to
encourage a "healthy" population. Trophy hunting needs to be examined from a
conservation perspective. Our world is facing species extinctions at rates 100
times faster than previously recorded.

How can we continue to allow at-risk and endangered animals to be shot and
mounted on the wall of a billiard room?

ERICA TAYLOR

Fox Chapel

The writer, who is entering a graduate program in environmental technology at
Imperial College London, recently returned from a summer internship with Youth 4
African Wildlife, a nonprofit wildlife conservation organization.

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Paula French via AP: Cecil the lion in 2012 in Hwange National
Park, Zimbabwe. Cecil was killed by an American dentist, Walter Palmer.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2015 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              373 of 419 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            September 6, 2015 Sunday
                                TWO STAR EDITION

FOR U.S. CATHOLICS: GROWING NUMBERS, SHRINKING RITES

BYLINE: Peter Smith, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: RELIGION; Pg. A-1

LENGTH: 1318 words


There may be more American Catholics than ever, but they're doing fewer Catholic
things.

Such is the paradox that Pope Francis will be facing when he touches down in the
United States later this month.

The Catholic Church counts a historic high of about 70 million Americans in the
United States and its territories, the fourth-largest Catholic population in the
world, behind Brazil, Mexico and the Philippines. Independent surveys of adults
give mixed results on whether the Catholic population is growing or stagnating,
and many cradle Catholics do leave the faith, but immigration has continued to
fuel a membership roughly a quarter of the U.S. population.

What is clear is that the whole cradle-to-grave tradition of U.S. Catholicism
life-cycle events is in decline. Many of these numbers have been declining since
the 1960s, but consider the following trends from between 2000 and 2015,
according to church statistics:

* Infant baptisms: Down 31 percent nationally, down 47 percent in the Diocese of
Pittsburgh.

* First communions: Down 16 percent nationally, down 41 percent in Pittsburgh.

* Confirmations: Down 8 percent nationally, down 31 percent in Pittsburgh.

* Church marriages: Down 43 percent nationally, down 53 percent in Pittsburgh.

* Elementary school enrollment: Down 32 percent nationally, down 46 percent in
Pittsburgh.

Similar and in some case worse declines can be seen in neighboring dioceses such
as Greensburg, Wheeling and Steubenville. Francis' visit to Philadelphia, New
York and Washington encompasses a Northeast region that has experienced numerous
closings of parishes and parochial schools.

But even though the Pittsburgh region lost population following the steel bust
of the 1980s, the Catholic numbers declined at an even higher rate. They were 45
percent of the 1980 population of the seven-county metropolitan area, which
straddles parts of the dioceses of Pittsburgh and Greensburg, but only 33
percent in 2010, according to the Association of Statisticians of Major
Religious Bodies.

And even though the Pittsburgh region lost population following the steel bust
of the 1980s, the Catholic numbers declined at an even higher rate. Catholics
were 45 percent of the 1980 population of the seven-county metropolitan area,
which straddles parts of the dioceses of Pittsburgh and Greensburg, but only 33
percent in 2010, according to the Association of Statisticians of Major
Religious Bodies.

Pittsburgh Bishop David Zubik said such numbers underscore that when Pope
Francis calls on the church to evangelize, its primary audience consists of
Catholics themselves who may have only a limited understanding of the faith. He
said a spiritual individualism or "me-and-God mentality" is prevalent today,
making it harder for people to understand the importance of communal rites such
as baptism and communion.

"We're a church family," he said. "It's in the context of the sacraments that we
celebrate as a community.

While typical Catholic family size is smaller than in the past - itself a
reflection of a widespread defiance of church proscriptions against artificial
birth control - that doesn't entirely account for the decline in childhood
church participation. A new Georgetown University survey found more than
two-thirds of Catholics parents don't enroll their kids in any sort of religious
education, either during or after school.

One-third of Catholic parents, generally those less connected to their parishes,
don't think it's very important for their children to have first communion or be
confirmed.

Those are central rites of passage for Catholics.

"If you don't celebrate your first communion or are confirmed, you are more
likely to leave the faith," said Mark Gray, director of Catholic polls for
Georgetown's Center for Applied Research in the Apostolate.

To be sure, there are signs of vitality.

The Georgetown survey found most Catholic parents affirm basic Catholic
teachings about Jesus and Mary, and about half attend Mass at least once a
month.

They do pray a lot, but mostly by themselves, not with their families. And
signature Catholic devotions are limited: Little more than a third pray the
rosary and a fifth have taken part in the adoration of the Eucharist.

The Catholic population is booming in places such as Los Angeles and Houston,
with their large Hispanic influxes. The Diocese of Galveston-Houston, for
example, has nearly doubled since 2000. Los Angeles had 70,000 baptisms last
year.

"Every parish is packed with people every week," said Los Angeles Archbishop
Jose Gomez. "As far as I can see, people are coming to the church."

Even in the Sun Belt, though, the numbers of Catholics are increasing faster
than their participation in sacraments or Catholic education.

Archbishop Gomez said churches need to work harder to accommodate the work
schedules of Hispanics so that it's easier, for example, to bring children to
preparation classes for confirmation.

Mr. Gray also said there's a mismatch between the North, where dioceses are
shuttering their oversupplies of churches and schools, and the Sunbelt, where
pastors often complain of cramped spaces and lack of parking.

Even the Diocese of Pittsburgh can appear to be a tale of two churches. Even as
the aging, dwindling ranks of parishioners at St. John Vianney in Allentown face
the likely closure of the last parish in the heart of the Hilltop neighborhoods,
suburban parish St. Kilian in Mars is building a new home to accommodate its
11,000 parishioners.

And even as nearby Franciscan University in Steubenville, Ohio, draws tens of
thousands of enthusiastic teens to summer conferences that promote traditional
devotions and dogma, the overall national statistics show a youth population far
more indifferent to the faith.

A new Pew Research Center report said fewer than half of Catholics think it's a
sin to have gay sex, use artificial birth control, live with a partner outside
of marriage or remarry after a divorce without an annulment. They're evenly
split on whether the church should recognize gay marriages.

Frequent Mass-goers are more loyal to church teachings on these topics, but not
overwhelmingly so.

Majorities of U.S. Catholics support civil marriage for same-sex couples and
legalized abortion, according to the Public Religion Research Institute. Pope
Francis opposes both, although a sizable minority of people incorrectly thinks
he supports gay marriage because of his conciliatory words and gestures toward
gays and lesbians, and he is not identified with these issues as strongly as his
predecessors, Benedict XVI and St. John Paul II.

Majorities of Catholics agree with Francis on issues on which he has spoken
loudly and often, including immigrant rights, responding to climate change (the
subject of a new encyclical by Francis) and the government's need to address the
rich-poor gap.

As for the much-discussed "Francis Effect," or anecdotes of people returning to
the church at the inspiration of the charismatic new pope, the results are
mixed.

Nearly twice as many Catholics say their view of the church has improved rather
than declined over the past two years, and a majority of both current and former
Catholics think Pope Francis will attract Catholics back to the church,
according to Public Religion Research Institute.

But thinking Francis will attract people isn't the same as him actually doing
so. In the two years since he became pope, church statistics are trending the
same as they have over recent decades: with membership up but sacramental
participation and school enrollment down.

Francis remains highly popular among Americans and particularly Catholics, but
he faces the same challenge as John Paul II, whose stratospheric popularity in
his prime did not translate into agreement on central teachings, outside of a
core of admirers who include many in church leadership. The risk for Francis, as
with his predecessor, is of being more admired than adhered to.

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Peter Smith: petersmith@post-gazette.com or 412-263-1416; Twitter
@PG_PeterSmith.

GRAPHIC: INFORMATIONAL GRAPHIC: Offical Catholic Directory; Post-Gazette:
(Catholics: membership is up, population is down)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2015 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              375 of 419 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                          September 10, 2015 Thursday
                                 SOONER EDITION

WALLS WON'T DO;
THE WORLD IS ENTERING A NEW ERA OF DISARRAY

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A-9

LENGTH: 866 words


After Donald Trump proposed building a high wall all along the U.S.-Mexico
border, Gov. Scott Walker of Wisconsin, not to be out-trumped, basically said, I
see your wall and raise you one, stating that it was "legitimate" to consider
building a wall along the 5,525-mile U.S.-Canada border as well.

Well, I see both your walls - and raise you a dome.

I think we shouldn't just put high walls on both borders, but also a retractable
dome over the whole country. And let's mine our harbors, too - as Lindsey Graham
jokingly suggested, criticizing his wall-obsessed fellow Republican presidential
contenders.

I know, Mr. Walker's proposal is crazy. But the fears that he and Mr. Trump are
playing on with this wall theme are not crazy: Some big tectonic plates are
moving, and people feel it under their feet. The world is being redivided into
regions of "order" and "disorder" and, for the first time in a long time, we
don't have an answer for all the people flocking to get out of the world of
disorder and into the world of order.

But being surrounded by two oceans and friendly democracies in Mexico and
Canada, the U.S. is relatively little affected by this new era. (The net
migration flow from Mexico to the United States is now zero.) In fact, we should
keep enhancing our economic integration with both our neighbors in ways that can
make all three nations more stable and thriving.

That's why I favor only high walls with big gates - yes, control the borders but
with gates that enhance investment, common standards, trade, tourism and
economic opportunity in all three countries. Nothing would make us more secure.
When it comes to our neighbors, Messrs. Trump and Walker are making Americans
both afraid and dumb, purely for political gain.

But if either man were running for office in Europe today, his position on walls
everywhere would be getting a big hearing, as masses of refugees from the
African and Middle Eastern worlds of disorder try to walk, swim, sail, drive,
bus and rail their way into Europe's world of order.

And this is just the beginning because the three largest forces on the planet -
Mother Nature (climate change, biodiversity loss and population growth in
developing countries), Moore's law (the steady doubling in the power of
microchips and, more broadly, of technology) and the market (globalization tying
the world ever more tightly together) - are all in simultaneous, rapid
acceleration.

This combination is stressing strong countries and blowing up weak ones. And the
ones disintegrating first are the most artificial: Their borders are mostly
straight lines that correspond to no ethnic, tribal or religious realities and
their leaders, rather than creating citizens with equal rights, have wasted 60
years by plundering their national resources. So when their iron fists come off
(in Libya and Iraq, with our help), there is nothing to hold these unnatural
polygons together.

Since World War II, U.S. foreign policy has focused on integrating more
countries into a democratic, free-market world community built on the rule of
law while seeking to deter those states that resist from destabilizing the rest.
This is what we know how to do.

But, argues Michael Mandelbaum, author of the forthcoming "Mission Failure:
America and the World in the Post-Cold War Era": "There is nothing in our
experience that has prepared us for what is going on now: the meltdown of an
increasing number of states all at the same time in a globalized world. And what
if China starts failing in a globalized world?"

Historically we've counted on empires, like the Ottomans, and colonial powers,
like Britain and France, and autocratic strongmen, such as kings and colonels,
to hold artificial states together and provide order in weaker regions. But
we're now in a post-imperial, post-colonial and, soon, I believe,
post-authoritarian world, in which no one will be able to control these
disorderly regions with an iron fist while the world of order goes about its
business with occasional reminders of the nasty disarray on its frontiers.

Your heart aches for the Syrian refugees flocking to Europe. And Germany's
generosity in absorbing so many is amazing. We have a special obligation to
Libyan and Iraqi refugees. But, with so many countries melting down, just
absorbing more and more refugees is not sustainable.

If we're honest, we have only two ways to halt this refugee flood, and we don't
want to choose either: build a wall and isolate regions of disorder, or occupy
them with boots on the ground, crush the bad guys and build a new order based on
real citizenship, a vast project that would take two generations. We fool
ourselves that there is a sustainable, easy third way: just keep taking more
refugees or create "no-fly zones" here or there.

Will the ends, will the means. And right now no one wants to will the means,
because all you win is a bill. So the world of disorder keeps spilling over into
the world of order.

And beware: The market, Mother Nature and Moore's law are just revving their
engines. You haven't seen this play before, which is why we have some hard new
thinking and hard choices ahead.

Thomas L. Friedman is a syndicated columnist for The New York Times.

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Matthias Schrader/AP: A mother holds her child while waiting for
a bus at a holding center for migrants in southern Hungary.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2015 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              396 of 419 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            November 1, 2015 Sunday
                                TWO STAR EDITION

ADVOCATES CONTINUE FIGHTING FOR HIGHER ORGAN DONATION RATES

BYLINE: Joe Smydo, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: HEALTH SCIENCE MEDICINE & TECHNOLOGY; Pg. A-1

LENGTH: 1986 words


When the clerk at the driver's license center gave Kim Cecchini the option of
registering as an organ donor, the Greensburg Salem High School sophomore turned
to her mother for advice.

Malinda Sherid already had signed up, so Kim, who turned 16 that day in November
2000, decided that she would register, too. Their conversation lasted barely a
minute, but the reverberations continue.

"Thank you for having the courage and compassion for sharing the gift of life,"
wrote the liver recipient.

"My life has changed for the better in ways too numerous to count," wrote a
kidney recipient.

"I want you to know what you have done is incredible," said the letter from the
cornea recipient.

*

With more than 122,000 Americans on transplant waiting lists and only about
18,000 transplant operations during the first half of the year, the transplant
community urgently wants to register more donors.

Kim, who died following a traffic accident less than three months after that
visit to the driver's center, registered with little hesitation the first time
she had the chance. But many don't.

Nationally, 50 percent of adults have registered. Pennsylvania's donor
registration rate is 45 percent, according to the most recent figures from the
advocacy group Donate Life America.

Kim's decision to register reflected her caring personality, her mom said. "I'm
not sure she understood the full impact it would have," said Ms. Sherid, who has
received a handful of letters from Kim's organ recipients over the years but
never learned their full names.

Why don't more people register?

Researchers have grasped for answers. Since 1999, the federal government has
spent more than $102 million on research aimed at getting more people to
register and persuading more families to agree to donation when they have the
opportunity.

Among other strategies, researchers involved in this social engineering effort
have:

* Conducted registration campaigns by mail, billboard, television, Internet,
online gaming and text message and at workplaces, high schools, college
campuses, Mexican consulates, driver's license centers, swap meets, churches,
barbershops and sports-related events, deploying some of the same persuasive
techniques corporate marketers use to sell soft drinks and clothes.

* Customized registration campaigns for the racial and ethnic minority groups
that are disproportionately represented on transplant waiting lists but
underrepresented among donors.

* Sought the assistance of influential third parties such as clergy, doctors,
government officials, mothers of donors, estate lawyers and funeral directors
who sell pre-need services.

* Experimented with psychological overtures - such as the University of
Pittsburgh's "golden rule" message and Illinois' "Be a Hero" campaign" - to
prompt registration.

Some campaigns yielded results, at least short term. Others fell flat. Despite
the need for more organs, the agency that funded the campaigns, the U.S. Health
Resources and Services Administration, or HRSA, has undertaken no comprehensive
review of study results for years and has been slow to implement a proposal for
better disseminating research findings. And there's no guarantee that a
successful registration program will operate beyond the funded study period.

The percentage of registered adults increased to 50 percent last year from 37.1
percent in 2009, according to Donate Life America. But the gulf between
availability of organs and demand for them has widened.

"We haven't found the magic bullet yet," said Susan Stuart, president and CEO of
the O'Hara-based Center for Organ Recovery and Education, or CORE, one of 58
organ procurement organizations in the United States.

Most who sign up never provide an organ. That's because only about 2 percent of
people die in a way - usually a pronouncement of brain death while on a hospital
ventilator - that allows organs to be recovered. Corneas and tissue are
recovered more frequently.

Ethicists have criticized registration campaigns for rushing people into a
weighty decision - some promise signing up will take 30 seconds - or glossing
over details that might give the prospective donor pause.

In a 2012 article in the American Journal of Bioethics, Harvard Medical School
ethicist Robert Truog complained that the driver's license center "is hardly an
optimal setting for considering an issue that is completely unrelated to the
task of getting a driver's license" and that the quick but legally binding
nature of signing up there is "inconsistent with all of our other practices
around end-of-life care."

In 2012 and 2013, other researchers writing in the American Journal of Bioethics
and the European journal Medicine, Health Care and Philosophy complained that
donation advocates sometimes failed to disclose academic debate over the
legitimacy of the concept of brain death and withheld other details.

"It ends up taking informed consent away from people," said Michael Potts,
professor of philosophy at Methodist University in Fayetteville, N.C., who was
lead author of the Journal of Bioethics article. Joan McGregor, an Arizona State
University ethicist who was a co-author of the other article, said the attitude
of transplant advocates is, "well, we don't really need to say much because it's
just so obvious it's a good thing."

Susan Morgan, associate dean for research at the University of Miami School of
Communication, said only a few researchers question the legitimacy of brain
death.

"Think of climate-change deniers, and that's the proportion of people you're
talking about," said Ms. Morgan, who has conducted donor registration campaigns.

*

Howard Degenholtz, associate professor at Pitt's Graduate School of Public
Health, once devised a campaign to register donors at sporting events via text
message. But it was difficult to catch fans' interest.

"They're thinking about the game," he said. "They're not thinking about life and
death."

The experience highlighted the challenge of juggling venue, messaging and other
variables in registration campaigns.

Procurement organizations consider busy driver's license centers to be prime
locations for registering donors. But success hinges partly on the centers'
customer service representatives, who could neglect to ask about registration or
ask in a way that deters sign-ups.

Mr. Degenholtz is among a handful of researchers who have provided the employees
with training aimed at boosting sign-ups. His program, for which HRSA reported
awarding $640,000 in grants, was tested at West Virginia driver's license
centers from 2009 to 2011.

He said the program educated clerks about organ donation and directed them to
ask about registration in a scripted way. While some ethicists have complained
about driver's center programs that try to persuade customers to register, Mr.
Degenholtz said the clerks in his study stayed neutral.

During the study period, customers waited on by the trained customer service
representatives were 7.5 percent more likely to register as donors than those
served by employees who had not received the training - a jump Mr. Degenholtz
attributed to the consistency built into the customer interaction.

But the program disappeared from some driver's centers even before an article
about the study results was published in May in the American Journal of
Transplantation.

"I can't tell you why training stopped because the employees who originally
implemented the training are no longer with DMV. However, we can take action to
have it offered again, and that is what we plan to do," Natalie Holcomb,
spokeswoman for the West Virginia Division of Motor Vehicles, said in an email.

Christy Conley, CORE's community outreach coordinator in West Virginia, said the
program lapsed at some offices - she did not know how many - because of staff
turnover. At other offices, she said, the program has operated without
interruption.

Hoping to capture people who decline to register at driver's centers, Mr.
Degenholtz was awarded nearly $997,000 in HRSA funds to register donors at the
offices of primary-care doctors, a setting he predicted would lend credibility
to the sign-up effort.

He provided information about organ donation to doctors and staff at dozens of
practices - a step taken to build support for the study - then had the employees
give registration cards to patients during check-in. About 8 percent of patients
registered, and Mr. Degenholtz said he believes the "trusted environment . made
the difference."

Now, he's exploring whether he can persuade still more people to register
through customized messages, such as "do unto others" message he's begun testing
at health and fitness events and the "donation is a blessing" theme he's
targeted to people of faith.

HRSA has funded dozens of studies, mainly through the Social and Behavioral
Interventions to Increase Organ and Tissue Donation initiative and the Public
Education Efforts to Increase Organ and Tissue Donation initiative, since 1999.

A study of grantee results from the first initiative, written by Ms. Morgan and
dated 2005, said the research projects from 1999 to 2004 "yielded promising
replicable programs." A study of grantee results from the Public Education
program, conducted by University at Buffalo researchers and dated 2008, also
documented successful programs. While the agency said it "continually reviews
grantee project results," there's been no follow-up reports on the long-term
effectiveness of the early programs or the efficacy of those that followed.

David Fleming, president and CEO of Donate Life America, said he doesn't know
which programs succeeded because results have not been sufficiently
disseminated. That's unfortunate, he said, because the successes should be
replicated.

He said he believes some projects failed because the advocacy took place in
settings where people lacked immediate means for registering. He said Donate
Life America has begun campaigns urging people to register through a new site,
registerme.org, with the goal of tracking the sign-ups generated by each
initiative.

He also hopes to build more support for organ donation through the compelling
stories of those touched by it. He said one coming project will tell brief
stories about transplant recipients, with video shot from the recipients'
perspective.

Ms. Morgan recommended that HRSA establish a website so that researchers
planning new projects could find their predecessors' results and research tools
in one place. So far, HRSA has not done that.

Mary Ganikos, chief of outreach and education at HRSA's Division of
Transplantation, said future plans include online access to the materials Ms.
Morgan cited and publication of periodic bulletins to keep grant recipients
aware of each others' contributions. The agency said information exchange
already happens through webinars, conferences, journal articles and regional
networks, among other forums.

After re-evaluating its fiscal priorities this year, HRSA has decided to focus
its 2016 grant-making on a handful of areas, including increasing registration
among people older than 50, persuading more parents to donate their children's
organs and increasing registration among adolescents.

*

Already, many registration campaigns and events target teenagers and young
adults, who are considered blank slates with the potential to ease the organ
shortage.

"They're a lot more receptive to organ donation" than their elders, said Ms.
Sherid, who has become an outspoken advocate for donation and in March spoke to
dozens of high school students at CORE's offices.

Kim Harbur, a Kansas resident whose son, Luke, received a pediatric liver
transplant nearly 20 years ago, gives hundreds of presentations to high school
students each year and developed a video - "The Gift Grows Up" - to show how his
life turned out. While students are free to respond to the donor registration
message by saying "yes," "no" or "I don't know," she said, "they need to own
their answer."

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Deputy managing editor Mark Rochester contributed data analysis. / Joe
Smydo: jsmydo@post-gazette.com or 412-263-1548. {SERIES} DONORS WANTED: A LOOK
AT EFFORTS TO ADDRESS THE WAIT FOR ORGANS

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Darrell Sapp/Post-Gazette: Malinda Sherid stands in front of a
projection of her daughter's driver's license during a presentation to high
school students last spring. \
PHOTO: Julia Rendleman/Post-Gazette: Malinda Sherid's daughter Kim Cecchini, 16,
died in a car accident in 2001. Ms. Sherid agreed to donate her daughter's
organs and now volunteers for the Center for Organ Recovery and Education in
O'Hara. \
PHOTO: UPMC photo: Transplant advocates promote organ donation on the Clemente
Bridge and city streets last summer. \
INFORMATIONAL GRAPHIC: Center for Organ Recovery and Education; Post-GazetteL
(Organ donor registration, by county)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2015 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              410 of 419 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            November 29, 2015 Sunday
                               FIVE STAR EDITION

SNOW TIRES ARE A MUST IN CERTAIN CLIMATES

BYLINE: Ray Magliozzi

SECTION: BUSINESS; CLICK & CLACK; Pg. E-7

LENGTH: 369 words


Dear Car Talk:

I wanted to follow up on a call I heard recently on your NPR radio show. A
caller getting ready to replace a Honda Civic wanted to know if she needed
all-wheel drive for driving in the snow. You guys suggested a Subaru. I had a
Honda Civic (that I loved!), but just sold it and purchased a Subaru Forester
because my husband and I just moved to Montana. My question is this: Do we also
need to buy snow tires? And do you have a recommendation in terms of the type
(e.g., studded)? My husband is trying to convince me that it is worth the
financial investment to purchase an extra set of wheels so he can change the
snow tires himself each year. Thoughts?

- Kelly

Yes, Kelly, in Montana you will need snow tires. And you'll need four of them.
Actually, you might want to put six of them on your Subaru, just to further
appease the snow gods.

And it does make sense to buy four inexpensive steel wheels for the snow tires.
Otherwise, you have to mount and balance a different set of tires every fall and
spring, which runs into money.

Whether you need studs is a trickier question. It depends on exactly where you
live and what kind of driving you'll be doing. If you live in a city or suburban
area where streets are cleared pretty quickly, you might not need studs.

Studs have a couple of disadvantages: They chew up roadways, so they're not even
allowed on a lot of highways outside of emergency conditions. And they make your
traction worse on wet roads, because the metal studs that stick out of the tires
have less traction than the rubber does. And we're not even addressing the
constant thrumming noise. So you don't want those unless you absolutely need
them.

I'd suggest that you talk to some neighbors and ask them what they do in the
winter. A better option, for peace of mind, might be to buy a set of temporary
chains. You can leave those in the trunk, and if you ever find yourself in a
dire situation and your snow tires aren't cutting it, you can put on the chains
by the side of the road, and at least get home.

And most importantly, remember this: If you know there's a blizzard coming, you
always have the option of staying home - unless you provide an essential
service, like making doughnuts.

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2015 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              418 of 419 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                           December 29, 2015 Tuesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

POLLUTED ITALY;
CONTROLLING EMISSIONS IS NO FAIR-WEATHER THING

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A-6

LENGTH: 327 words


In the same month that environmental negotiators for the nations of the world
met in Paris to approve an accord for reducing greenhouse gases, Italy's
difficulties with pollution made global headlines and disrupted the lives of
many Italians. A key factor in the toxic air readings has been a long run of
high atmospheric pressure causing mild, dry weather. Some regions haven't seen
rain for almost two months.

When air pollution readings in December exceeded European Union limits, the
Italians responded in different ways. In Milan, government officials decided to
ban cars and motorcycles from city streets between 10 a.m. and 4 p.m. for three
days this week. Rome is restricting traffic based on license plate numbers for
at least two days this week and allowing single-ride transit tickets to be used
as all-day passes. In Turin, public transit was free for two days.

Perhaps the greatest indignity was felt in the town of San Vitaliano, outside
Naples, where the mayor declared a ban on unfiltered wood-fired stoves -often
used in the baking of pizzas - until March 31. Violators could be fined $1,130.
A local newspaper said San Vitaliano's air problem is worse than Beijing's, with
the town surpassing the emissions ceiling 114 times in 2015.

The whole situation is vexing for the Italians, not only for their health but
also for their tourist economy. The lesson for them, and all industrial
countries, is that pollution control cannot afford to be a fair-weather policy
-something that works only under ideal conditions. Urban areas prone to traffic
congestion are subject to all sorts of weather patterns, some of which are
likely to aggravate toxic air levels.

Incentives for sensible vehicle use, robust patronage of mass transit and
sophisticated emissions technology must all be part of any advanced urban area's
comprehensive approach to pollution control. There's only one Beijing, and the
other cities of the world should strive to keep it that way.

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2015 P.G. Publishing Co.
