
                               1 of 438 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            April 18, 2013 Thursday
                            PITTSBURGH PRESS EDITION

GLOBAL WARMING IS NO HOAX

BYLINE: MELANIE FITZPATRICK

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A-8

LENGTH: 586 words


Columnist Jack Kelly recently asked "Is Global Warming a Hoax?" (Pittsburgh
Press, April 9).

As a scientist, that's like hearing someone ask "Is gravity a hoax?"

Of course it isn't.

When it comes to global warming, scientists know carbon dioxide from burning
coal and gas and from destroying tropical forests has led to dramatic warming
and changes to rainfall patterns around the world. Our own National Academy of
Sciences -- and equivalent institutions in dozens of countries -- agree that
climate change is human-caused and disrupting our way of life.

A better question to ask is, "What does global warming mean for Pennsylvania?"

In 2008, I conducted a scientific review to help answer that question. I found
that Western Pennsylvania's summers would be more like Kentucky's by the end of
the century if we reduce our heat-trapping emissions. But if our emissions
continue to climb at current rates, summers in Western Pennsylvania would be
more like Alabama's.

Those shifts in climate could lead to a rise in days over 90 degrees that strain
public health, especially in urban areas like Pittsburgh; disruptions in the
growing season for important crops like sweet corn and apples; increased heat
stress for dairy cattle; and a decline in the length of the snow season for ski
resorts and snowmobilers.

These findings make us ask other questions: Do we want to keep burning so much
coal and oil? And how should we prepare for the changes that are already locked
in?

These questions can make some people uncomfortable. They sometimes make the
mistake of rejecting the science rather than dealing with its implications.

But as the astrophysicist Neil deGrasse Tyson likes to say, one of the amazing
things about science is that it remains true whether or not you believe it.

This past decade was hotter than the previous one -- and the one before that.
The surface of the land and oceans continues to warm, as does the deep ocean. As
the ocean warms and expands, glaciers shrink, currents shift and sea levels
rise. All told, sea level along the mid-Atlantic coast has risen, on average,
about 8 inches in the past 100 years.

Mr. Kelly claimed that global warming can only be found inside computer models,
which scientists use to estimate the effects of future emissions on our planet.
But climate change is all around us, from warmer springs to more intense heat
waves to the destruction from Sandy's storm surge, which was made worse by
warming, rising seas.

Mr. Kelly also discussed a scientist at the University of Oregon who found that
modern temperatures are quite warm compared to the past. This is not a
controversial finding among scientists, but Mr. Kelly goes so far as to accuse
him of making it all up. Such baseless attacks on scientists shouldn't be a part
of our public discourse on climate change, especially when we have so many other
important things to talk about.

Thankfully, Pennsylvanians are already talking about how to deal with climate
change. The state's climate-adaptation plan calls for integrating what we know
about climate change into decisions the state makes about water supplies, heat
stress, conservation and tourism. The city of Pittsburgh is also working with
businesses, universities and other institutions to find ways to reduce emissions
and manage climate change.

More people need to follow Pennsylvania and Pittsburgh's lead and ask the right
questions about climate change. The answers we come up with can make our
communities stronger, healthier and safer for generations to come.

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Melanie Fitzpatrick is a climate scientist at the Union of Concerned
Scientists./

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2013 P.G. Publishing Co.


                               2 of 438 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                           November 2, 2013 Saturday
                                 SOONER EDITION

DULL LEAF HUES CALLED CLIMATE CHANGE OMEN

BYLINE: David Templeton, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: HEALTH, SCIENCE, MEDICINE & TECHNOLOGY; Pg. A-1

LENGTH: 814 words


Unusually warm October weather and less September rain explain why leaves failed
to produce brilliant splashes of gold, orange, red and purple, with many
remaining green into the first week of November.

It also raises the spectre of climate change.

Every year has seasonal variations, but some scientists say this year may be a
harbinger of a more likely occurrence in coming years -- warmer temperatures
pushing back the peak foliage season from the third week of October to later in
the month or even early November. Such a trend also forebodes duller leaf
coloration.

Warmer fall temperatures and resulting duller leaves also signal that local tree
species, including sugar maples, will begin migrating northward with other plant
and animal species, in search of ideal climate. More extreme temperatures,
storms and droughts are anticipated.

"This is precisely the sort of thing we expect to happen," said Penn State
University climatologist Michael E. Mann. "Fall comes later, spring gets earlier
and summer gets hotter. NASA just reported that the globe just saw the warmest
September ever."

In coming decades, he said, extreme weather conditions and warmer autumns "will
become the new normal."

"What we are seeing is the loading of the dice," he said. "How late any
particular fall is, or how warm the early spring is, is random. But climate
change is loading the dice so there are more sixes. We've erased the one and
replaced it with a six. Now we have two sixes, which means you roll a six on
average once every three rolls rather than once every six. That's twice as
often."

The Appalachian State University biology department has published a position
paper that duller autumn colors portend problems.

"Although less brilliant fall foliage displays may not rank high on the list of
concerns about global change, those muted colors could be the canary in the mine
shaft telling us that these shifts could be markers for more subtle and
potentially more consequential changes in our world," states its essay, "Will
Global Climate Change Affect Fall Colors?"

"A tree stressed is a symptom that something larger is wrong with our world. Our
civilizations depend on healthy, functioning ecosystems for services such as
clean water, erosion control and clean air, not to mention food, fiber and
shelter."

In October, the National Weather Service reports, temperatures were well above
normal, with an average high of 65.1 degrees (2.5 degrees above the normal
October high of 62.6) and average low of 47.5 (4.6 degrees above the normal low
of 42.9). The monthly average of 56.3 degree was 3.6 degrees above the normal of
52.7 degrees.

September had normal temperatures but only 2.31 inches of precipitation, or
nearly an inch below normal.

"Where it gets interesting is the 4-degree anomaly in October. Only one degree
can be a factor," Mr. Mann said. "Whether it was the extreme heat in the summer
of 2012, which was the warmest year that the United States has ever seen, it's
an indication that we are seeing the loading of the dice. We still will roll
ones and twos, but this fall we rolled a six."

Wilkins native John R. Seiler, a forest biologist at Virginia Tech University,
said seasonal variation explains the late leaf color change and falloff this
year and was less inclined to blame climate change. But he said climate change
is a potential factor. "If it stays warm, that's going to drag the process later
into the season," he said.

Length of daylight is key to color change and leaf fall. The underlying color of
leaves is yellow but photosynthesis produces chlorophyll in warm months that
results in the dominant green. When photosynthesis declines in fall, many leaves
return to the base yellow before browning and falling. Red, though, is sunscreen
for certain leaves, explaining why bright autumn sun creates bold red colors.

"The current theory is that red acts like sunscreen while the tree is pulling
nutrients from the leaves for winter," Mr. Seiler said. Cold but sunny weather
reduces chlorophyll production, leaving the leaf vulnerable to sun damage. So
the leaf produces sugar compounds known as anthocyanins, which are the
protective red and purple leaf pigments. "When the tree is wasting sugar on
something [like leaf color] it better have a purpose."

Botanist Cynthia Morton of the Carnegie Museum of Natural History said leaves
change color because less daylight and cooler temperatures signal leaves to shut
down. Warm, sunny days and cold but not freezing nights produce the boldest
yellows, oranges and reds, she said. Veins carrying fluids in the leaves close
off and form a scab of cork cells that causes the leaf to fall from the branch.

"The best colors are when we have a spring that is warm and wet, a summer that
is not too hot or dry and a fall with warm sunny days and cool nights," Ms.
Morton said. "This is why the colors are OK and not great this year."

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: David Templeton: dtempleton@post-gazette.com or 412-263-1578./

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2013 P.G. Publishing Co.


                               5 of 438 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                              May 19, 2013 Sunday
                               FIVE STAR EDITION

COMMON PLANTS, ANIMALS THREATENED BY CLIMATE CHANGE, STUDY SAYS

BYLINE: Neela Banerjee, Los Angeles Times

SECTION: HEALTH, SCIENCE, MEDICINE AND TECHNOLOGY; Pg. A-12

LENGTH: 510 words


WASHINGTON -- Climate change could lead to the widespread loss of common plants
and animals around the world, according to a study released last week in the
journal Nature Climate Change.

The study's authors looked at 50,000 common species. They found that more than
half the plants and about a third of the animals could lose about 50 percent of
their range by 2080 if the world continues its current course of rising
greenhouse gas emissions.

Climate change affects the availability of nutrition and water for animals and
plants. The narrowing of the geographic range of different common species means
that plants and animals readily found in a given area could diminish markedly in
those areas over the next seven decades.

"This study ... tells us that the average plant and animal will experience
significant range loss under climate change," said the study's lead author,
Rachel Warren of the Tyndall Centre at University of East Anglia, U.K.

Ms. Warren said that until now, much climate change research had focused on the
plight of rare species rather than common animals and plants.

The study's conclusions are "entirely consistent with what others are finding
around the world," said Peter B. Reich, professor of forest ecology at the
University of Minnesota, who read the report.

The new study predicted that plants, reptiles and particularly amphibians would
face the greatest risks from climate change. It also concluded that sub-Saharan
Africa, Central America, the Amazon region and Australia would likely lose the
most species of plants and animals. It projected "a major loss of plant species"
in North Africa, Central Asia and South America.

According to Jeff Price, a co-author of the study and visiting fellow at the
Tyndall Centre, "coffee, chocolate, teak, sugar maple, pineapple and cotton (at
least some of the major types) all show large contractions in their climatic
ranges under the baseline climate change scenario."

The climactic range is the habitat where species not only exist, but also can
thrive in numbers against competitors.

Mr. Reich said that in Minnesota, it appears very likely that spruce, fir and
aspen forests will move north into Canada over the next several decades as the
state warms.

While the study looked at the effects of climate change on species' geographic
range, it made conservative estimates about how global warming could stoke
diseases, pests or natural disasters that would affect species, Ms. Warren said.
"Animals, in particular, may decline more as our predictions will be compounded
by a loss of food from plants," she said.

The study concludes that such widespread losses could be avoided if the world
moved swiftly to reduce emissions of heat-trapping greenhouse gases that cause
climate change.

Immediate, substantial steps could reduce species losses by 60 percent and give
plants and animals 40 more years to adapt, the study predicted. Slowing or
cutting greenhouse gas emissions would help the Earth avoid the higher
temperatures and subsequent habitat changes that could drive species loss, the
study said.

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: David J. Phillip/Associated Press: Bird counters record the
number of pelicans sitting on an oyster reef in the Gulf of Mexico near Mad
Island, Texas, as part of a nationwide effort to estimate the country's bird
population and species.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2013 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              18 of 438 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                              June 28, 2013 Friday
                            PITTSBURGH PRESS EDITION

94 IN ALASKA? WEATHER EXTREMES TIED TO JET STREAM

BYLINE: Seth Borenstein, The Associated Press

SECTION: HEALTH, SCIENCE, MEDICINE & TECHNOLOGY; Pg. A-8

LENGTH: 1077 words


WASHINGTON

The jet stream, the river of air high above Earth that generally dictates the
weather, usually rushes rapidly from west to east in a mostly straight
direction.

But lately it seems to be wobbling and weaving like a drunken driver, wreaking
havoc as it goes.

The more the jet stream undulates north and south, the more changeable and
extreme the weather.

The most recent example occurred in mid-June when some towns in Alaska hit
record highs. McGrath, Alaska, recorded an all-time high of 94 degrees on June
17. A few weeks earlier, the same spot was 15 degrees, the coldest recorded for
so late in the year.

You can blame the heat wave on a large northward bulge in the jet stream,
Rutgers University climate scientist Jennifer Francis said.

Several scientists are blaming weather whiplash -- both high and low extremes --
on a jet stream that's not quite playing by its old rules. It's a relatively new
phenomenon that experts are still trying to understand.

Some say it's related to global warming, but others say it's not.

Upside-down weather also happened in May: Early California wildfires fueled by
heat contrasted with more than a foot of snow in Minnesota. Seattle was the
hottest spot in the nation one day, and Maine and Edmonton, Canada, were warmer
than Miami and Phoenix.

Consider these unusual occurrences over the past few years:

* The winter of 2011-12 seemed to disappear, with little snow and record warmth
in March. That was followed by the winter of 2012-13 when nor'easters seemed to
queue up to strike the same coastal areas repeatedly.

* Superstorm Sandy took an odd left turn in October from the Atlantic straight
into New Jersey, something that happens once every 700 years or so.

* One 12-month period had a record number of tornadoes. That was followed by 12
months that set a record for lack of tornadoes.

And here is what federal weather officials call a "spring paradox": The U.S. had
both an unusually large area of snow cover in March and April and a near-record
low area of snow cover in May. The entire Northern Hemisphere had record snow
coverage area in December but the third lowest snow extent for May.

"I've been doing meteorology for 30 years and the jet stream the last three
years has done stuff I've never seen," said Jeff Masters, meteorology director
at the private service Weather Underground. "The fact that the jet stream is
unusual could be an indicator of something. I'm not saying we know what it is."

Rutgers' Ms. Francis is in the camp that thinks climate change is probably
playing a role in this.

"It's been just a crazy fall and winter and spring all along, following a very
abnormal sea ice condition in the Arctic," she said, noting that last year set a
record low for summer sea ice in the Arctic. "It's possible what we're seeing in
this unusual weather is all connected."

Other scientists don't make the sea ice and global warming connections that Ms.
Francis does. They see random weather or long-term cycles at work. And even more
scientists are taking a wait-and-see approach about this latest theory. It's far
from a scientific consensus, but it is something that is being studied more
often and getting a lot of scientific buzz.

"There are some viable hypotheses," Stanford University climate scientist Noah
Diffenbaugh said. "We're going to need more evidence to fully test those
hypotheses."

The jet stream, or more precisely the polar jet stream, is the one that affects
the Northern Hemisphere. It dips down from Alaska, across the United States or
Canada, then across the Atlantic and over Europe and "has everything to do with
the weather we experience," Ms. Francis said.

It all starts with the difference between cold temperatures in the Arctic and
warmer temperatures in the mid-latitudes, she explained. The bigger the
temperature difference, the stronger the jet stream, the faster it moves and the
straighter it flows. But as the northern polar regions warm two to three times
faster than the rest of the world, augmented by unprecedented melting of Arctic
sea ice and loss in snow cover, the temperature difference shrinks. Then the jet
stream slows and undulates more.

The jet stream is about 14 percent slower in the fall now than in the 1990s,
according to a recent study by Ms. Francis. And when it slows, it moves
north-south instead of east-west, bringing more unusual weather, creating
blocking patterns and cutoff lows that are associated with weird weather, the
Rutgers scientist said.

Mike Halpert, the deputy director of NOAA's Climate Prediction Center, said that
recently the jet stream seems to create weather patterns that get stuck, making
dry spells into droughts and hot days into heat waves.

Take the past two winters. They were as different as can be, but both had
unusual jet stream activity. Normally, the jet stream plunges southwest from
western Washington state, sloping across to Alabama. Then it curves slightly out
to sea around the Outer Banks, a swoop that's generally straight without
dramatic bends.

During the mostly snowless winter of 2011-12 and the record warm March 2012, the
jet stream instead formed a giant upside-down U, curving dramatically in the
opposite direction. That trapped warm air over much of the Eastern U.S. A year
later the jet stream was again unusual, this time with a sharp U-turn north.
This trapped colder and snowier weather in places like Chicago and caused
nor'easters in New England, Francis said.

But for true extremes, nothing beats tornadoes.

In 2011, the United States was hit over and over by killer twisters. From June
2010 to May 2011 the U.S. had a record number of substantial tornadoes, totaling
1,050. Then just a year later came a record tornado drought. From May 2012 to
April 2013 there were only 217 tornadoes -- 30 fewer than the old record, said
Harold Brooks, a meteorologist at the National Severe Storms Laboratory. Brooks
said both examples were related to unusual jet stream patterns.

Last fall, a dip in the jet stream over the United States and northward bulge of
high pressure combined to pull Superstorm Sandy almost due west into New Jersey,
Francis said. That track is so rare and nearly unprecedented that computer
models indicate it would happen only once every 714 years, according to a new
study by NASA and Columbia University scientists.

"Everyone would agree that we are in a pattern" of extremes, NOAA research
meteorologist Martin Hoerling said. "We don't know how long it will stay in this
pattern."

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: NOAA on the jet stream: http://www.srh.noaa.gov/jetstream/global/jet.htm.
Jennifer Francis study linking Arctic sea ice loss to jet stream changes:
http://bit.ly/1aAFM5g/

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: AP Photo/St. Paul Pioneer Press, Jean Pieri Rhododendrons at the
Garden Center of Cub Foods in Stillwater, Minn. are covered in snow after an
early May snowfall.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2013 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              19 of 438 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            November 17, 2013 Sunday
                                TWO STAR EDITION

WHERE THE END REALLY IS NIGH;
CLIMATE CHANGE IS SWALLOWING THE ISLANDS OF THE SOUTH PACIFIC

BYLINE: J. Maarten Troost

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. B-1

LENGTH: 728 words


Recently, a curious case appeared before New Zealand's High Court. The
plaintiff, Ioane Teitiota, a resident of the island-nation of Kiribati, was
seeking refugee status in New Zealand. His reasoning? Climate change and rising
sea levels were making Kiribati uninhabitable. "There's no future for us when we
go back to Kiribati," Mr. Teitiota argued.

I used to live in Kiribati, a remote nation of 33 atolls in the equatorial
Pacific scattered over an area nearly two-thirds as large as the continental
United States. When I lived there, in the late 1990s, the island elders were
beginning to notice a strange new phenomenon. The spring tides, or king tides as
they are sometimes called, were beginning to breach the typical high-water mark
on the beach, inundating homes, flooding pig pens and streaming over the
causeways that linked the islets of South Tarawa, where most of the nation's
100,000 inhabitants resided.

In response, many families built sea walls made of coral, hoping to forestall
the damage inflicted by the rising ocean. Surely, it was thought, these super
tides were an anomaly. For more than 1,000 years, these islanders had lived on
their atolls, the slim crests of undersea volcanoes, not more than 200 yards
wide and rarely rising more than a couple of feet above sea level, without
feeling threatened by the ocean.

Not long ago, I visited Kiribati and was struck by the changes. Those sea walls,
built with hope, now look like the grim remains of ancient fortresses destroyed
long ago. The coconut trees near shore - the source of the nutritious toddy that
children drink for breakfast and provider of the copra that Kiribati depends on
for its meager income - stand like mute sentries, dead and useless as they
succumb to the tide. The groundwater is now so brackish that gardens refuse to
grow.

On some of its islands, such as Abaiang, villages have been swept away; all that
remains are the thatched roofs of homes and meeting houses, cresting above the
water. It isn't storms that are causing this ruination but rather the slow,
steady rise of the tides that twice daily inundate the islands.

In response, the government of Kiribati bought land on the island of Vanua Levu
in Fiji, where its people can again grow food and, eventually, resettle as their
country sinks below the waves. "This is the last resort," President Anote Tong
has said. "There's no way out of this one. Our people will have to move as the
tides have reached our homes and villages."

The United Nations-backed Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, in a report
released in September, concluded that climate change is unequivocal and that we
can expect sea levels to rise upward of 3 feet by 2100. The report's scientists
were 95 percent certain that such changes to our planet are the direct
consequence of human activity and resultant emissions. The IPCC noted that, as a
result of climate change, we can expect food production to decline by 2 percent
each decade for the rest of the century, even as demand soars.

Meanwhile, in the northern Chinese city of Harbin in October, the index that
measures particulate matter reached 1,000, far exceeding the 300 reading that
the World Health Organization deems hazardous. In Singapore, the city suffocates
from the smog caused by fires started by farmers clearing brush in Indonesia,
the world's third-largest emitter of greenhouse gases. And in the United States,
we celebrate as the boom in shale and fracking has allowed us to surpass Saudi
Arabia as the world's leading oil producer. No wonder the Ford F-Series pickup
truck is the bestselling vehicle in America.

We don't think much about climate change and rising sea levels here in the
United States. Beyond a few gardeners, birders and hikers who notice the changes
in our own ecosystem, we live on, blissfully unaware of our changing Earth. Our
storms - Katrina, Sandy - are dismissed as once-in-a-century events. Our heat
waves and droughts? Well, they've happened before.

But out there, on faraway islands like Kiribati, Tuvalu, the Marshall Islands,
the Maldives, their world is ending, and soon, millions of climate refugees like
Mr. Teitiota will wander the planet looking for a new home as theirs go the way
of Atlantis. Today, the islanders are the canaries in the coal mine. The least
we could do is pay attention. After all, their present portends our future.

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: J. Maarten Troost is the author of "The Sex Lives of Cannibals" and most
recently, "Headhunters on My Doorstep." Copyright © 2013, Los Angeles Times.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2013 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              26 of 438 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                           October 10, 2013 Thursday
                                 SOONER EDITION

STUDY: TEMPERATURES SOAR OFF THE CHARTS AROUND 2047

BYLINE: SETH BORENSTEIN, ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. A-4

LENGTH: 774 words


WASHINGTON -- Starting in about a decade, Kingston, Jamaica, will probably be
off-the-charts hot -- permanently. Other places will soon follow. Singapore in
2028. Mexico City in 2031. Cairo in 2036. Phoenix and Honolulu in 2043.

And eventually, the whole world in 2047.

A new study on global warming pinpoints the probable dates for when cities and
ecosystems around the world will regularly experience hotter environments the
likes of which they have never seen before. And for dozens of cities, mostly in
the tropics, those dates are a generation or less away.

"This paper is both innovative and sobering," said Oregon State University
professor Jane Lubchenco, former head of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration, who was not involved in the study.

To arrive at their projections, the researchers used weather observations,
computer models and other data to calculate the point at which every year from
then on will be warmer than the hottest year ever recorded over the past 150
years.

For example, the world as a whole had its hottest year on record in 2005. The
new study, published Wednesday in the journal Nature, says that by the year
2047, every year that follows will probably be hotter than that record-setting
scorcher.

Eventually, the coldest year in a particular city or region will be hotter than
the hottest year in its past.

Study author Camilo Mora, a University of Hawaii biological geographer, and his
colleagues said they hope that this new way of looking at climate change will
spur governments to do something before it is too late. "Now is the time to
act," said another study co-author, Ryan Longman.

Mr. Mora and colleagues ran simulations from 39 different computer models and
looked at hundreds of thousands of species, maps and data points to ask when
places will have "an environment like we had never seen before."

The 2047 date for the whole world is based on continually increasing emissions
of greenhouse gases from the burning of coal, oil and natural gases. If the
world manages to reduce its emissions of carbon dioxide and other gases, that
would be pushed to as late as 2069, according to Mr. Mora. But for now, he said,
the world is rushing toward the 2047 date.

"One can think of this year as a kind of threshold into a hot new world, from
which one never goes back," said climate scientist Christopher Field, founding
director of the Carnegie Institution's Department of Global Ecology at Stanford
University, who was not part of the study. "This is really dramatic."

Mr. Mora forecasts that the unprecedented heat starts in 2020 with Manokwa,
Indonesia. Then Kingston, Jamaica. Within the next two decades, 59 cities will
be living in what is essentially a new climate, including Singapore, Havana,
Kuala Lumpur and Mexico City. By 2043, 147 cities -- more than half of those
studied -- will have shifted to a hotter temperature regime that is beyond
historical records.

The first U.S. cities to feel that would be Honolulu and Phoenix, followed by
San Diego and Orlando, Fla., in 2046. New York and Washington will get new
climates around 2047, with Los Angeles, Detroit, Houston, Chicago, Seattle,
Austin and Dallas a bit later.

Mr. Mora calculated that the last of the 265 cities to move into their new
climate will be Anchorage, Alaska -- in 2071. There's a five-year margin of
error on the estimates.

Unlike previous research, the study highlights the tropics more than the polar
regions. In the tropics, temperatures don't vary much, so a small increase can
have large effects on ecosystems, he said. A 3-degree change is not much to
polar regions but is dramatic in the tropics, which hold most of the Earth's
biodiversity, Mr. Mora said.

The Mora team found that by one measurement -- ocean acidity -- Earth has
already crossed the threshold into an entirely new regime. That happened in
about 2008, with every year since then more acidic than the old record,
according to study co-author Abby Frazier.

Of the species studied, coral reefs will be the first stuck in a new climate --
around 2030 -- and are most vulnerable to climate change, Mr. Mora said.

Georgia Institute of Technology climate scientist Judith Curry, who often
clashes with mainstream scientists, said she found Mr. Mora's approach making
more sense than the massive report the U.N.-sponsored Intergovernmental Panel on
Climate Change offered last month.

Pennsylvania State University climate scientist Michael Mann said the research
"may actually be presenting an overly rosy scenario when it comes to how close
we are to passing the threshold for dangerous climate impacts. By some
measures," he said, "we are already there."

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2013 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              39 of 438 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            November 24, 2013 Sunday
                                TWO STAR EDITION

DEALS AT CLIMATE MEETING ADVANCE GLOBAL SOLUTION

BYLINE: David Jolly, The New York Times

SECTION: HEALTH, SCIENCE, MEDICINE AND TECHNOLOGY; Pg. A-2

LENGTH: 687 words


WARSAW, Poland -- Two weeks of U.N. climate talks ended Saturday with a pair of
last-minute deals keeping alive the hope that a global effort can ward off a
ruinous rise in temperatures.

Delegates agreed to the broad outlines of a proposed system for pledging
emissions cuts and gave their support for a new treaty mechanism to tackle the
human cost of rising seas, floods, stronger storms and other expected effects of
global warming.

The measures added momentum to the talks as U.N. members look toward a 2015
conference in Paris to replace the moribund Kyoto Protocol.

"I think this is what they needed to move the ball forward," said Jennifer
Morgan, director of the climate and energy program at the World Resources
Institute, "even if you can't say that it provided a lot of new ambition."

The conference, known as the 19th annual meeting of the U.N. Framework
Convention on Climate Change, got underway two weeks ago in the shadow of the
giant Philippine typhoon. The talks were attended by more than 10,000 people,
including national delegations, journalists, advocates and, for the first time,
business leaders.

The death and destruction brought by the Philippine storm helped to highlight
the question of "climate justice." Final agreement Saturday was held up by a
dispute over a proposal by developing nations for the creation of a "loss and
damage mechanism" under the treaty. The United States, the European Union and
other developed nations opposed the measure, fearing new financial claims.

Peace was restored when the parties papered over their differences, agreeing
with the United States to nest the new instrument under an existing part of the
treaty dealing with adapting to climate change, but saying they would review its
status in 2016. Mohamed Adow, an activist with Christian Aid, said the deal
showed that "countries have accepted the reality" of the effects of climate
change, but that "they seem unwilling to take concrete actions to reduce the
severity of these impacts."

René Orellana of the Bolivian delegation, said: "It's important that the loss
and damage structure has finally been created. There's a baby now, and we have
to give him enough time to grow."

Mr. Orellana said the agreement would eventually grow to encompass things like
technology transfer, capacity building and migration.

The United States hailed the agreement on calculating emissions reductions,
which was along lines proposed by Todd S. Stern, President Barack Obama's
climate envoy. Mr. Stern had called for each nation to make a public offer early
enough to be evaluated for the Paris summit meeting. He argued that peer
pressure was the best hope for concerted action after the 2009 Copenhagen
meeting showed a binding top-down approach could not succeed at the
international level.

Conflicts between rich nations, led by the United States and European Union, and
developing nations, led by China, India and Brazil, had stalled progress and
threatened to scuttle the conference altogether. Negotiations ended a full day
later than originally planned and delegates, who had gone days with little
sleep, were nodding exhaustedly in their seats well before the end of the day
Saturday.

The language grew heated at times by diplomatic standards, with Mr. Stern on
Saturday reminding China that it had agreed two years ago that climate action
would be "applicable to all parties," and expressing surprise "that China would
be assuming no commitments under the future agreement." Lead negotiators
eventually worked out compromise language -- changing the word "commitments" to
"contributions" -- for 2015 to allow some wiggle room.

The deal Saturday comes less than a year before a "climate summit" of leaders
called by U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-Moon for September in New York, where
world leaders will be asked to show progress on cutting emissions in the full
glare of the United States and the world news media.

Despite relief that a Copenhagen-type failure was averted, treaty members remain
far from any serious, concerted action to cut emissions. And developing nations
complained that promises of financial help remain unmet.

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2013 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              58 of 438 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                             April 28, 2013 Sunday
                               FIVE STAR EDITION

KEYSTONE XL FOES SAY 1 MILLION COMMENTS SHOW POWER OF GRASSROOTS

BYLINE: Jim Snyder, Bloomberg News

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. A-6

LENGTH: 1066 words


WASHINGTON -- Keystone XL critics say they amassed more than 1 million comments
against the pipeline to carry oil from Canada, showing what they called
grassroots opposition to the $5.3 billion project across six states.

Keystone will "contribute dramatically" to global warming and pose an
"unacceptable risk to water," according to a letter posted on the website of
environmental group 350.org that visitors can electronically sign and submit to
the State Department, which is reviewing the comments.

The department has collected comments on its draft environmental analysis that
is seen favoring project supporters. Keystone foes said the level of opposition
should give President Barack Obama cover to reject TransCanada Corp.'s pipeline,
which is backed by oil companies and labor groups as a source of jobs and
greater U.S. energy security.

"The president said that he needed a movement to compel him to act," Daniel
Kessler, a spokesman for 350.org, said in an email. "People are more fired up
about this issue than any other enviro issue in a generation."

The Sierra Club, Friends of the Earth, League of Conservation Voters, Natural
Resources Defense Council and other environmental groups also encouraged their
members to submit comments opposing Keystone. The State Department plans to post
all comments.

Social media tools make it easier to rally on a particular issue, and therefore
the effect of mass mailings is diminished, said Julian Zelizer, a history and
public affairs professor at Princeton University in New Jersey. High-volume
communications receive more attention from legislators who must face re-
election than from regulators, he said.

"That said, it still gives some measure of sentiment outside the Beltway and can
at least cause legislators to think twice before casting a vote," Mr. Zelizer
said in an email.

While the State Department's March draft environmental impact statement makes no
recommendation about building Keystone, it found that the pipeline from Alberta
to the Gulf Coast presented no significant environmental risks.

Its effect on climate change, for example, would be minimal because Alberta's
oil sands would be developed anyway, a conclusion reached in the draft analysis
that's disputed by groups like 350.org. Tar sands mining and processing release
more greenhouse gases than drilling and refining conventional oils.

Environmentalists dispute the State Department assessment on the climate-change
impact. Their position appeared to receive a boost in comments the Environmental
Protection Agency submitted last week to the draft analysis.

The State Department needs to conduct a more complete economic analysis to show
that railroads and other transport options existed to carry Alberta oil sands to
refineries if Keystone was rejected, the EPA said. It also said the State
Department's final environmental analysis should "more clearly acknowledge" that
cleaning up oil sands crude is more difficult than conventional oil.

Polls by an analyst at the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars, a
research group based in Washington, found that 74 percent of Americans support
approving the project, compared with 68 percent of Canadians in a separate
survey. Most Americans said they care more about North American energy
independence than reducing greenhouse gases contributing to climate change.

"It is in the best interests of all Americans to build the pipeline to ensure
our long-term energy security, a dependable supply of Canadian oil to state of
the art U.S. refineries and the creation of thousands of American jobs," the
American Petroleum Institute, the Association of Oil Pipe Lines and 13 other
groups said in comments sent to the State Department.

State Department officials will review the comments submitted since the draft
analysis was issued March 1. Eight agencies, including the Environmental
Protection Agency and the Energy Department, will advise the State Department as
it weighs whether Keystone is in U.S. interests.

The State Department has said it will also accept additional public comment
during the next phase of the review before issuing a national interest
determination.

Besides environmental risks, the review includes an evaluation of what Keystone
means for U.S. energy security, the economy and foreign policy.

Since TransCanada applied to build the pipeline across the U.S.-Canadian border
four years ago, the project has galvanized groups including 350.org and the
Sierra Club in San Francisco that view Mr. Obama's decision as a sign of his
sincerity in meeting a second-term pledge to tackle climate-change risks.

Opponents staged a massive rally around the White House and have engaged in acts
of civil disobedience to oppose the pipeline.

"We've brought tens of thousands to D.C. to oppose the pipeline, people almost
every week are going to jail to stop it, and a million people just commented
that KXL should be rejected," Mr. Kessler said.

Last month, 17 Democrats joined every Senate Republican in voting for a
non-binding resolution endorsing Keystone XL. The House Energy and Commerce
Committee voted, 30-18, this month to approve and send to the full House a bill
that would allow the pipeline to be built without the administration's approval.

The State Department is reviewing the project because it crosses an
international border. Paul Bledsoe, a former White House aide to President Bill
Clinton, said on issues like Keystone that become high-profile ultimately the
decision rests with Mr. Obama.

"While various departments and agencies have technical authority over different
regulatory matters, the political reality is on major issues the White House has
the final say," Mr. Bledsoe, who is now a senior fellow on energy at the German
Marshall Fund, said in an email. "In the White House-centric modern executive
branch, everyone knows where the buck stops."

Mr. Obama rejected the original route after complaints from Nebraska state
officials that it threatened the Sand Hills, a network of wetlands and dunes in
the central part of the state, and the Ogallala aquifer underneath the permeable
soil.

A new route skirts the Sand Hills as designated by Nebraska's Department of
Environmental Quality. Bold Nebraska, a group that has focused on risks to
drinking water, said in comments it planned to submit that the pipeline still
crosses environmentally sensitive areas and is a threat to groundwater.

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Justin Sullivan/Getty Images: Demonstrators hold signs as they
protest near the site of a fundraiser in San Francisco, California.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2013 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              68 of 438 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                           November 21, 2013 Thursday
                                 SOONER EDITION

RICH, POOR COUNTRIES SPAR OVER CLIMATE COSTS;
DEVELOPING NATIONS STAGE WALKOUT IN PROTEST AT TALKS

BYLINE: David Jolly, The New York Times

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. A-4

LENGTH: 502 words


WARSAW, Poland -- The U.N. climate talks are bogging down over the old divide
between rich and poor nations on the question of who should pay when climate
-related disaster strikes, with developing nations staging a symbolic walkout
early Wednesday in protest of what they consider inadequate financial support
from wealthy countries.

The new catchphrase is "loss and damage," shorthand for the fight over financing
for the costs of rising seas, powerful storms and persistent drought. And the
issue of whether the U.N. Framework Convention on Climate Change should be
modified to require rich nations to bear the cost of disasters exacerbated by
global warming is threatening to torpedo the Warsaw talks, which are meant to
prepare a global climate agreement to be signed in 2015.

"Talk to someone who's just lost their livelihood two times in the last five
years, lost their cow" for reasons related to climate change, said Harjeet
Singh, international coordinator for the advocacy group ActionAid. "There has to
be a system in place to help that poor woman."

Early Wednesday, the developed nations' refusal to consider seriously creation
of a new mechanism prompted a group of developing countries known as the Group
of 77 and China to walk out of the talks, Mr. Singh said, sending "a very strong
message that they can't go home from Warsaw without a loss-and-damage
mechanism."

Developed nations fear footing the bill for potentially unlimited future
liability and agreed only reluctantly to add loss and damage to the Warsaw
agenda at the end of last year's climate conference in Doha, Qatar. The issue
was given new momentum in recent days by the typhoon that battered the
Philippines, although it could be years before scientists are able to conclude
whether the giant storm's extreme force can be traced to global warming.

"This is the issue that almost crashed the Doha talks," said Alden Meyer,
director of policy at the Union of Concerned Scientists. "And here we are going
into the last days of Warsaw, and the small island states and the less-developed
countries are seeing signs that they're not going to come out of this with what
was agreed last year."

A Western diplomat at the talks said it was an exaggeration to characterize the
break in negotiations -- which occurred after 4 a.m., when delegates were
exhausted from a long day -- as "a walkout." While the talks did end in discord,
the diplomat said, speaking on condition of anonymity, everyone agreed to leave
together, with expectations that talks would resume later.

They did pick up later. Todd D. Stern, the U.S. climate delegate, noted that the
United States and many other developed countries supported the idea of including
loss and damage under one of the existing categories for aid under the framework
treaty.

Negotiators from developing countries are calling for a new mechanism to be
established, because they lack resources to respond to disasters that scientists
predict will become more severe and frequent as the atmosphere heats up.

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2013 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              86 of 438 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            April 13, 2013 Saturday
                                 SOONER EDITION

WE SHOULD PAY MORE ATTENTION TO FIRMS ON RISE

BYLINE: ANN DUGAN

SECTION: BUSINESS; BUSINESS FORUM; Pg. A-7

LENGTH: 596 words


Recently we've seen several local economic pundits wring their hands in news
media over the recent U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics report showing that from
February 2012 until February 2013, the Pittsburgh region had the slowest rate of
job growth of any of the 40 largest metropolitan regions across the country.

Typically after conveying the dismal news of a mere 2,100 net new jobs created
in the region over the past year comes prescriptions to improve the business
climate in the area.

But instead of looking at what's wrong with the region, maybe we should be
looking at what's right about the companies that have managed to grow and create
jobs. And while firms that are generating jobs are in the minority, there are
still plenty of them around.

Nonetheless, only a small proportion of Pennsylvania and Pittsburgh businesses
are responsible for creating an overwhelming number of new jobs. In fact, the
top 1 percent of companies in terms of job growth created 195 percent of all new
jobs in the commonwealth from 2005-10, according to a recent study by the Team
Pennsylvania Foundation. The remaining 99 percent of all Pennsylvania companies
actually lost jobs.

The study creates a group it labels "higro" companies, firms that experienced
two growth spurts over the past five years. By the way, the study found more of
these higros in Allegheny County than in any other county in the commonwealth.

Looking at how these higros differ from the remainder of Pennsylvania businesses
can teach companies what they can do to grow, while it teaches business
associations, economic development organizations and government entities what we
really should be doing to promote robust job growth in the region.

Here are some of the major differences: Higros tend to have a wider market scope
than other companies. Their ownership tends to be more diverse. The fast-growing
companies are slightly more likely to be manufacturing companies. Lastly, higros
are twice as likely to change their primary industry code, which suggests
strongly that they are more likely to continue to evolve to meet new market
conditions.

Over the years, many of the businesses that are involved with my organization,
the Institute for Entrepreneurial Excellence, have been dedicated to maintaining
a high growth rate, so almost every day I see proof that the companies that
thrive are different from other firms. They do tend to reach outside our
regional borders to grow their market, and certainly manufacturers are the ones
adding the most jobs recently.

But I want to focus on the fact that higros are twice as likely to change their
SIC code than other businesses. That fact speaks loudly to what I believe
separates high-growth companies from others: the ability to change the business
model, the business structure, locations, even the product and service line. It
is in the nature of "entrepreneurism" to be open to change and seize upon the
opportunities change produces.

Perhaps the best thing we can to foster job growth in Western Pennsylvania is to
create a culture in which change is respected and supported.

It starts with opportunities for the leaders of closely held companies to learn
how to confront and manage change. It is also important to create learning
opportunities for entrepreneurs to meet and interact with other entrepreneurs to
create a "change buzz." Finally, when an entrepreneur gets a great idea and a
solid business plan, the funding for implementation has to be there.

As it turns out, we're doing these things already in Western Pennsylvania. We
just have to do more of it.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Ann Dugan is the founder of the Institute for Entrepreneurial Excellence
at the University of Pittsburgh's Katz Graduate School of Business./

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2013 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              87 of 438 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                             March 24, 2013 Sunday
                                TWO STAR EDITION

THE RISE OF THE NUCLEAR GREENS;
MORE AND MORE ENVIRONMENTALISTS ARE BECOMING ADVOCATES OF NUCLEAR POWER

BYLINE: ROBERT BRYCE

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. B-1

LENGTH: 1069 words


In theory, the March 11, 2011, disaster at the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear plant
in Japan should have bolstered environmentalists' opposition to new
nuclear-energy projects. But in the wake of the worst nuclear accident since
Chernobyl, some of the world's leading Greens have done just the opposite: They
have come out in favor of nuclear power.

Perhaps the most prominent convert is British activist and journalist George
Monbiot, who even cites the disaster as one reason for his change of heart. Just
10 days after Fukushima, in a column for the Guardian, Mr. Monbiot called the
use of solar energy in the United Kingdom "a spectacular waste of scarce
resources" and declared that wind energy was "hopelessly inefficient" and
"largely worthless." Moreover, he wrote, "on every measure (climate change,
mining impact, local pollution, industrial injury and death, even radioactive
discharges) coal is 100 times worse than nuclear power." He concluded: "Atomic
energy has just been subjected to one of the harshest of possible tests, and the
impact on people and the planet has been small. The crisis at Fukushima has
converted me to the cause of nuclear power."

A number of prominent British and American environmentalists were pronuclear
before Fukushima. Among the Americans are longtime environmental activist and
publisher Stewart Brand, as well as Ted Nordhaus and Michael Shellenberger,
founders of the Oakland-based Breakthrough Institute, a center-left think tank.
The Brits include environmentalist Mark Lynas, former British prime minister
Tony Blair and scientist and environmentalist James Lovelock. There's also a
Canadian in the group: Greenpeace cofounder Patrick Moore.

The emergence of the pronuclear Greens represents an important schism in modern
environmentalism. For decades, groups like the Sierra Club and Greenpeace have
pushed an antinuclear agenda and contended that the only energy path for the
future is the widespread deployment of wind turbines, solar panels and other
alternative fuels. But fear of carbon emissions and climate change has catalyzed
a major rethinking. As Mr. Brand puts it in a new documentary, "Pandora's
Promise," which explores the conversion of antinuclear activists to the
pronuclear side: "The question is often asked, 'Can you be an environmentalist
and be pronuclear?' I would turn that around and say, 'In light of climate
change, can you be an environmentalist and not be pronuclear?' "

Newfound support can only help the nuclear-energy sector, but it remains to be
seen whether nuclear will play a major role in the burgeoning global electricity
market, which has grown by about 3 percent per year since 1985. It's already
clear that the Greens' pronuclear stance won't have a significant impact on the
American electricity market over the next decade or so, for a simple reason: The
shale-gas revolution here has produced abundant supplies of low-cost natural
gas.

In 2010, one of the largest electric utilities in the country, Exelon, said that
for new nuclear projects to be economically viable, natural gas would have to
cost at least $8 per million Btu. Today, the price is about $3.50, and the
shale-gas boom means that a price anywhere near $8 is exceedingly unlikely for
years to come. Four nuclear reactors are now being built in the United States --
the Vogtle 3 and 4 reactors in Georgia and the Summer 2 and 3 reactors in South
Carolina, all by Westinghouse -- but the projects are going forward only because
regulators in those states have allowed the utilities that own them to recover
costs from ratepayers before the projects are finished.

Nuclear advocates may have more influence in Asia and Europe, where natural gas
remains relatively expensive. For instance, in Japan, where the nuclear industry
is fighting to stay alive after Fukushima, natural gas must be imported in
liquefied form, and it currently costs about $17 per million Btu. In Western
Europe, imported, liquefied natural gas costs nearly $12 per million Btu.

When natural gas is that expensive, nuclear reactors can make economic sense.
According to the World Nuclear Association, a trade group, more than 62,000
megawatts' worth of new reactors are now being built -- 58,000 in Europe and
Asia and the remainder in South America and the Middle East.

The biggest obstacle to a rapid expansion of the global nuclear fleet isn't
natural gas, however; it's coal, the leading source of carbon-dioxide emissions.
In China, for example, about 500,000 megawatts of new coal-fired electric
generation capacity came online between 2000 and 2011. Between 2013 and 2016,
China will probably build another 315,000 megawatts of new coal-fired capacity.

Electricity producers are building new coal-fired power plants because coal is
relatively cheap and abundant and because no OPEC-like cartel controls the
global market. Those factors help explain why, over the past decade, the global
consumption of energy from coal grew by about the same amount as the consumption
of energy from oil, natural gas, hydropower and nuclear power combined. In just
one year, 2011, global coal use increased by the equivalent of about 3.9 million
barrels of oil per day. That daily increase was nearly as much energy as the
total amount provided each day by all global non-hydro renewables.

For nuclear energy to gain significant momentum in the global marketplace, then,
it has to get much cheaper. In a September essay published in Foreign Policy,
Messrs. Nordhaus and Shellenberger, with coauthor Jessica Levering, provided a
road map for revitalizing the nuclear sector. They called for a "new national
commitment" to the development and commercialization of next-generation nuclear
technologies, including small modular reactors. The goal, they said, should be
reactors that can be built at "a significantly lower cost than current designs,"
as well as a new, more nimble regulatory framework that can review and approve
the new designs.

While that plan is sensible enough, it's not clear whether groups like the
Sierra Club and Greenpeace can be persuaded to abandon their antinuclear
zealotry. Nevertheless, it's encouraging to see that some influential
environmentalists are realizing that we have no choice but to embrace the
astonishing power of the atom. We do have to get better at nuclear power, and
that will take time. But we're only at the beginning of the Nuclear Age.

Daniel Marsula/Post-Gazette

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Robert Bryce is a senior fellow at the Center for Energy Policy and the
Environment at the Manhattan Institute. This first appeared in City Journal./

GRAPHIC: DRAWING: By Daniel Marsula/Post-Gazette

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2013 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              92 of 438 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                             August 25, 2013 Sunday
                                TWO STAR EDITION

CLIMATE CRISIS

BYLINE: WILLIAM S. DUNDAS, Jefferson Hills

SECTION: EDITORIAL; ISSUE ONE; Pg. F-3

LENGTH: 194 words


Many thanks to the Post-Gazette for highlighting the issue of human-caused,
global climate change ("Change Is Coming," Aug. 21 editorial). It's crucial for
Pittsburghers and people around the world to understand that human activities
are radically altering the climatic conditions that nurture human development.
While "global warming" might carry an innocuous connotation, unprecedented
increases in atmospheric and ocean temperatures during recent decades have
drastically altered the planet's natural process of climatic change.

Human activities are driving the global climate toward an ice-free state not
seen for millions of years prior to the dawn of Homo sapiens. The long-term
effects of rising sea levels, ocean acidification and increasingly capricious
weather patterns are creating a world hostile to human prosperity and survival.

While the worst climate effects might not occur within our own lifetimes, this
hardly represents an excuse for ignoring what the world's leading climate
scientists have dubbed a "planetary emergency." As suggested by the
Post-Gazette's timely editorial, we must pay attention to this issue now and
begin to act immediately.

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: THE ENVIRONMENT

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2013 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              126 of 438 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            January 1, 2013 Tuesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

MULTIPLE PROBLEMS THREATENING LAKE ERIE

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. B-4

LENGTH: 475 words


COLUMBUS, Ohio -- Lake Erie has become threatened as a result of toxic
blue-green algae and invasive species of fish, mussels and plants, according to
a new report.

The Great Lakes Environmental Assessment and Mapping Project concluded that Lake
Erie was the second-most threatened of the five Great Lakes, behind Lake
Ontario.

Researchers with the assessment project spent more than three years collecting
data on 34 lake "stressors" -- including invasive species, climate change and
pollution, The Columbus Dispatch reported on Monday.

Peter McIntyre, a mapping-project researcher with the University of Wisconsin's
Center for Limnology, said he hopes the computer-generated "threat map"
highlighting the areas with the biggest problems will help officials who award
hundreds of millions of dollars in grants each year to help clean up and protect
the lakes. Those lakes with the worst status could attract more of that money,
which mostly comes from the federal Great Lakes Restoration Initiative.

The new map shows Lake Ontario as the most threatened because of widespread
mercury and PCB pollution and problems stemming from invasive sea lampreys and
zebra and quagga mussels. But Ohio advocates and experts have argued that Lake
Erie is the most-threatened of the Great Lakes.

"It's hard to imagine that any other Great Lake would be in more trouble," said
Sandy Bihn, director of the Toledo-based Lake Erie Waterkeeper advocacy group.

Researchers in 2011 tracked a record-size "bloom" of the toxic algae in Lake
Erie. Satellite photos that year showed the algae, which produces a nerve toxin
that can sicken humans and kill pets and other animals, stretching from Toledo
to Cleveland. Rains wash manure, fertilizers and sewage into the lake,
contaminating widespread areas with nitrogen and phosphorus that feed the algae.

Lake Erie appears to lead other lakes in sediment problems from erosion and in
invasive shoreline reeds called phragmites and the invasive round goby fish,
although zebra and quagga mussels are more concentrated in Lake Ontario,
according to the map.

Researchers evaluated the cumulative threat to each Great Lake, emphasizing the
categories of declining water level, rising water temperature, zebra and quagga
mussels, sea lampreys and ballast-water dumping by oceangoing vessels, Mr.
McIntyre said.

But no matter its ranking, Lake Erie's combined problems present a dire threat
to its overall ecology, according to Jeffrey Reutter, director of Ohio State
University's Sea Grant program and the Stone Laboratory on Lake Erie.

Lake Erie also apparently has been harmed by climate change, with maps showing a
large loss of winter ice cover in Erie and in Lake Superior.

Ice helps to slow warming of the water in the spring and summer, and Lake Erie's
ice levels are "dropping significantly over time, year after year," Ms. Bihn
said.

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2013 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              129 of 438 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            January 21, 2013 Monday
                            PITTSBURGH PRESS EDITION

INAUGURATION PREVIEWS AN AMBITIOUS SECOND TERM OBAMA PREVIEWS AMBITIOUS SECOND
TERM

BYLINE: Julie Pace, Associated Press

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. A-1

LENGTH: 540 words


WASHINGTON

Declaring "our journey is not complete," President Barack Obama took the oath of
office for his second term before a crowd of hundreds of thousands today, urging
the nation to set an unwavering course toward prosperity and freedom for all its
citizens and protect the social safety net that has sheltered the poor, elderly
and needy.

"Our country cannot succeed when a shrinking few do very well and a growing many
barely make it," Mr. Obama said in his relatively brief, 18-minute address. "We
believe that America's prosperity must rest upon the broad shoulders of a rising
middle class," he added, echoing his calls from the presidential campaign that
catapulted him to re-election.

The president declared that a decade of war is ending, as is the economic
recession that consumed much of his first term.

He previewed an ambitious second-term agenda, devoting several sentences to the
threat of global climate change and saying that failure to confront it "would
betray our children and future generations."

Mr. Obama's focus on climate change was notable given that he barely dealt with
the issue in his first term.

In an era of looming budget cuts, he said the nation has a commitment to costly
programs such as Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security. "These things do not
sap our initiative, they strengthen us," he said.

Sandwiched between the bruising presidential campaign and relentless fiscal
fights, today's inaugural celebrations marked a brief respite from the partisan
gridlock that has consumed the past two years.

Perhaps seeking a fresh start, Mr. Obama invited several lawmakers to the White
House for coffee before his speech, including the Republican leaders with whom
he has frequently been at odds.

Looking to the challenges ahead, Mr. Obama implored Congress to find common
ground over the next four years.

And seeking to build on the public support that catapulted him to the White
House twice, the president said the public has "the obligation to shape the
debates of our time."

Moments earlier, Mr. Obama placed his hand on two Bibles -- one used by the Rev.
Martin Luther King Jr. and the other by Abraham Lincoln -- and recited the brief
oath of office.

Michelle Obama held the Bibles, one on top of the other, as daughters Malia and
Sasha looked on.

Vice President Joe Biden was sworn in for his second term as the nation's second
in command.

Mr. Obama referenced the Stonewall gay-rights riots in his inaugural address,
classing them as a civil rights watershed along with key moments in the
struggles for blacks and women.

The president said that the truth that all are created equal guides us today
"just as it guided our forebears through Seneca Falls, and Selma, and
Stonewall."

The Stonewall riots occurred in New York City in 1969 when patrons at a gay bar
reacted to police harassment, and the events helped found the modern gay-rights
movement.

Mr. Obama's second inaugural lacked the electric enthusiasm of his first, when
1.8 million people crammed onto the National Mall to witness the swearing-in of
the nation's first black president.

Far fewer people attended this year's inauguration -- officials estimated up to
700,000 people -- but the crowd still stretched from the Capitol to the
Washington Monument.

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Evan Fucci/Associated Press President Barack Obama receives the
oath of office from Chief Justice John Roberts as first lady Michelle Obama and
their daughters Malia and Sasha listen today at the ceremonial swearing-in at
the U.S. Capitol during the 57th Presidential Inauguration in Washington.\
\ \ PHOTO: Larry Roberts/The Pittsburgh Press: Jacqueline Chalifoux, 8, of
Wexford, left, and Chloe Rodrigues of Lawrenceville, right, turn and watch the
crowd today at a broadcast of the ceremonial inauguration of President Barack
Obama in the theater at the Children's Museum. \

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2013 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              137 of 438 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                             August 19, 2013 Monday
                            PITTSBURGH PRESS EDITION

SECTION: NATIONAL; NATION; Pg. A-3

LENGTH: 648 words


Man admits killing, eating heart

BEL AIR, Md. - A former Maryland college student who told authorities he killed
a man and ate his heart and parts of his brain pleaded guilty but not criminally
responsible today.

Alex Kinyua, 22, entered the plea to first-degree murder in the death of
37-year-old Kujoe Bonsafo Agyei-Kodie last year. The former Morgan State
University student spoke softly as he responded to questions from the judge,
saying he had agreed to the plea and medications he had been taking were helping
him. He declined an opportunity to address the court.

Judge Stephen Waldron said he had concerns about agreeing to the plea, but had
to accept determinations by psychiatrists for the defense and prosecution that
Mr. Kinyua could not be held criminally responsible. He expressed condolences to
family and friends of the Agyei-Kodie.

Report addresses rising seas

NEW YORK - A presidential task force charged with developing a strategy for
rebuilding areas damaged by Superstorm Sandy has issued a report recommending 69
policy initiatives, most focused on a simple warning: Plan for future storms in
an age of climate change and rising sea levels.

The report released today by the Hurricane Sandy Rebuilding Task Force says
coastal communities should assume floods are going to happen more frequently and
realize that spending more now on protective measures could save money later. It
calls for development of a more advanced electrical grid less likely to be
crippled in a crisis, and the creation of better planning tools and standards
for communities rebuilding storm-damaged areas.

Some of the group's key recommendations are already being implemented, including
the creation of new flood-protection standards for major infrastructure projects
built with federal money and the promotion of a sea-level modeling tool that
will help builders and engineers predict where flooding might be an issue in the
future.

The task force also endorsed an ongoing competition, called "Rebuild by Design,"
in which 10 teams of architects and engineers from around the world are
exploring ways to address vulnerabilities in coastal areas.

President Barack Obama created the task force in December. Its chairman,
Secretary of Housing and Urban Development Shaun Donovan, said in a statement
that the group focused on finding ways to cut red tape in the delivery of
disaster aid and "piloting innovative strategies that can serve as a model for
communities across the nation as they prepare for the impacts of climate change.
"

Judge limits testimony on Hasan's motive

FORT HOOD, Texas - The judge overseeing the Fort Hood shooting trial blocked
prosecutors today from using several witnesses and most evidence they had sought
to explain the alleged motive behind the 2009 attack.

Prosecutors had asked the military judge to approve evidence and several
witnesses to explain the mindset of Maj. Nidal Hasan, who is accused of killing
13 people and wounding more than 30 others at the Texas military base in
November 2009.

Such evidence included references to Hasan Akbar, a Muslim soldier sentenced to
death for attacking fellow soldiers in Kuwait during the 2003 Iraq invasion.
Prosecutors wanted to suggest a copycat motive.

But the judge, Col. Tara Osborn, barred prosecutors from referencing Akbar,
saying Akbar wasn't on trial and introduction of such material would "only open
the door to a mini trial." She also said it would result in a "confusion of
issues, unfair prejudice, waste of time and undo delay."

Col. Osborn also told prosecutors that they couldn't cite Maj. Hasan's interest
years ago in conscientious objector status and his past academic presentations.
Col. Osborn said such evidence was too old and irrelevant.

However, the judge will allow evidence about Internet searches on Maj. Hasan's
computer around the time of the attack and websites that Maj. Hasan had listed
as "favorites."

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2013 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              139 of 438 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                           September 29, 2013 Sunday
                                TWO STAR EDITION

FAILING ON ENERGY

BYLINE: TIMOTHY KELLY , Aleppo

SECTION: EDITORIAL; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR; Pg. B-2

LENGTH: 309 words


U.S. Rep. Tim Murphy deftly sidesteps the elephants in the room in his piece on
coal ("Pennsylvania Is Coal Country," Sept. 15) -- climate change and ocean
acidification -- and that's a grave error in judgment. The effects of CO2 from
fossil fuel are documented and accepted by the scientific community.

Recently, the Seattle Times published an extensive piece on the lesser-known
threat from CO2, ocean acidification. Titled "Sea Change," it explains fully the
deleterious effects of CO2 on the marine ecosystem, which are irrefutable and
being witnessed now, across the planet. From the article: "But all that CO2 is
changing the chemistry of the ocean faster than at any time in human history.
Now the phenomenon known as ocean acidification -- the lesser-known twin of
climate change -- is helping push the seas toward a great unraveling that
threatens to scramble marine life on a scale almost too big to fathom, and far
faster than first expected."

Carbon capture and storage, held up by conservatives as the savior of the coal
industry, is too late and too expensive to be of help at this point. We are
already too far in "carbon debt" to delay aggressive action any longer. The
Obama administration accepts this, and thus we had the change in the social cost
of carbon calculation.

It's time to move on from fossil fuels. Mr. Murphy raises the ghost of Solyndra,
which was a good idea, originally supported by the Bush administration, that
couldn't get down the cost curve. Solar is clean, fast to install and getting
competitive with fossil fuels; in addition, grid-level storage is getting closer
to reality. Mr. Murphy, and those like him, are failing Pennsylvania and the
nation in trying to keep us in one place, instead of accepting the science and
moving to prepare us for the transition that must happen, if humanity is to
avoid a catastrophe.

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2013 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              161 of 438 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                          February 13, 2013 Wednesday
                            PITTSBURGH PRESS EDITION

OBAMA PROPOSALS FACE QUICK OPPOSITION IN CONGRESS

BYLINE: Erica Werner, Associated Press

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. A-3

LENGTH: 567 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


President Barack Obama set up high-stakes clashes with Republicans over guns,
immigration, taxes and climate change in a State of the Union address that
showcased his determination to mark his legacy. Republicans urged Mr. Obama to
get out of campaign mode and offer more than "gimmicks and tax hikes."

At the center of looming confrontations in Washington is a fight over the very
role of government, with Mr. Obama pushing a raft of new initiatives to improve
preschool programs and voting, boost manufacturing and research and development,
raise the minimum wage and lower energy use. "It is our unfinished task to make
sure that this government works on behalf of the many and not just the few," he
said.

Republicans who control the House and hold enough votes to stall legislation in
the Senate were just as quick to declare that the government helps best by
getting out of the way.

"An opportunity to bring together the country instead became another retread of
lip service and liberalism," Senate Republican Leader Mitch McConnell said today
from the chamber floor, saying the president offered little more than "gimmicks
and tax hikes."

"Last night's speech was a pedestrian liberal boilerplate that any Democratic
lawmaker could have given at any time in recent history," Mr. McConnell said.

House Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan, the GOP's vice presidential candidate
last fall, said today that Mr. Obama's leadership style stands in the way of
bipartisan efforts to resolve problems like the ballooning deficit. "He seems to
always be in campaign mode, where he treats people in the other party as enemies
rather than partners," the Wisconsin Republican said in an interview on "CBS
This Morning."

Mr. Ryan was asked if he supported House Speaker John Boehner's remark Tuesday
that he didn't believe Mr. Obama "has the guts" to stand up to liberals in his
own party on spending cuts.

"That's why the congressman makes remarks like that," Mr. Ryan said of Mr.
Boehner.

The morning-after comments came as Mr. Obama was to set off on a three-state
trip, starting in North Carolina, to sell to voters the programs he outlined in
his address. Mr. Obama hit the road frequently in campaign-style trips in
December to appeal directly to voters for the approach that he favored,
including new taxes, to avoid the so-called "fiscal cliff."

Republican critics have said the president should stay home and focus his
attention on dealing directly with Congress on these issues.

In the formal Republican response to Mr. Obama's address, Sen. Marco Rubio,
R-Fla., said, "More government isn't going to help you get ahead. It's going to
hold you back. More government isn't going to create more opportunities. It's
going to limit them."

"And more government isn't going to inspire new ideas, new businesses and new
private sector jobs. It's going to create uncertainty," said Mr. Rubio, a rising
star in the party.

Uncompromising and aggressive, Mr. Obama pressed his agenda on social issues and
economic ones, declaring himself determined to intervene to right income
inequality and boost the middle class. He called on Congress to pass
comprehensive immigration reform with a pathway to citizenship for 11 million
illegal immigrants, far-reaching gun control measures and a climate bill to cut
greenhouse gas emissions. He threatened to go around Congress with executive
actions on climate change if it fails to act.

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2013 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              165 of 438 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                              June 23, 2013 Sunday
                                TWO STAR EDITION

NO VOICE EXPERTS IN MURDER TRIAL

BYLINE: Compiled from news services

SECTION: NATIONAL; NATIONAL BRIEFS; Pg. A-6

LENGTH: 431 words


ORLANDO, Fla. -- In a major victory for murder suspect George Zimmerman, a judge
Saturday ruled that prosecutors may not use two state audio experts who say the
voice heard screaming for help on a 911 call was 17-year-old Trayvon Martin.

Circuit Judge Debra S. Nelson had heard three days of testimony about the
science used by the state's experts.

On Saturday, she ruled that it failed to meet Florida's legal standard.

She said the science supporting the experts' analyses "is not as widely accepted
at this time" as the more established methods relied on by defense witnesses who
said it was impossible to conclude whose voice it was.

However, jurors can expect prosecutors to still play the audio.

Girl awake after transplant

PHILADELPHIA -- A spokeswoman for the family of a 10-year-old Pennsylvania girl
who underwent a double-lung transplant after a national debate over the process
of getting the organs says the girl has awakened from a medically-induced coma.

Tracy Simon said Sarah Murnaghan was awake Friday and responding to questions by
nodding to indicate yes or no. Two days earlier, she was moved from a heavy-duty
breathing machine to a traditional ventilator.

Sarah underwent a six-hour operation after a judge intervened and gave her a
chance at the list of organs from adult donors, not just child donors.

Ms. Simon said Sarah's family is optimistic with her progress.

Obama has climate plan

WASHINGTON -- President Barack Obama said he plans to announce on Tuesday a plan
to curb climate change that includes using his executive authority to impose
limits on greenhouse gas emissions from power.

Mr. Obama didn't offer further details of his plan, but said he'll make the
announcement at Georgetown University.

He is prepared to take action if Congress doesn't, according to spokesman Jay
Carney, and he has directed his Cabinet to come up with executive actions to
reduce pollution and speed the transition to more sustainable sources of energy.

Erratic wildfire slowing

DEL NORTE, Colo. -- A massive wildfire threatening a tourist region in
southwestern Colorado has grown to nearly 60 square miles, but officials said
Saturday that the erratic blaze had slowed and they were optimistic they could
protect the town of South Fork.

The fire's rapid advance prompted the evacuation of hundreds of summer visitors
and the town's 400 permanent residents Friday, and it could be days before
people are allowed back into their homes, cabins and RV parks, fire crew
spokeswoman Laura McConnell said.

South Fork Mayor Kenneth Brooke estimated that 1,000 to 1,500 people were forced
to flee.

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2013 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              168 of 438 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                              June 24, 2013 Monday
                                 SOONER EDITION

CITY SCHOOLS CONSIDER CHANGES TO PROGRAMS, SCHOOL CONFIGURATIONS

BYLINE: Eleanor Chute, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. B-4

LENGTH: 1369 words


In the midst of a $2.4 million envisioning process to plan its future, the
Pittsburgh public school system is a bit like a homeowner trying to remodel a
kitchen: Everything is on the table, from the granite counters to the stainless
steel double-door refrigerator. The next step is figuring out whether the
granite fits into the budget or if the counter can be shortened to make room for
the refrigerator.

The school board last week heard an update on the process, which has included
receiving community input and is moving toward developing strategic options over
the summer.

The effort is known as "Envisioning Educational Excellence: A Plan for All of
Pittsburgh's Children."

Using grant money, the district is paying for two consultants, FSG and
Bellwether Education Partners, to help the district figure out how to improve
academic quality while tackling a budget problem so serious the district expects
to run out of money in 2016 unless it changes course.

That course correction may involve a combination of new programs and school
closings, but no specific proposals have been made yet. There won't be any
school closings this fall.

According to the latest report, based on the opinion of a local advisory group,
two of the options to be explored further include making more seats available in
existing high quality schools and opening up new campuses of successful schools
such as Pittsburgh CAPA 6-12, Downtown, which offers creative and performing
arts, and Pittsburgh Sci-Tech 6-12 in Oakland.

Both are magnet schools that have more applicants than seats.

The report also suggested exploring new models, such as "thematic courses that
strengthen marketable job skills and/or use innovative instructional delivery,"
such as blended schools which combine in-person and online learning.

The district spent $38.5 million to build CAPA, which opened in 2003 as a high
school Downtown. From 2004-12, CAPA cost the district another $11.7 million,
including capital costs resulting from the move of the 6-8 program from Rogers
in Garfield to the CAPA building in 2009.

To open Sci-Tech in 2009, the district spent nearly $13 million in renovations
at the former Frick building, including classrooms, science labs, electrical
power, cafeteria and flooring. Another $1.1 million has been spent since it
opened.

Asked in an interview whether the district could afford to expand such programs,
school Superintendent Linda Lane said, "It doesn't have to be done the way it
was done the first time."

She wants to have all options on the table and then look at how much they would
cost.

"I want us to not just shut down options because at first look I don't know how
I could make that work. That's why we're trying to consider everything. Wait a
minute, if we did it this way, how would that work?"

She noted, "It's how it all fits together in a budget."

She said the financial realities now will come into play as the strategic
options are developed and readied to take before the board.

"It wouldn't make a lot of sense to bring forward options when there's no
financial way to make it work," Ms. Lane said.

The idea of choice within a "school portfolio" is a common theme in the
envisioning effort. Ms. Lane said she would like to "optimize choice to the
extent we can."

Could Pittsburgh move to an all-choice system?

"I don't know that yet," she said. "All choice has some definite appeal from
many of our families. We've got two sides of this issue we have to address. All
choice also has some cost drivers associated with it. Transportation would
definitely be one of those."

She wants any plan to be fiscally sustainable.

"So much of what we're hearing from community folks they would like are things
that actually would have a pretty significant implication on our cost
structure," she said.

She said the question is what would have to change to enable other changes.

Many students currently exercise choice. Of students in grades K-12 who live in
the city, only about 40 percent attend the feeder school assigned by where they
live. About 70 percent of all students living in the city attend a
district-operated school.

At the school board meeting, board members expressed their view that all schools
need to be high-quality.

Board member Sherry Hazuda said she thinks students choose schools other than
their assigned one out of dissatisfaction with the assigned school.

"If we expand the options because we think they'll satisfy some people, they
will, but it still doesn't shore up the regular feeder schools," she said.

Board member Regina Holley said parents are likely to choose schools in their
own communities "if you have consistently good schools everywhere."

An online community survey -- completed by more than 700 people as part of the
envisioning process -- showed that respondents, on average, were neutral about
the statement that they feel comfortable about sending their own child or a
child that is important to them to at least one district school.

However, the survey showed they disagreed, on average, that they could
comfortably send a child to any district school.

The report noted how Pittsburgh has adopted a wide variety of grade
configurations for its buildings -- K-5, K-8, 6-8, 6-12 and 9-12.

In the community survey, opinions were mixed as to whether there should be fewer
grade configurations, with the average falling in the middle.

Ms. Lane said it would be "clumsy" to change the number of grade configurations.
She said she hasn't "found a good way to get there" and it would involve "more
moving around kids."

"We talked to principals about this. They didn't like it either, but they could
not agree on which grade configuration would go," she said.

Board member Jean Fink said, "I don't so much have a problem with different
grade configurations if it makes sense for that school. I'm not sure it makes
sense everywhere."

Board member Thomas Sumpter said career and technical education programs have
not been distributed equitably, noting an information technology option is
available in the South and North but not in the East.

Although no specific school closings are up for consideration, the board began
talking about the criteria for closing a school.

The report noted that past recent decisions were made based on student
achievement, enrollment as a percent of capacity, facility condition and
operations cost.

It raised the prospect of considering other criteria, such as race and
socioeconomic demographics; impact of past closures on students; impact of
future closures on neighborhoods and communities; facility size, location and
potential uses; and choices already made by parents.

Board president Sharene Shealey, who attended middle school at CAPA when it was
in Garfield, said she thinks admission to grades 6-8 should be by lottery, not
audition as it is now, to help expose more students to the arts.

Ms. Shealey suggested moving the middle school CAPA to regional campuses and
expanding the high school program Downtown.

She also said she thinks the Friendship building, which houses Pittsburgh
Montessori PreK-8, would cost millions of dollars to repair and said the board
should consider moving the program to the now-closed Fort Pitt building in
Garfield, which is in better shape.

Board member Floyd McCrea said the district should consider starting an
environmental school.

Ms. Holley suggested a moratorium on selling closed school buildings until a
plan is decided, but Ms. Lane said new programs or schools most likely would be
in buildings now open because they are in better condition.

Ms. Lane said the closed Gladstone in Hazelwood, for example, is "too far gone."

Another survey done for envisioning involved the central office staff, some of
whom don't know each other or who handles what.

Ms. Lane said central office needs to develop a better culture and climate to be
able to better help schools improve.

In an interview, Mary K. Wells, co-founder and managing partner of Bellwether
Education Partners, said Pittsburgh probably has "more neighborhood spirit and
neighborhood loyalty than in many other urban settings where that neighborhood
feeling maybe has eroded over time."

Beyond that, she said the community is similar to others in wanting "high
quality choices for their kids."

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Education writer Eleanor Chute: echute@post-gazette.com or 412-263-1955./

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2013 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              189 of 438 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            January 25, 2013 Friday
                            PITTSBURGH PRESS EDITION

OBAMA'S MAINSTREAM PITCH

BYLINE: KENNETH S. BAER

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A-8

LENGTH: 833 words


If you missed Barack Obama's inaugural address Monday, you might have thought
that it was George McGovern who took the oath of office.

"Unabashedly progressive," said ABC News correspondent Jonathan Karl; "President
Mr. Obama goes on the offense for liberalism," Politico proclaimed. A day later,
Republicans jumped on board. "His unabashedly far-left-of-center inaugural
speech certainly brings back memories of the Democratic Party in ages past,"
thundered Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell. Former George W. Bush
speechwriter David Frum said the speech "rejected and repudiated the ideas that
have dominated American political discourse since the Carter presidency. It
rejected not only Reagan, but Clinton." Former Nixon and Reagan aide David
Gergen concluded: "Gone were the third way of Bill Clinton and the centrism of
Jimmy Carter. He emerged as an unapologetic, unabashed liberal -- just what the
left has long wanted him to be and exactly what the right has feared."

Yet Mr. Obama's address was firmly in the mainstream -- of both the country and
the Democratic Party, which has absorbed the lessons of its post-1968 defeats
and synthesized into its core the New Democratic values of the Clinton era. The
speech sounded so robustly liberal not because the president or his party has
changed but because the Republican Party has, moving far outside the norms of
American political thought.

Defending the idea of a social safety net to guard against the vagaries of life
is hardly radical. President Dwight Eisenhower signed into law extensions of
Social Security; President Ronald Reagan worked with House Speaker Tip O'Neill
to save Social Security in 1983; President George W. Bush created the Medicare
prescription drug benefit.

But in a world in which Republicans have endorsed a budget that would eviscerate
Medicaid and turn it into a block grant and that would change Medicare into a
voucher program whose value would quickly be overtaken by inflation, protecting
the integrity of these programs suddenly sounds bold. Note that Mr. Obama did
not say these programs were immune from reform. And while an inaugural address
is hardly the place to rattle off numbers, Mr. Obama could have added that last
year he put forward $350 billion in health entitlement savings on top of the
$716 billion in Medicare savings he signed into law in his first term, cuts that
Republicans tried to use as a cudgel against Democrats last year.

Did Mr. Obama call for a new entitlement to deal with our economic woes? No.

In fact, keeping with the New Democratic approach, Mr. Obama rejected the
old-time religion of equality of outcome and framed his vision as one of
equality of opportunity: "We must . . . empower our citizens with the skills
they need to work harder, learn more, and reach higher. But while the means will
change, our purpose endures: a nation that rewards the effort and determination
of every single American." Mr. Obama put forward neither a new government agency
nor a guarantee of success. "Hard work and personal responsibility," Mr. Obama
reminded us, "are constants in our character." Rather than relaunch the War on
Poverty, Mr. Obama's economic focus was the middle class and those striving to
get there.

These differences may sound subtle, but they were an important shift in the
Democratic Party's public philosophy. In the 1990s, this change was
controversial (recall the fight over welfare reform), but now it is easy to miss
because opportunity and responsibility are so deeply embedded in the party's
DNA.

Defending a safety net and calling for opportunity for all is nothing new,
though Mr. Obama's call for full equality for gay and lesbian Americans is. Yet
this, along with the calls for equal pay for women, welcoming immigrants and
action on climate change, is radical only if viewed through the oversize
tortoise-shell glasses of the 1980s.

The country has changed. In a turnabout from the past, these social issues cut
against the GOP -- not the Democratic Party. In the 1980s, a New Democrat would
counsel against even mentioning these issues. Today, one of the most effective
advocates for gay marriage is the pre-eminent New Democratic institution Third
Way.

Perspective is everything in assessing Mr. Obama's second inaugural address. One
cannot ignore how the Republican Party's move to the right has shifted the
parameters of political debate. On economic policy, the president is in line
with the bipartisan, postwar consensus on the safety net and with the New
Democratic view on government's role in the economy. On social issues, he is
firmly in the mainstream and hardly a McGovernik.

But don't believe me. Listen to Newt Gingrich: "I didn't think it was very
liberal," he told Politico. "There were one or two sentences obviously
conservatives would object to, but 95 percent of the speech I thought was
classically American, emphasizing hard work, emphasizing self-reliance,
emphasizing doing things together. I thought it was a good speech."

So did I.

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Kenneth S. Baer is a managing director of the Harbour Group and the
author of "Reinventing Democrats: The Politics of Liberalism from Reagan to
Clinton." He is a former associate director of the Office of Management and
Budget in the Mr. Obama administration. Distributed by The Washington Post./

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2013 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              194 of 438 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            November 18, 2013 Monday
                                 SOONER EDITION

ATTACKS IN IRAQ KILL AT LEAST 20

BYLINE: Compiled from news services

SECTION: WORLD; WORLD BRIEFS; Pg. A-4

LENGTH: 550 words


BAGHDAD -- Attacks across Iraq killed at least 20 people Sunday, officials said,
as gunmen attacked a militia leader and bombs targeted police officers and
civilians.

In the capital's eastern New Baghdad neighborhood, a parked car bomb missed a
police patrol but killed three civilians and wounded 10, a police officer said.

Another police officer said a car bombing in Baghdad's eastern Sadr City
neighborhood killed one person and wounded 11.

In the Baghdad's southwestern suburb of Radwaniyah, a bomb went off in a
commercial area, killing three civilians and wounding 10, authorities said. In
the town of Tarmiyah, a bomb exploded near soldiers on patrol, killing two and
wounding five, officials said.

At dawn Sunday, militants attacked a local leader of pro-government,
anti-al-Qaida Sunni militia in his house in the town of Madain.

Libyans protest militia

TRIPOLI, Libya -- Residents of the Libyan capital launched a general strike
Sunday and held protests, demanding the city's myriad of powerful militias be
disbanded after violence in which nearly 50 people were killed over the weekend.

Tripoli residents are seething with anger over the violence that erupted Friday,
particularly directed at powerful militias from the western city of Misrata
operating in the capital.

In an apparent angry response at the popular pressure, Misrata's city council
announced late Sunday that it is withdrawing its representatives from the
interim national parliament and from the Cabinet.

The city council also called on all armed groups to withdraw from the capital
for a 72-hour period.

Presidential runoff in sight

SANTIAGO, Chile -- Socialist former Chilean President Michelle Bachelet led the
first round of voting in Chile's presidential election Sunday by a comfortable
margin, but it appeared she would have to compete in a runoff against
second-place Evelyn Matthei.

According to preliminary official results, based on close to 70 percent of the
votes counted, the center-left Ms. Bachelet won 46.7 per cent of the vote
compared to conservative Ms. Matthei's 25.2 percent.

If final results confirm this trend, a runoff election would be held between the
two on Dec. 15 to choose a successor to President Sebastian Pinera.

Climate talks look dismal

WARSAW, Poland -- U.N. climate talks head into a tense final week today after
the diplomatic effort to reduce global warming gases was hit by a series of
setbacks, including Japan's decision to ditch its voluntary emissions target.

The two-decade-old negotiations have so far failed to achieve their goal of
slashing emissions of carbon monoxide and other greenhouse gases that scientists
say are warming the planet. They don't seem to be getting any closer after a
tumultuous first week at this year's session in Warsaw.

9 assailants killed in China

BEIJING -- Nine assailants were shot and killed Saturday night after they tried
to storm a police station in the restive western Chinese province of Xinjiang,
the state-run Xinhua news agency and Radio Free Asia said. Two police officers
also died in the attack.

The violence at the Selibuya police station near Kashgar comes more than two
weeks after the Chinese authorities arrested five people from Xinjiang province
that they said were involved in a deadly attack last month on Tiananmen Square
that left five dead.

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2013 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              197 of 438 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                           January 23, 2013 Wednesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

TIME FOR ACTION

BYLINE: NAOMI SWERDLOW

SECTION: EDITORIAL; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR; Pg. B-6

LENGTH: 89 words


President Barack Obama gave a great speech Monday at his inauguration. He
mentioned climate change and raging fires. Now we need to have him do something
about it. Fossil fuel dependence needs to end. Wind and solar energies need to
be implemented. The Environmental Protection Agency needs to hold corporations
accountable for pollution.

I am going to be taking part in the next 100 days of action and make sure the
president takes action on what he says he will. I am a big supporter, so I hope
he pulls through.

NAOMI SWERDLOW

Point Breeze

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2013 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              201 of 438 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                             March 5, 2013 Tuesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

OHIO COUNTY SULLIED BY SCANDAL SEEKS REDEMPTION IN ETHICS PLEDGE

BYLINE: Mark Niquette, Bloomberg News

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. A-8

LENGTH: 529 words


CLEVELAND -- Mired in a scandal that saw its top officials charged with bribery,
Ohio's most populous county needed an image makeover. It turned to a new
government -- and a 262-word pledge.

After nearly five years of investigation and prosecutions in Cuyahoga County,
907 companies have signed the promise to uphold ethical standards and combat a
culture of corruption. County voters also did their part, restructuring a
government that critics said was inefficient and allowed back-room dealing.

The changes in northeast Ohio's Cuyahoga County, which grew with the steel
industry and John D. Rockefeller's Standard Oil and saw decline with the Rust
Belt, have Ed FitzGerald, 44, the first elected county executive, considering a
run for governor next year. Civic leaders say that while it is too soon to
render a final verdict, they are more confident about the region's direction and
an improving business climate.

"Our credibility as a community was tarnished," said former city planner Chris
Ronayne, 44, president of University Circle Inc., a Cleveland nonprofit
development corporation. "The business community and the populace generally knew
that we had to change our image."

The scandal began in July 2008, when dozens of federal agents raided homes and
offices of public officials and businesses. Sixty-two people have been charged,
with 47 sent to prison or awaiting sentencing, according to the U.S. Attorney's
Office in Cleveland.

The biggest targets were Jimmy Dimora, a heavy-set, Boss Tweed-like figure who
was first elected a commissioner in 1998 and ran the county's powerful
Democratic Party, and Frank Russo, the longtime county auditor.

Mr. Dimora, 57, was sentenced to 28 years in July 2012 after he was convicted on
32 counts. Prosecutors said he took more than $166,000 in bribes in the form of
cash, home improvements -- including a fake palm tree and money for a backyard
tiki hut -- meals at high-end restaurants and services from prostitutes. In
return, he steered contracts and jobs to friends and interceded with judges on
pending cases, according to federal authorities.

Mr. Russo, 63, received nearly 22 years in prison and was ordered to pay almost
$7 million in restitution in 2010 after pleading guilty. He took $1.2 million in
bribes to award more than $21.4 million in commercial real-estate contracts,
authorities said.

In 2008, a contractor bidding for work on the county's new Juvenile Justice
Center helped arrange a trip to Las Vegas for Mr. Dimora, Mr. Russo and others,
giving the officials $6,000 for airfare and gambling and getting them suites at
the Mirage, according to federal prosecutors. The contractor, later sentenced to
three years after pleading guilty to bribery, gave Mr. Dimora about $3,500 in
gambling chips and escorted a prostitute to his suite in Las Vegas, authorities
said.

Through prison spokesmen, both Mr. Dimora and Mr. Russo declined requests to be
interviewed.

"There's a sense of relief in the community that the corruption has been
eliminated and those responsible for it were held accountable," said George V.
Voinovich, a former Cuyahoga official, Cleveland mayor, governor and U.S.
senator. "The crooks are gone."

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2013 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              214 of 438 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                              July 28, 2013 Sunday
                                TWO STAR EDITION

OBAMA: IS UPWARD MOBILITY LOSING OUT?

BYLINE: Jackie Calmes and Michael D. Shear, The New York Times

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. A-6

LENGTH: 1113 words


GALESBURG, Ill. -- In a week when he tried to focus attention on the struggles
of the middle class, President Barack Obama said in an interview that he was
worried that years of widening income inequality and the lingering effects of
the financial crisis had frayed the country's social fabric and undermined
Americans' belief in opportunity.

Upward mobility, Mr. Obama said in a 40-minute interview with The New York
Times, "was part and parcel of who we were as Americans."

"And that's what's been eroding over the last 20, 30 years, well before the
financial crisis," he added.

"If we don't do anything, then growth will be slower than it should be.
Unemployment will not go down as fast as it should. Income inequality will
continue to rise," he said. "That's not a future that we should accept."

A few days after the acquittal in the Trayvon Martin case prompted him to speak
about being a black man in America, Mr. Obama said the country's struggle over
race would not be eased until the political process in Washington began
addressing the fear of many people that financial stability is unattainable.

"Racial tensions won't get better; they may get worse, because people will feel
as if they've got to compete with some other group to get scraps from a
shrinking pot," Mr. Obama said. "If the economy is growing, everybody feels
invested. Everybody feels as if we're rolling in the same direction."

Mr. Obama, who this fall will choose a new chairman of the Federal Reserve to
share economic stewardship, expressed confidence that the trends could be
reversed with the right policies. The economy is "far stronger" than four years
ago, he said, yet many people who write to him still do not feel secure about
their future, even as their current situation recovers.

"That's what people sense," he said. "That's why people are anxious. That's why
people are frustrated."

Without a shift in Washington to encourage growth over "damaging" austerity, he
added, not only would the middle class shrink but in turn contentious issues
like trade, climate change and immigration could become harder to address.

Addressing for the first time one of his most anticipated decisions, Mr. Obama
said he had narrowed his choice to succeed Ben Bernanke as chairman of the
Federal Reserve to "some extraordinary candidates."

The leading Fed candidates are believed to be Lawrence Summers, Mr. Obama's
former White House economic adviser and President Bill Clinton's Treasury
secretary, and Janet Yellen, the current Fed vice chairwoman and another former
Clinton official. The president said he would announce his choice "over the next
several months."

More clearly than he did in three speeches on the economy last week -- the next
is scheduled for Tuesday in Chattanooga, Tenn. --Mr. Obama in the interview
called for an end to the emphasis on budget austerity that Republicans ushered
in when they captured control of the House in November 2010.

The priority, he said, should be spending for infrastructure, education, clean
energy, science, research and other domestic initiatives of the sort he twice
campaigned on.

"I want to make sure that all of us in Washington are investing as much time, as
much energy, as much debate on how we grow the economy and grow the middle class
as we've spent over the last two to three years arguing about how we reduce the
deficits," Mr. Obama said.

Mr. Obama also waved aside persistent Republican criticism of his signature
health care, saying that the overhaul would become vastly more popular once "all
the nightmare scenarios" from his adversaries proved wrong.

The president accused Republicans of "all kinds of distortions" about the
legislation. He said bluntly that his administration had a simple plan to build
support for the law, which continues to be viewed with suspicion by large
numbers of Americans. "We're going to implement it," he said.

Mr. Obama said he decided to delay a requirement that businesses provide
insurance to their employees because of concerns expressed by executives about
its administrative burdens. The president said delaying that part of the law for
a year would give the Treasury Department and other agencies a chance to make it
"a little bit simpler" for companies to comply.

Administration officials have begun an intensive nationwide effort to enroll
millions of people in new health insurance marketplaces created by the health
care law starting on Oct. 1. That effort could determine how successful the law
is in expanding coverage to millions of uninsured Americans.

Mr. Obama conceded that there would be "some glitches" during the rollout of the
insurance marketplaces. But he predicted that millions would enroll, and he said
that some people who already have insurance would find their insurance premiums
going down by "20 percent, 30 percent or 50 percent." He said that would help
turn around people's opinions about the law.

Addressing another contentious issue, Mr. Obama said he would evaluate
construction of the Keystone XL pipeline on the basis of whether it would
significantly contribute carbon to the atmosphere.

But he mocked Republicans' arguments that the approval of the pipeline, which
would carry oil from Canada to the Gulf Coast, would create many jobs in the
United States.

"Republicans have said that this would be a big jobs generator," Mr. Obama said.
"There is no evidence that that's true. The most realistic estimates are this
might create maybe 2,000 jobs during the construction of the pipeline, which
might take a year or two, and then after that we're talking about somewhere
between 50 and 100 jobs in an economy of 150 million working people."

He said 2,000 jobs were "a blip relative to the need."

The president also disputed the argument that the pipeline would help lower
retail gasoline prices. He said most of the oil would be destined for refineries
on the Gulf Coast and then exported. In fact, he said, the pipeline might
increase prices somewhat in the Midwest, which would suddenly be able to ship
more of its oil to other parts of the world.

But Mr. Obama suggested that he was also open to ways to ease concerns about the
pipeline's environmental impact.

In previous remarks, he has said he will approve the pipeline only if it does
not "significantly exacerbate" the problem of carbon pollution. In the
interview, he said it was possible that Canada could "potentially be doing more
to mitigate carbon release."

But he said it was not clear whether Canadian efforts would be enough to resolve
concerns about pollution. And he reiterated the point that the decision about
whether to proceed with the pipeline would be made after a recommendation by
Secretary of State John Kerry.

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2013 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              218 of 438 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                             August 11, 2013 Sunday
                                TWO STAR EDITION

THE HOUSE GOP AND THE EPA;
TOXIC PRIORITIES

BYLINE: MICHAEL PASTORKOVICH, Oakland

SECTION: EDITORIAL; ISSUE ONE; Pg. B-3

LENGTH: 265 words


Your editorial "Coal Barons: GOP Lawmakers Try to Turn Back the Hands of Time"
(Aug. 6) was spot-on.

The attempt by congressional Republicans, including Rep. Tim Murphy, to save the
troubled coal industry by blocking the Environmental Protection Agency from
regulating carbon emissions is also a desperate attempt by the GOP to hang on to
the votes of a remnant of the blue-collar working class, which has been
devastated by the GOP's social and economic policies in so many ways.

If it were up to the Republicans, there would be no minimum wage, no
Occupational Safety and Health Administration, no Mine Safety and Health
Administration, no Medicare and, ultimately, no Social Security.

But now we are supposed to believe that their latest pandering to Big Fossil
Fuel is all because of the sympathy they feel for workers in those industries
who stand to lose their jobs as the world begins to move away from dirty coal to
cleaner sources of energy.

If the Republicans really wanted to help workers in the obsolete coal industry,
they would work to strengthen the social safety net by voting for
family-sustaining unemployment benefits while refitting these folks, through job
training, for a place in the new clean energy economy. Instead, they would
subject the million-plus residents of southwestern Pennsylvania, as well as the
inhabitants of the rest of our nation, to the toxic air pollution and climate
change-caused catastrophes of "king" coal to "save" (so they say) a relative
handful of jobs.

It is time that Rep. Murphy and his Republican cronies enlisted on the right
side of history.

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2013 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              220 of 438 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                           September 10, 2013 Tuesday
                            PITTSBURGH PRESS EDITION

SECTION: WORLD; WORLD; Pg. A-3

LENGTH: 587 words


Solar boat completes Atlantic crossing

PARIS - The world's largest solar-powered boat has docked on the banks of the
Seine River, its final port of call after a three-month voyage across the
Atlantic Ocean to study how the Gulf Stream and climate change could influence
each other.

The 102-foot-long Turanor PlanetSolar catamaran looks like one of Darth Vader's
TIE Fighters turned on its side.

Starting from Miami in June, University of Geneva scientists sailed up the
eastern seaboard, then across the Atlantic, taking water and air measurements
that should allow them to better understand the complex interaction between
ocean and atmosphere.

The $20 million PlanetSolar's deck is covered with photovoltaic panels that
charge a gigantic lithium ion battery.

Kenya official on trial

THE HAGUE, Netherlands - Kenya's Deputy President William Ruto went on trial
today at the International Criminal Court for allegedly orchestrating deadly
violence after his country's disputed 2007 election.

The trial is a critical test for the ICC to demonstrate it can successfully
prosecute an African leader. In November, Kenya's president, Uhuru Kenyatta,
will be tried on similar charges, meaning two top politicians from a nation seen
as one of East Africa's most stable democracies will be fighting charges in The
Hague.

The court also has Ivory Coast's former president Laurent Gbagbo in custody,
charged with postelection violence, and has indicted Sudanese leader Omar
al-Basir for genocide in Darfur.

While ousted leaders like Yugoslav strongman Slobodan Milosevic and former
Liberian President Charles Taylor have faced international justice in the past,
it is unprecedented for two such high-ranking suspects as Mr. Ruto and Mr.
Kenyatta to stand trial at an international tribunal while still in office.

Pakistan militants behead opponents

PESHAWAR, Pakistan - Militants beheaded three members of an anti-Taliban militia
in northwestern Pakistan and kidnapped three others, a government official said
today.

Dozens of militants took part in the attack Monday in the Khyber tribal area,
said Iqbal Khan, a government administrator in the nearby city of Peshawar.

Authorities are investigating which militant group was involved in the attack,
which took place in the Bara area of Khyber, said Mr. Khan.

The Pakistani government has long encouraged local tribesmen to set up militias
to fight against the Taliban and other militant groups, but many militiamen have
been killed in attacks.

The attack in Bara took place as Pakistan's major political parties passed a
resolution in support of holding peace talks with local militants as the best
way to tamp down an insurgency that has killed thousands of people in recent
years.

Suicides rise in Greece

ATHENS, Greece - A Greek aid group says suicides have increased by 45 percent
during the first four years of Greece's financial crisis, and warned there are
indications of a further "very large rise" in the past two years.

The Athens-based group Klimaka said today that officially reported suicides rose
steadily between 2007 and 2011, accounting for an annual jump in deaths from 328
to 477 in that period, according to data from the Greek Statistical Authority.

The group said, based on its own research, the number of suicides has continued
to rise through 2012 and 2013.

Greece still has one of the lowest suicide rates in Europe, but a dramatic rise
in poverty and unemployment since the debt-strapped nation began imposing harsh
austerity measures has been blamed for the increase in deaths.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Christophe Ena/Associated Press: The Turanor PlanetSolar, the
world's largest solar boat, travels on the Seine River in Sevres, outside Paris,
today. \
PHOTO: No caption available for photo.\

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2013 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              230 of 438 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                          November 13, 2013 Wednesday
                            PITTSBURGH PRESS EDITION

ENIGMATIC EELS A FOCUS OF CONCERN

BYLINE: Timothy B. Wheeler, The Baltimore Sun

SECTION: NATIONAL; IN DEPTH; Pg. A-8

LENGTH: 798 words


SOLOMONS, Md. - On a chilly morning when other watermen on the Patuxent River
dredged for oysters, Jimmy Trossbach sought more slippery quarry - American
eels.

"I don't know what we'll find here," Mr. Trossbach said as he guided his 45-foot
workboat, Prospector, to a pair of empty plastic jugs bobbing on the water. His
helper, Jake Walker, hooked the makeshift buoy and reeled in the eel pots or
traps they'd set in the river two days before.

The first cylindrical mesh cage they hauled aboard pulsed with a writhing tangle
of olive green. Walker dumped the eels into a wooden box with holes in its
sides, and the snakelike fish slithered into a large tank of water in the center
of the boat.

"People will say, 'I didn't know there were so many eels out there,'" said Mr.
Trossbach, 54, who's been eeling for 26 years.

For those who think of the Chesapeake Bay as home to blue crabs, oysters and
rockfish, it's a revelation to see so many eels hauled up from the depths. But
appearances can be deceiving. While there seem to be a lot in Maryland waters,
scientists elsewhere have concluded that the Atlantic coast's eel population has
been depleted.

The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service is weighing a conservation group's petition
to declare the American eel an endangered species, with an answer promised in
2015. Meanwhile, fisheries managers have been mulling action to curb the eel
catch, which rebounded recently after a long decline.

Last week, the Atlantic States Marine Fisheries Commission, which oversees
near-shore fishing along the coast, put off a decision on catch limits until May
while one state, Maine, works to slash its commercial harvest of young "glass"
eels. The catch there surged in recent years to cash in on a booming export
market, with nearly $39 million worth of the tiny translucent juveniles being
shipped abroad, mostly to Asia.

Mr. Trossbach welcomed news that Maine would scale back its harvest, saying it
threatened his livelihood. He is limited by Maryland regulations to harvesting
more mature "yellow" eels, which must be at least 9 inches long.

But the prices that overseas buyers pay for larger eels have plummeted, Mr.
Trossbach said, as the reported harvest of glass eels from Maine soared. The
baby eels can be shipped abroad more cheaply and raised there, he said,
undercutting demand for his larger specimens.

"It could easily put us out of business," he said.

There's a lot the experts acknowledge they don't know about the American eel,
but they believe its numbers are at or near historically low levels. The decline
stems from a combination of factors, they say, including overfishing, damming of
rivers and changing climate and ocean conditions.

Common fare in the United States and elsewhere in the past, eels have largely
disappeared from American tables. They remain popular delicacies in Europe and
Asia, where they're eaten stewed, fried, grilled, smoked and even jellied.

Many of Mr. Trossbach's eels get sold as bait for crabbers and anglers fishing
for striped bass. But about 40 percent of his catch goes overseas for human
consumption.

He is in rare company in Maryland. Some watermen go after eels when crabbing
isn't in season, but the St. Mary's County resident figured he's one of a few
full-time eelers. He follows them up the bay in the spring, setting his 800 pots
around Baltimore in the summer, and then back south as the water cools in the
fall. He fishes until Thanksgiving.

For all his years pursuing the slippery creatures, Mr. Trossbach said there's a
lot about them that's still a mystery to him.

"They are strange creatures, no doubt," he said.

Eels are different from other fish, in more than just appearance. Unlike striped
bass, for instance, which roam the Atlantic coast for years and then swim up the
bay into fresh water to spawn, eels spend most of their lives in fresh water and
spawn in the Sargasso Sea near the West Indies. Their offspring return to the
coast after months adrift on ocean currents, where they change appearance as
they grow, from glass eels to darker elvers to yellow eels.

They spread out through the Chesapeake and migrate inland into fresh water - at
least until stopped by dams - feeding on insects, worms, small shellfish and
fish. They linger for five to 20 years before transforming one more time into
"silver" eels and swimming back to the Sargasso to spawn and die.

The larger yellow eels fetch $2.50 to $3 a pound, Mr. Trossbach said, while
glass eels go for $2,000 a pound. Glass eels are so small, there can be two
thousand or more in a pound, and Maine reported harvesting 20,000 pounds of them
last year.

Maryland, by comparison, reported landing 556,000 pounds of the more mature
yellow eels last year, the second largest haul since the state began tracking
the commercial harvest in 1983.

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Lloyd Fox/Baltimore Sun photos: Jake Walker helps pull up the
eel traps from the water Oct. 24. He helps Jimmy Trossbach, one of few full-time
eelers in Maryland, on his boat. Maryland eel fishermen find themselves
struggling to make a decent living on their catch as Maine eelers earn millions
by netting millions of baby "glass" eels for export to Asia. The interstate
competition comes amid general concern that Atlantic eels have been depleted by
fishing pressure.
PHOTO: (For two photos) Jimmy Trossbach holds is one of few full-time eelers in
Maryland.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2013 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              233 of 438 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                           November 19, 2013 Tuesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

ROBOTIC EXPLORER HEADS FOR MARS

BYLINE: Marcia Dunn, Associated Press

SECTION: HEALTH, SCIENCE, MEDICINE AND TECHNOLOGY; Pg. A-2

LENGTH: 373 words


CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. -- NASA's newest robotic explorer, Maven, rocketed Monday
toward Mars on a quest to unravel the ancient mystery of the red planet's
radical climate change.

The Maven spacecraft is due at Mars next fall, following a journey of more than
440 million miles.

Maven's principal scientist, Bruce Jakosky of the University of Colorado at
Boulder, and others want to know why Mars went from being warm and wet during
its first billion years to cold and dry today. The early Martian atmosphere was
thick enough to hold water and possibly support microbial life. But much of that
atmosphere may have been lost to space, eroded by the sun.

Maven set off through a cloudy afternoon sky in its bid to provide answers. An
unmanned Atlas V rocket put the spacecraft on the proper course for Mars.

An estimated 10,000 NASA guests gathered for the liftoff -- the most exciting
one of the year from Cape Canaveral -- including a couple thousand representing
the University of Colorado.

Surviving liftoff was the first big hurdle, Mr. Jakosky said. The next huge
milestone will be Maven's insertion into orbit around Mars on Sept. 22, 2014.

To help solve Mars' environmental puzzle, Maven will spend an entire Earth year
measuring atmospheric gases.

This is NASA's 21st mission to Mars since the 1960s, but the first devoted to
studying the Martian upper atmosphere. The mission costs $671 million.

Maven -- short for Mars Atmosphere and Volatile Evolution, with a capital "N" in
EvolutioN -- bears eight science instruments. The spacecraft, at 5,410 pounds,
weighs as much as an SUV. From solar wingtip to wingtip, it stretches 37.5 feet,
about the length of a school bus.

A question underlying all of NASA's Mars missions to date is whether life could
have started on what now seems to be a barren world. "We don't have that answer
yet, and that's all part of our quest for trying to answer, 'Are we alone in the
universe?' in a much broader sense," said John Grunsfeld, NASA's science mission
director.

Unlike the Curiosity rover launched in 2011, Maven will conduct its experiments
from orbit around Mars. Maven will dip as low as 78 miles above the Martian
surface, sampling the atmosphere. The lopsided orbit will stretch as high as
3,864 miles.

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2013 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              240 of 438 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            February 10, 2013 Sunday
                               FIVE STAR EDITION

IN WINTER, HEART ATTACKS RISE, STUDY FINDS

BYLINE: Laura Hambleton, The Washington Post

SECTION: HEALTH, SCIENCE, MEDICINE AND TECHNOLOGY; Pg. A-8

LENGTH: 1128 words


Winter often brings the flu, coughs, ski injuries and shoveling strains. Add to
these ailments a more deadly one: heart attacks.

A recent study has found that more fatal heart attacks and strokes occur during
the winter than at other times of the year. And it doesn't seem to matter if the
winter is occurring in the warmer climes of Southern California or the frostier
ones of Boston.

After sifting through about 1.7 million death certificates filed between 2005
and 2008, cardiologists Bryan Schwartz of the University of New Mexico and
Robert A. Kloner of the Heart Institute at the Good Samaritan Hospital in Los
Angeles found a 26 to 36 percent greater death rate for heart attacks in winter
than summer "despite different locations and climates," Kloner says. The worst
months are December, January, February and the beginning of March.

The doctors analyzed the cause of death for people in Texas, Arizona, Georgia,
Los Angeles, Washington state, Pennsylvania and Massachusetts. Of those who died
of heart disease, the winter weather pattern was clear. In Los Angeles, for
example, there were about 70 deaths per day from cardiac disease, Dr. Schwartz
said. "In the summer, L.A. had an average circulatory death rate of about . . .
55 deaths per day."

The research uncovered patterns in cardiac deaths from "seven different climate
patterns," according to the study, and "death rates at all sites clustered
closely together and no one site was statistically different from any other
site." An abstract of the study was published in the American Heart Association
journal Circulation.

Why winter months saw a spike in cardiac deaths isn't clear -- whether it's
cooling temperatures, shorter days, or something else about that time of year.
Kloner speculates that winter presents a potential confluence of harmful
triggers. Even if you "adapt to where you are, the cold still bothers you and
not just the temperature," Kloner says. And "respiratory infection may be
important. When there are peaks in influenza and infection, ?there are peaks? in
heart-related deaths."

There also can be emotional stress in winter months as families come together
for the holidays or to watch highly charged sporting events such as the Super
Bowl, often with "an overindulgence in salt and alcohol," Dr. Kloner says. On
top of that, winter holidays can mean "there's a lot of financial pressure."

Stuart Seides, executive director of the MedStar Heart Institute at Washington
Hospital Center, says the lack of light during the winter might be a factor.
"The fact that the sun isn't up until a quarter after 7 and it is pitch black
outside by 5, that is different than a spring day. [In the winter,] your
circadian rhythm gets messed up." Dr. Seides had noted in the past that heart
attack admissions to Washington Hospital Center dropped during summer months,
which he always attributed to people going away on vacations and relaxing.
"Maybe I am looking at it the wrong way," he says. "There may not be a reduction
over the summer, but maybe an increase in the winter."

Murray Mittleman, director of the Cardiovascular Epidemiology Research Unit at
Harvard Medical School, recalls first spotting the phenomenon more than 10 years
ago while looking at deaths in Hawaii. Targeting 1984 through 1993, he found
that more than 11,000 people died from coronary heart disease. Of those deaths,
10.4 percent occurred in August, while 13.3 percent occurred in March, a
variance of about 22 percent. And that surprised him.

He assumed that more people died in the winter in colder regions. He thought
those colder temperature could cause heart-related events because blood vessels
constrict in the cold, which might set off cardiac death, he said. But during
the time frame of his study, the average temperature in Hawaii was 77 degrees;
nonetheless, more people died in the winter months.

"The thing about the winter statistics which is kind of interesting," Dr.
Mittleman said, is that "we see similar patterns in different places. There are
more cardiac deaths in the Northern Hemisphere in December, January and
February, and in the Southern Hemisphere in June and July. Hawaii is more like
North America."

Heart attacks and strokes result from a complicated cascade of events often set
off by a trigger -- stress, the misuse of drugs, tobacco or alcohol, a heavy
meal, the flu, even an earthquake or environmental pollution -- that interrupts
the body's normal systems.

Most cardiac deaths, according to Peter Stone, co-director of the Samuel A.
Levine Cardiac Unit at the Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston, are due to a
disruption of plaque accumulated on the walls of blood vessels. Plaque then
interacts with platelets to form clots, impeding blood flow to the heart, which
causes a heart attack, or to the brain, which causes a stroke.

As we age, plaque forms into nodules of yellowish pus and cholesterol, much like
a pimple, on artery walls, Stone said. A thin, fibrous seal, like a cap, keeps
these nodules intact. The yellowish nodules come and go, as a pimple does.

"That thin cap is what keeps us alive," Dr. Stone said. "I have been working for
20 years to figure out why plaque gets fragile and if we can predict which
plaque will get fragile in the future and intervene."

The amount of plaque people accumulate depends on their genetic background, what
they eat, how they live and factors that can increase risk, such as having high
cholesterol or diabetes, smoking cigarettes, and being physically inactive and
overweight, Stone said.

"All of these act individually and in concert to increase the odds that plaque
will rupture," he said. "You never know when a bad event is going to happen.
Your plaque could be really fragile and can rupture just by getting up. . . . We
really don't know what is inside of us. If a severe stimulus system like the
cold in winter, winning the soccer game or losing the soccer game [disrupts]
plaque, it could be the final straw that breaks the proverbial camel's back."

To help safeguard against setting off triggers in the winter months, physicians
recommend following a few guidelines. Dr. Seides suggests getting a flu shot.
"During influenza or a high fever, a lot of chemicals are released into
circulation," he said. "Which of those things are an important cardiac trigger
is not clear. So it would be foolish not to protect oneself from things that can
be avoided, like the flu."

Dr. Schwartz, co-author of the new study, says the key may be to stay active.
"People tend to eat a less healthy diet, exercise less and gain weight in the
winter," he says, noting that "during the holidays, people tend to avoid seeking
medical attention until after the holidays. If you are experiencing severe
symptoms, you should seek immediate medical attention."

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2013 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              242 of 438 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            March 21, 2013 Thursday
                                 SOONER EDITION

SHALE COMPLIANCE CODE STRUCK;
UNLIKELY GATHERING OF INTERESTS REACHES DRILLING STANDARDS

BYLINE: Erich Schwartzel and Don Hopey, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. A-1

LENGTH: 841 words


It was a strange blend.

Royal Dutch Shell, a multinational firm scouting Pennsylvania locations for a
petrochemical facility, sat across from PennFuture, the environmental
organization that condemned $1 billion in tax breaks that Shell would receive to
build that facility.

And there was Chevron, a driller that paid $4.3 billion to gain an instant
foothold in the Marcellus Shale, three seats down from the Environmental Defense
Fund, a nonprofit that called New York's fracking moratorium "a wise move."

They were four of the 11 odd bedfellows brought together from industry and
environmental and philanthropic organizations to create the Center for
Sustainable Shale Development, an initiative announced Wednesday that is meant
to provide new stamps of approval for operators extracting natural gas from
shale formations in Pennsylvania and across the Appalachian basin.

The center, or CSSD, premiered by setting 15 performance standards across air,
water and climate concerns. Organizers characterized them as commensurate to
existing state rules and compared the program to the LEED certifications awarded
to energy-efficient buildings.

"None of these came out of left field. Kernels can be found throughout the
industry, so this isn't anything foreign," said Andrew Place, corporate director
of energy and environmental policy at EQT Corp. and interim director of the CSSD
on a part-time basis.

"But this sets a high bar for industry to meet with the independent third-party
certification."

Wednesday's news conference came after two years of heated meetings and debates
to hash out the standards. Heinz Endowments president Robert Vagt said the
discussions became so tense at times that he twice thought the initiative might
collapse.

The idea grew out of recommendations from a shale gas committee organized in
2011 by U.S. Energy Secretary Steven Chu, who had called for regional centers of
standards and excellence. The center's initial budget of about $1 million will
be split evenly between the industry and nonprofit members, though organizers
said the Heinz Endowments and William Penn Foundation will be picking up most of
the nonprofit share.

The new standards include limitations on gas well flaring; use of "green
completion," including no-leak valves and piping; storage tank emission
controls; development of groundwater protection plans; reduced toxicity of
fracking fluids; and improving water recycling to at least 90 percent.

Applications for the certification should cost about $30,000 and will be
available around the third quarter of this year, Mr. Place said.

Once awarded, the certification will apply to all new and existing company
operations in the Appalachian basin, which would primarily include Marcellus and
Utica shale development in Pennsylvania, Ohio and West Virginia.

Industry representatives on the consortium characterized the standards as a new
blessing on practices already in place.

Royal Dutch Shell plans to get all of its Appalachian operations certified, but
Paul Goodfellow, vice president of U.S. Unconventionals, said he didn't know yet
what costs that might include beyond the organization's certification fee.

Mr. Goodfellow said one standard that requires operators to employ contractors
with certain road truck emission standards may force Shell to find new vendors.

Three of the region's major drillers -- Chevron, EQT Corp. and Consol Energy --
are part of the consortium. The region's most active driller, Range Resources,
is not. The company did not return requests for comment.

Philanthropic organizations in the group include the Heinz Endowments and the
William Penn Foundation. Environmental organizations participating include the
Clean Air Task Force, Environmental Defense Fund, Citizens for Pennsylvania's
Future (PennFuture), Pennsylvania Environmental Council and the Group Against
Smog and Pollution.

The CSSD is the latest in a string of industry and nonprofit initiatives
designed to complement state and federal regulations. The Marcellus Shale
Coalition industry group releases recommended practices for drillers, and the
American Petroleum Institute also gives its own certifications to energy vendors
and contractors.

Fairfax-based consulting firm ICF International and Oslo-based consulting firm
DNV have been hired to complete the CSSD certification audits.

A permanent executive director should be on the job by the end of June, when Mr.
Place's contract with the CSSD expires. The director and staff will have offices
on the third floor of Downtown's EQT Plaza -- 11 floors from the EQT
headquarters and 27 floors from the Heinz Endowments offices.

The center's board of directors includes former U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency Administrator Christine Todd Whitman and former Secretary of the Treasury
Paul O'Neill.

Mr. O'Neill said Wednesday he's long been a champion of better environmental
standards, telling the crowd that he raised eyebrows at the first meeting of
George W. Bush's Cabinet when he handed his colleagues copies of a speech he'd
given on climate change in 1998.

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Erich Schwartzel: eschwartzel@post-gazette.com or 412-263-1455. Don
Hopey: dhopey@post-gazette.com or 412-263-1983./

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Lake Fong/Post-Gazette: Chevron Appalachia president Bruce
Niemeyer, left, a board member for the Center for Sustainable Shale Development,
chats with fellow board members Conrad Schneider, center, and Davitt Woodwell,
before Wednesday's news conference, Downtown. Mr. Schneider is the advocacy
director of Clean Air Task Force. Mr. Woodwell is the executive vice president
of the Pennsylvania Environmental Council.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2013 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              258 of 438 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                           February 28, 2013 Thursday
                                 SOONER EDITION

EATING MEAT IS BAD FOR US AND OUR PLANET

BYLINE: NIKI PENBERG

SECTION: EDITORIAL; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR; Pg. B-4

LENGTH: 314 words


Scott C. Vigder's Feb. 22 letter to the editor "Her Vegan Agenda" reads like a
how-to manual for maintaining the status quo or -- worse yet -- an insider's
guide to employing the same tired strategies that have been used for years to
discredit voices rising up for change.

In her Feb. 15 Perspectives article "No Meat for Two Weeks?" Susan Levin
summarizes a number of well-supported, widely accepted facts linking the
consumption of animal products to an increased risk for heart disease, colon
cancer and food-borne illness outbreaks. Sadly, all Mr. Vigder seems to offer in
response is mud-slinging: Discrediting her credentials (is the director of
nutrition education a "pseudo-authority"?), hinting at a predatory "agenda" to
take away everyone's meat, and let's not forget the hallmark strategy used to
discredit women everywhere: accusing them of being emotional and unstable by
using phrases like "running around," "waving their arms" and "obsessing."

Fortunately, more and more Americans are realizing that our nation's reliance on
animals as food has contributed not only to the personal health crises that Ms.
Levin cites, but to deforestation, climate change, water pollution, antibiotic
resistance and animal cruelty. Even as high an "authority" as the U.S.
Department of Agriculture has agreed that "vegetarian [and vegan] eating
patterns have been associated with improved health outcomes -- lower levels of
obesity, a reduced risk of cardiovascular disease and lower total mortality."

Mr. Vigder is correct to point out that poor health is caused by far more
factors than meat consumption alone, but to ignore the impact of this one very
large factor is to miss the proverbial elephant in the room. After all, let's
not forget that even "the guy who routinely orders chili-cheese fries" has a
made a poor choice ... that's two-thirds meat and cheese.

NIKI PENBERG

Lawrenceville

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2013 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              259 of 438 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                              March 3, 2013 Sunday
                                TWO STAR EDITION

OBAMA AIMS TO RETAKE HOUSE IN 2014

BYLINE: Scott Wilson and Philip Rucker, The Washington Post

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. A-7

LENGTH: 592 words


WASHINGTON -- President Barack Obama, now facing the consequences of automatic
spending cuts and the complications they raise for his broader domestic agenda,
is taking the most specific steps of his administration in an attempt to ensure
the election of a Democratic-controlled Congress in two years.

"What I can't do is force Congress to do the right thing," Mr. Obama told
reporters at the White House on Friday after a fruitless meeting with Republican
leaders to avert the country's latest fiscal crisis, known as the sequester.
"The American people may have the capacity to do that."

Mr. Obama, fresh off his November reelection, began almost at once executing
plans to win back the House in 2014, which he and his advisers believe will be
crucial to the outcome of his second term and to his legacy as president. He is
doing so by trying to articulate for the American electorate his own feelings --
an exasperation with an opposition party that blocks even the most politically
popular elements of his agenda.

Mr. Obama has committed to raising money for fellow Democrats, agreed to help
recruit viable candidates, and launched a political nonprofit group dedicated to
furthering his agenda and that of his congressional allies. The goal is to flip
the Republican-held House back to Democratic control, allowing Mr. Obama to push
forward with a progressive agenda on gun control, immigration, climate change
and the economy during his final two years in office, according to congressional
Democrats, strategists and others familiar with Mr. Obama's thinking.

"The president understands that to get anything done, he needs a Democratic
majority in the House of Representatives," said Rep. Steve Israel, D-N.Y.,
chairman of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee. "To have a legacy
in 2016, he will need a House majority in 2014, and that work has to start now."

This approach marks a significant shift in the way Mr. Obama has worked with a
divided Congress. He has compromised and badgered, but rarely -- and never so
early -- campaigned to change its composition.

Democrats would have to gain 17 House seats to win back the majority they lost
in 2010, and their challenge involves developing a persuasive argument for why
the party deserves another chance controlling both Congress and the presidency.
In the last election, American voters reaffirmed the political status quo in
Washington, choosing to retain a divided government.

Of all the presidents since Franklin D. Roosevelt, only Bill Clinton picked up
House seats for his party in the midterm election of his second term. His
approval rating on the eve of the 1998 contest was 65 percent, 14 points above
Mr. Obama's current public standing.

The specific steps Mr. Obama is taking to win back the House for his party mark
an evolution for a president long consumed by the independence of his political
brand.

Mr. Obama has committed to eight fundraisers for the Democratic Congressional
Campaign Committee this year, compared with just two events in 2009.

The Democrats lost the House the following year, and Mr. Obama's legislative
agenda has largely stalled since then.

The president has also pledged to put his formidable campaign organization, now
known as Organizing for Action, behind Democratic House candidates and to find
ways to share its rich trove of voter data with the party's campaign committee.I

In a January speech, House Speaker John Boehner, R-Ohio, warned that Mr. Obama
intends to "annihilate" the Republican Party in his second term, a charge the
White House denied.

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2013 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              262 of 438 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                              May 19, 2013 Sunday
                                TWO STAR EDITION

FRANCE'S HOLLANDE SIGNS GAY MARRIAGE BILL INTO LAW

BYLINE: Steven Erlanger, The New York Times

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. A-6

LENGTH: 549 words


PARIS -- The rush toward France's first same-sex marriage officially began
Saturday morning, after President Francois Hollande signed the country's
"marriage for all" act into law.

The mayor of the southern city of Montpellier, sometimes called "the French San
Francisco," intends to officiate at the first gay wedding, which is likely to be
no sooner than May 29, because by French law there must be 10 days of
consideration between the publication of the banns and the ceremony itself.

"Love has won out over hate," the mayor, Helene Mandroux, a Socialist like Mr.
Hollande, said Saturday. She has been pressing for a gay marriage law since
2009, while voicing concerns that the first such wedding could attract violent
protests along with the inevitable and engineered publicity.

The government's spokeswoman and minister for the rights of women, Najat
Vallaud-Belkacem, intends to attend.

France is the 14th country to legalize gay marriage. In the United States,
Washington, D.C., and 12 states have legalized same-sex marriage.

For Mr. Hollande, who is riding low in the opinion polls, the passage of the law
over considerable public opposition was a significant victory, given his
campaign promise to legalize gay marriage within the first year of his
administration (Saturday was within days of his May 15 anniversary in office)

But considering the opposition and significant economic problems in France, now
in a triple-dip recession, Mr. Hollande also wants to move on to other important
and controversial changes in the structure of the French economy, including
pension changes and spending cuts.

Mr. Hollande signed the bill a day after the Constitutional Council dismissed a
legal challenge by the right-wing opposition. "I will ensure that the law
applies across the whole territory, in full, and I will not accept any
disruption of these marriages," he said.

Gay rights advocates praised the law, while a watchdog group, SOS Homophobie,
said that France "has taken a great step forward today, although it is
regrettable that it was taken in a climate of bad faith and homophobic
violence."

Protests against the law, led by religious leaders and conservative groups, drew
hundreds of thousands of people at their height, with scattered violence on the
margins. Opponents of the measures have vowed to fight on, having already called
another protest for May 26. There was a small protest Friday night near the
historic Pantheon, in the Latin Quarter.

The law allows all married couples to adopt children. It does not provide state
aid to help same-sex couples procreate, however.

The leader of the center-right Union for a Popular Movement, Jean-Francois Cope,
told the newspaper Le Monde on Saturday that if the right returned to power
(which is hardly imminent), it would "rewrite" the measure to clarify the legal
descent of children adopted by gay couples and to "better protect the rights of
children."

He said he disagreed with the law as it stood but respected the decision of the
Constitutional Council. "It is a decision that I regret but that I accept," he
said Friday.

Mr. Cope said he would attend the May 26 demonstration, which he hoped would
broadly include all those disappointed with Mr. Hollande's leadership. He called
on them to turn their unhappiness into political commitment.

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2013 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              272 of 438 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            August 27, 2013 Tuesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

ALL COOPED UP

BYLINE: Maggie Neil, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: LIFESTYLE; Pg. C-1

LENGTH: 994 words


It took Williams-Sonoma one day to sell as many chicken coops as the high-end
retailer had projected to sell in a month.

Once pigeon-holed as dirty, noisy fowl, these birds have a new reputation:
Chicks are chic.

The trend has been a hit in urban and suburban neighborhoods around the country,
especially in the past several years. BackyardChickens.com, an online forum
dedicated to all things chicken-raising, adds about 200 new members every day.
The online hatchery (it also sells coops and related gear) MyPetChicken.com was
on the 2012 Inc. 5000 list of fastest growing companies.

Now retailers such as Williams-Sonoma are cashing in on consumer demand. In
April 2012, the company launched Agrarian, a line designed to satisfy Americans'
canning, beekeeping and other homesteader needs. It included an array of very
good-looking -- though not exactly cheap -- chicken coops.

The most popular one, the Alexandria Chicken Coop & Run, ranges from $599.95 to
$1,449.95, depending on the size. If you're in for a splurge, try the $1,499.95
Cedar Chicken Coop with Planter. For the extra $50, you get a large coop
equipped with a drainage system and a planter "ready to fill with soil and
plants."

Allison O'Connor, vice president of merchandising, is the brains behind
Agrarian. She said she included coops in Agrarian because she felt there were no
beautiful coops made in the United States. But the American chicken craze is
definitely homegrown, experts say.

It started in the 1980s with Martha Stewart, self-professed chicken fan Susan
Orlean wrote in her 2009 New Yorker piece, "The It Bird." After visiting a
commercial hatchery and deploring the living conditions of its chickens, Ms.
Stewart began keeping them in her backyard. Her Americauna hens became famous
for their pastel blue and green eggs, and Ms. Stewart herself was so inspired
that she created a paint line based on the colors.

Ms. Orlean also credits the slow-food and locavore movements.

"More people want to take control of what they eat and are making their own
food," said Svetlana Simon, farmer and founder of Heritage Hen Farm in Boynton
Beach, Fla.

Ms. Simon believes that this desire transcends social status. Even the wealthy
want to get their hands in the dirt (or clean chicken poop) if it means fresh
food. Ms. Simon, who was an architect before she began farming, designed Beau
Coop, the $100,000, Versailles-inspired hen house featured in Neiman Marcus'
2012 fantasy Christmas list.

It isn't just a coop: there's a living room, a broody room, a nesting room.
There's a library for humans to put their gardening books and an iPod charger.
Included in the hefty price tag are 10 heritage hens; Ms. Simon will hand-pick
the exact breed according to the climate of their new home. She will also meet
twice with the new chicken-raisers in order to "eliminate the learning curve."

"The truth is, sometimes it takes someone with excessive revenue and means to
help change the way people think," she said.

It certainly hasn't hurt that the ranks of celebrity chicken raisers include
Hollywood A-listers Jennifer Aniston, Ellen Pompeo and Reese Witherspoon.

With its Agrarian line, Williams-Sonoma is not only responding to a trend but
broadening the market appeal of DIY homesteading, Ms. O'Connor said.

"We are a resource point," she added, pointing to the long list of how-to books,
accessories, and tools to make backyard farming both accessible and beautiful.

In addition to a coop, chicken raisers might want an Amish Handcrafted Egg
Basket ($44.95), a Reclaimed Artisan Chalkboard ($39.95) or perhaps a package of
Probiotic Egg Boost ($15.95).

"We felt strongly we didn't want to be in plastic," said Ms. O'Connor.

Agrarian is made and designed entirely in the United States. Ms. O'Connor said
she travels coast to coast, scouring farmers markets and local fairs, and pores
over Internet sites trying to find artisans and small businesses that might like
to partner with Williams-Sonoma.

At the end of the day, she concludes, "It's a lifestyle choice."

WHOWHATWHEREWHY: HEN SUGGESTIONS

Hens come in all different sizes, colors and breeds. Some even lay colored eggs!
Here are a few to get prospective chicken-raisers started:

* Araucanas/Americanas aka the "Easter Egger": This breed, which lays blue and
green eggs, is Martha Stewart's favorite. These small-to-medium hardy birds come
in a variety of shades. $3-$4 per chick.

* Silkies: Small Bantams that almost look like they have fur instead of
feathers. They're known to be extremely sweet. $3-$4 per chick.

* Appenzeller Spithauben: It is the national breed of Switzerland, noted for its
v-shaped comb. They are well-adapted to life in the mountains and want to roam
freely throughout the day. $4.25 per chick.

* Blue or Black Copper Maran: A French breed, lays very dark, "chocolate" brown
eggs. Marans are also known to be calm and hardy. $4-$20 per chick.

* Black Sumatra: These are not the best layers, but they are good-looking, with
a long swooping tail and glimmering coat. Cold hardy but can "become quiet and
clingy in winter." $4-$5 per chick.

Top 3 things to know if you want to raise chickens:

* Check the law! Municipal codes address whether chickens are allowed, how many
you can have, where you can keep the coop and whether you need to talk to your
neighbors first.

* Buy or build a good coop. Raccoons, hawks and foxes love chickens, but as long
as you have a good coop, these predators won't have chicken for dinner.

* Fit your chickens to your climate. Martha Stewart's Egyptian Fayoumi froze to
death!

Sources

* Online hatcheries: MyPetChicken.com and mcmurrayhatchery.com.

* Local tours: Pittsburgh Pro-Poultry People
(http://pittsburghpropoultrypeople.blogspot.com) tours city coops in June.

* "Sewick's Chicks," a tour of a dozen coops in the Sewickley area, 10 a.m.-2
p.m. Sept. 8. Tickets: $10 at Penguin Bookshop, 420 Beaver St.
(www.italiangardenproject.org)

* Information: www.backyardchickens.com or www.naturalchickenkeeping.com

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Maggie Neil: mneil@post-gazette.com /

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Suffolks Chicken Coop & Run, $599.95 -- $999.95 \
PHOTO: Belltown Chicken Coop, $1,199.95 \
PHOTO: Williams Sonoma photos: Alexandria Chicken Coop & Run, $599.95 --
$1,449.95 \
PHOTO: Cedar Chicken Coop & Run with Planter, $1,499.95 \
PHOTO: Reclaimed Rustic Coop with Painted Chicken & Run, $499.95 -- $859.95\
PHOTO: Buff Silkie Bantams\
PHOTO: Appenzeller Spithauben\
PHOTO: White Silkie Bantam\

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2013 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              286 of 438 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                             April 12, 2013 Friday
                                 SOONER EDITION

PHILIPS SAYS ITS LED BESTS FLUORESCENT TUBE LIGHTING

BYLINE: Toby Sterling, The Associated Press

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. A-7

LENGTH: 596 words


AMSTERDAM -- If you've worked in an office, you're probably familiar with the
soft glow of fluorescent tubes drifting from the ceiling. If Europe's Philips
brand is right, those lamps could soon be history.

Royal Philips NV, the Dutch consumer appliances giant, said Thursday that it has
developed an LED light that will soon be far more efficient than the best
fluorescents on the market. That should make it cheaper and greener, as well.

It's a combination that will inevitably help the LED dominate the market for
illuminating the world's workplaces, according to the global leader in lighting
sales.

In an interview with The Associated Press ahead of the unveiling of the new
light, a top executive said the prototype LED is headed to mass production and
will hit the market in 2015. He claimed that in 10 years, LEDs will replace at
least half of the world's fluorescent bulbs.

"This is a major step forward for the lighting world," said Rene van Schooten,
CEO of Philips' light sources division. "It will bring an enormous savings in
energy."

Experts outside the Dutch company say they have long expected LEDs to eclipse
fluorescents. If Philips' predictions are correct, however, the arrival of the
LED in office spaces will come faster than expected.

In the United States alone, fluorescents consume about 200 terawatts annually,
according to Philips' estimates. Cutting that in half would save $12 billion in
electricity costs and lessen carbon dioxide emissions by 60 million metric tons
per year, the company said.

In recent years, energy-efficient lights made by Philips, Siemens AG, General
Electric Co., Cree Inc. and others using LEDs, or light-emitting diodes, have
made significant inroads in the home market, replacing many incandescent and
halogen bulbs.

But because fluorescent bulbs are themselves highly efficient, LED lights have
so far achieved only a small foothold in business and industry.

Philips says its new lamp will change all of that. The technical milestone the
company claims to have achieved is the ability to produce 200 lumens of light
per watt. A lumen is the standard measure of the amount of light a lamp casts in
a given area.

According to Mark Hand, a technology expert at Philips competitor Acuity Brands
Inc., that's about twice the output per watt of the best fluorescent tubes
currently on the market.

Cree already advertises an LED lamp it says reaches 200 lumens per watt under
some circumstances. Mr. Van Schooten said the Philips lamp is different. It will
be the first on the market that reaches that level of efficiency and functions
across a normal range of temperatures and is capable of consistently producing
the same amount of warm white colored light as comparable fluorescent tubes.

U.S. Department of Energy projections published in April 2012 showed the
government had expected the industry would only achieve efficiencies of 160
lumens per watt for LED lamps by 2015.

Mr. Van Schooten said that initially, prices of its LED tubes will be higher
than fluorescent lights. But taking into account electricity costs, the
increased efficiency in 2015 will make them cheaper to own within a year, as
opposed to three years at present.

Philips lighting sales in 2012 amounted to 8.4 billion euros ($11 billion) in a
total global market that consulting firm McKinsey puts at 70 billion euros.

Ironically, Philips will both lose and gain from the change: It is not only the
largest maker of LEDs, but also of fluorescent tubes.

"Clearly we'll have to phase that out," Mr. Van Schooten said. But "we knew this
moment was coming for some time."

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Philips/Associated Press: Rifat Hikmet, a scientist at Philips'
research laboratories in Eindhoven, Netherlands, holds a prototype of a new tube
LED light developed by the company that is capable of generating 200 lumens of
white light per watt. Philips' light division executive Rene van Schooten claims
that in 10 years, LEDs will replace at least half of the world's fluorescent
bulbs.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2013 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              291 of 438 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                             January 4, 2013 Friday
                            PITTSBURGH PRESS EDITION

CHIEFS, GM HAVE 'PARTED WAYS'

SECTION: SPORTS; BRIEFS; Pg. A-7

LENGTH: 793 words


KANSAS CITY, Mo. -- Scott Pioli is out as general manager of the Kansas City
Chiefs, who have been negotiating the past two days with Andy Reid to become
their next coach.

Pioli and the team "mutually parted ways," the Chiefs said in a statement today.

The decision came after four tumultuous seasons marked by poor draft choices,
ineffective free-agent moves, failed coaching hires and a growing fan rebellion.

"I truly apologize for not getting the job done," Pioli said.

The Chiefs fired coach Romeo Crennel on Monday after finishing 2-14, matching
the worst record in their 53-year history.

Chiefs chairman Clark Hunt said other changes could be made, and indicated that
Pioli's future could be determined by their next coach.

A person familiar with the situation told The Associated Press the team is
nearing a deal with Reid, who was fired after 14 seasons with the Philadelphia
Eagles.

The person spoke to AP on condition of anonymity because negotiations were
ongoing. It is believed that Reid would prefer to work with his own general
manager.

"After several productive conversations, we made the difficult decision to part
ways with Scott Pioli and allow him to pursue other opportunities," Hunt said in
a statement today.

"This was a difficult decision for Scott as well," Hunt said. "He has a great
deal of appreciation for the history of this franchise, for our players, coaches
and employees, and especially our great fans."

Kansas City will have the No. 1 pick in the NFL draft, and with five players
voted to the Pro Bowl, there are certainly pieces in place for the Chiefs to
make rapid improvement.

But most of those Pro Bowl players were drafted by Pioli's predecessor, Carl
Peterson.

The former Patriots executive struggled to find impact talent, particularly at
quarterback, while cycling through coaches and fostering a climate of dread
within the entire organization.

Numerous longtime staff members were fired upon Pioli's arrival, and his
inability to connect with fans resulted in unrest unlike anything the franchise
has known. Some of them even paid for banners to be towed behind planes before
home games asking that he be fired.

Those fans finally got their wish.

GOLF: MCILROY MAY SIT OUT OLYMPICS

LONDON -- Rory McIlroy may skip the 2016 Olympics because of a problem over
which country to represent.

The No. 1-ranked player from Northern Ireland is eligible to compete for either
Britain or Ireland when golf returns to the Olympics in Rio de Janeiro. He said
he may miss the games to avoid having to choose between the two.

"I just think being from where we're from, we're placed in a very difficult
position," the 23-year-old McIlroy said in a BBC documentary. "I feel Northern
Irish and obviously being from Northern Ireland you have a connection to Ireland
and a connection to the U.K."

McIlroy stirred controversy last year when he said in a British newspaper
interview that he felt "more British than Irish." He then posted a clarification
on Twitter saying he grew up "a proud product of Irish golf" and had not made a
decision on the Olympics.

SLALOM: US TEEN CLAIMS EARLY LEAD

ZAGREB, Croatia -- Mikaela Shiffrin posted the fastest time in the first leg of
a women's slalom today, beating overall World Cup leader Tina Maze of Slovenia
by 0.35 seconds.

The 17-year-old Shiffrin, who won her first race last month to briefly lead the
slalom standings, came down the Crveni Spust course in 59.26 seconds.

"I skied solid. It went really smooth," Shiffin said. "I was just letting my
skis taking me to the bottom, and that is what I am looking for."

Defending overall champion Lindsey Vonn, who went back to training Thursday
after a monthlong break from the circuit, skipped the race. Slalom world
champion Marlies Schild of Austria had been ruled out for three months after
knee surgery in December.

Maria Pietilae-Holmner of Sweden was third, 0.72 behind Shiffrin. Veronika Velez
Zuzulova of Slovakia, who two the last two events in Semmering and Munich, was
10th.

BOBSLED: GERMAN WOMEN FINISH 1-2

ALTENBERG, Germany -- Cathleen Martini snapped Kaillie Humphries' eight-race
winning streak and gave Germany its first World Cup win of the season in the
women's bobsled today.

The Germans celebrated a 1-2 finish on a rain-drenched course, with Sandra
Kiriasis coming in second. Humphries was third for Canada.

Martini and brakewoman Stephanie Schneider beat Kiriasis and Franziska Bertels
by 0.3 seconds, with Humphries and Chelsea Valois only another 0.02 seconds
behind. Crews from the United States skipped the event.

In skeleton, Marion Thees of Germany earned her second win of the season,
beating world champion Kathie Uhlaender of the United States by 0.01 seconds.
Noelle Pikus-Pace of the United States was third, another 0.27 seconds behind.

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Scott Pioli -- "I truly apologize for not getting the job done."

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2013 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              294 of 438 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            January 20, 2013 Sunday
                                TWO STAR EDITION

OBAMA ON THE EVE OF HIS SECOND TERM;
WILL PRESIDENT'S TONE IN SPEECH BE CONCILIATORY OR COMBATIVE?

BYLINE: Tracie Mauriello, Post-Gazette Washington Bureau

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. A-1

LENGTH: 1139 words


WASHINGTON -- Inaugurations can be a time to heal deep political wounds
inflicted during election season with lofty rhetorical speeches aimed at
unifying the nation and celebrating its people.

That was the core of the most famous second-term inaugural -- Abraham Lincoln's
call to bind up the nation's wounds.

As he frames Monday's inaugural address, President Barack Obama confronts the
choice of following that conciliatory example or sounding a more combative tone
as he prepares to renew his battles with the most partisan Congress in modern
history.

The latter approach would be unusual for an inaugural address, but it's not out
of the question. There's little to be lost politically by declaring war against
a Congress with an 18 percent approval rating.

"The purpose is to put an end to what is normally a pretty rancorous campaign
and to move the country forward in a positive and unified way" toward a
honeymoon period that Congress usually affords both first- and second-term
presidents, said Joseph Valenzano, assistant professor of communication at the
University of Dayton.

But academics say this address could be different.

Congress has been bitterly divided over fiscal policy over the last few weeks,
and Republicans are already threatening to allow a government shutdown in order
to force the president and congressional Democrats to agree to spending cuts.

"He may use this address like a hammer against Republicans, and that could be an
error," Mr. Valenzano said. "What he really needs to do is appear above the
fray."

Aaron Kall, director of the University of Michigan Debate Program, agreed. "He's
going to have to rise above and not point fingers or say blame lies with any
particular party," he said. "Rancor and partisanship are hurting the country and
voters want them to end. They want more civility."

The president already is setting a tone for his second term.

On Wednesday he circumvented Congress by signing a package of executive orders
aimed at curbing gun violence. Conservatives criticized the president for the
move, saying gun control is a matter for the legislative branch, not the White
House.

Two days earlier, he drew a line in the sand on one of the GOP's most pressing
agenda items: the debt ceiling. He insisted it must be raised and said that
isn't subject to negotiation.

A successful second term, meanwhile, could hinge on compromise.

"Trying to set up an atmosphere of compromise and cooperation [in an inaugural
address] is usually the smartest thing to do, but from his remarks in recent
weeks I'm not sure he's heading in that direction," said Craig Smith, professor
of communication at California State University at Long Beach and a former
speechwriter for Presidents Gerald Ford and George H.W. Bush.

It appears that the president is gearing up to establish that he's the leader of
the country and the one calling the shots, Mr. Smith said. "How he decides he's
going to phrase that in an eloquent and poetic way is up to him."

Presidents traditionally avoid nitty-gritty policy details during inaugural
addresses, preferring to paint with broad brush strokes, then fill in the
details during February State of the Union addresses.

This time, political scientists see signs that Mr. Obama may deviate from that
model, and they warn that presidents who conflate ceremonial addresses with
policy speeches ruin their inaugural addresses.

"What you try to do in the inaugural is set out a framework of values you want
people to embrace. It's a very high-minded speech. It's ceremonial," Mr. Smith
said.

For Mr. Obama, that doesn't mean steering clear of partisan issues, particularly
gun control, since the inauguration comes just five weeks after the worst
elementary school shooting in American history.

Mr. Obama will be walking to the podium with the confidence that he scored a
decisive victory at the hands of voters who signaled they want to continue on
the path he put them on.

"He won by a significant margin. These are people that want to stay the course,"
said Christina Greer, professor of political science at Fordham University in
New York.

That's likely to embolden him but, she said, it's also likely to galvanize
Republicans, who believe Mr. Obama represents the antithesis of everything they
value from low taxes to traditional marriage to gun rights.

"The hope now is that all of the trepidation that he showed in the first term is
gone," said Ms. Greer. "He's not going to come out like gangbusters because
that's not his style, but a lot of people are saying he's got to be bolder" on
issues, including immigration.

He can't be so bold, though, that he alienates his party before the midterm
elections, she said. If Republicans retain control of the House, he'll have
little chance of implementing education reform or ensuring that his signature
legislation, the Affordable Care Act, is fully funded and rolled out as he
envisions.

Robert C. Smith, political scientist at San Francisco State University, said the
president is likely to be consumed with its implementation over the next four
years.

"There's a lot of bureaucracy involved," he said. "He's going to want to make
sure it's implemented in a way that's irreversible. He'll want to achieve the
legacy of having comprehensive national health insurance. That's a huge
achievement and what he will be remembered for."

That focus will leave little time for any big new policy initiatives, the
professor predicts.

Still, he's already promised to use the full power of his office to reform gun
control.

Climate change, immigration and foreign relations in the Middle East also are
likely to get some attention during the president's second term.

Of those, immigration seems to have the most traction.

It would be a do-over for Mr. Obama, whose efforts fell short of his 2008
campaign promises. He did sign an executive order to provide amnesty to young
illegal immigrants enrolled in school or the military, but the effort
disappointed Hispanics who were skeptical that the measure came at the height of
election season when he needed their votes.

"He will definitely have to address it within the next four years because if he
doesn't, it will be a blemish on the party," Ms. Greer said.

The president, meanwhile, spent the last Monday of his first term touting his
accomplishments -- winding down wars, ending tax breaks for the wealthy -- and
telling reporters that voters have made clear that they agree with his approach
to the federal budget.

"They listened to an entire year's debate over this issue and they made a clear
decision about the approach they prefer," he said during a press conference last
week.

The inaugural address is scheduled to be delivered immediately after the public
swearing-in at noon Monday on the west side of the U.S. Capitol. About 800,000
people are expected around the Capitol and National Mall for a glimpse.

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Washington Bureau Chief Tracie Mauriello: 703-996-9292 or
tmauriello@post-gazette.com/

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2013 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              298 of 438 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            January 27, 2013 Sunday
                                TWO STAR EDITION

PRISON EMPTIED OVER DEADLY RIOT

BYLINE: Compiled from news services

SECTION: WORLD; WORLD BRIEFS; Pg. A-4

LENGTH: 541 words


CARACAS, Venezuela -- Venezuela's top prisons official said the government was
evacuating a prison Saturday after a deadly riot that killed 61 people dead amid
a clash between National Guard soldiers and armed inmates.

Penitentiary Service Minister Iris Varela said officials decided to evacuate all
inmates from the Uribana prison in the central city of Barquisimeto after the
bloodshed on Friday in order to "close this chapter of violence." Ms. Varela
said inmates were being taken to other facilities. She spoke in a televised news
conference and did not immediately give a death toll.

But Ruy Medina, director of Central Hospital in the city of Barquisimeto. told
The Associated Press that 61 had died and 120 were injured, mostly from
gunshots.

Chavez medical update

SANTIAGO, Chile -- Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez has defeated a respiratory
infection and has begun additional medical treatment in Cuba after struggling
with complications following cancer surgery more than six weeks ago, a
government spokesman said Saturday.

Venezuelan Information Minister Ernesto Villegas said that it remains unclear
how soon Mr. Chavez could return home, and did not specify the kind of treatment
he is receiving.

"Vice President [Nicolas] Maduro estimates that the time it could take President
Chavez to return is within weeks. But we haven't wanted to fix an exact time
frame for the president's recuperation," Mr. Villegas told reporters on the
sidelines of a 60-nation summit in Chile.

He read a statement that went beyond past government reports in providing
additional information about Mr. Chavez's Dec. 11 surgery, but didn't describe
the newest treatment.

Militant clash kills 24

PESHAWAR, Pakistan -- Two Islamic militant groups clashed Saturday over control
of a prized valley in northwest Pakistan, killing at least 24 people and
wounding dozens more, officials said.

Arshad Khan of the Khyber tribal region said the fighting between the two
Islamic militant groups began Friday in Tirah valley, near the Afghan border,
when the militant group, Tehrik-e-Taliban, captured the base of another militant
group, Ansarul Islam. Ansarul Islam tried to retake the base and fighting
continued into Saturday.

Maliki's rule challenged

BAGHDAD -- In the bloody aftermath of street protests that turned violent Friday
in Fallujah, Iraq's Parliament passed a law Saturday intended to prevent Prime
Minister Nouri al-Maliki from seeking a third term.

The parliamentary move was the latest threat to Mr. Maliki's hold on power and
reflected rising anger among rivals over his rule, but it appeared unlikely that
the law, which would need to be approved by Iraq's president, would ever go into
effect.

Ex-PM wins presidency

PRAGUE -- Milos Zeman, a former leftist prime minister and economist known for
his outspoken populism, was elected president of the Czech Republic on Saturday,
becoming the country's first popularly elected president.

The election of Mr. Zeman, 68, an avowed supporter of European integration,
signals the end of the era of Vaclav Klaus, the Czech president for the past 10
years, whose vociferous skepticism of the European Union and scorn for the
battle against climate change made him a sometimes awkward partner in Europe and
the United States.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2013 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              308 of 438 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                           February 21, 2013 Thursday
                            PITTSBURGH PRESS EDITION

KENTUCKY SUFFERS AS COAL USE RISES EVERYWHERE BUT IN U.S.

BYLINE: Sean Cockerham, McClatchy Newspapers

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. A-8

LENGTH: 815 words


WASHINGTON

Eastern Kentucky coal country is filled with people competing for nonexistent
jobs, tied to the area by family and unable to sell their homes even if they
want to leave.

People such as 50-year-old Frank Dixon, who was laid off from a coal mine right
before Christmas. He has a son in college, another in high school and a mother
in failing health. Mr. Dixon has worked in the coal industry since he was 21
years old, and he's struggling to figure out how to make a living.

"I've been looking for a job. But there are so many miners laid off in this area
that wherever you go there's already been 20 or 25 other people there looking
for the same job, or for any job," he said.

While Mr. Dixon and thousands of others in the United States have lost their
jobs, coal is booming in the rest of the world. The International Energy
Agency's latest report forecasts that coal will become the world's dominant
fuel, with global burning of the fossil fuel rising by 1.2 billion tons over the
next four years.

That's the equivalent of adding the existing coal consumption of the U.S. and
Russia combined. The agency's executive director, Maria van der Hoeven, said
coal made up a greater share of the global energy mix every year. "If no changes
are made to current policies, coal will catch oil within a decade," she said.

The agency says America's glut of cleaner, cheap natural gas is pushing out the
use of coal in the U.S. It considers that a good thing, saying that the rest of
the world should learn from the American experience of how to reduce coal use
and lower the carbon emissions blamed for global warming.

"Europe, China and other regions should take note," Ms. van der Hoeven
concluded.

The agency expects that coal demand will grow in every region of the world --
except the U.S. There were an estimated 2,000 layoffs last year in the
mountainous coal counties of Eastern Kentucky. The U.S. Energy Information
Administration forecasts that coal production in that region will be half as
much in 2018 as it was in 2010.

Some Eastern Kentucky counties already have unemployment rates of 13.5 to 17
percent and are bracing for an expected continued decline in coal jobs. The loss
of tax revenue from coal production is creating million-dollar budget shortfalls
for county governments struggling to pay their bills.

Coal-burning power plants are closing or switching to natural gas. Even the Big
Sandy electric power plant, in the heart of Kentucky's coal country, plans to
shut its coal-burning boilers rather than retrofit the plant to meet
environmental regulations. The Sierra Club counts 54 coal plants that closed or
announced plans to close in 2012, and 11 more in just the first month of this
year, reacting to the nation's natural gas boom and tighter environmental
regulations.

That leaves 384 coal-burning power plants in the U.S., according to the Sierra
Club, down from 521 the group tallied at the beginning of 2010. Coal accounted
for more than half of America's power generation four years ago and is now down
to about a third, similar to the amount that natural gas fuels.

At the same time, coal is on the rise globally. Even Europe, which touts green
energy initiatives, is increasingly burning coal because it's cheaper than
available alternatives and because of a distaste for nuclear power in the wake
of Japan's 2011 Fukushima disaster. Most American coal exports are going to
Europe.

But the global growth for coal is projected to come from India and particularly
China, a nation that accounted for a whopping 87 percent of the 374 million-ton
increase in worldwide coal burning in 2011, according to U.S. energy data. Coal
has fueled China's economic rise, but many of its cities are shrouded in smog.

China is now burning almost as much coal as the rest of the world combined,
according to data compiled by the USEIA.

American coal companies are hoping that foreign demand will fill the gap left by
the shrinking use of coal at home. But exports to China and India aren't going
to reverse the decline of the Central Appalachian coalfield, which includes the
century-old industry in Eastern Kentucky, said James Stevenson, a coal analyst
with the economic forecaster IHS Global Insight. The easiest coal in the region
has already been mined, analysts say, and what's left are thinner seams that are
more difficult.

"It's just really too expensive to out-compete the alternatives China and India
have," he said.

Five coal export terminals are proposed in Washington and Oregon, meant for
exports of coal from mines in the Western United States to Asian nations. But
they've met controversy in communities worried about the noise of coal trains
and the climate impact. Mr. Stevenson said China had closer sources of coal and
wouldn't need that much from America. "I think one or two export terminals get
built; I don't think the economics are there to support five," he said.

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Distributed by MCT Information Services. /

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Charles Bertram/Lexington Herald-Leader/MCT: Frank Dixon stands
on a ridge with Arch Coal strip mines in the background in Letcher County, Ky.,
last Thursday. While Mr. Dixon and thousands of others in the United States have
lost their jobs, coal is booming in the rest of the world.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2013 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              311 of 438 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            March 6, 2013 Wednesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

BYLINE: From staff and wire reports

SECTION: BUSINESS; BUSINESS BRIEFS; Pg. A-6

LENGTH: 478 words


Fewer homes for sale here

There are fewer homes for sale in the metropolitan Pittsburgh region compared to
this time last year, according to the West-Penn Multi-List, Inc. New listings in
the 13-county area declined nearly 7 percent from 2,746 homes to 2,555 last
month from February 2012. Meanwhile, residential homes placed under agreement
increased 18 percent to 3,113 homes from 2,633 homes in February 2012. During
the same time period, the average home sale price increased 6 percent to
$149,424 last month from $140,861 in February 2012.

Tough Q4, 2012 for Baker

Michael Baker reported a fourth quarter loss and sharply lower earnings for all
of 2012, citing one-time costs, a weak economic climate, and the lack of funding
for infrastructure projects. The Moon engineering services firm also raised its
quarterly dividend 2 cents to 16 cents per share. Fourth quarter losses totalled
$2.3 million, or 24 cents per share vs. earnings of $4.4 million, or 47 cents
per share, in the year-ago period. Revenue declined 10 percent to $141.2
million. For all of 2012, Baker reported net income of $2.8 million, or 29 cents
per share, vs. $17.3 million, or $1.85 per share, in 2011. Revenue increased 10
percent to $593.4 million.

IRS now processing all returns

As of Monday, the IRS had completed updating its tax processing systems and
began accepting all individual and business federal income tax returns for 2012.
The agency had been accepting 2012 returns in phases as it updated forms,
instructions and computer systems.

Shell will double natural gas

Royal Dutch Shell Plc plans to double the amount of liquefied natural gas
available for trucks and marine vessels in North America after retail diesel
prices reached a record. Shell will build units in Ontario and Louisiana capable
of producing about 500,000 tons a year, said James Burns, general manager of the
company's LNG for transport unit in the Americas.

Service strong in February

The service sector, the major driver of the U.S. economy, expanded in February
at its fastest pace in a year, according to the Institute for Supply
Management's non-manufacturing index released Tuesday. Last month's reading of
56 was the highest since the index registered 56.1 in February 2012. A figure
above 50 indicates expansion.

Frito-Lay loses lawsuit

A Texas jury has sided with St. Louis-based Ralcorp Holdings in its fight with
Frito-Lay over the right to produce bowl-shaped tortilla chips. Frito-Lay sued,
saying Ralcorp's Bowlz corn chips were too similar to its Tostitos Scoops!
chips. Frito-Lay said in a statement it was disappointed in the ruling and
weighing its options.

Playboy starts Israeli edition

Israelis can now read Playboy in Hebrew. Playboy has been widely available in
Israel for years but Tuesday marked the first local edition of the magazine. It
features Israeli models and articles by Israeli writers.

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2013 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              321 of 438 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            April 10, 2013 Wednesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

HOCKEY IN THE 'BURGH;
SO YOU THINK YOU KNOW THE WHOLE STORY?

BYLINE: STORY BY DAN GIGLER, PITTSBURGH POST-GAZETTE

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. C-2

LENGTH: 1150 words


A cursory glance of hockey history in Pittsburgh reads almost biblical, like
Genesis with facewashing. For decades, it was a fringe sport without form and
darkness was upon the old Civic Arena's center ice. But in 1984, the hockey gods
said 'Fiat Pucks'-- and there was Mario Lemieux.

And behold, he was very good. And Lemieux lifted Pittsburgh from the dregs of
the NHL. And the fans cheered, and ate Igloo nachos and the holy grail of hockey
was delivered, not once, but twice. Skate ahead to 2005. Sidney Crosby arrives
and within a few years the Stanley Cup is raised again.

But hockey in Pittsburgh dates to 1895. And while it would be easy to list 46
years worth of highlights and legendary players that have flamed this region's
love affair with its Penguins, here's a crashing-the-net course of how has
Pittsburgh has developed as a "Hawkeytahn" as we'd say around here.

Indoor Ice?

That this weekend's action will take place in the comfort of a gorgeous climate
controlled arena in mid-April and not, say, on the edge of a pond in
International Falls in January is in no small part thanks to Pittsburgh, where
North America's first indoor artificial ice surface was introduced at the
Schenley Gardens Casino, a palatial social hall that once stood near Pitt.

A hockey exhibition was played there in December 1895 between a team from
Queen's College in Ontario and a combined university squad from the schools that
became Duquesne and Pitt.

No score was kept but its safe to say that the visiting Canadians had it in the
bag, mostly because the Pittsburgh lads had never actually seen the game before.

But the game caught on and a four-team league called the Western Pennsylvania
Hockey League began the next year and played nine games until the casino was
destroyed by fire, caused by a leak from a pipe in the ice-making equipment.

Bankers deliver checks

The WPHL restarted in 1899 in a converted trolley barn, the nearby Duquesne
Gardens. A handful of teams came and went, including the fearsome sounding
Pittsburgh Bankers, who wore dollar signs on their sweaters (they should've
played at the Mellon Arena!).

Though the league folded in 1910, what's noteworthy is its teams were the first
to pay players and starting poaching talent from the top Canadian amateur clubs.
The Canadian outfits eventually countered by paying their players and this
culminated in the formation of the National Hockey League in 1917.

WPHL player Garnet Sixsmith changed the game in 1904 by becoming the first
player to wear speedy aluminum skates, however they weren't fast enough to get
him away from a player from a Michigan club who threatened to break his leg, and
did -- in three places -- during a game. Sixsmith did, however, once score 11
goals in a game.

Yellow Jackets, Pirates, Shamrocks and Hornets, oh my!

In the fledgling early years of Pittsburgh hockey, numerous clubs came and went.

Founded in 1915, the Yellow Jackets were allegedly an amateur team, but it was
suspected that they too were paid.

"They didn't come down from Canada because they thought Pittsburgh was a nice
place," former hockey writer Paul Sullivan told the Post-Gazette in 1999.

Any doubt on the matter was removed in 1925 when the Yellow Jackets joined the
NHL and were re-christened as the Pirates -- rather uncreatively named after the
baseball team.

Though a successful team, their demise after five years was largely due to the
Great Depression, but they'd given hockey a revolutionary strategic development
-- line changes.

Despite their name and Kelly green logo, the Pittsburgh Shamrocks were an
unlucky bunch. The International Hockey League team lasted only one season in
1935-36 and even had their game on St. Patrick's Day 1936 canceled because of a
flood.

The Pittsburgh Hornets buzzed around the American Hockey League in two very
successful incarnations -- from 1936 to 1956 at the Duquesne Gardens and again
from 1961 to 1967 at the Civic Arena, winning three Calder Cups.

In 1967 the Hornets won their final Calder Cup then dissolved for good to make
way for the Penguins' NHL expansion franchise. Forty-six years, three Stanley
Cup titles, 14 hall of famers and plus some future shoo-ins for enshrinement,
and the Penguins are squarely among the NHL elite.

Ancestor of the Miracle on Ice

OK, so it wasn't in Pittsburgh in 1980 that Mike Eruzione single-handedly ended
the Cold War with a hockey stick (or so it seems, as that game's legend grows),
but USA Hockey was born in Pittsburgh in 1920, put together by Yellow Jackets'
founder Roy Schooley, who filled the roster with several of his Pittsburgh
players.

Schooley put on several exhibition games in Pittsburgh featuring the team, using
gate proceeds to fund their trip to the 1920 Summer (yes, Summer) Olympics in
Antwerp where they won silver.

Herb Brooks, coach of the immortal 1980 team, was a longtime Penguins scout, an
interim coach and the team's director of player personnel until his death in
2003.

His assistant coach, Craig Patrick, was also a Penguins head coach and then the
longtime general manager of the team from 1989 to 2006 and the architect of two
Stanley Cup winners.

Hockeywood

Though he wasn't deported to Canada (which refused to accept him) Ogie
Oglethorpe was real! Filmed about an hour east in Johnstown, the 1977 comedy
classic Slap Shot! is loosely based on the Johnstown Jets team and the wild and
wooly North American Hockey League.

The uber-goon Oglethorpe was based on an actual guy and portrayed by Johnstown
player Ned Dowd. Dave Hanson, of the brawling, Buddy Holly-glasses wearing
Hanson brothers in the movie is now the executive director the Robert Morris
Island Sports Center, home to Colonials hockey.

The 1995 Jean-Claude Van Damme action thriller "Sudden Death" -- produced by
former Penguins owner Howard Baldwin -- was filmed almost entirely in Pittsburgh
at the Civic Arena during a fictional Penguins game, and featured Penguins
announcers and former players as characters. Even the team's cute and fuzzy
mascot, Iceburgh, turned out to be a terrorist.

Homegrown talent

Dating to 1925 and Pete Babando, a handful of NHL journeyman were born in or
near Pittsburgh but raised elsewhere. The 'Burgh didn't have a true NHL native
son until Ryan Malone (son of former Penguin and longtime team scout Greg
Malone) was drafted by his hometown squad in 1999. He played here from 2003 to
2008.

The Blue Jackets' R.J. Umberger became the first Pittsburgh-born player taken in
the first round of the NHL entry draft in 2001.

And not that we keep score of this kind of thing here, but according to Pro
Hockey Reference there are 14 current and former NHLers born in greater
Pittsburgh and only -- ahem -- 13 from the Philadelphia area.

The game continues to flourish at the youth and interscholastic levels, and high
school leagues have existed since 1971, and, in 2004, Robert Morris became the
first area school to have an NCAA Division I program.

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: 2013 FROZEN FOUR PREVIEW/ Dan Gigler: dgigler@post-gazette.com and
Twitter @ gigs412./

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Post-Gazette: Pit Martin, left, would go on to a distinguished
NHL career spent primarily with the Chicago Blackhawks. But on this night in
1963, Martin -- then a rookie with the Pittsburgh Hornets -- posts his first AHL
goal.
PHOTO: Joyce Mendelsohn/Post-Gazette: RIGHT: Mario Lemieux, left, and actor
Jean-Claude Van Damme greet extras who turned out at the Civic Arena in
September 1994 for filming of the movie "Sudden Death."
PHOTO: RIGHT: Paul Newman made minor league hockey cool in Johnstown.
PHOTO: (For two photos) Roy Schooley, left, and Herb Brooks orchestrated
miracles on ice.
PHOTO: (No caption)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2013 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              337 of 438 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                              May 21, 2013 Tuesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

CORPORATE-SHILL GROUPS SHOULD BE INVESTIGATED

BYLINE: MARY GOLDEN

SECTION: EDITORIAL; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR; Pg. B-6

LENGTH: 296 words


I can't remember another time when I have been so disgusted by our political
system. The Internal Revenue Service was behaving perfectly appropriately when
it investigated the real purpose of those astroturf, bogus grassroots
organizations that were sponsored and paid for by corporate interests, and then
pretended that their purpose was patriotism rather than deregulation and not
taxing the richest of the rich.

The formation of the Tea Party itself has ties to executives of big tobacco
interests and the Koch brothers' group "Citizens for a Strong Economy."

Several other of these astroturf groups were formed specifically to foster
denial of climate change. Of course, they deal in industries that use a lot of
industrial chemicals, so it is clear to see where their real interests lie.
These groups deserve investigation and exposure of their real purposes.

Remember how Nixon used the IRS to punish those on his "enemies list" and there
were no conservative cries of outrage then. The Democrats sit on their hands
when it comes to defending themselves, and the Republicans, who behaved even
worse and for lesser "reasons," go all righteous on us again. And the result: We
get a government that steals from elderly savers and poor students and rewards
the corporate crooks, the bankers and the financiers.

For sure, we can't think of the Tea Party as a legitimate third party, since its
members have sold out to the Koch brothers, who bought them a few hotdogs and
sponsored their meetings in public parks, traveled to via public roads, where
the Tea Partiers could haul their Medicare-paid scooters from their trunks and
proceed to the bandstands to demand that the government exit their lives.

A pox on all of politics. We desperately need a third party.

MARY GOLDEN

Carrick

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2013 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              344 of 438 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                              June 2, 2013 Sunday
                              Correction Appended
                                TWO STAR EDITION

THE CIRCUS PLAYS ON;
ERIC HOLDER SHOULD QUIT OR BE FIRED, BUT DON'T HOLD YOUR BREATH

BYLINE: Jack Kelly

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. B-3

LENGTH: 731 words


I'm enjoying immensely Attorney General Eric Holder's frantic efforts to keep
his job. But why the White House wants him to is mystifying.

Mr. Holder's most recent troubles began when we learned the Justice Department
seized telephone records of reporters and editors for the Associated Press. His
goose was cooked when it was learned the attorney general himself had signed off
on snooping the phone records of Fox News diplomatic correspondent James Rosen,
then shopped for a judge who would issue the warrant. Major news organizations,
liberal law professors and prominent Democrats joined Republicans in demanding
his resignation.

Which, if Mr. Holder had any sense, he'd offer in a heartbeat, because he was
under oath when he told the House Judiciary Committee: "In regard to potential
prosecution of the press for the disclosure of material -- this is not something
I've ever been involved in, heard of, or would think would be wise policy."

Well, he at least signed off on the Rosen search warrant, so this at least
verges on perjury. It wouldn't be the first time the attorney general had misled
Congress. His pattern of deception has not put lawmakers in a forgiving mood. If
he remains in office, an indictment is likely.

But if Mr. Holder were to resign after expressing contrition, Republicans almost
certainly would drop perjury charges. It would seem to some like persecution.
He's more likely to stay out of jail if he gets out of Dodge.

This scandal is more problematic for President Barack Obama, because it angers
journalistic allies who've been downplaying the others swirling about his
administration.

And this is the scandal where the president can plausibly deny involvement. If
timely military aid could have been sent to Benghazi, the president was likely
in on the decision not to send it. IRS Commissioner Douglas Shulman was cleared
to visit the White House 157 times, so it's hard to believe Mr. Obama knew
nothing about IRS intimidation of his political enemies.

Many journalists outraged by Justice Department snooping still defend the
president on Benghazi and the IRS. If Mr. Holder were to shoulder all the blame,
and Mr. Obama were to express indignation about what he had done, these
journalists would be eager to believe them.

Since it would seem to be very much in the president's interest to have Mr.
Holder exit fast, why did White House Press Secretary Jay Carney say the
president has "complete confidence" in him?

And since it's apparent to all the sentient that Mr. Holder dissembled, why did
Mr. Carney declare he "testified truthfully"?

Such statements harm the president's credibility without improving Mr. Holder's.

The attorney general invited journalists to a schmooze session -- then declared
it off the record. Journalists unwilling to accept that condition "forfeit their
right to gripe," said Democratic National Committee flack Brad Woodhouse.

This elevated the scandal story for another news cycle, and expanded the wedge
forming between liberal journalists with some integrity and the complete
lackeys.

Here's a tip for Mr. Woodhouse: Bullying works better when people are afraid of
you. Journalists have suppressed harmful news out of ideological affinity, not
fear. When you try to intimidate those who are not fearful, you just tick them
off.

The longer Eric Holder remains attorney general, the more he and the president
bleed. So why does the president want him to stay?

Mr. Holder is Mr. Obama's "human shield," believes Reason columnist Nick
Gillespie. Could he have buried so much bad stuff the Obama presidency would be
doomed if it leaks?

I think the president backs Mr. Holder, to the detriment of both, chiefly
because he has difficulty recognizing when political winds shift. His customary
response to criticism of his policies is to treat critics with imperial disdain,
as he did Wednesday when he declared: "I don't have much patience for people who
deny climate change."

Scorn sufficed when he was being hailed as maybe the smartest president ever.
But when his aides say he is so out of touch he had no idea what was going on in
his administration, it doesn't work as well.

Combine this with a near pathological unwillingess to admit a mistake and
extreme reluctance to make decisions, and Mr. Obama is likely always to be a
beat or two slow in responding to new revelations.

This circus is just beginning. I must buy more popcorn.

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Jack Kelly is a columnist for the Post-Gazette (jkelly@post-gazette.com,
412-263-1476). /

CORRECTION-DATE: July 16, 2013



CORRECTION:  Former IRS Commissioner Douglas Shulman was cleared to visit the
White House 157 times between 2009 and 2012, according to White House logs, but
that does not mean he visited that many times. Officials sometimes don't attend
meetings for which they have been cleared. A June 2 Jack Kelly column said Mr.
Shulman actually had visited 157 times.\

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2013 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              349 of 438 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                              June 16, 2013 Sunday
                                TWO STAR EDITION

SECTION: LOCAL; THE WEEK AT A GLANCE; Pg. A-9

LENGTH: 311 words


QUOTED+NOTED

"In the climate we're in now, this is a great contract. It keeps the Pittsburgh
Symphony Orchestra as a destination for the world's best talent."

? Micah Howard

PSO bass player and the musicians' union representative, on the new three-year
contract reached last week, a year before the current one expires. The contract
works toward restoring salary cuts made two years ago. Many symphonies across
America are in financial straits.

"I'm excited, but I also have real trepidation about doing it again and doing it
well."

? Jared Cohon

Former president of Carnegie Mellon University on returning to teaching
engineering after stepping down from the top post, where he has served for 16
years ? about twice as long as the average university president.

"We wanted national attendees to see us at our best. There are so many people
who still have a 30-year-old view of Pittsburgh."

? Mitch Swain

Greater Pittsburgh Arts Council CEO on why the Americans for Art convention was
recruited to come to Pittsburgh on the Three Rivers Arts Festival weekend.

YOU DON'T SAY

* Among U.S. cities, Pittsburgh had the highest percentage -- 51 percent -- of
adults who claim to read a print newspaper daily, according to the trade journal
Advertising Age. We thank all of you very much. (Atlanta, by the way, was the
lowest at 13 percent.)

* Friday was Flag Day. Wholesale flag sales by U.S. manufacturers are between
$300 million and $350 million annually. In the period following 9/11, sales were
nearly double that.

ADVANCE PLANNING

Starting today, the Port Authority of Allegheny County will eliminate 430
little-used bus stops (sorry, users of Monongahela Boulevard at Munhall Loop),
and regular quarterly service adjustments will take effect on about 45 routes.
Look under "Service Changes" at portauthority.org or call 412-442-2000 to
confirm why a bus drove past without stopping.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2013 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              358 of 438 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                              July 19, 2013 Friday
                                 SOONER EDITION

ALIENS LIKELY DON'T FIND US WORTH THE TROUBLE

BYLINE: Tony Norman

SECTION: LIFESTYLE; Pg. A-2

LENGTH: 757 words


America's favorite astrophysicist, Neil deGrasse Tyson, has a theory about why
Earth has yet to be visited by advanced civilizations he suspects are scattered
throughout the cosmos -- we're too stupid to be taken seriously by our alien
brethren.

"I wonder if, in fact, we have been observed by aliens and upon close
examination of human conduct and human behavior they have concluded that there
is no sign of intelligent life on Earth," Mr. Tyson, who is director of the
Hayden Planetarium in New York, said in a video recently uploaded to YouTube.

It is a funny line that masks a profound philosophical observation at its heart.

Given the vastness of space, it appears mathematically inconceivable that we are
alone. If our blue planet spinning in the inky darkness of the Milky Way is the
only host for life in the universe, then every war, every killing and every act
of environmental degradation here becomes an act of incalculable cosmic folly.

You don't have to believe Earth was once visited by aliens to accept the notion
that there are likely billions of planets capable of sustaining life, from the
microbial to the highly complex. There are perhaps millions of alien
civilizations with technology so advanced that we would consider it
indistinguishable from magic, to quote the late Arthur C. Clarke.

Of those millions of worlds just in our galaxy, perhaps hundreds of thousands
have developed technology capable of traversing the galactic void between their
star systems and ours. It is literally the stuff of science fiction to imagine
what would happen if our paths crossed and one of our cosmic neighbors came
knocking.

Would a civilization advanced enough to visit Earth have benevolent feelings for
a violent, predatory species that fouls its own eco-system, at the behest of
artificial life forms of its own creation called "corporations?"

Cosmologist Stephen Hawking warned a few years ago that any star-spanning
civilization we made contact with would probably treat Earth the same way that
the Europeans treated the native peoples of the New World 500 years ago.

Genocide, slavery and the ruthless exploitation of the planet's resources would
be the likely outcome of first -- and last -- contact with technologically
advanced aliens, according to Mr. Hawking.

"That concern comes from the fact that when any of us explore the world and came
upon a civilization less advanced, it was bad for the less advanced
civilization," Mr. Tyson said, addressing Mr. Hawking's warning. "So I think his
fear about aliens is a reflection of his actual knowledge about how humans treat
each other, not real knowledge about how actual aliens would treat us."

Still, Mr. Tyson is happy to attribute the lack of universally verifiable
contact with aliens to the possibility that something akin to cosmic snobbery
might be afoot. When an advanced civilization stumbles across our ancient radio
and television signals, it might logically conclude that we have nothing to
offer as a source of either food, forced labor or technology.

From an alien's perspective, we probably look like aggressive basement mold
consuming and depleting our planet's resources as if they were limitless --
something advanced civilizations know is not the case.

And what are aliens supposed to make of the political leadership of America --
the most "technologically advanced" tribe on Earth and the only one to have
gotten its people to the moon and back?

How do aliens open serious interplanetary communications with our political
rulers, many of whom doubt the science of climate change but have no problem
believing Iron Age fables about an ark full of animals that included dinosaurs?
Would it be wise to offer a seat on the Intergalactic Council to a strip of
fungus with a God complex, especially if it has no interest in changing its
ways?

A half century ago, we broke "the bonds of space" as a species to escape Earth's
gravity. Even so, we're only just beginning to scheme of "humane" ways to send
astronauts on the first of many one-way journeys to Mars to anchor future supply
lines for its eventual colonization.

In a century or so, we will have exported wars, xenophobia, economic
exploitation and our most nihilistic religious traditions to that planet, too.
These pathologies have been our security blanket for as long as we've been
around.

Besides, making "foreign" civilizations happy sounds too much like being a
member in good standing of the U.N. -- it ain't worth it. And who wants to be a
part of an interplanetary club that would have us as a member, anyway?

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Tony Norman: tnorman@post-gazette.com, 412-263-1631 or on Twitter
@TonyNormanPG./

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2013 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              368 of 438 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            August 22, 2013 Thursday
                                 SOONER EDITION

VOLVO XC60 T6 IS PRETTY AND PRICEY

BYLINE: Scott Sturgis

SECTION: BUSINESS; DRIVER'S SEAT; Pg. C-1

LENGTH: 694 words


2013 Volvo XC60 T6 AWD Platinum: Beautiful, fun -- but worth the added cost?

Price: $48,154 as tested ($45,050 base). A barebones model can be had for
$34,350.

Marketer's pitch: "This award season we brought home top honor. Twice." (One for
the XC60 and one for the S60 sedan.)

Conventional wisdom: Of course, it was an Insurance Institute for Highway Safety
award.

Reality: Beauty, safety, some excitement.

Catching up: Last week we tried out the Mazda CX-9. It's not considered a direct
XC60 competitor, as this has room for just five people and costs quite a few
pennies more.

Outside: I called the CX-9 handsome. Well, so is its ex-cousin (after the Ford
divorce), the XC60. But they're definitely distant cousins, sharing nothing but
a twinkle in their headlights and a rugged, chiseled look. The XC60 is certainly
not the boxy, staid look of the '70s and '80s Volvos I grew up with.

Inside: This is where Volvo is able to shout "class," if a Volvo could shout
(which it wouldn't, because it's just too classy). Just like in Volvos of yore,
the XC60 interior looks gorgeous and feels like a million bucks. Tradition dies
hard at Volvo, though, and the numeric keypad under the infotainment display
just screams "Clinton administration."

Driver's Seat: The seating position is wonderful, but the seats are stiff and
lumbar-y.

On the road: The 3.0-liter turbocharged six-cylinder engine makes 300 horses, so
it's pretty quick. Handling is fine for a vehicle of its height and size.

Shifty: The 6-speed automatic transmission does well, although once as I
followed a school bus, I noticed some distinct hesitation. Sport mode offers +/-
for shifting but it will still shift on its own, if you let it. Not the greatest
setup for driving enthusiasts.

Friends and stuff: Those Scandinavian kids sure live well. The rear seat is
heated, just like the front, and HVAC vents back there also keep everyone
happily. (The seat heaters are part of a $900 climate package, which also heats
the washer nozzles.) It's also comfy back there, but legroom and foot room are
scant.

Up front, there's a weird little tray down by the knees to hold things you don't
really want to see again until your trip is over. A phone holder rests
underneath the breadbox door in front of the cupholders. The center console also
holds plenty of debris.

In and out: The XC60 is so just right height-wise that it's worth writing home
about. If you're at an age where clamoring up and sliding down can be difficult,
try the XC60.

Play some tunes: The radio controls are so easy for the driver to reach, they
almost render the steering-wheel buttons useless. But on the wheel, nice wide
buttons and good positioning make those easy to use. The white-on-cream was hard
to see at first (I had white-on-black in an S50 that had better contrast). And
brushed silver surrounded the radio area -- gorgeous. Walnut is available as
well.

Keeping cool: The two dials that control cabin temperature are both easy to
reach from the command post. That's a good thing, because Volvo doesn't offer
the "sync" function, which in almost every other car allows you to control the
whole cabin from one dial. I adore the "little person" buttons that allow a
driver or passenger to simply press head, chest or legs to choose which way the
wind blows.

Looking out: A recent development in automaking seems to be the tall beltline
with tiny, peephole windows. The XC60 takes drivers back a bit, with tall
windows that really offer a panorama view.

Infotain me: Viewing the map in navigation mode does add a level of work to
changing the radio station. Drivers have to press radio, then change the
station. It's not as difficult as some, but still an extra step.

Fuel economy: I just barely achieved 22 mpg in my usual mix of highway and city
driving. And Volvos drink premium fuel.

Where it's built: Ghent, Belgium.

How it's built: Consumer Reports recommended the XC60, but reliability has been
only about average. I have heard lots of stories about not-so-old Volvos needing
some fairly expensive repairs over the years.

Next week: The final competitor for crossover buyers who like to go their own
way, the 2013 and 2014 Mitsubishi Outlander.

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Scott Sturgis, a freelance auto writer, can be reached at
mrdriversseat@gmail.com/

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The 2013 Volvo XC60 certainly fits the manly bill required of
today's crossovers.
PHOTO: The Volvo XC60 bathes its occupants in luxury. For controls it offers
everything, except the "sync."

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2013 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              376 of 438 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            September 8, 2013 Sunday
                                TWO STAR EDITION

THE BIRTHPLACE OF BIG IDEAS;
GOVERNMENTS, NOT ENTREPRENEURS, ARE THE MAIN DRIVERS OF INNOVATION

BYLINE: MARIANA MAZZUCATO

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. B-1

LENGTH: 948 words


Images of tech entrepreneurs such as Mark Zuckerberg and Steve Jobs are
continually thrown at us by politicians, economists and the media. The message
is that innovation is best left in the hands of these individuals and the wider
private sector, and that the state -- bureaucratic and sluggish -- should keep
out. A telling article last year in the Economist claimed that, to be
innovative, governments must "stick to the basics," such as spending on
infrastructure, education and skills, leaving the rest to the revolutionary
garage tinkerers.

Yet it is ideology, not evidence, that fuels this image. A quick look at the
pioneering technologies of the past century points to the state, not the private
sector, as the most decisive player in the game.

Whether an innovation will be a success is uncertain, and it can take longer
than traditional banks or venture capitalists are willing to wait. In countries
such as the United States, China, Singapore and Denmark, the state has provided
the kind of patient and long-term finance new technologies need to get off the
ground. Investments of this kind have often been driven by big missions, from
putting a human on the moon to solving climate change. This has required not
only funding basic research -- the typical "public good" that most economists
admit needs state help -- but applied research and seed funding too.

Apple is a perfect example. In its early stages, the company received government
cash support via a $500,000 small-business investment company grant. And every
technology that makes the iPhone a smartphone owes its vision and funding to the
state: The Internet, GPS, touch-screen displays and even the voice-activated
smartphone assistant Siri all received state cash. The U.S. Defense Advanced
Research Projects Agency bankrolled the Internet, and the CIA and the military
funded GPS. So, although the United States is sold to us as the model example of
progress through private enterprise, innovation here has benefited from a very
interventionist state.

The examples don't come just from the military arena. The U.S. National
Institutes of Health spends about $30 billion every year on pharmaceutical and
biotechnology research and is responsible for 75 percent of the most innovative
new drugs annually. Even the algorithm behind Google benefited from U.S.
National Science Foundation funding.

Across the world we see state investment banks financing innovation. Green
energy is a great example. From Germany's KfW state bank to the Chinese and
Brazilian development banks, state-run finance is playing an increasing role in
the development of the next big thing: green tech.

In this era of obsession with reducing public debt -- and the size of the state
more generally -- it is vital to dispel the myth that the public sector is
necessarily less innovative than the private sector. Otherwise, the state's
ability to continue to play its enterprising role will be weakened. Stories
about how progress is led by entrepreneurs and venture capitalists have aided
lobbyists for the U.S. venture capital industry in negotiating lower capital
gains and corporate income taxes -- hurting the ability of the state to refill
its innovation funds.

The fact that companies like Apple and Google pay hardly any tax relative to
their massive profits is all the more problematic, given the significant
contributions they have had from the government. Thus, the "real" economy (made
up of goods and services) has experienced a shift similar to that of the
"financial" economy: The risk has been increasingly moved to the public sector
while the private sector keeps the rewards.

Indeed, one of the most perverse trends in recent years is that while the state
has increased its funding of R&D and innovation, the private sector is
apparently de-committing itself. In the name of "open innovation," big pharma is
closing R&D labs, relying more on small biotech companies and public funds to do
the hard stuff. Is this a symbiotic public-private partnership or a parasitic
one?

It is time for the state to get something back for its investments. How?

First, this requires an admission that the state does more than just fix market
failures -- the usual way economists justify state spending. The state has
shaped and created markets and, in doing so, taken on great risks.

Second, we must ask where the reward is for such risk-taking -- the reward being
more money for more risk-taking -- and admit that it is no longer coming from
tax systems.

Third, we must think creatively about how that reward can come back.

There are many ways for this to happen. The repayment of some loans for students
depends on income, so why not do this for companies? When Google's future owners
received a grant from the National Science Foundation, the contract should have
said: If and when the beneficiaries of the grant make $X billion, a contribution
will be made back to the NSF.

Other ways include giving the state bank or agency that invests a stake in the
company. A good example is Finland, where the government-backed innovation fund
SITRA retained equity when it invested in Nokia. There is also the possibility
of keeping a share of the intellectual property rights, which are almost totally
given away in the current system.

Recognizing the state as a lead risk-taker and enabling it to reap a reward not
only would strengthen innovation, it also would spread the profits of growth
more fairly. This would ensure that education, health and transportation would
benefit from state investments in new ideas instead of just the small number of
people who see themselves as wealth creators while relying increasingly on the
courageous, entrepreneurial state.

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Mariana Mazzucato, author of "The Entrepreneurial State: Debunking Public
vs. Private Sector Myths," is an economist and professor of science and
technology policy at the University of Sussex, England. She wrote this for
Slate. /

GRAPHIC: PHOTO ILLUSTRATION: Daniel Marsula/Post-Gazette: No Caption

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2013 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              408 of 438 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                           December 4, 2013 Wednesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

REUNION OF BIDEN, XI SUDDENLY BECOMES TENSE

BYLINE: Josh Lederman, Associated Press

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. A-4

LENGTH: 528 words


TOKYO -- In what was supposed to be a warm reunion, Vice President Joe Biden and
Chinese President Xi Jinping meet instead today in a climate fraught with
tension over an airspace dispute that has put Asia on edge.

On Tuesday, a day before seeing Mr. Xi, Mr. Biden stood in Japan and publicly
rebuked China for trying to enforce its will on its neighbors, escalating the
risk of a potentially dangerous accident.

Although Mr. Biden had hoped to focus on areas of cooperation as the U.S. seeks
an expanded Asia footprint, China's declaration of a new air defense zone above
disputed islands in the East China Sea has pitted the U.S. and China against
each other, creating a wide gulf that Mr. Biden will seek to bridge during his
two-day trip to Beijing.

Despite Washington's preference not to get involved in a territorial spat,
concerns that China's action could portend a broader effort to assert its
dominance in the region has drawn in the U.S., putting Mr. Biden in the middle
as he jets from Japan to China to South Korea on a weeklong tour of Asia.

"We, the United States, are deeply concerned by the attempt to unilaterally
change the status quo in the East China Sea," Mr. Biden said after meeting in
Tokyo on Tuesday with Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe. "This action has
raised regional tensions and increased the risk of accidents and
miscalculation."

To that end, Mr. Biden said he would raise those concerns with China's leaders
"with great specificity" during his Beijing visit.

Although the U.S. has repeatedly said it rejects the zone, Mr. Biden has avoided
calling publicly for Beijing to retract it, wary of making demands that China is
likely to snub. Rather, the U.S. hopes that with enough pressure, China will
refrain from strictly enforcing the zone, essentially nullifying it for
practical purposes.

What's more, the U.S. wants to show that the diplomatic consequences for such
actions are severe enough that China will think twice in the future about
asserting its authority in such heavy-handed ways. Already, China has claimed it
has a sovereign right to establish a similar zone over the South China Sea,
where China and the Philippines are locked in another long-running territorial
dispute.

The East China Sea zone covers more than 600 miles from north to south above
international waters separating China, South Korea, Japan and Taiwan. China says
all aircraft entering the zone must notify Chinese authorities beforehand or
face unspecified defensive measures.

The new round of tensions with China comes as the U.S. is striving to increase
its own engagement, influence and military presence in Asia, in part as a hedge
against China's growing power. But the Obama administration has said it's
pursuing a new model for engagement with China, where the two countries can
cooperate economically while maintaining a healthy competition.

"There is a mistrust here by China of U.S. intentions," Sen. Ben Cardin, D-Md.,
who chairs the Senate's Asia panel, said in an interview. "China is not clear
why the U.S. is interested in Asia. They think it may be to affect China's
development in a negative way -- and nothing could be further from the truth."

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2013 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              421 of 438 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            December 29, 2013 Sunday
                                TWO STAR EDITION

THE MONEY PUZZLE;
SHAKING CREDIT LOOSE CAN BE HARD, AND RISKY, FOR THOSE LOOKING TO GROW SMALL
BUSINESSES

BYLINE: Len Boselovic, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. D-1

LENGTH: 1249 words


Six years after the onset of the Great Recession, a few things can be said about
the small business funding environment.

Small businesses believe it's harder to obtain credit because banks have
tightened lending standards.

Banks think they've loosened the purse strings and insist there's plenty of
money to lend.

Regardless of which perception is right, small businesses are reluctant to
borrow because the on-again, off-again recovery has raised doubts about whether
the credit will boost their bottom line.

"Those are probably all accurate," said Stephen J. Gurgovits Jr., managing
partner of F.N.B. Capital Partners.

The Marshall-based venture has been busy since September, when it opened its
doors as a small business investment company licensed by the U.S. Small Business
Administration. As a small business investment company, F.N.B. Capital can
obtain up to $2 in SBA funding for every $1 of the $175 million it raised. The
money is used to provide equity and debt funding to small businesses.

Mr. Gurgovits said F.N.B. Capital has closed four deals since launching, three
in health care-related businesses and one involving a bolts and fasteners
distributor.

"We see overall demand from small business as very strong," he said.

Several recent reports indicate that small businesses not only are starting to
look for money to grow their businesses, more of them may be able to get the
funds they are looking for.

Small business credit conditions improved significantly in the third quarter,
according to Experian/Moody's Analytics. The two research firms said credit
balances at companies with fewer than 100 employees expanded at the fastest pace
during the quarter in at least two years, while loan delinquency rates declined.

"This is an indication that the small business lending market is starting to
thaw after credit markets froze during the recession," Experian/Moody's wrote in
its third-quarter report.

The head of SBA lending for Huntington Bank, the nation's third-largest SBA
lender, agreed.

"We're seeing a lot more activity, and that's a good thing," said Craig Street.

It's been a long, slow road back for small businesses and the sources they rely
on for capital.

Banks burned by loose credit policies going into the recession have been timid
about lending coming out of it. The collapse of the real estate market hurt
business owners who used their homes as collateral for borrowing. Even if they
were in a position to borrow, the tepid recovery did not inspire confidence that
the extra funds would generate a significant enough increase in their sales to
justify the costs and risks of borrowing.

"While banks have gotten more restrictive, businesses have gotten more
cautious," said Steve Rennekamp, owner of Energy Swing Windows. The 15-person
Murrysville company manufactures, sells and installs replacement windows.

Fueling what some believe is an improving climate is an ample supply of capital
that so far has not been matched by demand, according to Peter Lieberman of
Schneider Downs.

"It's a very good time for a business owner to be looking for an investor," said
Mr. Lieberman, who heads the regional accounting firm's corporate finance unit.
"There's too much money chasing too few deals."

With a group as diverse as small business, it can be hard to reach a clear
consensus. The number of small business owners who expect it will be harder to
obtain credit in coming months is greater than those who believe it will be
easier, according to the National Federation of Independent Business. The small
business advocacy group said that sentiment has not budged much in the last few
years.

Holly Wade, a policy analyst for NFIB's foundation, said not even the Federal
Reserve's low interest rate policy has spurred borrowing. She said it's not
because of an unwillingness of banks to lend. "It's that there are far less
small businesses willing to borrow because they have not seen the increased
sales like we normally would in a recovery," Ms. Wade said. "There are fewer
takers than we would normally see for these loans."

In January 2012, NFIB reported that while banks believed credit conditions had
improved or not changed over the previous year, small business owners believed
conditions had tightened. Some still feel that way.

"It's much tighter scrutiny to get it and it's much tighter scrutiny to keep
it," Mr. Rennekamp said. "If you've got some slippage, [banks] don't listen to
many excuses. Whatever you tell them you're going to do, you better do."

Mr. Lieberman believes less creditworthy small businesses are having an easier
go of it than they were a few years ago, when terms and conditions of loans were
much more demanding than those provided to more creditworthy borrowers.

"The market has gotten frothy enough that the penalty is not as onerous as it
was, but it's still there," he said.

For borrowers, some things never change. Lenders and investors want business
owners who understand their business and have solid, disciplined accounting.

"I've never seen a really successful owner who didn't have a handle on their
cash cycle," said Mr. Street. "The more organized they are with their financial
reporting and accounting, the easier it is for us to work with them."

Denise de Simone, chairman of C-leveled, said entrepreneurs can arrange funding
through several local sources if they have a solid business plan. The Bloomfield
firm advises small businesses and startups on several issues, including funding.

"We're fortunate to be in a city where there are funds," Ms. de Simone said.

She said in addition to the traditional option of tapping family and friends,
there's Innovation Works, which provides advice and funding to early stage
technology companies. The venture has supplied over $52 million to 168 startups
since 1999, providing loans that can be converted into stock. Those startups
went on to raise another $1.4 billion.

Additional funding programs for smaller companies are available through two
other Innovation Works programs, AlphaLab and AlphaLab Gear, Ms. de Simone said.

Some small businesses are eagerly waiting for the Securities and Exchange
Commission to issue rules implementing 2012 legislation that was intended to
make it easier for them to raise money.

The Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act makes it easier for small businesses to
sell securities and frees more of them from reporting and disclosure rules
enforced by the SEC. The act also regulates crowd funding, where small business
will be able to use the Internet to raise up to $1 million annually. Investors
will be permitted to invest up to 10 percent of their income annually in crowd
funded companies and will receive certain information about the company raising
the money before they invest.

The SEC put its proposed rules for crowd funding out for public comment in
September and is accepting comments until Feb. 3. Some of those who have
submitted comments so far say the requirements are too cumbersome and costly,
while others suggest it will promote fraud, something state securities
regulators are worried about.

There's also a concern that by giving shares to so many small investors, a
successful crowd funded company may have trouble tapping additional sources of
capital it needs to grow.

Ms. de Simone expects crowd funding will be of limited use because most
entrepreneurs who have used it so far have raised only limited amounts of money.

"It is really good if you have a specific product, but I don't think it's
something you can build a business on," she said.

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: EIGHTH IN A SERIES / Next up: Jennifer Enciso, Darcy Dayton and Amy
Kaikis started their own law firm in a former Bloomfield hardware store. / Len
Boselovic: lboselovic@post-gazette.com or 412-263-1941. / {SERIES} THE
ENTREPRENEURS

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Larry Roberts/Post-Gazette : Stephen J. Gurgovits Jr., managing
partner of F.N.B. Capital Partners -- "We see overall demand from small business
as very strong."\ \ DRAWING: No Caption

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2013 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              438 of 438 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            December 13, 2013 Friday
                            PITTSBURGH PRESS EDITION

OLD-FASHIONED TRIMMING FOR TREE ISN'T AS GREEN AS YOU MIGHT THINK

BYLINE: Brian Palmer Special to The Washington Post

SECTION: LIFESTYLE; Pg. A-2

LENGTH: 753 words


Strands of lights are ubiquitous this time of year - tangled in leafless trees,
framing windows, sparkling their way to Santa's sled. They are a beaming
reminder of both the warm feelings of the holiday season and the environmental
costs of this time of hyper-consumption. In 2003, a paper published by the
Department of Energy estimated that holiday lights accounted for 2.22
terawatt-hours of energy use per year in the United States, which roughly equals
the energy consumed by 200,000 homes annually. With numbers like that, coal may
be the best thing to stuff in your neighbor's twinkling stocking. He may need
it.

Fortunately, Christmas lights have gradually switched over to LED in recent
years. They are up to 90 percent more efficient than old-fashioned incandescent
bulbs. So, should you trash your old holiday blinkers for their LED counterpart?

From an environmental perspective, it's rarely advisable to discard something
that works and replace it with an energy-efficient version, since the energy
required to produce your new bauble is often greater than the savings it offers
once you use it. It wouldn't make sense, for example, to trash a perfectly good
sedan to buy a new Toyota Prius: Producing a car takes a lot of energy, and
hybrids are only about twice as energy-efficient as conventional engines.

Holiday lights, however, are an exception to the rule. A new strand of LEDs will
last four or five decades, possibly the rest of your life, depending on how long
you leave them on (and how long you live). They're also less likely to start a
fire, which is important when you're wrapping them around a bundle of kindling
like a Christmas tree. If you're still harboring an old strand of incandescent
lights, the Earth begs you to ditch it and go for the LEDs. (If it's one of
those multicolored, flashing strands, your neighbors would probably second the
motion.)

Of course, there are more extreme options for electricity grinches. When I was a
child, my favorite tree adornment was a string of popcorn. Making such a thread
is a fun family activity, and you can sneak a few kernels for yourself in the
process.

Is it greener than a strand of lights, though? To make this comparison, we'll
have to make some assumptions.

It's hard to say how much embedded energy is in a strand of Christmas lights.
However, since the lights will last 40 or 50 years, that embedded energy comes
very close to zero on a yearly average. The only energy we have to attribute to
the lights is the electricity, which, for a strand of larger LEDs, is 2.5 watts.
If you run them four hours per day for 30 days, that means 0.3 kilowatt-hours
over the course of a season. According to EPA conversion data, generating that
much electricity would emit 0.44 pounds of greenhouse gas equivalents. (A carbon
dioxide equivalent is all the greenhouse gases emitted, expressed in terms of
the global warming potential of carbon dioxide.)

Now for the popcorn. There's very little popcorn-specific environmental data,
but the variety of corn commonly grown for popping is closely related to the
corn used in cornmeal. So if we just use generic corn data, our estimates will
be close enough.

According to researchers at the University of Massachusetts, cultivating an acre
of corn generates approximately 1,700 pounds of greenhouse gas emissions. The
average farm produces 155 bushels of corn per acre. Since a bushel of shelled
corn weighs approximately 56 pounds, there are around 0.2 pounds of greenhouse
gas equivalents embedded in a pound of corn by the time it leaves the farm gate.
For most foods, transporting, processing and cooking account for slightly more
than the amount of greenhouse gas emitted during cultivation and harvest. So
let's say a pound of popcorn - which is probably enough to trim a medium-size
tree - would result in the production of just under a half-pound of carbon
dioxide equivalents.

In other words, from an environmental perspective, there's very little
difference between trimming your tree with a pound of popcorn and using a strand
of LED lights. That may seem surprising, since natural, farm-raised popcorn just
feels greener than manufactured lights.

But details make a difference. Old-fashioned incandescent lights would be far,
far worse for the environment: They use 10 times as much electricity as LEDs and
don't last nearly as long.

You'll also need to store your LEDs properly and turn them off when no one will
see them anyway.

Of course, if you have a few extra lights, you can't eat the leftovers.

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Christmas Lights Etc: No Caption\

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2013 P.G. Publishing Co.
