
                               5 of 297 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                           September 23, 2016 Friday
                                 SOONER EDITION

FUN WITH FROGS HAS A SERIOUS PURPOSE;
MIDDLE SCHOOL STUDENTS HELP TO CONDUCT UNIVERSITY RESEARCH

BYLINE: David Templeton   Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. LX-1

LENGTH: 650 words


Keeping students focused on the joy - and for many, the task - of learning
science can be a formidable challenge for teachers.

That's where the northern leopard frog and the University of Pittsburgh hopped
into action last week at Pleasant Hills Middle School in the West Jefferson
Hills School District. Seventh-graders, under the tutelage of life sciences
teacher Jennifer Kassimer, participated in a Pitt research project focused on
climate change.

Corinne Richards-Zawacki, a Pitt professor of biology, initiated a project in
which students mold agar, a seaweed-based gelatinous material, into
golf-ball-sized frog figures.

The agar contains sensors, called iButtons, that measure temperatures while the
weight of the frog indicates the moisture levels of the area where the frog is
placed.

Funded through a National Science Foundation grant, the study is working to
determine the impact of climate change on a fungal infection called
chytridiomycosis, which can be fatal to coldblooded amphibians, including
leopard frogs.

"This project grew out of a desire to integrate the research we're doing with
climate-change education for middle and high-school students," said Ms.
Richards-Zawacki, who holds a doctorate in ecology and evolutionary biology.
"The fungus has been found on every continent where amphibians are found. But in
our part of North America, you find the pathogen but don't see amphibian
populations crashing from the disease. In Australia, Central America and in the
Sierra Nevadas, there have been massive die-offs and even extinctions."

As it turns out, warmer weather from climate change might hinder the fungus
while adversely affecting the leopard frog's immune system, she said.

So its impact on the frog in this region remains uncertain.

"We teach about [climate-change] indicator species, and amphibians are
kid-friendly," Ms. Kassimer said. "Kids think they are cute, as opposed to
spiders. It draws them in."

Her students, she said, are working harder on this project because Pitt is
relying on the data they collect.

"I think it's truly opening up new doors to get people familiar with climate
change that is affecting our ecosystem," she said. "We just don't have a good
way of teaching it to students. This will be a huge, lasting project that can
take different routes and involve different species. How Dr. Richards-Zawacki is
doing it is very meaningful."Proof perhaps is Bella Bertini, 12, who said she
was eager to find out what data Pitt gets from her frog. "Usually we use
textbooks," she said, "but science goes quickly.because you always have hands-on
projects."

Students recorded the weight and length of their agar frogs and then headed
outdoors during class to find a place on the middle-school campus - be it sunny,
shady or a mix of both - to place their frogs. They were scheduled to retrieve
the frogs the next day so Pitt could download data from the sensors.

"Booyah, I found the best spot ever," announced Nick Bryan, 12, as he navigated
a weed-filled bank overlooking the ballfield backstop. "It's right at the root
of a tree. It's in the shade, but my frog can climb the tree if there's a
predator."

Frog figures climbing trees? Let's say Nick's imagination was running free.

Keith Meade, 12, found his own well-shaded clump of weeds where he nested his
frog. "It won't take water from the frog," he said. "The grass will attract
water, and the frog will be hydrated."

Tony Dean, 13, liked the project because students could go outside instead of,
ironically, "sit in the classroom to learn about nature."

As a final task, they were told to make a drawing on their data sheets of the
spot they'd chosen for their frog. That produced a ribbing for Anthony
Terminato, 12.

"That's a turtle, not a frog," Tony scolded Anthony. "Why'd you draw a turtle?"

Anthony, laughing, lowered his head and confessed: "I can't draw a frog."

David Templeton: dtempleton@post-gazette.com

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Darrell Sapp: The molded frogs are embedded with sensors to help
students contribute to research on climate change.
PHOTO: Darrell Sapp: Darrell Sapp/Post-Gazette photos Madison Keck displays the
"frog" she made from a mold and embedded with a sensor. The class took the frog
figures outside and placed them around Pleasant Hills Middle School to measure
temperature and moisture.
PHOTO: Darrell Sapp: Darrell Sapp/Post-Gazette / Pleasant Hills- 09/14/2016 -
for LocalXTRA- reporter Dave Templeton- Pleasant Hills Middle School-- Jennifer
Kassimer passes out the "frogs" , her class made from molds and embeded them
with sensors. The class took the "frogs" out and placed them in different
settings, outside of Pleasant Hills Middle School. digital image - dsc_7890 slug
- 20160914dsFROGS0916LocalXTRA02.jpg
PHOTO: Darrell Sapp: Darrell Sapp/Post-Gazette / Pleasant Hills- 09/14/2016 -
for LocalXTRA- reporter Dave Templeton- Pleasant Hills Middle School-- Thandar
(CQ) Lin makes a sketch of the location of her "frog" , she made from molds and
embeded it with a sensor. The class took the "frogs" out and placed them in
different settings, outside of Pleasant Hills Middle School. digital image -
dsc_7910 slug - 20160914dsFROGS0916LocalXTRA04.jpg

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 P.G. Publishing Co.


                               9 of 297 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            December 25, 2016 Sunday
                                TWO STAR EDITION

SKEPTICISM BRAVERY

BYLINE: BURTON ROBERTS, Squirrel Hill

SECTION: EDITORIAL; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR; Pg. D-2

LENGTH: 192 words


It is offensive and regrettable that Jonathan Zimmerman lumps climate skeptics
in with Holocaust deniers ("Facts, Lies and Climate Change," Dec. 18 Forum).
Billions of dollars of funding for public and private projects is predicated on
the scientific consensus that the climate is changing and it is caused by human
behavior. The cost to a climate scientist whose research conclusions do not
conform to these financial interests can be very high, so it's no wonder that 97
percent of them agree.

Professor Roger Pielke Jr., a climate researcher at the University of Colorado,
earned the label of "climate-change denier" when he published research
indicating no overall increasing trend in hurricanes, floods, tornadoes or
droughts in the U.S. or globally due to climate change. Mr. Pielke was driven
from his profession after his research challenged a 2007 report from the
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, which included a graph showing rising
disaster costs due to climate change, a graph which, it was later revealed, was
based on invented and inaccurate information ("My Unhappy Life as a Climate
Heretic," The Wall Street Journal, Dec. 2).

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              15 of 297 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                          November 16, 2016 Wednesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

CLIMATE CHANGE COST

BYLINE: RUSSELL ZERBO

SECTION: EDITORIAL; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR; Pg. A-8

LENGTH: 235 words


Reading about the sudden optimism for coal in Pennsylvania ("Trump Presidency
Spells Optimism for Coal in Pa.," Nov. 10) and President-elect Donald Trump's
archive of tweets (doubling as policy proposals) claiming climate change is a
hoax, I am reminded of Mr. Trump's climate-change-driven infrastructure project
in Doonbeg, Ireland.

In the spring, he petitioned local officials to allow him to build a seawall to
protect his newly purchased golf course from "sea level rise," "excessive
erosion" and "increased Atlantic storminess." When it affects his money, Mr.
Trump believes in climate change!

He has left us in a position where it is difficult to find specific directives
within his screeds of hate or his pandering promises to reignite industry. His
actual business ventures provide a clear picture of his interests.

He operates a modeling agency, a fragrance company, a private jet service and a
TV production company in addition to his real estate and hotel holdings. No
coal, no gas, no manufacturing.

I trust that those who voted for him will hold Mr. Trump to his job creation
goals. Those who are concerned about climate change beyond its threat to luxury
golf courses will not allow the president-elect to endanger public health by
increasing power plant pollution. If we do not continue to limit greenhouse gas
pollution, it will cost us.

RUSSELL ZERBO

Advocacy Coordinator

Clean Air Council

Philadelphia

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              20 of 297 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            February 1, 2016 Monday
                                 SOONER EDITION

3 DEMOCRATS CHALLENGING SEN. TOOMEY OFFER SIMILAR VIEWS IN POLITE FIRST DEBATE

BYLINE: Chris Potter, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. B-1

LENGTH: 643 words


The three Democrats hoping to challenge Republican U.S. Sen. Pat Toomey this
fall introduced themselves to Pittsburgh voters Sunday afternoon . and the
introductions were almost unfailingly polite.

Braddock Mayor John Fetterman, Katie McGinty, a former gubernatorial chief of
staff; and former U.S. Rep. Joe Sestak appeared at a candidates' forum before
several hundred people at Carnegie Mellon University. It was the first time the
candidates have publicly debated together, though there were few policy
differences to help tell them apart.

Speaking at an event hosted by Democratic groups from the city's liberal East
End, all three challengers had sounded warnings about income inequality and
climate change, while insisting the nation had a moral obligation to accept
Syrian refugees.

They also had kind words for the health care overhauls collectively called
"Obamacare." Ms. McGinty called it "something that Democrats have to be proud
of." Mr. Sestak and Mr. Fetterman both said they envisioned more sweeping
changes, though Mr. Fetterman allowed that any changes would have to be an
"evolution, not an overnight revolution."

The candidates largely avoided attacking each other, preferring instead to
highlight their own backgrounds, while repeating points they've made on the
campaign trail.

Mr. Fetterman, who at 6 feet, 8 inches tall struggled with the height of his
microphone, mocked his stature while describing his work as mayor of
long-suffering Braddock.

"No one up here on this stage has championed the idea that black lives matter
more than I do," he said, touting a five-year pause on homicides during his
tenure as mayor.

Mr. Sestak pointed to his success at serving two terms in a largely Republican
congressional district, as well as his work crafting bipartisan legislation on
autism and elder abuse. A retired admiral, he also drew on his military
background for answers on everything from climate change to the Middle East,
where he said military solutions should be "on the back of the table, not the
front of the table."

Ms. McGinty, the lone female in the race, touted her work as an environmental
official at the state and federal level, while repeatedly highlighting concerns
about the gender gap in pay. And she noted that Congress' "last budget impasse
was broken when the women got together .... and I would join that group."

She also took the sharpest jabs at Mr. Toomey, for topics including his vote
against a bill that would prevent those on a "no-fly" terrorism watch list from
obtaining firearms. Mr. Toomey did oppose a Democrat-proposed measure to that
effect, citing concerns about how the list was compiled. He instead supported a
Republican alternative that supporters said offered more recourse to those
wrongly listed.

For its part, the Toomey campaign flagged the Democrats' health care remarks in
a post-debate statement, saying their position on Obamacare proved they were
"out of touch with hard-working families."

Those attending the debate, however, seemed comfortable with all three
candidates, though some said the event didn't make choosing between them any
easier.

Zhe Zhang, a doctoral student at CMU, said he was glad to hear discussion of
issues such as climate change and income inequality. But "it's hard to judge
[between the candidates] because the substance wasn't being highlighted."

Mr. Fetterman may have gained the most from the event, thanks to the exposure it
brought. He was the only Democrat on stage who has never run for statewide
office. Mr. Sestak narrowly lost to Mr. Toomey in 2010, while Ms. McGinty ran
for governor in 2014, losing to Tom Wolf in the primary.

Squirrel Hill resident Marcia Bandes said that while she was leaning toward Mr.
Sestak, "John Fetterman came across much more solid than I'd anticipated." In
any case, she added, any of the candidates "would be better than Pat Toomey."

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Chris Potter: cpotter@post-gazette.com

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Larry Roberts/Post-Gazette: Braddock Mayor John Fetterman, left,
and Katie McGinty listen to Joe Sestak speak to attendees at a Democratic Party
forum Sunday at Carnegie Mellon University.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              32 of 297 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                           October 19, 2016 Wednesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

THE NEXT DEBATE MUST ADDRESS CLIMATE CHANGE

BYLINE: ROD ELDER

SECTION: EDITORIAL; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR; Pg. A-8

LENGTH: 242 words


The two presidential debates and the vice-presidential debate have been
seriously flawed in many ways and have had a minimal amount of debate about any
real issues of substance.

However, there is one crucially important issue that has not even been raised by
the moderators. That is the question about what the candidates plan to do to
deal with the changing climate. They need to be asked: "What is your plan to
deal with climate change and how do you plan to convert to green energy?" This
is a question that needs to be answered effectively to assure a reasonable
future for our country and for our planet.

It is hard to believe that this subject has not been raised. Hurricane Matthew
was ravaging the East Coast as the last debate was happening. Hurricanes have
always happened, but an additional foot of sea level combined with unprecedented
ocean heat "juiced" Matthew to record-setting levels of flooding. Additionally
there have been four "thousand-year" extreme flooding events (Louisiana,
Maryland, West Virginia and Houston) in just the past six months.

It would be very interesting to know if either candidate is willing to put a fee
on carbon emissions, as Canada just has and as the Citizens Climate Lobby
advocates. This would be the best way to meet the U.S. commitment to the
recently approved Paris climate agreement by creating incentives for individuals
and corporations to find solutions for reducing greenhouse gases.

ROD ELDER

South Park

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              38 of 297 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            August 3, 2016 Wednesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

MELLON GRANT WILL SUPPORT RESEARCH AT NATURE RESERVE

BYLINE: David Templeton, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. B-1

LENGTH: 576 words


Last summer, the Powdermill Nature Reserve in Westmoreland County hired college
students to identify and measure vegetation in a study plot, with the goal of
having a complete biological profile of a representative patch of Appalachia.

Such a detailed analysis of trees and other foliage, along with their size and
location, not only would add to the understanding of local environment but also
serve as a baseline for future analyses of environmental adaptation to the
changing climate.

But as it turns out, the results weren't what Powdermill officials had hoped.

"College students working for three months measured 1 percent of the
experimental area totaling 30 acres, and 1 percent after three months was not
good enough," Powdermill director John Wenzel said.

And that's where a $700,000 grant from the Richard King Mellon Foundation rides
to the rescue.

The grant to the Carnegie Museum of Natural History, which operates Powdermill,
near Rector, will support two years of research projects and provide
technological tools necessary to profile the environment and study migratory
birds, among various other projects, while bolstering Powdermill's reputation as
the region's premier ecological research center.

"This grant will help our center become a nationally important biological field
station that chronicles the Appalachian ecosystem using new technology and
programs to better understand terrestrial and aquatic species," stated Mr.
Wenzel, who holds a Ph.D. in entomology.

Specifically, the reserve can advance its use of drones - rather than relying on
manual labor - to complete the biological profiles based on thousands of aerial
photos stitched together by computer to provide a 3D image of the entire
landscape of the study areas that can be viewed from any angle.

Powdermill's most notable long-term project is the documentation of migratory
birds in the region - more than 600,000 birds to date - that also will benefit
from the grant money. Mr. Wenzel said birds are being fitted with
radio-frequency nanotags in a process known as nanotag radio telemetry. The tiny
radio beacons track bird migration patterns as they fly by special sensory
towers. Their whereabouts are recorded in a central database, allowing
scientists to track them from South America to Canada without recapturing them.

Mr. Wenzel said the continuing study shows some species arriving up to two weeks
earlier than their traditional arrival time, because of climate changes, with
others staying later before migrating south. American goldfinches, for example,
appear to be mating later in the season. Climate change has been beneficial for
some species and detrimental for others, he said.

Powdermill also will use grant money to study the biodiversity and habitat of
salamanders, pollinators including bees and forest trees, along with the severe
damage to the forest understory including impacts on wildflowers resulting from
the overpopulation of whitetail deer.

Eric Dorfman, director of the Carnegie Museum of Natural History, expressed
gratitude for the grant, which he said will improve the entire Powdermill
operation "with its primary focus on the research programs that are its core
strength and on which the education and outreach programs depend for their
substance."

"The goal of the project is to take Powdermill the next leap forward as the
premier research and education center for studies of the northern Appalachian
ecosystem and the human role in it," he said.

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: David Templeton: dtempleton@post-gazette.com or 412-263-1578.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              52 of 297 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                           February 27, 2016 Saturday
                                 SOONER EDITION

OBAMA FIDDLES WHILE TROUBLE SPOTS BURN

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A-6

LENGTH: 806 words


WASHINGTON

State of the world, Year Eight of Barack Obama:

(1) In the South China Sea, on a speck of land of disputed sovereignty far from
its borders, China has just installed anti-aircraft batteries and stationed
fighter jets. This after China landed planes on an artificial island it created
on another disputed island chain (the Spratlys, claimed by the Philippines,
Malaysia, Taiwan and Vietnam). These facilities now function as forward bases
for Beijing to challenge seven decades of American naval dominance of the
Pacific Rim.

"China is clearly militarizing the South China Sea," the commander of the U.S.
Pacific Command told Congress on Tuesday. Its goal? "Hegemony in East Asia."

(2) Syria. Russian intervention has turned the tide of war. Having rescued the
Bashar Assad regime from collapse, relentless Russian bombing is destroying the
rebel stronghold of Aleppo, Syria's largest city, creating a massive new wave of
refugees and demonstrating to the entire Middle East what a Great Power can
achieve when it acts seriously.

The U.S. response? Repeated pathetic attempts by Secretary of State John Kerry
to propitiate Russia (and its ally, Iran) in one collapsed peace conference
after another. On Sunday, he stepped out to announce yet another "provisional
agreement in principle" on "a cessation of hostilities" that the CIA director,
the defense secretary and the chairman of the Joint Chiefs deem little more than
a ruse.

(3) Ukraine. Having swallowed Crimea so thoroughly that no one even talks about
it anymore, Russia continues to trample with impunity on the Minsk cease-fire
agreements. Vladimir Putin is now again stirring the pot, intensifying the
fighting, advancing his remorseless campaign to fracture and subordinate the
Ukrainian state. Meanwhile, Mr. Obama still refuses to send the Ukrainians even
defensive weapons.

(4) Iran. Last Thursday, Iran received its first shipment of S-300 anti-aircraft
batteries from Russia, a major advance in developing immunity to any attack on
its nuclear facilities. And it is negotiating an $8 billion arms deal with
Russia that includes sophisticated combat aircraft. Like its ballistic missile
tests, this conventional weapons shopping spree is a blatant violation of U.N.
Security Council prohibitions. It was also a predictable - and predicted -
consequence of the Iran nuclear deal that granted Iran $100 billion and
normalized its relations with the world.

The U.S. response? Words.

Unlike gravitational waves, today's strategic situation is not hard to discern.
Three major have-not powers are seeking to overturn the post-Cold War status
quo: Russia in Eastern Europe, China in East Asia, Iran in the Middle East. All
are on the march.

To say nothing of the Islamic State, now extending its reach from Afghanistan to
West Africa. The international order built over decades by the United States is
crumbling.

In the face of which, what does Mr. Obama do? Go to Cuba.

Yes, Cuba. A supreme strategic irrelevance so dear to Mr. Obama's
anti-anti-communist heart.

Is he at least going to celebrate progress in human rights and democracy - which
Mr. Obama established last year as a precondition for any presidential visit? Of
course not. When has Mr. Obama ever held to a red line? Indeed, since Mr. Obama
began his "historic" normalization with Cuba, the repression has gotten worse.
Last month, the regime arrested 1,414 political dissidents, the second-most ever
recorded.

No matter. Amid global disarray and American decline, Mr. Obama sticks to his
cherished concerns: Cuba, Guantanamo (about which he gave a rare televised
address this week) and, of course, climate change.

Mr. Obama could not bestir himself to go to Paris in response to the various
jihadi atrocities - sending Mr. Kerry instead "to share a big hug with Paris"
(as Mr. Kerry explained) with James Taylor singing "You've Got a Friend" - but
he did make an ostentatious three-day visit there for climate change.

So why not go to Havana? Sure, the barbarians are at the gates and pushing hard
knowing they will enjoy but 11 more months of minimal American resistance. But
our passive president genuinely believes that such advances don't really matter
- that these disruptors are so on the wrong side of history, that their reaches
for territory, power, victory are so 20th century.

Of course, it mattered greatly to the quarter-million slaughtered in Syria and
the millions more exiled. It all feels quite real to a dissolving Europe, an
expanding China, a rising Iran, a metastasizing jihadism.

Not to the visionary Mr. Obama, however. He sees far beyond such ephemera. He
knows what really matters: climate change, Gitmo and Cuba.

With time running out, he wants these to be his legacy. Indeed, they will be.

Charles Krauthammer is a syndicated columnist for The Washington Post
(letters@charleskrauthammer.com).

LOAD-DATE: February 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              62 of 297 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            November 8, 2016 Tuesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

BRITISH PM'S INDIAN OUTREACH FACES BLOCKAGE

BYLINE: Compiled from news services

SECTION: WORLD; WORLD BRIEFS; Pg. A-5

LENGTH: 516 words


U.K. Prime Minister Theresa May clashed with her Indian counterpart Narendra
Modi over migration rules and failed to arrange a meeting with senior figures at
Tata Group in a double blow to her three-day visit to India.

Mr. Modi called on Britain Monday to support more Indian students who want to
enroll at universities in the U.K., as he appeared alongside Ms. May at a
technology summit in New Delhi.

"Education is vital for our students and will define our engagement in a shared
future," he said.

The dispute over migration could be a sign of the difficulties ahead for Ms. May
as she seeks to pave the way for deals with countries outside the EU after
leaving the bloc.

Separately, Ms. May told reporters she was unable to arrange a meeting with
senior figures at Tata, whose 4,000 workers at a steel plant in Port Talbot,
south Wales, face an uncertain future. The company announced a plan to sell all
or part of its British business in March.

Ms. May's trip offers a chance to recover momentum after a double setback at
home last week.

Diplomat's Antarctica trip

As the first election results roll in, and the rest of the world sits glued to
screens, U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry will be in the air, en route to
Antarctica.

But before you jump to any conclusions, his spokesman wants to assure you - it
is the weather that necessitates the timing. It has nothing to do with the
election.

Antarctica's summer is exceedingly brief and provides the only window for
travel. The visit will also give Mr. Kerry a chance to get a firsthand look at
climate change's intensifying effects on the southernmost continent before
attending a major climate conference in Morocco later this month.

Climate negotiators started work Monday on implementing the Paris Agreement on
global warming amid uncertainty over how the U.S. election will impact the
landmark deal as temperatures and greenhouse gases soar to new heights.

Drug running trial

NEW YORK - One year ago, U.S. agents arrested two nephews of Venezuelan
President Nicolas Maduro in a clandestine operation aimed at blocking millions
of dollars of cocaine from flowing into the U.S.

On Monday, a Manhattan courtroom began to examine the competing motives of
Efrain Antonio Campo Flores, 30, and Franqui Francisco Flores de Freitas, 31.
They stand accused of conspiring to traffic 800 kilograms of Colombian cocaine
through Honduras in one of several intersecting U.S. probes into Venezuela and
its state-owned oil company.

Couple seized by pirates

BERLIN - A German yachting website reported Monday that a German sailing couple,
who were seized and held for ransom by Somali Pirates in 2008 for 52 days,
appeared to have been abducted again - this time while cruising a dangerous area
of the Philippines, by militants of Abu Sayyaf, an insurgent group known for
kidnapping and ransoming foreigners. The woman was said to have been killed.

The couple, Jürgen Kantner, 70, and his partner, Sabine Merz, have been sailing
the oceans for many years aboard their 30-footer, the Rockall. They were
reportedly released in 2008 after a six-figure ransom had been paid.

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              63 of 297 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            December 4, 2016 Sunday
                                TWO STAR EDITION

WHY YOUR YARD DEBRIS IS COMPOST GOLD FOR THE CITY

BYLINE: Brian O'Neill

SECTION: LIFESTYLE; Pg. A-2

LENGTH: 776 words


I raked and bagged enough leaves to leave a hundred pounds or more of a crunchy
contribution in the alley, one among 253 tons the city picked up in its annual
autumn yard debris run.

The pickup was four Saturdays ago. Obviously, thousands of city residents
appreciate and use this service each May and November, but I've long wondered
about the environmental tradeoff.

Pennsylvania requires the city to send dozens of big, fossil fuel-burning trucks
out twice a year to pick up sticks and leaves. How much debris must a big truck
pluck for a big truck to stay green?

Neither the city nor the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection had
a ready answer. Debris from the biannual collections and from the city's three
dropoff centers resulted in more than 338 tons of compost, mulch and wood chips
for Pittsburgh's parks, tree plantings and community gardens last year, but what
about the diesel fuel it took to move all that around?

I emailed the data to Jeffrey Morris of the Sound Resource Management Group, an
avowed pollution shrinker from Olympia, Wash.

"It's a no-brainer that the climate benefits of the collection of yard debris
for composting outweigh the climate impact of the trucks," he said.

How did he figure?

Because the compost can be used instead of petrochemical fertilizers, he said,
every ton of yard debris will prevent climate-changing carbon emissions equal to
a half-ton of carbon dioxide equivalents. Like most recycling, it's what doesn't
need to be made that makes the most difference. Energy is expended just to make
synthetic fertilizer, and its later use can be a problem for the Earth, too.

If a garbage truck gets even three miles to the gallon, he said, the break-even
mileage for a ton of debris would be 120 miles. These trucks picked up an
average of five tons apiece, according to the city, so they'd have to drive 600
miles with that load before there was an environmental loss. These trucks don't
leave the city and drove less than 150 miles apiece on the debris day, Kyle
Winkler, the city's recycling supervisor, said.

It's a clear win for the planet, and the city has the added incentive of earning
$328,000 in state performance grants last year for their overall waste reduction
the year before. It expects at least $250,000 this year and perhaps more.

Loading up a column with numbers is even less advisable than mixing trash with
recyclables, but Mr. Morris's math did answer a question I've had every January
that I've made a five-mile round trip to the West End dropoff center with a
Christmas tree tied to the roof.

If every gallon of gasoline produces 22 pounds of carbon dioxide, and my ancient
station wagon burns around a quarter-gallon of gas - say six pounds of CO2 - on
that trip, how big does the Christmas tree have to be to make that errand a
green one?

The tree could weigh only 12 pounds and it would be a plus, according to Mr.
Morris' math. Charlie Brown could drive his tree over at that rate.

The more common, every-other-week task of leaving recyclables at the curb is
even easier to justify. Aluminum requires 96 percent less energy to make from
recycled cans than it does from bauxite, Mr. Morris said, and the same figures
for recycled glass, newsprint and plastic bottles range from 21 to 76 percent
less energy.

Perhaps more to the point from a taxpayer's point of view, it's cheaper for the
city to pick up and drop loads at the recycling plant in Hazelwood than it would
be to drive it to the landfills in Imperial or Monroeville. Apart from the fuel
savings, the ping-ponging cost of recycling has stayed well below the landfill
fees that average around $25 a ton. In October, the cost of recycling was about
a tenth of that, and the city's estimated savings from not landfilling
everything is more than $656,000 since 2014.

Twenty years ago, after the market for recyclables crashed, the New Jersey
company that held the city's contract got caught stealthily trucking all our
dutifully blue-bagged empties and paper to a Washington County landfill. A quick
change of contracts cost the city a million bucks, but recycling survived.

Since then, one of America's chief exports to China has been recyclables. That
country instituted "Operation Green Fence" about four years ago to curtail the
amount food, trash and contaminants that had been coming over with the
recyclables. That has increased handlers' sorting costs here.

In an industry as jumbled as what's in the blue bags, it's oddly comforting that
the end product of my leaves may wind up merely feeding a tree in the park at
the end of my block. I should be able to provide it dessert when the city makes
its next debris dash in May.

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Brian O'Neill: boneill@post-gazette.com or 412-263-1947 or on Twitter
@brotheroneill

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              82 of 297 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                           December 15, 2016 Thursday
                                 SOONER EDITION

EARTH NOT IN PERIL

BYLINE: MARTIN HERTZBERG

SECTION: EDITORIAL; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR; Pg. A-8

LENGTH: 149 words


Allison Mathis ("The Earth Mandate," Dec. 14 letters) apparently "believes" in
climate change but never defines it. As between the greedy fossil fuel industry
that she cites and the environmental propagandists, there is not much worth
choosing. She argues, "This is not a political issue; this is a human issue." In
reality, it is neither: It is a scientific one.

There is nothing in the totality of the data that supports the supposition that
atmospheric carbon dioxide is a driver of climate, or that human emission
controls atmospheric CO2, or that the Earth is in peril.

Go to climate4you.com for the real data, which show that nothing unusual is
happening: just the normal variability. Climate is changing all the time, and we
humans have nothing to do with it. A thorough analysis can be found in my recent
paper published in the British journal Energy & Environment.

MARTIN HERTZBERG

Mt. Lebanon

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: The writer has a Ph.D. in physical chemistry.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              84 of 297 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                               May 2, 2016 Monday
                                 SOONER EDITION

LAST GASPS OF DENIAL

BYLINE: JIM LeJEUNE, McCandless

SECTION: EDITORIAL; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR; Pg. A-14

LENGTH: 330 words


George F. Will, as that rarest of species in the field of journalism, the
intellectual conservative, is a writer to whom, like Arthur Miller's Willy
Loman, "attention must be paid."

Unfortunately, in his column "Climate Consensus Du Jour" (April 25), after
nattering on a bit about the perils of progressivism and offering us the
Fox-approved boilerplate narrative on anthropocentric climate change, arrives
finally at his thematic point: Suppression of the other side of the climate
science argument serves neither science nor the public good.

I say "unfortunately" because in truth there no longer is "another side" to
defend. Ten years ago - or even five - the conservative counterargument might
have held at least some legitimacy, but climatology, buoyed by a continual
stream of fact-based evidence, has since moved on, into the realm of "settled
science." At this point, denialism is mere perversity. (As a side note, in doing
recent research for a published paper, I was able to locate only four - out of
2,000-plus climatologists - who didn't entirely accept the current consensus.
This updating, by the way, should put to bed the oft-cited notion that "only" 97
percent of climatologists believe, etc.).

Rather than as a defense of journalistic freedom, I'd suggest that Mr. Will's
column is analogous to the last bleatings of the "tobacco is harmless" camp in
the '70s and '80s. Would he deem it acceptable for the tobacco industry to be
allotted equal time and media access to offer "its side of the story"? I should
think - and hope -he would be among the first to man the barricades in
denouncing free and open advocacy of tobacco use as a benign activity.
Depressingly, his column seems to suggest the primacy of ideology over
intellect.

The Los Angeles Times, most notably, has taken the bold and principled stance
that it will no longer publish disinformation about climate science. After all,
isn't a proper representation of reality a major newspaper's primary mandate?

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              107 of 297 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                          September 29, 2016 Thursday
                                 SOONER EDITION

BYLINE: From staff and wire reports

SECTION: BUSINESS; BUSINESS BRIEFS; Pg. D-1

LENGTH: 628 words


Former Heinz Research Building acquired for development

A Brooklyn developer has acquired the former Heinz Research Building on the
North Side, with plans to convert it and two other buildings into 125
apartments. Crow Hill Development stated it intends to restore the historic
public lobbies of the building at 1075 Progress St. and the two other buildings
at the location. The three buildings were built over a period of 50 years by
Heinz family members. The first, the administration building, was erected in
1907 by company founder H.J. Heinz. The research building was the last to be
built, in 1958 by H.J. Heinz II.

State tax climate improves

Pennsylvania moved up four spots in the Tax Foundation's annual ranking of state
tax climates to No. 24. The Washington, D.C., research group gave the state low
marks for its corporate tax rate, where it ranked 44th among states, and for its
unemployment insurance tax, where it ranked 45th. The state ranked 17th for its
individual income tax rate. Overall, Pennsylvania placed 28th last year and 34th
in 2014. Wyoming had the best tax climate, followed by South Dakota and Alaska.

Garfield youth program awarded $1.1 million in federal money

The Garfield Jubilee Association has received nearly $1.1 million from the U.S.
Department of Labor for its YouthBuild Program, which serves 70 youth to
complete high school or state equivalency degree programs. The DOL awarded $80.3
million in grants to provide at-risk youth in 35 states a chance to further
their education.

Tie-up of world's biggest beer makers clears final hurdle

A deal worth over $100 billion to combine the world's two biggest beer companies
cleared its last major hurdle Wednesday when the shareholders of SABMiller
approved the takeover by Budweiser maker Anheuser-Busch InBev. SABMiller
shareholders approved the 79 billion pound ($103 billion) deal despite
opposition from some investors who saw their share of the payout shrink when the
pound plunged following Britain's vote to the leave the European Union. AB InBev
shareholders also backed the transaction. Regulators around the world have
already approved the deal. The takeover is expected to be formally completed on
Oct. 10, AB InBev said.

Ford recalls Focus hatchbacks for latch release problem

Ford is recalling about 74,000 Focus hatchback cars in the U.S. and Canada
because the hatches can be unlatched too easily while the cars are moving. The
recall covers certain Focus hatchback and RS vehicles from the 2013 through 2017
model years. The company says the hatch can be unlocked and unlatched by pushing
a single button when the cars are traveling under 4 mph.

Pier 1 Imports moves to discourage a takeover

A week after a New York hedge fund signaled plans to pressure the struggling
retailer for changes, Pier 1 Imports has adopted a "poison pill" plan designed
to discourage a takeover. The shareholder rights plan gives current shareholders
the right to buy shares of junior preferred stock with voting privileges if any
person or group acquires 10 percent of the company's common stock. The maneuver
would make a takeover of the retailer more costly. Last week, Alden Global
Capital revealed in a Securities and Exchange Commission filing that it had
acquired a 9.5 percent stake in the Fort Worth-based company.

Sandwich chain Cosi files for Chapter 11 bankruptcy

Cosi, the restaurant chain known for its flatbread sandwiches, says it filed for
Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection and is seeking to sell itself to its lenders.
The company has closed 29 stores, but says the remaining 76 Cosi restaurants
will remain open as it goes through the bankruptcy process. In court documents,
Boston-based Cosi Inc. says it has between $10 million and $50 million in assets
and the same amounts in debt.

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ford announced Wednesday the company is recalling about 74,000
Focus hatchback cars with manual transmissions in the U.S. and Canada.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              116 of 297 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            February 28, 2016 Sunday
                                TWO STAR EDITION

A GREEN APPROACH TO SEWER OVERFLOW IS BEST FOR ALL

BYLINE: \ \ BRENDA LYNN SMITH, Executive Director, Nine Mile Run Watershed
Association, Wilkinsburg

SECTION: EDITORIAL; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR; Pg. D-2

LENGTH: 271 words


As a founding member of the Clean Rivers Campaign, the Nine Mile Run Watershed
Association has been working for more than five years to move our region toward
a more sustainable and equitable approach to solving our serious sewer overflow
problem. Since the sustainable approach is clearly a better deal for ratepayers
and will achieve the same environmental results, simply staged differently, it
is disappointing to see the Post-Gazette characterize this as an attempt to
delay action ("No Delay: Fix the Sewage Overflow Problem - On Time," Feb. 21
editorial).

In fact, we are very pleased that the region's political leadership and our
sewer authority are now united in requesting that the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency and the Department of Justice approve an adaptive management
approach that will allow us to solve the problem in a smarter and more
cost-effective way ("Pittsburgh, Allegheny Seek Delay on Sewage Overflow Plan,"
Feb. 18).

While the originally proposed tunnel-based "store-convey-treat" solution would
have aggravated our already serious air quality problem, if we first expand the
treatment plant while also maximizing flow reduction using innovative green
technologies, we can bring multiple additional benefits to our region and better
prepare for the effects of climate change.

We can then evaluate our progress after 10 years of effort and continue to make
the best investments for our region - based on evidence. After all, our
grandchildren will still be paying for the decisions we make today and will not
appreciate being forced to go on treating rain at the sewage treatment plant in
perpetuity.

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              117 of 297 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            March 17, 2016 Thursday
                                 SOONER EDITION

RISING CRISIS;
NEW ESTIMATES ON HIGH WATERS CALL FOR ACTION

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A-10

LENGTH: 228 words


At the end of the 21st century, rising sea levels could trigger the greatest
movement of Americans since the Great Migration of African-Americans from the
South northward during the last century. A new study in the journal Nature
Climate Change said the number of people affected by rising sea levels could be
three times higher than previously thought.

The former way of assessing coastal disruption was to look at current population
and infrastructure, then project the exodus due to rising seas. The revised
method takes into account likely population growth.

The updated forecasts say that if sea level rises 35.4 inches by the year 2100,
it will lead to flooding that displaces 4.2 million people in the coastal United
States. If sea level rises 70.9 inches, the high end of the scale, 13.1 million
people will be at risk. Both scenarios would be disastrous for all U.S. coastal
cities, especially those in the Southeast.

Obviously, not just the United States would face calamitous floods under these
scenarios. Other nations, particularly those in South Asia that are already
prone to flooding, would face even greater threats.

There is no doubt that sea levels are going up. If the trend continues, people,
jobs and economies will be threatened. That means leaders must stop debating and
denying and focus instead on the protective measures that might head off
disaster.

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              123 of 297 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                               May 8, 2016 Sunday
                                TWO STAR EDITION

BYLINE: GARY ROTSTEIN

SECTION: LOCAL; IN THE LAST WEEK; Pg. B-1

LENGTH: 435 words


The following news quiz tests your knowledge of some of the top local events of
the past week (with a hint that the answers are more likely found among the
initial options rather than later ones):

1. A proposed new ordinance introduced by Pittsburgh City Council President
Bruce Kraus would prohibit the use of "wild or exotic animals" for what purpose?
a) As entertainment in public events such as circuses, which some critics
believe subjects them to cruel treatment. b) As predictors of when winter will
end. c) As candidates for Pittsburgh City Council.

2. The speed limit was raised to 70 mph on most of the Pennsylvania Turnpike and
many interstates in the state, but speed limits remain the same on highways
within Pittsburgh and most of Allegheny County because: a) The congestion in
urban areas makes it unsafe to raise the limit. b) The summer construction
season makes any posted limit above 25 mph likely to provoke dangerously
uncontrollable laughter among motorists. c) A 70 mph limit might force unwanted
delays upon Pittsburgh drivers going through yield signs.

3. Pittsburgh sports fans were upset because: a) The Pirates' three lopsided
losses at home to the Chicago Cubs made it appear another wild-card appearance
is the best they can hope for this year. b) The success of Penguins goalie Matt
Murray as a sub for Marc-Andre Fleury in the NHL playoffs reduces their chance
to whine on talk radio. c) They never hear of Pittsburghers coming out on top at
sports events in Kenya, yet Kenyans keep winning the Pittsburgh Marathon.

4. The Pittsburgh Foundation had to postpone its annual Day of Giving that
brings in millions of dollars in one-time donations to more than 1,000 nonprofit
agencies in the region because: a) Software glitches in the online giving
program made it difficult for donors to complete transactions. b) Everyone
agreed to donate their money to the state to solve the ongoing budget mess. c)
If UPMC can make so much money on its own as a nonprofit, nobody could
understand what's stopping all these other agencies from doing so.

5. An Allegheny Conference on Community Development report projected the
Pittsburgh region could have a workforce shortfall of 80,000 by 2025 because: a)
There will be too few new college graduates and other workers to make up for the
wave of retirements of baby boomers over the next decade. b) Area schools are
not producing enough trained baristas to fill positions at all of the new coffee
shops. c) Winters will keep getting hotter here due to climate change, driving
more of the working-age population north to Cleveland and Buffalo for relief.

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Gary Rotstein: grotstein@post-gazette.com or 412-263-1255. /

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              127 of 297 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                             July 14, 2016 Thursday
                                 SOONER EDITION

GM LIABLE FOR BILLIONS IN INJURY CLAIMS

BYLINE: Compiled from news services

SECTION: NATIONAL; NATIONAL BRIEFS; Pg. A-6

LENGTH: 524 words


DETROIT - A federal appeals court ruling that General Motors can't use its 2009
bankruptcy to fend off lawsuits over faulty and dangerous ignition switches
exposes the automaker to billions in additional liabilities, according to legal
experts.

The 2nd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in Manhattan on Wednesday ruled that GM
knew about the defective switches when it entered bankruptcy seven years ago but
kept them secret from the bankruptcy court. By failing to disclose the problems,
GM prevented crash victims from making claims or contesting the bankruptcy
provisions, robbing them of due process, the court ruled.

In a 74-page opinion, a three-judge panel said that GM essentially asked the
court to reward it for concealing claims. "We decline to do so," the court said.

Under terms of the government-funded bankruptcy, the company that emerged,
referred to as New GM, was indemnified against most claims against the
pre-bankruptcy company, or Old GM.

Closing the Gray case

BALTIMORE - The defense rested Tuesday in the trial against Lt. Brian Rice, the
highest-ranking officer charged in the Freddie Gray case, after testimony from a
former medical examiner who called the young man's fatal injury in police
custody an accident.

Closing arguments are set to begin at 10 a.m. Thursday before Circuit Judge
Barry Williams. The judge didn't say when he will deliver a verdict, but in
previous trials in the Gray case, he has taken several days to weigh the
evidence.

GOP subpoenas New York

WASHINGTON - Escalating a fight over global warming, a Republican House chairman
issued subpoenas Wednesday to two Democratic state attorneys general, seeking
records about their investigation into whether Exxon Mobil misled investors
about man-made climate change.

Texas Rep. Lamar Smith, chairman of the House Science Committee, is pursuing
records from New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman and Massachusetts
Attorney General Maura Healey along with nine environmental, scientific and
philanthropic organizations. Mr. Smith insisted he acted only after they refused
for months to give the panel information lawmakers had requested on the Exxon
Mobil case.

3 men charged in shooting

WASHINGTON - Three men have been charged after shots were fired at officers
during a pursuit, prompting a brief lockdown of the U.S. Capitol and its office
buildings.

Police said in a statement that Tuesday's event did not appear to be a targeted
attack on police.

Also in the nation ...

The longtime leader of Baltimore's library system, Carla Hayden, was confirmed
by the Senate on Wednesday to head the Library of Congress despite concerns
about her previous opposition to an act requiring libraries to use filters to
block access to pornography. ... Democrat Evan Bayh launched a bid Wednesday to
recapture the Indiana Senate seat he left six years ago, a move that boosts his
party's chances to pick up the Republican-held seat in their effort to regain
control of the chamber this fall. ... A study of an experimental treatment for
leukemia through Juno Therapeutics that was halted last week following two
patient deaths has been allowed to resume after a modification.

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              135 of 297 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                           September 26, 2016 Monday
                                 SOONER EDITION

ARMY OFFICIALS LIFT FEMALE BOXING BAN

BYLINE: Compiled from news services

SECTION: NATIONAL; NATIONAL BRIEFS; Pg. A-5

LENGTH: 565 words


WEST POINT, N.Y. - Army cadets Kiana Stewart and DeAdre Harvey squared off in a
boxing ring at the U.S. Military Academy this month, circling each other with
their gloves up. Watching classmates already had suffered bloody noses, but the
women stayed aggressive, bouncing on the balls of their feet while delivering
the occasional jab.

The female cadets are part of a first at West Point: women who must box.
Beginning this fall, West Point officials shifted from banning female students
from taking the course to requiring it for all approximately 1,000 students in
the Class of 2020. The move follows the Pentagon's historic decision last year
to fully integrate women into all combat roles for the first time, and allowing
women to box marked the fall of one of the last barriers to women being allowed
to do anything they are qualified to in the U.S. military.

Pauley joins morning show

NEW YORK - Jane Pauley is becoming a morning television host again - this time
at a much more relaxed pace. CBS said Sunday she will replace Charles Osgood as
anchor of the "Sunday Morning" telecast.

The bow-tied Osgood told viewers at the end of his last telecast after 22 years
that Pauley would replace him. She's been a contributor to the show since 2014.

Alternative to Humira

WASHINGTON - Federal regulators on Friday approved the first alternative version
of the second-best selling drug in the world, Humira, the blockbuster injection
used to treat rheumatoid arthritis and other inflammatory diseases.

The Food and Drug Administration cleared a near-copy of the drug, dubbed
Amjevita, developed by Amgen Inc. Regulators approved the drug for more than a
half-dozen conditions listed on the original drug's label, including severe
psoriasis and Crohn's diseases.

E. Coli breakout

ATLANTA - The Centers for Disease Control says a multistate outbreak of E.coli
has sickened seven people, sending five to the hospital.

The CDC said Saturday that the outbreak of E. coli, which can cause intestinal
illnesses, likely is linked to beef products from Adams Farms Slaughterhouse in
Athol, Massachusetts.

People from 1 year old to 74 years old have become sick. They're from
Massachusetts, Connecticut, Pennsylvania and West Virginia. No deaths have been
reported.

Also in the nation ...

The battle over President Barack Obama's signature climate change policy, a push
to transform the nation's electricity system, will move to the courts this week.
... Electricity was restored to most of Puerto Rico by Saturday following a
rare, island-wide blackout caused by a power plant fire, the territory's power
utility said Saturday; less than 20,000 clients remained without power. ... The
Centers for Disease Control says a multistate outbreak of E.coli linked to beef
products from Adams Farms Slaughterhouse in Athol, Mass., has sickened seven
people in seven states, including Pennsylvania. ... Texas escalated its fight
with the Obama administration over refugee resettlements last week, threatening
to pull out of the federal resettlement program if the state's plan to limit the
number of refugees it accepts and to receive additional security assurances is
not approved. ... Three weeks after one of its rockets exploded while on a
launch pad at Cape Canaveral, SpaceX said Friday it is narrowing in on the
possible cause, pinpointing a "large breach" in a helium system in the rocket's
second-stage fuel tank.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              139 of 297 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            November 1, 2016 Tuesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

MCCLELLAND IN THE 12TH;
A WORTHY CHALLENGER TO THE INCUMBENT ROTHFUS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A-6

LENGTH: 376 words


In the 12th Congressional District, voters have a choice between two-term
incumbent Rep. Keith Rothfus, R-Sewickley, and the Democratic challenger, Erin
McClelland of Harrison. Ms. McCllelland, who failed in her effort to unseat Mr.
Rothfus in 2014, is taking another run at him. She has brought sound ideas, a
keen grasp of the issues and an infectious enthusiasm to the campaign, and she
deserves support this time.

The 12th district takes in Beaver County and parts of Allegheny, Cambria,
Lawrence, Somerset and Westmoreland counties.

Mr. Rothfus, a lawyer, took office after defeating Democrat Mark Critz in a 2012
election influenced by redistricting. Mr. Critz had taken over the seat in 2010
after the death of his boss, longtime U.S. Rep. John Murtha of Johnstown. Ms.
McClelland speaks of an increased need for retail-style politics and an
entrepreneurial spirit in the district, both of which Mr. Murtha symbolized. On
her website, she says, she's leaning local, not left or right.

That's stretching the truth a bit, but the point is well taken. Ms. McClelland
has expressed a willingness to work across the aisle. Asked about the
comprehensive mental health legislation sponsored by Rep. Tim Murphy, R-Upper
St. Clair, Ms. McClelland, a health care professional with experience treating
behavioral disorders, said without hesitation that she supports it. Mr. Rothfus,
on the other hand, has demonstrated the kind of rigid partisanship that has
paralyzed Washington.

Ms. McClelland understands the local implications of developments on the
national and world stages. On the subject of climate change, she speaks of the
need for action to protect the local farmers who rely on stable weather
patterns. Asked about gridlock in Washington, she talks about the need to rally
local stakeholders and funding sources to get things done despite congressional
dysfunction. At this point, she said, voters don't feel like they're getting
much from Washington anyway.

Mr. Rothfus has highlighted his efforts to make government more accountable, and
he's supported needed reforms to veterans health care.On balance, the
challenger's argument for more dynamic representation in the 12th District is
persuasive. That is why Erin McClelland receives our endorsement.

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              141 of 297 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            November 20, 2016 Sunday
                                TWO STAR EDITION

ALL EYES ON GERMANY;
OBAMA'S LAST EUROPEAN STOP SETS THE SCENE

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. D-2

LENGTH: 462 words


President Barack Obama spent Thursday and part of Friday in Germany, underlining
the importance of the relationship with Chancellor Angela Merkel and,
particularly, their personal rapport. With Mr. Obama's imminent disappearance
from the world stage, the transition to a Donald Trump administration is
creating international disquiet, as world leaders prepare for the unknown. The
German chancellor is arguably the most important figure of stability in
international politics.

They met in Berlin, increasingly the capital of Europe, although Brussels still
hosts the headquarters of both the European Union and NATO. British Prime
Minister Theresa May, French President Francois Hollande and Spanish Prime
Minister Mariano Rajoy all traveled to Berlin for their farewell-as-president
meeting with Mr. Obama.

Germany is the economic and, thus, probably, the political center of Europe, an
ironic epilogue to its loss of two major wars in the last century. There will be
national elections in Germany next year, but Ms. Merkel is still the most
solidly based politically of the leaders of the most powerful Western European
countries, including France, Germany, Italy, Spain and Britain. Journalists
questioning Ms. Merkel and Mr. Obama in a Berlin press conference were most
interested in finding out if she intended to run for what in effect would be her
fourth term.

As chancellor since 2005, her head remains firmly above whatever glass ceiling
there might have been in Germany. If she chooses to run again in 2017, it is
likely that she will again stay on top of the complex, multiparty scene that
German politics constitutes.

Her and Germany's relationship with the United States under the leadership of
the newly elected American president remains to be defined. She got along
smoothly with Mr. Obama, but she is also easily enough of a pragmatist to work
effectively with Mr. Trump where she sees American and German interests as
coinciding. She also had a close relationship with Mr. Obama's predecessor,
President George W. Bush.

The principles that she as chancellor stands for include some that Mr. Trump did
not advocate as a candidate. These include efforts to combat climate change,
opposition to Russian designs in Ukraine, support of a strong NATO, economic
reform and free trade, including international agreements. Ms. Merkel has also
pursued a German policy of welcoming immigrants, some 1 million in 2015. She
would agree with Mr. Trump on strong economies with lots of job creation and
firm opposition to Islamic State encroachment.

The American president-elect should not imagine that he and America can get
along in the world without good relations with Germany and its chancellor.
Neither Mr. Bush nor Mr. Obama thought so. Ukraine and Russia won't do it.

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              146 of 297 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            February 19, 2016 Friday
                                 SOONER EDITION

LISTEN TO THE VOICES, ISSUES OF PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS PAST

BYLINE: Adrian McCoy

SECTION: ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT; ON THE WEB; Pg. D-1

LENGTH: 438 words


A visit to a new collection of presidential campaign audio recordings gives
listeners a deeper historical perspective in election year 2016.

The American Archive of Public Broadcasting (americanarchive.org) has added New
Hampshire Public Radio's digitized archive of speeches, panel discussions,
debates and interviews with past presidential candidates.

AAPB is dedicated to preserving public TV and radio programming from the past 60
years. It's a collaboration between the Library of Congress and the WPGH
Educational Foundation.

"Voices of Democracy: Public Media and Presidential Elections" explores a range
of perennial campaign issues: the economy, education, civil rights, religion,
climate and more. Candidates include Barack Obama, Bill and Hillary Clinton,
Howard Dean, Lamar Alexander, Joe Biden, Pat Buchanan and John Kasich.

"We are fortunate to live at the epicenter of the political universe every four
years. It is from this vantage that we are able to capture and keep some of the
most memorable and historic moments in the past 35 years of our democracy," said
New Hampshire Public Radio president and CEO Betsy Gardella. "This archive can
now be tapped and used by anyone with Internet access."

There are also links to other resources, including campaign ads and election
data dating back to 1789.

Other curated exhibits on AAPB's site include "Voices From the Southern Civil
Rights Movement," "Climate Change Conversations: Causes, Impacts, Solutions" and
"Documenting and Celebrating Public Broadcasting Station Histories."

*

A new online radio station based in Nashville, Tenn., is an alternate take on
the Music Row scene.

Acme Radio (theacmenashville.com/radio), which launched in February, is a
platform for Nashville musicians. It's not limited to country music: It also
features blues, jazz, roots, reggae, gospel, funk and rock.

Programs include: "Roots Now," a weekly showcase of country, blues, Americana
and bluegrass, plus interviews with musicians; "Nashville Jazz," a weekly show
featuring Nashville jazz musicians; "Cropper Radio Hour," a blues, R&B and soul
show hosted by guitarist and producer Steve Cropper; "The Side Men," recordings
by, and interviews with, top Nashville session musicians; and "Buzz Cuts UK,"
with original music from the United Kingdom.

Acme Radio's talk channels feature a variety of shows relating to the Nashville
scene.

There also will be live streamed concerts from Acme Feed & Seed, a music
venue/restaurant in a historic Nashville building that's also home to the new
online station's studios.

Tune it in via the website or through online radio platform TuneIn (tunein.com).

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Adrian McCoy: amccoy@post-gazette.com or 412-263-1865.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              148 of 297 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            April 28, 2016 Thursday
                                 SOONER EDITION

TRUMP WON ABOUT TWO-THIRDS OF PA. DELEGATES

BYLINE: Tracie Mauriello and Chris Potter, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: NATIONAL; THE ROAD TO THE WHITE HOUSE PRIMARY 2016; Pg. A-1

LENGTH: 537 words


Donald Trump had a big night Tuesday in Pennsylvania and four other states where
he bested Ted Cruz and John Kasich in Republican primaries, but the real
question is: How many delegates did he pick up?

Here in Pennsylvania the answer appears to be at least 31 out of the 54 unbound
delegates available. He also picked up 17 Pennsylvania delegates who are bound
by state party rules to vote for the statewide winner at least on the first
convention ballot.

So it appears Mr. Trump has the support of at least two-thirds of the state's
total delegation on the first ballot, and that's important at a close convention
where every delegate vote counts.

"Pennsylvania delegates are very important to him as he tries to reach the magic
number," said state GOP Chairman Rob Gleason, who also is one of the state's
committed delegates.

Fifty-four Pennsylvania delegates are essentially free agents, who can vote for
anyone they want during July's nominating convention. If no candidate reaches
1,237 votes, a second vote is taken and all 2,472 delegates become unbound.

The Post-Gazette's tally of 31 includes winning delegates the Trump campaign
endorsed. Ten other Trump-endorsed candidates for delegate did not win.

The PG tally does not include several delegates who have said they would vote
for the presidential winner in their congressional district but were not
endorsed by Mr. Trump, who wound up winning every district.

The Cruz campaign endorsed 17 of yesterday's winners, although it's not so easy
to determine how many of those are actual supporters of his. Mr. Cruz backed
candidates who weren't necessarily committed to supporting him, but who the Cruz
team thought would be persuadable.

Mr. Kasich did not endorse candidates for convention delegate.

That leaves six delegates who appear to be headed to Cleveland without a stamp
of approval by either candidate.

Of course, any of the state's 54 uncommitted delegates are free to change
allegiances between now and July, but that's not something the state party
condones, Mr. Gleason said.

"It would be very disingenuous," he said. "I would be hopeful that people would
honor their commitments."

As for Mr. Gleason, he's unlikely to persuaded to change tracks even on
subsequent ballots. Mr. Trump has won a majority of votes in Pennsylvania, and
that means something, he said.

"People say insiders don't want him. Well, I'm an insider. I've been around
forever. I've been on the national committee for 10 years . and there are no
efforts to stop him within the Republican National Committee," Mr. Gleason said.
"I've never been for trying to stop somebody, and I'm disappointed that people
would try to do that."

Mr. Trump's Republican opponents say he must be stopped because he can't win the
general election against Hillary Clinton, and public opinion polls bear that
out.

But a poll is a snapshot of a moment in time, and opinions change quickly in
this fast-paced political climate.

"A day can be a lifetime in politics. One day can bring people down or make
them," Mr. Gleason said.

"Politics is about timing," he said, and this is Mr. Trump's time.

"He can win," Mr. Gleason said. "He's really picking up a lot of steam. He's
going to be a force to be reckoned with on Nov. 8."

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Washington Bureau Chief Tracie Mauriello: 703-996-9292,
tmauriello@post-gazette.com, or on Twitter @pgPoliTweets. / Chris Potter:
cpotter@post-gazette.com or 412-263-2533.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Michael Conroy/Associated Press: CRUZ CHOOSES FIORINA/Republican
presidential candidate Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas, joined by former Hewlett-Packard
CEO Carly Fiorina, waves Wednesday during a rally in Indianapolis after Mr. Cruz
announced he has chosen Ms. Fiorina to serve as his running mate.     \

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              153 of 297 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                             July 30, 2016 Saturday
                                 SOONER EDITION

PSYCHIC SIBLINGS ON 'SIX DEGREES'

BYLINE: Maria Sciullo

SECTION: ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT; REALITY CHECK; Pg. D-6

LENGTH: 663 words


Suzanne Vincent and her sister, Jean Vincent, are getting a reputation for
psychic sleuthing.

The Cranberry residents filmed an episode of Investigation Discovery's "Six
Degrees of Murder" in New York. The show, "Sensing Secrets," airs at 10 p.m.
Wednesday and tells the story of young mother Christine Sheddy, who disappeared
in 2007.

Her mother, Lynn Dodenhoff, worked with a woman who knew of the Vincent sisters.

"The story is about this lady reaching out to us," Suzanne Vincent said. "She
said her daughter had been missing."

Ms. Vincent said she and her sister have a combination of psychic ability and
intuition. As Catholics, they also pray. She said she "saw" a blond girl, rolled
up in a rug, who had been beaten.

Names came to her: Tia and two beginning with the letter J.

Ms. Sheddy's body was discovered on the grounds of a Maryland bed and breakfast
in 2010. Her former housemates - Tia Johnson, her fiance, Clarence "Junior"
Jackson, and Justin Michael Hadel - eventually were convicted.

"Six Degrees of Murder" isn't the first time the sisters have been featured on
television. They also were on Travel Channel's "Dead Files Revisited."

Other reality shows

* "MasterChef" was no cakewalk this week, especially for Slippery Rock native
Nathan Barnhouse.

The home cooks were charged with a harrowing team challenge: whip up a Sweet 16
dinner for 30 teens. What do kids like these days? Hint to the red squad:
certainly not spinach/green pea/parsley puree.

Just the process of choosing sides had to be a disappointment for Mr. Barnhouse,
20. He was picked last and wound up on the blue team of Katie Dixon, a personal
trainer from Hattiesburg, Miss.

"I absolutely do not want Nathan on my team today," Ms. Dixon said, adding, "I
want a team player. I want someone that's good under pressure."

In the scramble for assignments, she gave him the easy one - grill some corn,
chop some tomatoes.

"Clearly, Katie sees me as a baby," he said.

But he tested her patience by asking for direction in how to chop the tomatoes,
then got into a scuffle with teammate Andrea Galan as they scrambled to plate
citrus-infused shrimp. All was forgiven, however, when the blue team easily beat
the red team's bland chicken dish. Mr. Barnhouse hugged Ms. Galan after the
announcement.

So, let them eat cake! The victorious blue team marched upstairs for a
bird's-eye view of the pressure test.

Red team members had to create a three-layered, frosted and decorated birthday
cake. Easy, right? Judge Christina Tosi's green-and-pink example is Dorothy
Draper perfection.

Miami's Alejandro Toro foreshadowed his downfall, saying he's really not a cake
guy. When he tried to ice his confection before it was properly cooled (frosting
+ heat = melted sugar), it was all the judges needed to send him home.

Next week's "MasterChef" episode (Fox, 9 p.m. Wednesdays) appears to be a
two-hour locavore romp around a farm.

* Season eight of Spike TV's "Ink Master" debuts at 10 a.m. Aug. 23 with another
format change.

This time, it's a team thing.

Judges Oliver Peck and Chris Nunez will choose from among 30 candidates to
populate teams of nine tattoo artists. They will then mentor their teams, with
the last man or woman standing winning a grand prize of $100,000, an editorial
feature in Inked magazine, and a guest residency in the winning mentor's shop.

Unlike past seasons, there will be no "human canvas" jury to help sway the
elimination vote. Instead, members of each week's winning teams will help decide
who goes or stays. David Navarro returns as host.

* Global warming is no myth on History's "Ice Road Truckers" (Thursdays).

The 10th season promises "an extreme sense of urgency" among the long-haul
drivers who cross frozen water and ice-covered roads in the Canadian north.

Climate change and El Nino created record warm temperatures, forcing roads to
open late and close early, a show press release notes. Trucking companies large
and small feel the heat.

"Ice Road Truckers" returns at 10 p.m. Thursday.

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Maria Sciullo: msciullo@post-gazette.com

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              155 of 297 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                           January 13, 2016 Wednesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

OBAMA ISSUES A RALLYING CRY;
PRESIDENT USES HIS FINAL ANNUAL ADDRESS TO CALL FOR COOPERATION, ACTION

BYLINE: Tracie Mauriello, Post-Gazette Washington Bureau

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. A-1

LENGTH: 1100 words


WASHINGTON - Invoking an admonition from Abraham Lincoln against adhering to the
"dogmas of the quiet past," President Barack Obama on Tuesday night urged the
country to think anew and act anew.

In his final State of the Union Address, Mr. Obama quickly took stock of his
administration's accomplishments: spurring economic recovery, halving
unemployment, expanding access to health care, reducing pollution, stopping the
spread of ebola, rewriting federal education policy, normalizing relations with
Cuba and - just last week - tightening gun controls.

But there was little time for a victory lap. He's got just a year left now to
address other looming concerns including immigration, terrorism, economic
inequality and gun violence.

Those are weighty and complicated issues that the president doesn't expect to
resolve during his waning time in office. That's why, unlike Mr. Obama's
previous addresses, this one was less a laundry list of legislative objectives
and more of a rallying cry to motivate citizens to sustain the direction he set
for years to come.

"I don't want talk just about the next year I want to focus on the next five
years, 10 years and beyond. I want to focus on our future," Mr. Obama said. That
future will only happen "if we fix our politics."

The broken politics were clear enough: Though Democratic lawmakers and some in
the spectators' gallery briefly chanted Mr. Obama's campaign refrain "Fired up!
Ready to go!" as the president entered, Republicans sat mostly silently during
the speech, many making notes, presumably critical talking points to later share
with reporters.

"Better politics doesn't mean we have to agree on everything," Mr. Obama said,
"but democracy does require basic bonds of trust between its citizens."

Filled with references to American ingenuity, resilience and work ethic, the
speech was one of the most optimistic of Mr. Obama's tenure. He sought to
acknowledge the fears and anxiety of many Americans while providing a
counterpoint to pessimism and blame.

"As frustration grows, there will be voices urging us to fall back into tribes,
to scapegoat fellow citizens who don't look like us, or pray like us, or vote
like we do, or share the same background," Mr. Obama said. "We can't afford to
go down that path."

He pointed to the past as a model.

"Sixty years ago, when the Russians beat us into space, we didn't deny Sputnik
was up there," he said, in an obvious reference to climate change deniers. "We
didn't argue about the science, or shrink our research and development budget.
We built a space program almost overnight, and 12 years later, we were walking
on the moon."

Similarly, he said talk of the overpowering strength of terrorists was
inaccurate.

There is no World War III, he said, no threat by ISIL to the United States'
existence.

"We don't need to build them up to show that we're serious, nor do we need to
push away vital allies in this fight by echoing the lie that ISIL is
representative of one of the world's largest religions. We just need to call
them what they are - killers and fanatics who have to be rooted out, hunted
down, and destroyed."

As to the question of leadership, he said: "Leadership means a wise application
of military power, and rallying the world behind causes that are right. It means
seeing our foreign assistance as part of our national security, not charity."

He said strength meant resisting the urge to target particular groups.

"The world respects us not just for our arsenal; it respects us for our
diversity and our openness and the way we respect every faith."

Mr. Obama focused on the issue of economic inequality that resonates with people
in both parties, growing from the sense that the system is rigged and raising
the question of what role government has in addressing that.

"And here, the American people have a choice to make," he said. "I believe a
thriving private sector is the lifeblood of our economy. I think there are
outdated regulations that need to be changed, and there's red tape that needs to
be cut. But after years of record corporate profits, working families won't get
more opportunity or bigger paychecks by letting big banks or big oil or hedge
funds make their own rules at the expense of everyone else; or by allowing
attacks on collective bargaining to go unanswered. Food Stamp recipients didn't
cause the financial crisis; recklessness on Wall Street did. Immigrants aren't
the reason wages haven't gone up enough; those decisions are made in the
boardrooms that too often put quarterly earnings over long-term returns. It's
sure not the average family watching tonight that avoids paying taxes through
offshore accounts. In this new economy, workers and start-ups and small
businesses need more of a voice, not less. The rules should work for them."

Looking on from first lady's box were invited guests who served as harbingers of
the change Mr. Obama hopes the nation will build on long after he is out of
office.

There was a community college student from Texas, an advocate for homeless
veterans from Nevada, the mother of an opioid addict from West Virginia, a
Syrian refugee living in Michigan, a police chief from Washington whose
department is piloting a body-camera program, an Affordable Care Act "navigator"
from Illinois and others.

One chair remained empty to represent victims of gun violence. It wasn't the
first time Mr. Obama spoke to an empty chair in a State of the Union address. In
his 2011 speech, he pointed out U.S. Rep. Gabby Gifford's seat, left empty as
the Arizona Democrat recovered from critical injuries from a mass shooting in
Tucson.

It's unclear whether the increasingly partisan Congress will be able to agree on
much in the coming months with both sides trying to score political points ahead
of the 2016 election.

In the Republican response to the speech, Gov. Nikki Haley, R-S.C., said that
the president's record "has often fallen far short of his soaring words."

Calling herself "the proud daughter of Indian immigrants who reminded my
brothers, my sister and me every day how blessed we were to live in this
country" she said that during anxious times, "it can be tempting to follow the
siren call of the angriest voices. We must resist that temptation. No one who is
willing to work hard, abide by our laws, and love our traditions should ever
feel unwelcome in this country."

She pledged: "If we held the White House, taxes would be lower for working
families, and we'd put the brakes on runaway spending and debt. .We would make
international agreements that were celebrated in Israel and protested in Iran,
not the other way around."

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Tracie Mauriello: tmauriello@post-gazette.com, 703-996-9292 or on Twitter
@pgPoliTweets.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Evan Vucci/Getty Images: President Barack Obama delivers the
final State of the Union address of his presidency Tuesday before a joint
session of Congress on Capitol Hill. For reactions to the speech, visit
post-gazette.com.
PHOTO: Evan Vucci/Getty Images: President Barack Obama shakes hands with Speaker
of the House Paul Ryan, R-Wis., as Vice President Joe Biden looks on before the
State of the Union address Tuesday.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              158 of 297 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                           February 27, 2016 Saturday
                                 SOONER EDITION

FIVE REPORTED  SHOT TO DEATH NEAR SEATTLE

BYLINE: Compiled from news services

SECTION: NATIONAL; NATIONAL BRIEFS; Pg. A-4

LENGTH: 525 words


SEATTLE - Five people are dead after a shooting and hourslong standoff at a home
near Belfair, Wash., according to Mason County Sheriff Casey Salisbury.

A man called law enforcement Friday morning and said he shot two children, a
woman and another person, but that information had not been confirmed, according
to Mason County Sheriff's Deputy Chief Ryan Spurling.

Before 2 p.m., as deputies looked on, the suspect came outside the home and shot
himself, Sheriff Salisbury said.

The sheriff's office said it will release information on the victims after
notifying relatives.

Science standards delayed

CHARLESTON, W.Va. - Doubt over man's contribution to global warming,
particularly through burning coal for power, is fueling a push by West Virginia
lawmakers to block new science standards in schools.

In a state defined by the coal industry, the Republican-led House of Delegates
voted 73-20 on Friday to delay the new science standards related to Common Core.
Coal proponents said Thursday that teaching the standards about global warming
would follow a "political agenda."

The vast majority of peer-reviewed studies, science organizations and climate
scientists say global warming stems largely from man-made sources. A major
source of carbon emissions is burning coal.

Lands' End apologizes

After clothing retailer Lands' End featured an interview with legendary feminist
Gloria Steinem in its spring catalog, anti-abortion groups and customers
expressed outrage because Ms. Steinem supports reproductive rights.

That prompted Lands' End to pull the feature this week from its website and
apparently cancel an arrangement to donate $3 to the ERA Coalition/Fund for
Women's Equality for certain customer orders. It also issued a public apology.

But that, in turn, provoked a backlash from abortion-rights advocates on the
company's Facebook page.

Rail prosecutions urged

WASHINGTON - Federal regulators are failing to refer serious safety violations
involving freight rail shipments of crude oil and other hazardous cargo for
criminal prosecution and are going lightly on civil fines, according to a report
released Friday by a government watchdog.

The Federal Railroad Administration routinely applies modest civil penalties for
hazardous materials safety violations even though inspectors request penalties
only for serious or repeated infractions, said the report by the Department of
Transportation's inspector general.

Obama touts factory

JACKSONVILLE, Fla. - President Barack Obama on Friday used a visit to a
high-technology battery plant in Florida to argue that the hundreds of billions
of dollars in federal subsidies he signed into law during his first days in
office had bolstered the economy, transformed the nation's energy sector, and
positioned the U.S. for a strong rebound.

But Mr. Obama's trip to the Saft America factory, opened in 2011 with a $95.5
million investment from the Department of Energy, also highlighted the
challenges that have tempered the economic recovery.

Saft, based in Paris, announced last week that it was reducing the factory's
value because it still had not gained profitability in the competitive
lithium-ion battery market.

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              169 of 297 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                             July 23, 2016 Saturday
                                 SOONER EDITION

A CLEAN REVOLUTION

BYLINE: DOUG SHIELDS Western Pa. Outreach Liaison, Food & Water Watch Squirrel
Hill \

SECTION: EDITORIAL; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR; Pg. A-6

LENGTH: 228 words


Kerosene lamps became obsolete when the incandescent light came into being. Now,
LEDs produce light for a third of the cost. So it goes, with one technological
advance supplanting another. Today, we have solutions at hand to end the dirty
energy era and embrace the Clean Energy Revolution.

Those in the fossil-fuel industry are the clean energy counter-revolutionaries,
spending millions in a misguided attempt to protect their bets and stave off
their inevitable obsolescence.

Others see a better option. Nationally, more than 300 elected officials and
delegates to the Democratic Party's convention have rejected the fossil-fuel
industry's self-serving narratives and signed a declaration in support of the
March for a Clean Energy Revolution on July 24 in Philadelphia. They know fossil
fuels inflict avoidable health problems upon us all, tank property value and
pollute our land, water, air and our institutions of government.

True energy independence is vital to our nation's security and to mitigating the
threat posed by the climate crisis.

Unfortunately, some of our elected leaders continue to deny the obvious. History
will not judge their inaction kindly. But for the rest of us, the time has come
to embrace our revolutionary heritage and join the Clean Energy Revolution.
That's why I'll be at the March for a Clean Energy Revolution in Philadelphia
this Sunday.

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: The writer is a former president of Pittsburgh City Council.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              180 of 297 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                           October 27, 2016 Thursday
                                 SOONER EDITION

DONALD TRUMP, LEGAL ALIEN;
WE NEED SENSIBLE CENTER-RIGHT AND CENTER-LEFT PARTIES THAT SEEK REAL SOLUTIONS

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. A-11

LENGTH: 781 words


I've finally got a label for Donald Trump: He is a "legal alien." That's right,
the man who has spent the last year railing against the "illegal aliens"
supposedly wreaking havoc on our country turns out to be someone born in America
but whose values are completely alien to all that has made this country great.

Who do you know who has denigrated immigrants, the disabled, Muslims and
Mexicans; trashed all our recent trade agreements; mounted a fraudulent campaign
claiming our president was not born in this country; insulted the whole
presidential selection process by running for the highest office without doing a
bit of homework; boasted of grabbing women by their genitals; disparaged NATO
allies; praised the dictatorial president of Russia and encouraged him to hack
Democratic Party emails; vowed to prosecute his rival if he got elected;
threatened to curb the freedom of the press; suggested that gun-rights advocates
might take the law into their own hands if Hillary Clinton won; insulted the
parents of a slain Iraq war hero; been accused by 11 women of sexual assault or
other unwelcome physical advances; sought to undermine America's electoral
system by claiming, without a shred of evidence, that it is so "rigged" he can't
promise to concede if he loses; and been cited for lying about more things more
times in more ways on more days than any presidential aspirant in history?

This cocktail of toxic behaviors and attitudes is alien to anyone who has ever
run for president. But that is who Mr. Trump is. The big question is, who are
the rest of us?

1) The American people. Who are we? Hopefully, an overwhelming majority will
crush Mr. Trump at the polls and send the message that he is the one who needs
to be morally deported.

If Mr. Trump loses and decides to start a media company or otherwise keep
injecting his conspiratorial venom into the veins of U.S. politics, he will pay
dearly. Trump Ink will blacken Trump Inc.

People already are avoiding Trump hotels and golf courses because of his
poisonous behavior. The PGA just moved one of its tournaments from Mr. Trump's
Doral course in Miami to a course in . Mexico!

2) The Republican Party. Whose party is this? Almost all GOP leaders have stood
with Mr. Trump because they love their jobs more than their country. If Mr.
Trump loses, will they chase that big chunk of the party base that went with Mr.
Trump and become an alt-right party, or will the GOP fracture and the decent
conservatives go off and form a new, healthy Republican Party?

The country desperately needs a healthy center-right party that embraces the
full rainbow of American society, promotes market-based solutions for climate
change, celebrates risk-taking over redistribution, pushes for smaller
government, expands trade that benefits the many but takes care of those hurt by
it, invests in infrastructure, offers tax and entitlement reforms - and
liberates itself from right-wing thought police like Fox News, Rush Limbaugh and
Grover Norquist, who have prevented the GOP from compromising and being a
governing party.

3) The Democratic Party. Whose party is this? Bernie Sanders' movement fractured
the Democratic Party almost as much as Mr. Trump did the GOP, but the fissure
has been obscured for now by the overriding need to defeat Mr. Trump.

If Ms. Clinton wins, that fissure will quickly reopen and basic questions will
have to be answered: Do Democrats support any trade expansion? Do Democrats
believe in the principled use of force? Do they believe that America's
risk-takers who create jobs are a profit engine to be unleashed or a menace only
to be regulated and taxed? Do they believe we need to expand safety nets in this
age of accelerating change but also control entitlements so they will be
sustainable?

How does the Democratic Party process the fact that Trump supporters are
neighbors. They need to be heard, and, where possible, helped. But they also
need to be challenged to learn faster and make good choices, because the world
is not slowing down for them.

Bottom line: We're in the middle of a massive technological shift. It's changing
every job, workplace and community. Government can help, but there is no quick
fix, and a lot more will depend on what Reid Hoffman, a co-founder of LinkedIn,
calls "the start-up of you." You need a plan to succeed today.

To the extent that the center-left and the center-right can come together on
programs to help every American get the most out of this world and cushion the
worst, we'll all be better off. But the more we get tribally divided, the more
the American dream will become an alien concept to us all.

Thomas L. Friedman is a syndicated columnist for The New York Times.

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              182 of 297 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            November 25, 2016 Friday
                                 SOONER EDITION

IT'S A BLUEPRINT

BYLINE: RENA MOORE

SECTION: EDITORIAL; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR; Pg. A-14

LENGTH: 130 words


I was encouraged to see that Peoples Gas is working with Google and the
Environmental Defense Fund to map gas leaks in Pittsburgh ("Gas Leaks May Pose
Invisible Threat to Environment," Nov. 16). Even more impressive is the fact
that the utility asked for help in finding gas leaks so it could repair them,
keeping residents safe and healthy and minimizing climate impacts at the same
time.

Wouldn't it be great if gas drilling companies showed the same level of interest
and involvement in keeping everyone safe from gas leaks resulting from fracking
activity? This mapping partnership should be used as a blueprint for corporate
responsibility, and we need to insist that oil and gas companies adhere to
regulations that put the brakes on their air pollution.

RENA MOORE

North Strabane

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              186 of 297 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                           January 6, 2016 Wednesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

BANKRUPTCY FILINGS DECLINE IN REGION

BYLINE: Tim Grant, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. D-1

LENGTH: 937 words


After a dramatic spike in personal bankruptcy filings in 2005, the number of
people hitting financial rock bottom in the Pittsburgh region has been steadily
declining to the point where filings in Western Pennsylvania in 2015 fell to
levels not seen since the mid-1990s.

The drop may not be an indicator that all is well in the region. A federal law
that put restrictions on how people use bankruptcy to cope with debt also is
seen as a factor. And now that interest rates have started rising again, some
observers predict the courts could start seeing more filings if creditors become
less willing to work with those struggling to pay.

For now, the numbers look good. Personal bankruptcy filings in Western
Pennsylvania, which hit a peak of 29,814 in 2005, dropped to 7,151 in 2015. The
number of Chapter 7 and Chapter 13 consumer bankruptcies in this region have not
been this low since 1995.

"I would say that the reduction in filings is not surprising," said Jeffery A.
Deller, chief bankruptcy judge for the Western District of Pennsylvania.

"The Bankruptcy Abuse and Consumer Protection Act passed by Congress in 2005 was
designed to, among other things, reduce the number of bankruptcy filings by
consumer debtors," he said. "As evidenced by the reduction of bankruptcy filings
nationwide, that goal has been achieved."

Judge Deller said filings in this region have not fallen at the same rate as
those nationally. For the 12-month period ending Sept. 30, for instance, filings
in the Western District of Pennsylvania are down 7.5 percent, while the United
States as a whole has declined by 10.7 percent for the same time frame.

The 2005 changes to bankruptcy law marked a turning point because many people
stampeded the courts to file before the new law would push them out of Chapter
7, which wipes away debt, and into Chapter 13, which forces filers to arrange a
payment plan to satisfy debtors over a three-to-five-year period.

Now that the Federal Reserve has cleared a path for higher interest rates, there
is some concern the tide could once again be turning, and bankruptcy filings may
start moving upward along with rising rates.

Matt Herron, a bankruptcy attorney at The Debt Doctors at Quatrini Rafferty,
Downtown, has a theory that debtors and consumer spending is less of a factor in
bankruptcy filings than bank behavior.

Although filings fell tremendously after the law changed in 2005, the numbers
began to slowly creep upward until the financial crisis of 2008.

For three to four years following the credit crisis, banks adopted tighter
lending standards. That made it more difficult for subprime borrowers to gain
access to credit, which is one reason Mr. Herron believes bankruptcy filings
began going down after 2009.

"The reason rising interest rates will affect bank lending and bankruptcy
filings is because there are so many low-interest loans out there and banks
can't make a lot of money because rates are so low," he said. If rates rise, Mr.
Herron said, banks will be less likely to work with people who are in default.

"They will want to get those loans off the books so they can lend at higher
rates," he said. "They will start to be more aggressive with collections and you
may see foreclosures rise."

Another analyst uneasy about the Federal Reserve's decision to start raising
interest rates is Thomas J. Mackell Jr., former chairman of the Richmond Federal
Reserve Bank.

"I was very concerned the Fed raised rates even though it's only a quarter
percent," Mr. Mackell said. "I don't believe the economy is in that good a shape
and they give the impression the economy is getting better. But in reality,
there are loads of people who have given up looking for jobs."

Mr. Mackell was a board member at the Richmond Federal Reserve Bank from 2003 to
2008 and served as chairman from 2005 to 2008. He is now special adviser to the
international president of the International Longshoremen's Association, AFL-CIO
in North Bergen, N.J.

"People aren't buying the way they used to," he said. "The stores during the
holiday season were not as crowded as in the past. Some of it has to do with
buying online. But I maintain it has more to do with people who can't afford to
buy products."

James Chessen, chief economist for the American Bankers Association, a trade
group based in Washington, D.C, which represents the banking industry, is less
convinced there is a connection between interest rates and bankruptcies.

"I don't believe the increases in rates that are likely to come from the Fed
will have any measurable impact on bankruptcy filings," he said.

The main drivers of bankruptcy for individuals, he said, are health-related
expenses, divorce and job loss.

"If interest rates were rising dramatically and a borrower had an adjustable
rate on a mortgage, rising rates would have a bigger impact," Mr. Chessen said.
"But the expectation is that rates will rise very slowly and stay at
historically low levels. If someone is teetering on bankruptcy, it is due to
many other reasons than a tiny increase in the Federal Reserve interest rate."

Despite the reduced number of filings, bankruptcy court in Pittsburgh remains
busy, according to Judge Deller.

As of Sept. 30, there were 10,898 cases pending (which include business
failures), representing about 2,725 cases for each of this district's four
bankruptcy judges. In addition, more than 20,000 motions were filed and acted
upon by judges in the Western District in 2015.

"Bankruptcy courts remain the busiest of all the federal courts in terms of case
filings," Judge Deller said. "I do not see that fact changing in today's
economic and legal climate."

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Tim Grant: tgrant@post-gazette.com or 412-263-1591.

GRAPHIC: CHART: Western District of Pennsylvania U.S. Bankruptcy Court; James
Hilston/Post-Gazette: W.Pa. bankruptcies continue to decline

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              189 of 297 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            January 19, 2016 Tuesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

DIETARY GUIDELINES

BYLINE: MARK JOPLING, Franklin Park

SECTION: EDITORIAL; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR; Pg. A-6

LENGTH: 251 words


I am disappointed in the PG's reaction to the modifications made to the Dietary
Guideline Advisory Committee's recommendations resulting in the 2015 federal
dietary guidelines just published ("Healthy Guidelines: Despite Its Critics, the
New Food Plan Is Sensible," Jan. 12 editorial).

The concluding sentence of the editorial seems gratuitous; of course people are
free to adopt a diet that is meatless.

The PG implies that sticking to the committee's original recommendations would
somehow have taken away individual freedom to choose any diet other than the one
recommended, which is completely false. The purpose of the guidelines is to make
available to everyone the best evidence-based thinking possible on diet.

The watered-down guidelines do not do that, and nutritionist David Katz's
umbrage is justified.

Population studies strongly suggest that a whole food, plant-based diet is far
healthier than the diet most Americans follow. If more Americans followed such a
diet, not only would they be healthier but also we could dramatically reduce
health care costs.

Also to be considered is the favorable impact on the environment that a
contraction of the animal husbandry industry would bring. Oft cited is the claim
that livestock are more to blame for climate change than automobiles. And, of
course, livestock waste is a huge problem and exempted in large measure from
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency regulations applicable to all other
industries.

I think the PG really missed the boat on this one.

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              191 of 297 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                           January 30, 2016 Saturday
                              Correction Appended
                                 SOONER EDITION

CLINTON, SANDERS TOUT VIEWS IN IOWA

BYLINE: Chris Potter, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: NATIONAL; THE ROAD TO THE WHITE HOUSE; Pg. A-1

LENGTH: 941 words


MASON CITY, Iowa -There was trouble for Hillary Clinton, right here in Mason
City. In a hall lined with a life-size set of storefronts from "The Music Man" -
written by local native Tom Willson - hundreds of supporters turned out
Wednesday to hear Ms. Clinton's top rival, Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders.

With the Iowa caucuses just ahead, polls show Ms. Clinton holding an edge over
Mr. Sanders, with former Maryland Gov. Martin O'Malley trailing well behind. But
Mr. Sanders is still within striking distance, no small accomplishment for a
democratic socialist little known until last summer.

"The energy and enthusiasm and momentum is with us," he told his supporters.

He has built his support in large part by speaking to frustrations over income
inequality and the role that money plays in politics. He has also benefited from
the fact that for Democrats as well as Republicans, there is a frustration over
politics as usual, a feeling that with so little prospect for reform, it is time
for political revolution.

"Having both [Donald] Trump and Bernie in the race is a good thing: It takes us
outside the same old party lines," said Will Symonds, a 27-year-old Mason City
resident. Like others in attendance, he touted Mr. Sanders' proposal to offer
free college education at public universities. Mr. Symonds, who works in
information technology, said half his paycheck was consumed by student loans.

The rally drew participants such as 44-year-old Loretta Alonso, who said, "I was
never into politics. But a lot of what Bernie says about the billionaires, and
the corruption, is true."

The Sanders campaign is seeking to repeat the 2008 success of then-Sen. Barack
Obama, who won the Democratic caucuses partly by flooding them with young and
first-time caucus-goers. It was a haymaker from which the Clinton campaign never
fully recovered.

"She ran as the candidate of inevitability, which is really dangerous," said
Drake University political science professor Dennis Goldford. That theme can be
undermined by a single loss, he noted, and "her people didn't take the caucus
seriously."

Although Mr. Sanders is hoping to stage a remake of a familiar production, 2016
may be different.

While Mr. Goldford was dubious about Ms. Clinton's 2016 prospects, thanks to
lingering controversies over her use of a private email server as secretary of
state, he said, "she's been a better candidate this time around."

"When we closed up the Hillary office in 2008, we picked up everything we could
because we knew she would be back," said Cindy Pollard, a Clinton volunteer in
Newton, Iowa. In 2016, "it seems like everything is bigger, and better. She's
coming to everything."

And neither Ms. Clinton nor her supporters appear to lack energy or tenacity.
When Ms. Clinton was more than an hour and a half late for a Tuesday night rally
in Marshalltown, the crowd packed into the elementary school gym barely
dwindled. When she did arrive, Ms. Clinton sounded ebullient.

"Spending all this time in small groups and big ones is going to make me a
better president," she said.

Ms. Clinton also faces a different kind of rival than she did during her last
Iowa fight.

Mr. Obama's campaign was fueled by a promise to transcend partisanship, but Mr.
Sanders seems to delight in it. His Mason City speech was peppered with
sarcastic gibes about the Republican agenda and a promise that "there is nothing
I would enjoy more than exposing those policies to the American people."

Although Ms. Clinton took shots at Republicans, she said she had worked across
the aisle as a New York senator in the early 2000s. "I know how to find common
ground, because I've done it."

Both candidates urge action on climate change, worry about stagnating
middle-class wages and warn that a Republican president would undermine Mr.
Obama's legacy.

But although Mr. Sanders said he was "proud" that Mr. Obama's health care
reforms expanded insurance coverage, he added that 29 million Americans still
lacked insurance. His solution: a "Medicare-for-all" proposal that would provide
government coverage to everyone.

By contrast, "I don't want to start over," Ms. Clinton told her backers. "I want
us to build on what we have."

Ms. Clinton invokes populist themes of her own, pledging a "fair-share
surcharge" on those making more than $5 million. "I want to go where the money
is, and the money is at the top," she said. But she pledged not to raise
middle-class taxes, something Mr. Sanders has previously suggested he might do
in order to expand health coverage. (He contends the hikes would be offset by
reduced out-of-pocket medical costs.)

Ms. Clinton's supporters argue that Mr. Obama struggled to pass a more modest
agenda than the one Mr. Sanders has outlined, and there is no sign Republicans
in the next Congress will be more tractable.

Mr. Sanders has "good ideas, but he'll never get them through Congress," said
Sharren Schuler, who traveled to the Marshalltown event from adjoining Story
County. Ms. Clinton, she said, "has a balance between being tough and being able
to get things done."

Ms. Schuler's son-in-law, Dennis Vaughn, agreed. Ms. Clinton is "probably the
most experienced presidential candidate in history," he said. "Bernie's so
extreme, it isn't realistic. But it attracts votes."

But if Mr. Sanders is accused of being too idealistic, his supporters say Ms.
Clinton is too willing to compromise her ideals. They note that although Mr.
Sanders opposed the war in Iraq, Ms. Clinton supported it as senator.

As for the hurdles Mr. Sanders would face as president, "You can't just say,
'This isn't going to work,' " countered Mr. Symonds, the Sanders supporter. "You
have to try."

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Chris Potter: cpotter@post-gazette.com

CORRECTION-DATE: January 31, 2016



CORRECTION:  The name of "The Music Man" author Tom Willson was misspelled in a
story Saturday about Hillary Clinton campaigning in his hometown of Mason City,
Iowa.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Andrew Harnik/Associated Press: Democratic presidential
candidate Hillary Clinton speaks Friday at a rally at Five Flags Center in
Dubuque, Iowa. \
PHOTO: Democratic presidential candidate Sen. Bernie Sanders, I-Vt. \
PHOTO: Eric Thayer/The New York Times: Hundreds attend a campaign event
Wednesday for Democratic presidential candidate Bernie Sanders of Vermont in
Mason City, Iowa. Polls show Hillary Clinton is leading, but Mr. Sanders has
gained strength. \
PHOTO: Doug Mills/The New York Times: Edward Kimmel holds a banner depicting
Democratic presidential hopeful Hillary Clinton during a campaign event Friday
at Grand View University in Des Moines, Iowa.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              196 of 297 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            February 21, 2016 Sunday
                               FIVE STAR EDITION

"THE HUMAN FACE OF BIG DATA"

BYLINE: ROB OWEN

SECTION: ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT; ROB'S PICK OF THE WEEK; Pg. TV-1

LENGTH: 264 words


Wednesday

"The Human Face of Big Data," 10-11 p.m., PBS

For this exploration of the role of technology and data collection in our modern
lives, director producer Sandy Smolan said he had two goals: Instilling awe and
fear in viewers.

"Awe at how the remarkable insights from analyzing this data [helps us] in our
daily lives, like in preventive health and solving world problems, like hunger,
global health, climate change and security," he said. "We couldn't talk about
the subject without talking about the dark side of big data. What's the cost to
society of losing our privacy, having all of our data accessible to anyone who
chooses to look at it, where we go, what we buy, who we speak to? It's been said
that big data will truly transform civilization, having an impact on humanity
1,000 times greater than the Internet. The question is, will we use it wisely?"

Mr. Smolan said "The Human Face of Big Data" covers everything from credit card
hacking to what stores learn about shoppers through their buying habits.

"One thing we found in the making of the movie was the technology itself is
neutral," he said. "Technology is not good or bad. It's what we do with it as
humans. Often the people in the stories had some connection to the data
themselves, because otherwise it becomes a very abstract, intellectual,
theoretical movie, but we really wanted to take this complex set of ideas and
make it relatable to an audience. ? We really emphasize the humanity in it, and
it's raising questions that we as a society really need to be asking."

More TV coverage at post-gazette.com/tunedin

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Each week, Post-Gazette TV writer Rob Owen offers a viewing tip for the
coming week. Also read today's TV Q&A in Sunday Magazine.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Timothy Archibald: At Code for America, the San Francisco
nonprofit founded by Jennifer Pahlka. The venture is examined in "The Human Face
of Big Data."

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              199 of 297 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                             March 1, 2016 Tuesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

S.D. WEIGHS BILL ON TRANSGENDER BATHROOM USE

BYLINE: Compiled from news services

SECTION: NATIONAL; NATIONAL BRIEFS; Pg. A-5

LENGTH: 530 words


South Dakota's Republican Gov. Dennis Daugaard has until today to decide whether
to sign or veto a bill that would be the first in the nation to require
transgender students to use public school bathrooms and locker rooms that
correspond to their biological sex rather than their gender identity.

Thirteen other states are considering similar legislation that would restrict
transgender students' access to restrooms, according to a tally by the Human
Rights Campaign, the country's largest LGBT advocacy group. The bills are part
of a nationwide debate about how public schools should weigh privacy concerns
against what some argue are the civil rights of transgender students.

Gas boom effects

NEW ORLEANS - The nation's boom in cheap natural gas - often viewed as a clean
energy source - is spawning a wave of petrochemical plants that, if built, will
emit massive amounts of greenhouse gases, an environmental watchdog group warned
in a report Monday.

The Washington-based Environmental Integrity Project said hydraulic fracturing
of shale rock formations and other advances, such as horizontal drilling, have
made natural gas cheap and plentiful - so plentiful that the United States has
begun exporting gas.

KKK members released

ANAHEIM, Calif. - Five Ku Klux Klan members who were arrested following a
vicious brawl in Anaheim were released Monday because evidence shows they acted
in self-defense, police said.

Seven people who remained in custody were seen beating, stomping and attacking
the Klansmen with wooden posts, Sgt. Daron Wyatt said.

A police statement said the clash, which erupted after six Klan members arrived
at a park Saturday for a planned anti-immigration rally, was started by a larger
group of 10 to 20 counter-protesters who had "the intent of perpetrating
violence."

"Regardless of an individual or groups' beliefs or ideologies, they are entitled
to live without the fear of physical violence and have the right, under the law,
to defend themselves when attacked," the statement said.

Essure warning

WASHINGTON - Federal health regulators plan to warn consumers more strongly
about Essure, a contraceptive implant that has drawn thousands of complaints
from women reporting chronic pain, bleeding and other health problems.

The Food and Drug Administration announced Monday it would add a boxed warning -
its most serious type - to alert doctors and patients to problems reported with
the nickel-titanium implant.

But the FDA stopped short of removing the device from the market, a step favored
by many women who have petitioned the agency in the last year. Instead, the
agency is requiring manufacturer Bayer to conduct studies of the device to
further assess its risks in different groups of women.

Also in the nation

Ronald Hamilton, 32, an Army staff sergeant, has admitted to shooting his wife
and three police officers who showed up at his front door in Manassas, Va.,
after his wife called 911, according to court records. ... A self-driving car
being tested by Google struck a public bus on a Mountain View, Caif., street on
Valentine's Day, a fender-bender that appears to be the first time one of the
tech company's vehicles caused a crash during testing.

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              201 of 297 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                             March 8, 2016 Tuesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

RECORDS MAY FALL AS TEMPERATURES SOAR INTO  THE 70S

BYLINE: Dan Majors, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. B-1

LENGTH: 393 words


The spring-like weather forecast for Western Pennsylvania this week could see
temperatures approaching marks that haven't been reached since back in '79.

1879.

While Monday's high of 66 fell below the record high of 76, it still was 20
degrees above the normal for the second week of March here. And today's
predicted high in the low 70s will fall short of the high of 80 set in 2000.

But if the temperatures Wednesday and Thursday reach the levels expected,
meteorologist Rihaan Gangat of the National Weather Service said they'll be
approaching the 137-year-old highs of 77 for March 9 and 74 for March 10.

Besides boasting a balmy March, 1879 was a pretty good year for Pittsburgh. The
city's water-pumping station went into operation and the city began electric
street lighting. The Pittsburgh and Lake Erie Railroad inaugurated traffic from
the Jones and Laughlin Iron Works, and the Joseph Horne Co. built a department
store at the intersection of Stanwix Street and Penn Avenue.

The 1879 Founders Dinner takes its name from the year because that was when the
city's oldest historical center was started.

Perhaps we'll see history made this week.

"Normal highs for this week are supposed to be around 45 or 46 degrees and we're
well into the 60s and around 70," Mr. Gangat said. "It's unusual for this time
of year, but we have seen these patterns from the south late in the winter
before."

Brian Edwards, a meteorologist with Accuweather in State College, Pa., said
Western Pennsylvania is benefiting from a high-pressure system off the East
Coast and a storm system over the Midwest, funneling warm air up into the
Mid-Atlantic states and the Ohio Valley.

"So we're going to have a couple of days of this southwest flow before we
finally see it change with some rain at the end of the week," he said.

A cold front Thursday night or early Friday will bring showers, he said, but the
temperatures heading into the weekend will still be in the 60s, well above
average.

Mr. Gangat said it's possible that we might have seen our last snow of the
season.

"There really isn't any snowfall in the forecast for the majority of the month,"
he said. "The Climate Prediction Center [in College Park, Md.] has forecast
temperatures above normal for the next month for this region."

But you never know. Even in 1879, the warm records were followed by a sharp drop
into the 40s.

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Dan Majors: dmajors@post-gazette.com and 412-263-1456.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              203 of 297 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            March 12, 2016 Saturday
                                 SOONER EDITION

PITTSBURGH POLICE UNION ELECTS NEW PRESIDENT;
BOB SWARTZWELDER IS 23-YEAR VETERAN

BYLINE: Andrew Goldstein, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. B-3

LENGTH: 215 words


Pittsburgh's police union Thursday night voted in a new president by a
significant margin in an election dominated by police concerns both old and new.

Police Officer Bob Swartzwelder, 51, will be sworn in as president of the
Fraternal Order of Police Lodge No. 1 on March 17 after defeating incumbent
Officer Howard McQuillan by a vote of 535-247.

Officer Swartzwelder, a 23-year member of the police department, said the police
sought changes in their union leadership due to the "current anti-police climate
" from city and police officials.

"The majority of active Pittsburgh police officers are extremely upset by the
lack of overt support by the mayor and others regarding the hard work that men
and women [of the police force] do every day," he said.

Officer Swartzwelder said that other issues in the election included what he
called the city's failure to enforce the mandates of state Act 47, leaving
police union members without a contract. Act 47 is a state program for
financially distressed municipalities.

He said officers also wanted someone in the union leadership role who would be
more outspoken in the media regarding the concerns they have.

"I think what our members wanted was someone to be more vocal," he said. "That
was the significant difference between Howard and myself."

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Andrew Goldstein: agoldstein@post-gazette.com

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              211 of 297 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            March 30, 2016 Wednesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

SANDERS TO HOLD RALLY HERE THURSDAY

BYLINE: Chris Potter, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: NATIONAL; CAMPAIGN 2016; Pg. B-1

LENGTH: 318 words


Fresh off a series of far-flung election wins, Democratic presidential candidate
Bernie Sanders will hold a rally at the David L. Lawrence Convention Center
Thursday morning.

The event is free and open to the public, but the campaign is urging attendees
to RSVP here. Doors will open at 7:30 a.m. - this may be a real test of your
fervor, college students. According to a release, the Vermont senator intends to
discuss "a wide range of issues, including getting big money out of politics,
his plan to make public colleges and universities tuition-free, combating
climate change and ensuring universal health care."

Mr. Sanders and his rival, Hillary Clinton, both opened Pittsburgh field offices
last week. (While Mr. Sanders' is based in the South Side, he actually has
multiple offices in town, including one "two blocks to the ?left'" of Ms.
Clinton's East Liberty site.) He is currently riding high after sweeping weekend
contests in Alaska, Washington, and Hawaii.

Polling right now suggests he will have a much tougher time in Pennsylvania,
where Ms. Clinton leads by 25 points or more in surveys. But as Sanders
supporters noted at last week's office opening, Ms. Clinton was predicted to win
Michigan by similar margins, right up until Mr. Sanders pulled out an upset
there earlier this month.

And the head of Mr. Sanders' Pennsylvania operation is Ryan Hughes, who
previously ran the campaign in Michigan.

The Clinton campaign has tried to downplay Mr. Sanders' recent success, however.
Strategist Joel Benenson told reporters in a conference call yesterday that Ms.
Clinton's early lead in delegates would be tough to overcome - especially
because Democrats award delegates proportionally, rather than in "winner take
all" fashion, as Republicans do in some states. That means for Mr. Sanders to
gain ground, Mr. Benenson said, "You have to win these big states very big - you
have to win by landslides."

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ethan Miller/Getty Images: Democratic presidential candidate Se.
Bernie sanders and his wife, Jane O'Meara Sanders, in January in Las Vegas.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              217 of 297 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            April 27, 2016 Wednesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

GOP USES THE DEVOUT

BYLINE: PAUL A. ALTER, Wilkinsburg

SECTION: EDITORIAL; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR; Pg. A-12

LENGTH: 191 words


The North Carolina bathroom law is probably unconstitutional, and it is
certainly unenforceable (imagine posting guards at the door of every restroom in
the state to check birth certificates). It is also brilliant: Because of it,
millions of anti-abortionists, Christian fundamentalists and evangelical
Christians will go to the polls this November to vote for Republican candidates.
And that is, of course, the true purpose of that law.

Once in office, the Republicans will dedicate themselves to sucking money out of
the middle class and transferring it to the rich. To this end, they will
continue to oppose any and all attempts to control climate change, environmental
pollution and depletion of natural resources, thus guaranteeing hardship,
suffering and premature death for millions of Americans.

By putting Republicans into office, well-meaning Christians make themselves
complicit in many murders, including those of their own children and
grandchildren.

Devoutly religious Americans think they can use the Republican Party in their
crusade to make America "a Christian nation." It doesn't occur to them that the
Republicans are using them.

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              221 of 297 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                             May 26, 2016 Thursday
                                 SOONER EDITION

MEET AND GREET;
THE G-7 ECONOMIC SUMMIT IS MINUS A MAJOR PLAYER

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A-10

LENGTH: 337 words


President Barack Obama will attend the G-7 summit starting today in Ise-Shima,
Japan, a gathering of the heads of government of seven countries, plus the
European Union.

The group includes Britain, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, host Japan and the
United States. Two guest countries, Sri Lanka and Vietnam, are invited as well
this time. The group used to be the G-8, but Russia was kicked out due to its
deemed naughtiness in Ukraine. The orientation of the group's summits is
considered to be largely economic, although the obvious link between political
and economic developments in the world shapes the agenda.

The top subjects this time include the interrelated state of emerging markets,
the world oil price, the overall energy picture, climate change and more topical
subjects such as counterterrorism, the Middle East, Ukraine and North Korea's
situation and bellicosity.

Mr. Obama will be avidly promoting both the Trans-Pacific Partnership and the
Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership, although both the TPP and the
TTIP face grim prospects in the U.S. Congress, even if the foreign partners
agree, in a presidential election year with future Washington leadership sitting
on a melting political glacier.

A decent argument can be made that the rationale for the G-7 as a key economic
decision-making group has become seriously in question. Russia has been
expelled. China, the world's largest or second-largest economy, never was a
member. One of the topics confronting the Europeans and the United States is the
impending summer need for the extension of sanctions against Russia over Crimea
and Ukraine. France is apparently opposed. The United States wants to renew
them. There is also the pending question of G-7 countries' attitude toward
Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe's approach to moving Japan into a more active
military posture in the world.

Discussing these topics usefully without China and Russia present, seeking to
build some sort of consensus against them, is almost certainly pointless.

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              235 of 297 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            September 4, 2016 Sunday
                                TWO STAR EDITION

ASIA CENTRAL;
THE G-20 SUMMIT HIGHLIGHTS THE RISE OF CHINA

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. D-2

LENGTH: 452 words


President Barack Obama will represent the United States at the 11th summit of
the G-20 group of countries in Hangzhou, China, starting today, in what is
likely to be his last trip to Asia as president.

Mr. Obama hosted the G-20 summit here in Pittsburgh in 2009. Remember the horses
in the streets?

Apart from the official agenda, which tends to concentrate on economic and
financial issues, it will also be an opportunity for Mr. Obama to consult with
the top leaders of the world on a range of major issues of his and their choice.
Likely to be present will be, in addition to host President Xi Jinping of China,
German Chancellor Angela Merkel, Russian President Vladimir V. Putin, new
British Prime Minister Theresa May, French President Francois Hollande, Japanese
Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi, South Korean
President Park Geun-hye and - fresh from his enigmatic meeting with Republican
candidate for U.S. president Donald J. Trump - Mexican President Enrique Pena
Nieto.

A quick scan of who will be there indicates the sensitive topics that will be
discussed, mostly in private meetings, some one-on-one with only interpreters
present. Mr. Obama needs to discuss Syria and Ukraine with Mr. Putin, the
stalled Middle East Israel-Palestine peace process with Mr. Hollande, and North
Korean weapons-waving with Mr. Putin, Ms. Park, Mr. Abe and Mr. Xi.

Virtually all of the other leaders will seek from Mr. Obama cogent commentary on
the American presidential and congressional elections, with two months to go.
The American president will still be plugging his two international trade
agreements, the Trans-Pacific Partnership and the Transatlantic Trade and
Investment Partnership, and the leaders of America's possible partners in these
accords will be trying to figure out if the stakes that the two parties'
candidates and the U.S. Senate seem to have driven into the hearts of these two
agreements are permanent or temporary.

China will be showcasing itself in Hangzhou, population 7 million, as a global
leader, through its activities and ambitions in the South China Sea and through
its new Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank, seeking to rival the
Western-oriented World Bank and International Monetary Fund.

The summit will consider lofty topics such as the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable
Development, climate change and efforts to deal with the world refugee crisis,
but peacemaking in the world's pesky, evergreen wars - in Afghanistan, Iraq,
Libya, Somalia, Syria, Ukraine and Yemen - will have to be on the leaders'
agendas, given the resources and bloodshed involved.

Next year's G-20 summit is scheduled for Germany, July 7-8, not by chance just
before elections there.

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              236 of 297 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                           September 8, 2016 Thursday
                                 SOONER EDITION

REGARDING COLLEGE AND CAREERS, PROFITS ARE NOT PROPHETS

BYLINE: GREG KOCHANSKI / EMILY KOCHANSKI

SECTION: EDITORIAL; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR; Pg. A-10

LENGTH: 239 words


The great American public pays more attention to baseball players than
economists. In this case, that's exactly the right thing.

Economist Antony Davies and think-tanker James Harrigan argue that if taxpayers
foot the bill for college, taxpayers should decide who goes to college and what
they study (" 'Free' College? Strings Attached," Sept. 4 Perspectives). They say
we should look at starting salaries to decide what will be allowed and what
would be forbidden. Sounds reasonable?

Well, the great baseballer Yogi Berra once said, "It's tough to make
predictions, especially about the future." The problem is, a college education
sets your course for the next 30 years or more, and we don't believe that
taxpayers, economists or anyone really knows what kind of educated people we'll
need in 2047.

Messrs. Davies and Harrigan think we need more petroleum engineers, because
their 2015 starting salaries were very high. But many reasonable people might
think that in 30 years, we will need solar photovoltaic engineers, wind turbine
designers, self-driving bicycle engineers or therapists for artificial
intelligences instead.

And, maybe, part of the reason that petroleum engineer starting salaries are so
high is because anyone smart enough to become one understands that the future of
the industry is shadowed by climate change. Perhaps not the best career for
those looking toward the future?

GREG KOCHANSKI

EMILY KOCHANSKI

Squirrel Hill

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              245 of 297 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                           September 27, 2016 Tuesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

EUROPE IN KNOTS;
MIGRATION, BREXIT AND U.S. VOTE STYMIE STABILITY

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A-10

LENGTH: 402 words


September has revealed in Europe at least three phenomena that are evidence of
serious, if not tectonic, tremors in its general overall stability.

The first and most important of these is that efforts to deal with the ongoing
crisis created by migration have worked only middling well. Wars to the east of
Europe, including in Afghanistan, Iraq, Syria and Yemen, continue to produce a
flood of migrants westward into Europe that an agreement with Turkey has been
only partly effective in containing. The United States as well as the United
Kingdom and France continue to contribute to the continuation of the wars that
put migrants on the run.

In addition, the impact of efforts to stem migration from the east into Europe
has been undercut significantly by an increased flow of migrants across the
Mediterranean from the south, including from Libya and Somalia, where war also
continues to stimulate flight.

Another impact of the continuing migration problem, reinforced by the British
position on leaving the European Union voted for June 23, is that the EU has
divided on the migration issue, summed up in a "Bratislava vs. Brussels" lineup,
with the richer countries led by Germany accepting responsibility for dealing
with migration, while the smaller Eastern European countries want simply to lock
the door against migrants, from the east and the south.

This political position is gauged to have lain behind the poor performance of
the Christian Democratic Party of Germany's chancellor Angela Merkel in recent
state elections. Germany took in 1.1 million migrants last year and the
generally popular Ms. Merkel appears to be paying a price.

The current ambivalent position of the United Kingdom, having voted to leave the
EU but now, under new Prime Minister Theresa May showing no signs of urgency in
acting to actually walk out the door, is also leaving Europe in a stew. The
British appear to want to preserve access to the single EU market, while
avoiding the bonds of a common immigration policy.

The final stimulant of considerable confusion on that side of the Atlantic is
the American election situation. The outcome, they imagine, will make a
difference to them in terms of U.S. relations with Europe in the fields of
defense, trade, climate change and future coordination in many fields. They - as
many Americans - remain mystified and to a degree stoic in the face of what is
going on here in that area.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              246 of 297 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                          September 28, 2016 Wednesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

CLINTON WON THE DEBATE;
SHE GLOWED; HE GLOWERED. SHE KNEW A LOT; HE DIDN'T

BYLINE: Dan Simpson

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A-15

LENGTH: 870 words


Watching Monday night's presidential debate was a little like sitting in the
Pumpkin Patch on Halloween Eve without believing in the Great Pumpkin.

Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump are both obscenely rich; we aren't. Both are
driven to be president. With the possible exception of Ms. Clinton, both want
the job for the power and glory, not to do anything for us or the country. The
Commission on Presidential Debates, carefully presented as neutral, managed
nonetheless to exclude from the debates presidential candidates Gary Johnson of
the Libertarian Party and Jill Stein of the Green Party.

I am thoroughly familiar with the usually disruptive, unhelpful role of third
parties in American elections, but nonetheless regret that voices of those two
parties' candidates were absent. Mr. Johnson and Ms. Stein might have upped the
sometimes glossy meaninglessness of the dialogue between the former television
show host and the tightly scripted professional politician, neither of whom
seems to inspire much confidence in American voters.

That said, Ms. Clinton won. She was well informed and glowed. He glowered,
portrayed the United States as on the ropes and presented no clear view of what
he might do about it, except bring to the country the very questionable success
he has brought to his various business ventures.

Mr. Trump's continued reliance on his alleged success in business as showing his
potential for managing the country, and his America-first flag-waving
nationalism, jars shockingly with his continued refusal to release his income
tax records, for decades a universal practice among presidential candidates.
Apart from providing Ms. Clinton with a hole in his defensive political line big
enough to drive a truck through, his concealment of routinely disclosed
financial records causes the rest of us to wonder just what he is hiding. Maybe
he didn't pay any taxes? Maybe he has big investments in the Russian arms
industry? Maybe Chinese banks finance some of his enterprises?

It is impossible not to compare Ms. Clinton's broad knowledge of foreign
affairs, based on her four years as secretary of state, with Mr. Trump's
tasteless jabs at China and Mexico. She clearly gets the fact that Americans are
fed up with trade pacts that risk exporting American jobs, even though it was
her husband, as president, who signed the North American Free Trade Agreement.

Mr. Trump should not imagine that whomever is the next president won't have to
play ball with China. We owe the Chinese an estimated $2 trillion. Their banks
are judged now to be so over-leveraged as to be teetering on the edge of
provoking another global recession of the magnitude of the 2008 downturn that
America set off.

Mr. Trump's poking at Mexico is just stupid, anchored in his daft approach to
immigration. If the knives had really been out on Monday night, Ms. Clinton
should have asked him how many immigrants his hotels employ. Would he like to
pick the strawberries or artichokes in California himself?

I know Ms. Clinton was trying to avoid the savage-shrew image that probably
scares away male voters, particularly cheating ones, but she could have
annihilated Mr. Trump with more references to his ignorant approach to foreign
relations - NATO, China, Mexico and Russia, as examples.

It was remarkable that Mr. Trump didn't use the discussion of his clandestine
tax records to take a swing at Ms. Clinton on the varied foreign and domestic
contributions to the Clinton Foundation, including while she was secretary of
state. In the eyes of voters, the foundation, probably more than her email fun
and games, is probably a richer vein to mine among her weaknesses.

At the same time, her quasi-apology regarding her emails was, again,
unconvincing, drawn from the general Clinton strategy of don't admit faults, lie
if you think you can get away with it, and it depends on what the meaning of the
word"is" is. You'd think they would learn.

Lester Holt of NBC as moderator was a zero. Ms. Clinton babbled on. Mr. Trump
walked right over him. It was good, however, that Mr. Holt played no significant
role, which might have distracted from the main event: the candidates
themselves.

There were subjects that weren't seriously examined, such as economic inequality
and climate change. Nor did the necessity of international trade get a real
look. Or the necessity of a president sharing the Washington sandbox with
Congress. This leaves more grist for the mills of future debates.

I return to my hypothesis that Ms. Clinton won. Americans don't like to be told,
even if there is some truth to it, that our country is tanking, or that electing
as president the person who offers this analysis is the only way to avoid worse.
Mr. Trump claims that virtually all our companies are leaving, that America has
become a Third-World country. "Morning in America" and the "shining city upon a
hill" might have been dopey slogans, but they play better than Mr. Trump's "end
of the world unless you elect me" stuff.

I don't think the first debate will shift many votes. Nonetheless, it was useful
to have a look at the two candidates, even though "Monday Night Football" might
have been a more satisfying antidote to Sunday's slaughter of the Steelers.

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Dan Simpson, a former U.S. ambassador, is a Post-Gazette associate editor
(dsimpson@post-gazette.com, 412-263-1976).

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              256 of 297 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            October 23, 2016 Sunday
                               FIVE STAR EDITION

ON CUSP OF CHASE ELIMINATION, LOGANO PREFERS TO RACE FOR WIN

BYLINE: From wire dispatches

SECTION: SPORTS; AUTO RACING NOTEBOOK; Pg. C-10

LENGTH: 831 words


Joey Logano knows he is in the most precarious of positions heading to the Chase
elimination race at Talladega, tied for the eighth and final spot for advancing
to the next round of NASCAR's playoffs.

There are two clear strategies his Penske Racing team could employ.

The first is the relatively low-risk option: They could spend the entire race at
the unpredictable superspeedway spying on Austin Dillon, who is even with him in
points, and Denny Hamlin and Brad Keselowski, who are also within striking
distance, and ensure they get through on points.

The riskier option? Race to win, points be damned.

"That's the way I race. I don't know a different way," said Logano, whose
third-place finish behind Kevin Harvick and Carl Edwards Sunday at Kansas at
least made the points route possible.

"I'm sure we'll talk about it this week," Logano added, "but I'm a racer."

At least three Chase contenders don't have the same dilemma. Harvick and Jimmie
Johnson are already locked into the next round by virtue of their wins in the
first two stops of the round, and Chase Elliott's trouble for the second
consecutive week left him in a must-win situation.

The other nine drivers are much like Logano, racing to win but keeping a wary
eye on points.

"The big thing that swung everything around was Kevin winning. We would have
been in pretty good shape if he had finished second," Logano said. "It isn't
disappointing because we still should be proud of the effort we had, but it
would have meant a lot if he finished second."

That's because Harvick had problems of his own in the round at Charlotte, which
means even second place at Kansas would have put him squarely on the bubble
heading to Talladega.

Logano should at least have some confidence heading to the volatile
restrictor-plate track. After years of mostly terrible results, he won there to
complete a sweep of the entire round last fall.

Meanwhile, Dillon was third there earlier this year, Hamlin won there a couple
of years ago and Keselowski won for the fourth time there earlier this year.

"I don't think it's a must-win situation," said Keselowski, who spun into the
grass and tore up his car before finishing 38th at Kansas. "I'm not worried
about it. I'm going to go there and bust my butt to try to win, but I don't
think it's a must-win yet."

Matt Kenseth, Kyle Busch, Edwards and Kurt Busch are relatively safe after
steering clear of major trouble the last two rounds, and Martin Truex Jr. has a
13-point cushion over eighth place.

For each of them, winning at Talladega would be great. But they also know that
simply by staying out of trouble, their spot in the next round is virtually
assured.

"It's a what-have-you-done-for-me-lately sport and to a huge extreme with the
Chase now with this format," Truex said. "You've got to perform every single
week. You've got a bad week, it could ruin your whole season. ... We've just got
to go to Talladega and hope that nothing crazy happens."

Projecting downward

NASCAR is expected to have a tough time squeezing optimum value out of its next
Cup Series sponsor now that Sprint is moving on after the 2016 season.

CSM Sport & Entertainment CEO Zak Brown told USA TODAY Sports that the deal will
not be as lucrative as the previous one, given the current market climate.
Nextel signed a 10-year deal reportedly worth $750 million to become title
sponsor beginning in 2004. Sprint then signed a three-year extension through the
end of this season, but that came at a reduced rate of about $50 million in
rights and activations fees, according to Sports Business Daily.

So what price will be right in 2017? The answer should come within the next
month with an expected announcement.

"It all has to be at the right level and the right price," Kim Meesters, general
manager of the NASCAR Sprint Cup sponsorship, told USA TODAY Sports. "It all has
to be customized. That's why it takes so long to put this kind of deal
together."

Make your pick

NASCAR could take steps soon to limit Sprint Cup driver participation in lower
series, a point driven home after Kyle Busch won his ninth Xfinity Series race
of the year at Kansas. NASCAR executive vice president Steve O'Donnell was asked
about the dominance on SiriusXM NASCAR Radio this week and said something could
change in the rules by next year.

"We've heard the fans. It's interesting, it's been a balance throughout the
years," he said. "We have always had Sprint Cup drivers come into the Xfinity
Series and sometimes dominate.

"As the sport has evolved, one of the great things is we've got more of a fan
following in the Xfinity and Camping World Truck Series. They like seeing those
drivers come up through the ranks and it's our job to make sure that Xfinity is
where names are made."

NASCAR is already prohibiting any Sprint Cup driver who was in last year's Chase
from competing in this year's season finale for the Xfinity and Truck Series at
Homestead-Miami Speedway.

Of the 30 Xfinity races this season, 19 have been won by Sprint Cup regulars.

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Joey Logano

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              259 of 297 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                           October 27, 2016 Thursday
                                 SOONER EDITION

SANDERS VOWS TO PUSH HIS AGENDA IN  NEXT CONGRESS

BYLINE: Dan Majors, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. A-1

LENGTH: 911 words


As difficult as the 2016 presidential campaign has been for Democratic nominee
Hillary Clinton, it's possible that it will be nowhere near as tough as
accomplishing her goals, should she be elected Nov. 8.

Not only would Ms. Clinton have to work with a Congress still populated by
defiantly dedicated Republicans, but the progressive Democrats who pushed her so
hard during the primaries aren't just going to roll over for her.

Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders made that point in an interview with the Washington
Post in which he said he considers the goals of the Democratic platform, which
he helped shape during the party's July convention, to be promises that need to
be kept.

He said it will be his job "to demand that the Democratic Party implement that
platform."

Mr. Sanders told the Post he already is plotting legislation on proposals that
drove his surprisingly strong presidential run, including a $15 federal minimum
wage, tuition-free public college, ending "mass incarceration" and aggressive
steps to fight climate change.

He also wants to break up "too big to fail" banks and see Ms. Clinton appoint
liberals to key Cabinet positions, including treasury secretary. If he sees the
"same old, same old Wall Street guys" nominated to regulatory positions, he
said, "I will be vigorously in opposition, and I will make that very clear."

That's just fine with those who supported Mr. Sanders during the primaries.

"Absolutely, we expect her to follow through," said Brandon Evans, director of
Pennsylvania Working Families, the Philadelphia-based group that originally
endorsed Mr. Sanders. "Whether it's minimum wage, sick days, work around the
environment, all these things. Bernie was championing these issues that we had
long been working on. Then, post-primary and into the convention and to the
platform, we've endorsed Secretary Clinton because we believe she's more in line
with our values."

But how realistic is it for elected officials to dig in their heels?

Political parties have been spelling out their goals in platforms since the
Democrats nominated Martin Van Buren in 1840, but the wish lists are usually
pieced together by relatively like-minded people in convention cities far from
the rough reality of getting things done in Washington, D.C. Some presidents
have famously ignored or even opposed some of their own party's platform planks.

Progress, according to Terry Madonna, a pollster and political scientist at
Franklin & Marshall College in Lancaster, Pa., is born out of compromise.

"Different administrations have had varying amounts of success at accomplishing
their goals," Mr. Madonna said. "Some presidents have been pretty successful in
their first term. But Bill Clinton, for example, had a very rough first two
years. John Kennedy did practically nothing in the three years before he was
killed. Who implemented [his goals]? Lyndon Johnson, after he was elected in
1964. So in 1965 you get Medicare, Medicaid, voting rights.

"First, most presidents work hard. They do want to get their agendas passed.
But, No. 2, they have to pick and choose what items they can get through
Congress. And No. 3, do they control Congress or not?

"Bernie's going to push his agenda. But even if he gets some things through the
Senate - and you have to remember the 60-vote filibuster rule makes that
difficult - on what planet do you think the House of Representatives is going to
go for a $15 minimum wage, single-payer health care or free college education?
The Republican members, not only would they be in trouble in their own
districts, but they believe in opposing these things. "

It is unlikely that the winner of next month's election will be able to get
Congress to simply do his or her bidding.

"The problem is the deeply rooted polarization that exists," Mr. Madonna said.
"Members of Congress literally represent independent sovereign domains and don't
have to worry about anything outside their districts. They do what they want,
they reflect the will of their electorate, and they're doing exactly what the
people that elected them want them to do. There's no party pressure on them in
their districts.

"Compromise has become one of the nastiest words in the political dictionary.
This is the most ideologically split period we've seen probably since the 1930s.
Americans are deeply divided with each side having a very high unfavorable
opinion of the other."

Yet Mr. Sanders embraces the combative approach.

"It's not good enough for me, or anybody, to say, 'Well, look, Republicans
control the House: From Day 1, we're going to have to compromise,'" Mr. Sanders
told the Post. "The Democratic Party, before they start compromising, has got to
rally the American people around our ideas and make it clear that if Republicans
do not go along with reasonable ideas to benefit the middle class and the
working class, they are going to pay a very heavy political price."

Mr. Evans stressed that the elected representatives aren't alone in this battle.

"Voting is part of it, but as we take our agenda to the ballot box, we continue
to push," he said. "We know we have to support candidates down ballot, so we can
continue to push a progressive agenda.

"It's not like a football team handing the ball off and expecting one person to
do the job, in this case an elected official. It's not just one person's job and
you say, 'OK, here it is, you do it from here.' Sometimes, the ballcarrier gets
to the goal line and the team has to push him over the top."

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Dan Majors: dmajors@post-gazette.com and 412-263-1456.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Bernie Sanders\
PHOTO: Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images: Republican nominee Donald Trump, center
right, made the case at his newest hotel, the opening shown above, that voters
should look to his corporate record to see how well he'd run the U.S. \
PHOTO: Justin Sullivan/Getty Images: Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton, left,
shown in Florida, agreed, but not the way he meant it, attacking him for having
"stiffed American workers." \

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              262 of 297 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                           November 2, 2016 Wednesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

STRANGE RECIPE FOR SUCCESS;
RAVENS STIR 4-GAME SKID INTO MIX WITH RECENT DOMINATION ON THE FIELD

BYLINE: Ed Bouchette

SECTION: SPORTS; ON THE STEELERS; Pg. E-1

LENGTH: 752 words


The Baltimore Ravens have lost four consecutive games to fall to 3-4, the season
after they landed with a thump at 5-11. In other words, they have the Steelers
right where they want them.

"We are anticipating a rough-and-tumble game," Mike Tomlin said Tuesday. "One
that's kind of indicative of the history of these two teams."

The Steelers coach should hope it's not too indicative because the most recent
history of this rivalry has not been good for his team.

Of those five victories the Ravens managed last season, two came against the
Steelers, both upsets, both by three points. Those two losses kept the Steelers
from a top postseason seed and the bye and home playoff game that goes with it.

That gave Baltimore three victories in a row against their AFC North Division
rivals, five in the past six games and eight in the past 11, including a playoff
win at Heinz Field in the 2014 season.

The first setback last season occurred at Heinz Field when Josh Scobee missed
field goals from 49 and 41 yards and the Steelers lost in overtime, 23-20. The
second came in the 15th game when they lost to a decimated Ravens team that was
4-10 and playing Ryan Mallett at quarterback. That 20-17 defeat nearly knocked
them out of the playoff hunt.

Nevertheless, the Steelers today rest atop the AFC North at 4-3 and Baltimore
desperately needs a victory to make it a race again.

"It's going to be exciting football,'' Tomlin promised. "Control of the AFC
North is at stake."

Yes it is, and the two teams arrived at this point through losing streaks, the
Steelers' having dropped their past two. An off week for them prompted Tomlin to
declare, "It was a great week for us."

It beat their previous two weeks, that's for sure.

There might be nothing wrong with the Steelers or the Ravens that getting
injured players back won't cure. Baltimore has been hit with an inordinate
number of injuries for the second consecutive season. Quarterback Joe Flacco is
not on that list again after missing the first games of his nine-year career
when he played in just 10 last season, but he is off to one of his worst starts.

Through seven games, he has thrown five touchdown passes and six interceptions.
His passer rating of 75.4 would be the second lowest of his career if it stays
that low.

Nevertheless, Tomlin declared that for the Baltimore offense, "It's about Joe
Flacco and pressuring and containing him and dealing with the things he does
well. Quite frankly, he does just about everything well. His deep ball is still
very exceptional."

The problem for the Steelers comes in that need for pressure. Through seven
games, they have generated little on quarterbacks. Their eight sacks are at the
bottom of the NFL. Not coincidentally, their three interceptions are tied for
next-to-last in the league.

"It is a concern,'' Tomlin said. "Usually, it's interrelated to the pressure or
the lack of pressure. But, it's also related to opportunities or opportunities
missed, and we've missed some opportunities. We've had some significant plays
and balls in our hands that should've been interceptions that haven't been. And
we've got to make those plays. Oftentimes, they change the climate in football
games."

What might help the Steelers pass rush Sunday is that Baltimore not only starts
two rookies on the left side of their offensive line, but that injuries have
also crippled them. As a result, Flacco has been sacked 15 times and the Ravens'
run game is not up to snuff, which should come as a relief to a beleaguered
Steelers run defense.

Their secondary will have a familiar receiver to cover. Mike Wallace signed this
year with the Ravens. He is second on the team with 35 receptions and leads them
with 490 yards, a 14-yard average that is down from his years with the Steelers.

"You see him doing normal Mike Wallace things, in terms of stretching and
getting behind the defense," Tomlin said, "but you are also seeing him doing
some new things, some things that I haven't seen a lot of from Mike. Some
route-running things. Some underneath coverage attacking things."

But then, when Tomlin was asked what Wallace has gotten better at, he clarified
that "I'm not acknowledging he's gotten better at anything. I'm just
acknowledging you're seeing him do some things that I haven't seen teams he's
been on ask him to do."

Tomlin also will ask his players to do something Sunday they haven't done much
of over the past several years - beat the Baltimore Ravens.

NEXT

Game: Steelers vs. Baltimore Ravens, Baltimore

When: 1 p.m. Sunday

TV: KDKA

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Matt Freed/Post-Gazette: Sam Koch, left, congratulates Ravens
kicker Justin Tucker after beating the Steelers in their first meeting of 2015.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              264 of 297 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                           November 12, 2016 Saturday
                                 SOONER EDITION

HOW THE REPUBLICAN MAJORITY CAN SUCCEED

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A-6

LENGTH: 804 words


WASHINGTON

Donald Trump won fair and square and, as Hillary Clinton said in her concession
speech, is owed an open mind and a chance to lead. It is therefore incumbent
upon conservatives (like me) who have been highly critical of Mr. Trump to think
through how to make a success of the coming years of Republican rule.

It begins by recognizing Mr. Trump's remarkable political instincts. As Paul
Ryan noted in his morning-after olive-branch news conference, Mr. Trump heard "a
voice out in this country that no one else heard." Mr. Trump spoke to and for a
working class squeezed and ruined by rapid technological and economic
transformation.

One of the principal tasks for the now-dominant GOP is to craft a governing
agenda that actually alters their lives and prospects. In the end, it was this
constituency of those left behind by the new globalized digital economy that
delivered the presidency to Mr. Trump.

Nonetheless, this election was not just about the social/economic divide. It was
also about the ideological divide between left and right. The most overlooked
factor in the election is the continuing deep and widespread dissatisfaction
with Obamaism.

It tends to be overlooked because President Barack Obama remains personally
popular (56 percent in the latest Gallup). As a charismatic campaigner, whenever
his name is on the ballot, he wins. But when it's not - 2010, 2014, now 2016
-the Democrats get shellacked.

The reason is no mystery. The problem was never with Mr. Obama himself, but with
his policies. Before each of those losing elections Mr. Obama would campaign
saying that his name wasn't on the ballot but his policies -and now his legacy
-were. The voters made clear what they thought of his policies and legacy.

Simply put, from the beginning of his presidency, Mr. Obama overreached
ideologically, most spectacularly with his signature legislative achievement
-Obamacare. The spike in Obamacare premiums and deductibles just two weeks
before Tuesday's election proved a particularly damaging reminder of what
Obamaism had wrought.

Hence the other principal task for the now dominant GOP: Undo Obamaism. Begin
with canceling Mr. Obama's executive orders on everything from immigration to
climate change. Then overturn his more elaborate legislative adventures into
overweening liberalism, starting, of course, with Obamacare.

The promise of a Trump presidency is that, if it can successfully work with a
Republican Congress, it could turn Obamaism into a historical parenthesis.
Republicans would then have a chance to enact the Reaganite agenda that has been
incubating while in exile from the White House.

For years Washington gridlock has been attributed to GOP obstructionism. On the
contrary, serious legislation, such as Medicare reform passed by the GOP House,
was either strangled in the Senate by Democratic leader Harry Reid or died by
veto on President Obama's desk.

Beyond the undoing, there's now the prospect of doing. Serious border
enforcement, including a wall, for example. That's not only a good in itself, it
would offer leverage in a grand bargain that would include eventual legalization
of resident illegal immigrants, an idea supported (according to the exit polls)
by more than seven in 10 voters.

Another given is a reshaping of the currently rudderless Supreme Court with the
nomination of a conservative justice to replace the late Antonin Scalia.

During the campaign, Mr. Trump's populism often clashed with traditional
Reaganism. The key to GOP success is to try to achieve an accommodation, if not
a fusion. Two agendas: one ideological, one socioeconomic. They both need to be
addressed. Onto the Reaganite core of smaller government and strict
constitutionalism must be added a serious concern for the grievances of the
constituency that animated the Trump insurgency, the long-suffering,
long-neglected working class.

If Reaganite conservatives want to head off wrongheaded solutions -such as
massive tariffs, mercantilist economics and trade wars -they must be prepared to
accept such measures as federal wage subsidies and targeted restraints on trade.
This involves giving up a measure of economic efficiency. But the purpose is to
achieve a measure of social peace and restore dignity and security to a stressed
and sliding working class. Some might even call it compassionate conservatism.

The key to success for a Trump presidency is for the Reaganite and populist
elements in the party to be willing to advance each other's goals even at the
cost of ideological purity. This will require far-reaching negotiations between
a Trump White House and a GOP Congress. The Republicans have gained control of
all the political branches. They have the means to deliver. They now have to
show that they can.

Charles Krauthammer is a syndicated columnist for The Washington Post .

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              272 of 297 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                           November 2, 2016 Wednesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

UNSEASONABLE;
NOVEMBER TEMPERATURES FLIRT WITH RECORD HIGHS

BYLINE: Dan Majors, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. A-1

LENGTH: 415 words


This summer, when Dyani Sparks and her friends bought their tickets to see the
band The 1975 perform Nov. 1 at Stage AE, they decided they would camp out on
the North Shore sidewalk the day of the show. They would arrive at 4:30 a.m.
with a tent, blankets, sleeping bags, pizza and music to be among the first into
the general-admission venue.

Everything went as planned - except the weather was anything but November-like.

"I was praying for good weather," said Ms. Sparks, 19, of West Mifflin. "But
when we woke up at about 10 a.m. and it was so nice, I had to take my jacket
off."

According to Carl Erickson, a meteorologist with AccuWeather in State College,
Tuesday's high temperature peaked at 76, four degrees shy of the record set in
1950.

"That record was safe," Mr. Erickson said. "But [today], we'll come pretty close
to the record high of 78 from 1933. We may miss it by a degree or two, but we'll
certainly have a chance of at least tying that record."

Record or not, a temperature in the upper 70s in these parts in early November
is 20 degrees above normal.

John Darnley, a meteorologist with the National Weather Service at Pittsburgh,
was even more optimistic, predicting a record high of 79 degrees today.

"We're looking at pretty unseasonably warm temperatures. November is off to a
warm start," Mr. Darnley said.

That suited Ms. Sparks, a student at Community College of Allegheny County, and
her fellow concert-goers just fine.

"It's November and we're listening to Christmas music outdoors in our
shirtsleeves," she said. "I believe global warming is real and is an important
concern. But today it's working out for my benefit."

The actual reason for the unseasonable weather, the meteorologists said, is a
cold front sitting to Pittsburgh's west and a high-pressure system spinning
clockwise to our east. The result is warm air funneling up between them from the
Gulf of Mexico.

This comes on the heels of an October that was 3.9 degrees warmer than usual,
Mr. Erickson said.

"But like most warm stretches at this time of year, we expect it to be fairly
short-lived," he said. "Temperatures will gradually drop Thursday as the cold
front will be sweeping through, bringing clouds and showers. We're expecting
temperatures will be in the lower 60s Thursday morning. Then we expect the winds
to turn around from the northerly direction, bringing air down from Canada
highs. That will mean temperatures in the lower 50s Friday, which is actually
going to be lower than the average."

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Dan Majors: dmajors@post-gazette.com and 412-263-1456. / Karen Kane
contributed.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Darrell Sapp/Post-Gazette: Taking advantage of the warm weather,
Jackson Bridges of Los Angeles naps between classes Tuesday on a hammock near
the Donner House along Margaret Morrison Street in Oakland. Mr. Jackson, a
first-year student at Carnegie Mellon University and a visual arts major, said:
"It's always like this in LA."

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              283 of 297 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            January 10, 2016 Sunday
                               FIVE STAR EDITION

NEW DIRECTION FOR OLD - LINE FIRM;
AMPCO-PITT CEO USHERS IN SWEEPING CHANGES

BYLINE: Len Boselovic, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: BUSINESS; HEARD OFF THE STREET; Pg. G-1

LENGTH: 897 words


When former Calgon Carbon chairman, president and CEO John S. Stanik took over
as CEO of Ampco-Pittsburgh Corp. last January, he experienced a sense of deja
vu.

The Carnegie-based company, which makes steel rolls used to flatten steel the
way wooden rolls flatten dough, was underperforming, not growing and lacked a
strategic plan.

"It was a situation that was very similar to what I confronted at Calgon
Carbon," Mr. Stanik said.

He was named president and CEO of Calgon Carbon, a Moon environmental products
and services company, in 2003. Mr. Stanik, 62, retired from the company in 2012
to spend more time with his ailing wife. She died in July 2014 after a
seven-year battle with cancer.

A short time after her death, a recruiter asked if he was interested in taking
over at Ampco-Pitt, a low-profile enterprise controlled for a long time by the
Berkman family. Mr. Stanik said his record of reinvigorating Calgon Carbon
convinced Ampco-Pitt's directors to give him the job.

His arrival ushered in big changes at the old-line industrial company.

Headquarters were moved from the 46th floor of U.S. Steel Tower to the Carnegie
plant of Union Electric Steel, Ampco-Pitt's roll business. The move will save
about $750,000 annually, Mr. Stanik said.

A new labor agreement with workers at the Carnegie plant, who had been working
under a contract that expired in 2012, ushered in more changes, including
employee contributions for health care and replacement of the company's pension
plan with a 401(k) plan. A little more than 100 employees, about 3 percent of
the workforce worldwide, lost their jobs, he said.

Those and other measures will save $10 million annually, benefits that should be
fully realized by the end of the first quarter, Mr. Stanik said.

Mr. Stanik said one big difference between Ampco-Pitt and his former job was
that he had been with Calgon Carbon for 12 years before being named president
and CEO and making sweeping changes. At Ampco-Pitt, he was a newcomer
implementing culture-changing measures at a staid company where employee
turnover is low and the average employee is in his early 50s. In spite of that,
he said he was well- received.

"It made a big difference," Mr. Stanik said.

The biggest problem he faces is deteriorating conditions in the steel industry,
which accounts for about two-thirds of Ampco-Pitt's revenue. The rest comes from
the company's other products: heat exchangers, air handling systems and
specialty centrifugal pumps.

Global oversupply of steel - much of it from China - as well as China's economic
slowdown, are big reasons why Ampco-Pitt lost nearly $2 million in the first
nine months of last year. Sales fell 8 percent to $183.2 million. Consequently,
Ampco-Pitt's shares fell 47 percent last year and are currently selling for
about $10.

U.S. steel mills are operating at about 60 percent of capacity, which means less
demand for the 9,000- to 80,000-pound rolls that Union Electric sells primarily
to the steel industry. From the Carnegie plant, which heat treats the rolls to
harden them and finishes them, the output is sent to China, the Middle East,
Russia and other parts of the world.

Based on what steel producers and analysts are forecasting, Mr. Stanik does not
expect industry conditions to improve until the first half of 2017. He hopes to
stabilize the business before then with the $80 million acquisition of most of
the operations of Akers AB, a Swedish competitor. The deal was announced last
month.

Mr. Stanik said combining the world's top two roll producers will double Union
Electric's sales, give it a wider portfolio of products to sell, open new
geographic markets, and reduce headwinds the unit faced because of the strong
U.S. dollar.

He estimates it will take 15 to 18 months to realize all the synergies from the
acquisition, which is on track to close in the current quarter. But significant
benefits from the acquisition should be reflected in results six months after it
is completed, he said.

Mr. Stanik's plan includes using more of Union Electric's forging and casting
capabilities to sell specialty products to the oil, nuclear, defense and other
industries. He said the expansion will require virtually no capital expenditures
because the work can be done using Ampco-Pitt's current equipment. The company
started selling some new products to oil and gas producers two years ago.

"We see our capabilities going beyond the oil industry," Mr. Stanik said.

He is also doing something the old Ampco-Pitt rarely did: courting investors.
Mr. Stanik and other executives hosted a presentation in November for investors.
About a half dozen attended the New York meeting while another 30 or so tuned in
remotely, he said.

The Berkman family still owns about 14 percent of Ampco-Pitt's shares. Altor
Funds, the private equity fund that owns Akers, will own 16 to 17 percent of the
company following the cash-and-stock acquisition, according to Mr. Stanik.

The company's biggest investor is Mario Gabelli, whose various funds own 24
percent of Ampco-Pitt's shares. Mr. Gabelli purchased another 28,000 shares
during the third quarter, bringing his stake to 2.5 million shares.

Selling investors on a steel industry-dependent prospect during a severe slump
won't be an easy sell. But Mr. Stanik wants to change Ampco-Pitt's wallflower
image on Wall Street.

"You have to communicate and you have to communicate well," he said.

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Len Boselovic: lboselovic@post-gazette.com or 412-263-1941.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Nate Guidry/Post-Gazette: Ampco-Pitt CEO John Stanik inside his
office in Carnegie. \ \ PHOTO: Nate Guidry/Post-Gazette: Ampco-Pitt employee
Mike Gamrod of Carnegie polishes rolls before they are shipped to customers.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              285 of 297 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            February 5, 2016 Friday
                                 SOONER EDITION

FEED YOUR ADDICTION ON WORLD NUTELLA DAY WITH THIS CAKE

BYLINE: Gretchen McKay, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: FOOD; ONE GOOD RECIPE; Pg. D-1

LENGTH: 609 words


Chocolate-hazelnut spread lovers, it's time to rejoice.

Today is World Nutella Day, a global celebration of the famed lip-smacking,
finger-licking chocolatey goodness first whipped up by Italian pastry maker
Pietro Ferrero more than 40 years ago. So it's time to break out a jar of the
creamy spread that celebrates a nut that has been revered for centuries but was
made even more tasty (especially to kids) with the addition of sugar, milk,
vanilla and cocoa.

Crema di cacao e nocciole, as it's known in Italian, has been a staple in
European pantries for decades. It didn't make its way across the Atlantic until
the early 1980s, and only in the past decade has it come into its own as an
alternative to peanut butter.

Today the faithful will proclaim their love on social media and by sharing
pictures and recipes. (For ideas or to take part, go to nutelladay.com.) But
die-hards know that all you really need to celebrate is a spoon, or in my house,
a finger.

My kids and I aren't the only ones who love it: The Ferrero company each year
packs 400 million pounds of the spread into 1 billion glass and plastic jars and
single-serve packets, which is enough to cover the Great Wall of China eight
times. According to the magazine Mental Floss, one jar of Nutella is sold every
2.5 seconds throughout the world. (North America's Nutella is made in Canada.)

We offer one good, actually great, recipe to celebrate the day. And yes, you
have to share.

FLOURLESS NUTELLA CHOCOLATE CAKE

PG tested No, you don't need flour to make a really great cake. This chocolate
brownie-like cake with a crispy crust is so easy to make, and has just a handful
of ingredients: chocolate, butter, sugar, eggs and nearly an entire jar of
Nutella.

I used a 7-inch pan, so my cake was VERY tall, causing the crust to partially
collapse when it cooled. But it still was pretty darn awesome. Hazelnuts,
sometimes called filberts, are readily available at most grocery stores. (I was
too cheap to buy shelled hazelnuts, and so used a hammer to get to the nutty
insides.)

7 ounces unsalted butter, cut into chunks

3½ ounces dark chocolate, chopped

7 ounces Nutella

1 teaspoon instant coffee or espresso powder

3½ ounces sugar

6 eggs, separated

Butter and lightly coat a 9-inch springform pan with cocoa powder. Preheat the
oven to 350 degrees, move your baking rack to the lowest rung/place in the oven.

Melt butter and dark chocolate in a double-boiler or in the microwave until
smooth. If melting in a microwave, take out to stir every 30 seconds or so until
smooth. Remove from heat/microwave and add Nutella to the still-warm chocolate
mix and stir well, until incorporated completely with a small whisk or fork. Add
the instant coffee/espresso powder and mix.

Separate egg whites and egg yolks into two separate bowls. Add sugar to yolks,
and beat for 1 or 2 minutes with a hand mixer or a whisk. Add chocolate mixture
to egg yolks, and mix thoroughly.

Whisk egg whites until peaks start to form, tending toward stiffer peaks rather
than just soft peaks. Add to chocolate mixture, mixing by hand until fully
incorporated (this might take a few minutes) with a whisk.

Pour mixture into springform pan and place into the oven. Bake for 20 to 30
minutes. Test after 20 minutes to see how jiggly the center of the cake is (you
don't want the cake to be completely solid when finished but the center should
not sway when moved). Stick a toothpick in a few places to make sure it's cooked
through and clean.

Let cool at least 30 minutes before serving. Dust with powdered sugar and
garnish with chopped hazelnuts.

Serves 8.

-- Adapted from "The Unofficial Guide to Nutella" by Michelle Rabio and Sara
Rosso

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Gretchen McKay: gmckay@post-gazette.com, 412-263-1419 or on Twitter
@gtmckay.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gretchen McKay/Post-Gazette: See the recipe for Flourless
Nutella Chocolate Cake, Page D-3. \

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              296 of 297 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            November 13, 2016 Sunday
                               FIVE STAR EDITION

PURPLE REIGNS IN COLORS OF THE YEAR

BYLINE: Kevin Kirkland, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: LIFESTYLE; Pg. F-1

LENGTH: 573 words


Prince may be gone, but his favorite color is definitely not. Purple reigns in
the colors of the year selected by forecasters from three major paint makers.

Dee Schlotter, senior color marketing manager for PPG Paints, said Violet
Verbena, a grayish violet, was the unanimous choice of the company's color
forecasters. They liked its gender and age neutrality as well as its presence in
the natural world, from amethysts to outer space.

Pop culture moments like the death of Prince in April should draw consumers
toward the color purple over the next year, Ms. Schlotter said. This summer, the
company Big Chill launched a limited-edition collection of purple appliances.

Two of PPG's other brands also went with purple. Olympic Paints' Color of the
Year is Cloudberry, a soft violet that its forecasters say will help consumers
"escape the distractions of the outside world and find satisfaction in solace."
Glidden chose Byzantine Blue, which despite its name is a "playful yet peaceful
purple," according to a press release.

Sherwin-Williams, meanwhile, came up with shade that somehow brings together the
hot and cold parts of the color spectrum.

"Poised Taupe celebrates everything people love about cool gray as a neutral,
and also brings in the warmth of brown," says Sue Wadden, director of color
marketing. "Poised Taupe is a weathered, woodsy neutral bringing a sense of
coziness and harmony that people are seeking,"

In a recent homeowner survey, Sherwin-Williams researchers found that nearly 40
percent of respondents said they would like to incorporate warmer neutrals, such
as warm grays, taupes or beiges, into their home décor. Poised Taupe is drawn
from the company's Noir palette, one of four in its 2017 color forecast.

"Consumers yearn for spaces that feel welcoming and hug them as they enter," Ms.
Wadden says.

Benjamin Moore calls its color of the year, Shadow, "allusive and enigmatic - a
master of ambiance."

"It ebbs and flows with its surroundings, and light brings it to life," creative
director Ellen O'Neill says.

"Rich, royal amethyst can fade into the soft lilac-gray of distant mountains or
morph into lustrous coal. Indulge your mysterious side," the company suggests in
a press release.

But what goes into selecting colors of the year? Earlier this year, a group of
color forecasters from PPG Industries spent a week in a Manhattan conference
room littered with half-eaten lunches, water bottles, laptops and easels.

In addition to choosing PPG Paints' color of the year, the panel came up with
recommendations that will influence the colors and finishes we're likely to see
in 2017 on appliances, cars, phones, airplanes, paints, beverage cans, even
holiday ornaments. PPG makes paint, coatings and materials for industries
ranging from architecture and aerospace to automotive and consumer products.

"We draw inspiration from global influences," said Ms. Schlotter, who oversaw
the forecast session.

"Did a significant event take place this year, and are there colors that connect
with it, that capture the feelings it may have created?"

For instance, she said, "After 9/11, soft pink, a compassionate color, and
chocolate brown, a grounding color, bubbled to the surface in home décor because
they resonated with how people were feeling at the time."

A few years later, grays became popular and dominated the neutrals category, she
said, "because with the state of the economy and of the world, the hue felt
right."

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Kim Cook of the Associated Press contributed the PPG Paints parts of this
story.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The PPG Paints 2017 Color of the Year is Violet Verbena. \ \
PHOTO: Poised Taupe is Sherwin-Williams' 2017 Color of the Year. \ \ PHOTO:
Byzantine Blue is Glidden's 2017 Color of the Year. \

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              297 of 297 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            December 18, 2016 Sunday
                                TWO STAR EDITION

CAR BOMB KILLS 13 IN TURKEY

BYLINE: Compiled from news services

SECTION: WORLD; WORLD BRIEFS; Pg. A-4

LENGTH: 552 words


KAYSERI, Turkey - A car bomb detonated next to a bus carrying off-duty soldiers,
killing 13 people in central Turkey a week after a major attack on security
forces in Istanbul.

Eight of the 13 have been identified, Interior Minister Suleyman Soylu said. The
attack wounded 55, six of them gravely, he said.

The bomb exploded at 8:45 a.m. on Saturday, just as a bus carrying military
personnel about to begin their weekend leave paused at a traffic light in the
central Anatolian city of Kayseri. Prime Minister Binali Yildirim said the
incident was a "terrorist attack" carried out by a suicide bomber, and his
deputy Numan Kurtulmus later said early evidence points to the involvement of
the Kurdish Workers' Party, or PKK.

Poland crisis escalates

WARSAW, Poland - Poland's political crisis escalated as protests over curbs on
media freedom have led to tumultuous scenes at parliament since Friday night.

Police forcibly removed demonstrators blocking exit routes from the legislature,
while inside the chamber, opposition lawmakers delayed proceedings by refusing
to yield the podium. Rallies continued Saturday as hundreds took to the streets
of Warsaw and other cities.

The Law & Justice party has been accused by the European Commission of eroding
the rule of law and its power grab triggered Poland's first-ever credit
downgrade by S&P Global Ratings. Lawmakers passed new curbs on public gatherings
this week and plan to overhaul non-governmental organizations and to limit
reporting in parliament.

Glacier melting from below

Scientists on Friday published a set of unprecedented ocean observations near
the largest glacier of the largest ice sheet in the world: Totten glacier, East
Antarctica. And the result was a confirmation of what scientists already
feared-Totten is melting from below.

The measurements affirmed that warm ocean water is flowing in toward the glacier
at the rate of 220,000 cubic meters per second.

These waters, the paper asserts, are causing the ice shelf to lose between 63
billion and 80 billion tons of its mass to the ocean per year.

This matters because its entire "catchment," or the region of ice that flows
outward through Totten glacier and its ice shelf, is larger than California. If
all of this ice were to end up in the ocean, seas would raise by about 11.5
feet.

5 women shot, killed

KANDAHAR, Afghanistan - Gunmen opened fire on a van carrying female airport
employees Saturday, killing five women and their male driver, officials said.

The Afghan government has been struggling to expand opportunities for women in
the workforce, but that effort has been hampered by strict conservative customs
about the role of women in society and security threats posed by the conflict
with the Taliban.

Samim Khapalwak, a spokesman for the governor of Kandahar, said two men on
motorcycles stopped the van and fired on its occupants around 6:30 a.m.

Afghan leader accused

KABUL, Afghanistan - The office of Afghanistan's attorney general said on
Saturday it opened an investigation into allegations that the country's vice
president had tortured and sexually abused a political rival.

The vice president, Gen. Abdul Rashid Dostum, was accused of abducting his
rival, Ahmad Ishchi, 63, at a sports event last month. Mr. Ishchi says he was
beaten and then penetrated with the tip of an AK-47 rifle.

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 P.G. Publishing Co.
