
                              24 of 580 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                             June 6, 2009 Saturday
                                 SOONER EDITION

RAPID RISE IN SEA LEVELS ON EAST COAST PREDICTED

BYLINE: David A. Fahrenthold, The Washington Post

SECTION: HEALTH, SCIENCE, MEDICINE AND TECHNOLOGY; Pg. A-3

LENGTH: 916 words


WASHINGTON -- Sea levels could rise faster along the U.S. East Coast than in any
other densely populated part of the world, new research shows, as changes in ice
caps and ocean currents push water toward a shoreline inlaid with cities, resort
boardwalks and gem-rare habitats.

Three studies this year, including one out last week, have made newly worrisome
forecasts about life along the Atlantic over the next century. While the rest of
the world might see 7 to 23 inches of sea-level rise by 2100, the studies show
this region might get that and more -- 17 to 25 inches more -- for a total
increase that would submerge a beach chair.

Might.

Scientists say the information comes from computer models, which could be wrong.
And the mid-Atlantic region's ample high ground means it will probably never be
as vulnerable as Louisiana and Florida.

But some are already sketching a new vision for the East Coast, as a region
under siege by the ocean. In the coming decades, they say, it will probably be
necessary to spend heavily to defend some waterside places -- and to make hard
choices about where to let the sea win.

"There will probably be some very difficult decisions that have to be made,"
said Rob Thieler, a scientist with the U.S. Geological Survey. "Are there places
where we should simply retreat because the cost of holding the line is
unacceptably high?"

Researchers say rising seas are one of the most tangible consequences of a
changing climate. They rise because they are warming, expanding in volume like a
highway bridge on a summer day. And they rise because they are filling up, fed
by melting ice.

In the 20th century, global seas rose about 0.07 inches per year -- a steady
climb up tide gauges, even as the world debated the existence and the science of
climate change.

"It doesn't matter who's causing global warming. Sea-level rise is something we
can measure," said Rob Young, a geosciences professor at Western Carolina
University. "You can't argue that sea level isn't rising."

And it has been rising faster in the mid-Atlantic because the land here is
sinking.

Understanding this phenomenon requires thinking of the Earth as an enormous
balloon. Push down in one spot on the ball's surface and surrounding areas are
raised up. Glaciers did this to Earth's surface during the last ice age: They
pressed down on northern North America and areas to the south tilted up, like
the other end of a seesaw. Today, thousands of years after the glaciers
retreated, the seesaw is tipping back the other way, and the region from New
York to North Carolina is falling about 6 inches per century.

Researchers are finding that climate change could bring new bad luck by
untracking a system of ocean currents that performs the astounding feat of
keeping the sea here below the average sea level.

They say it works like this: Warm water from the south Atlantic flows north
along the coast, cools off and sinks. That sinking happens on such a vast scale
that the Atlantic's surface is lower here, a depression in the ocean 28 inches
deep. But two new studies have shown that climate change could make northern
waters warmer and could dump a disruptive flood of freshwater from melting
glaciers in Greenland.

"You're getting less sinking, because [freshwater] is less heavy, it doesn't
sink as much. That kind of slows down this whole conveyor- belt thing," said
Gerald Meehl, a scientist at the National Center for Atmospheric Research in
Colorado whose study of this phenomenon came out last week.

"You'd get an additional one or two feet over this global sea-level rise" along
parts of the coast, Dr. Meehl said, an effect that would be strongest in the
Northeast.

Another study last month found a threat from a Texas-size ice sheet in
Antarctica. If it broke off and melted, the shift of mass from pole to ocean
would change both Earth's gravitational field and its rotation.

The result? Still more water would slosh to the U.S. Atlantic Coast, along with
the Pacific Coast. But in this case, it would probably not happen for centuries.

Scientists concede that these predictions could be flawed or flat wrong.

Even if they are right, New York still isn't in the same danger as New Orleans.
Even a yard of sea-level rise, they say, would not put any major East Coast
cities underwater. But higher waters would mean bigger storm surges, a greater
chance of flooding on rivers such as the Potomac or the Patapsco in Baltimore.

It could be a much bigger problem for barrier islands and marshes, which are
typically just a few inches above the water. Even before the recent research
forecast accelerating rise, Blackwater National Wildlife Refuge -- a rare, vast
marsh on Maryland's Eastern Shore -- was predicted to become mainly open water
by 2030.

Rural areas along the water might have to be abandoned, said Environmental
Protection Agency official James Titus. On Maryland's Eastern Shore, for
instance, rising seas could eat up large sections of marshy Dorchester County.

A more uncertain fate awaits such places as Assateague Island, a celebrated
nature preserve, or the Maryland and Delaware beach resorts. They sit on barrier
islands, just a few feet above the water.

"If these sea-level-rise numbers ... come to pass, then I think it's pretty much
a certainty" that these resorts would be abandoned, said Dr. Young, of Western
Carolina University. "We're going to be spending so much money protecting
metropolitan areas that it's hard to imagine we'd have enough left over to
protect resort communities."

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              44 of 580 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                            December 27, 2009 Sunday
                                TWO STAR EDITION

CLIMATE CALAMITY;
OBAMA AGAIN COMES HOME EMPTY-HANDED FROM COPENHAGEN

BYLINE: JACK KELLY

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. B-3

LENGTH: 691 words


He came, he saw, he disappointed," wrote Mark Hertsgaard of Vanity Fair of
President Barack Obama's visit to the U.N. summit on climate change in
Copenhagen.

Mr. Obama had to leave the summit early because what turned out to be the
biggest blizzard since 1932 was bearing down on Washington. Before boarding Air
Force One, the president hailed an "accord" worked out among the United States,
China, India, Brazil and South Africa as an "unprecedented breakthrough."

Both global warmists and skeptics knew it was neither.

The nonbinding agreement set a goal of holding global temperature increases to
no more than 2 degrees Celsius by 2050, but didn't say how. It sorta kinda
pledged from rich countries $100 billion a year (by 2020) to help poor nations
adapt to climate change -- but didn't say who would pay how much, or who would
get the money and under what conditions.

The German magazine Der Spiegel described the deal as "limpid," and declared
that "Copenhagen was an all-out failure."

"This toothless declaration, being spun by the United States as a historic
success, reflects contempt for the multilateral process and we expect more from
our Nobel Prize-winning president," said Kate Horner of Friends of the Earth.

"This deal ... is nothing short of climate change skepticism in action," said
Lumumba Di-Aping, chief negotiator for the Group of 77 developing nations.

Those skeptical of the theory of anthropogenic global warming happily agreed.

"The whole exercise looks more and more like the Woody Allen joke about trying
to find a framework to turn a concept into an idea," said Steven Hayward of the
American Enterprise Institute.

That Copenhagen would fail was a foregone conclusion because neither China, the
world's largest emitter of carbon dioxide, nor India would agree to restrictions
on CO2 emissions which would cripple their economies.

But apparently nobody told that to Mr. Obama, who violated once again the first
rule of summits: Heads of state don't show up unless a deal is in place.

You'd think Mr. Obama would have learned that from his last visit to Copenhagen.
He went there in October to win the 2016 Olympics for Chicago and came home with
empty hands and egg on his face.

In Copenhagen this time, the president undermined both his own reputation and
the slim prospects a meaningful agreement could be reached.

Mr. Hertsgaard described the president's speech to the delegates from 192
nations as "surprisingly lackluster."

"Obama's speech disappoints and fuels frustration in Copenhagen," said the
Guardian, a left-wing British newspaper.

"His eight minutes of remarks signaled a global train wreck," said David Corn of
Mother Jones magazine.

Mr. Obama was a loser in Copenhagen. So were the greenies who wanted a binding
agreement.

"I expect 20 or 30 years from now, environmentalists will look back on global
warming as the issue that ate their movement alive, and Copenhagen as the
turning point," Mr. Hayward said.

But the biggest loser was the United Nations.

"Copenhagen was the last-chance saloon not for the planet, which does not need
saving, but for the U.N.'s world-government wannabes," said Lord Christopher
Monckton. "The eco-Nazis' attempt at a global coup d'etat has failed, and no
such attempt is likely to succeed again."

Viscount Monckton is a prominent skeptic of man-made climate change. But his
conclusion was shared by many true believers.

"The best chances of reining in emissions of greenhouse gases and avoiding
dangerous climate change is to stamp a big green R.I.P. over the sprawling U.N.
process that the Copenhagen talks were part of," wrote Sharon Begley, science
reporter for Newsweek.

"The chaotic Copenhagen summit showed up the United Nation's shortcomings more
clearly than ever," agreed Der Spiegel.

"The U.N. process can no longer be the central focus of global efforts to
confront climate change," wrote Michael Levi in the liberal Webzine Slate.

Both Ms. Begley and Der Spiegel recommended following an approach of voluntary
regional accords first proposed by George W. Bush, an approach also favored by
Harvard economist Robert Stavins.

For Mr. Obama, that had to be the unkindest cut of all.

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Jack Kelly is a columnist for the Post-Gazette and The (Toledo) Blade
(jkelly@post-gazette.com, 412 263-1476)./

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              47 of 580 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                              June 7, 2009 Sunday
                               FIVE STAR EDITION

AN ANSWER TO CLIMATE CHANGE?;
CRITICS FEAR THAT POORLY REGULATED CARBON OFFSETS COULD BE A
GET-OUT-OF-JAIL-FREE CARD TO POLLUTERS.

BYLINE: Margot Roosevelt, Los Angeles Times

SECTION: HEALTH, SCIENCE, MEDICINE AND TECHNOLOGY; Pg. A-7

LENGTH: 1328 words


ARCATA, Calif.

Silvery light flickers through the canopy of the Van Eck forest down to a
fragrant carpet of needles and thimbleberry brush. A brook splashes along
polished stones, through thickets of ferns.

How lush. How lovely. How lucrative.

This 2,200-acre spread in Humboldt County does well by doing good. For the past
four years, Van Eck's foresters restricted logging, allowing trees to do what
trees do: absorb carbon dioxide from the atmosphere. The conservation foundation
that oversees the forest then calculated that carbon bonus and sold it for $2
million to individuals and companies trying to offset some 185,000 metric tons
of their greenhouse gas emissions.

"Forests can be managed like a long-term carbon bank," said Laurie Wayburn,
president of the Pacific Forest Trust, a San Francisco-based nonprofit that
oversees Van Eck. Selling offsets, she said, is like "writing checks on the
account."

In the struggle over how to address climate change nationally and globally,
forests play a major role. "Cap-and-trade" programs set limits on greenhouse
gases and allow industries to trade emissions permits among themselves. And they
can include provisions for offsetting heat-trapping pollution by investing in
woodlands.

Offsets are poised for explosive growth. In the next two years, California is
expected to roll out a statewide carbon market that might be expanded to other
Western states. Nationally, climate legislation recently approved by a key
congressional committee would allow U.S. industries to use offsets worth up to 2
billion metric tons of carbon dioxide, part of which could come from forest
projects here and abroad.

A new climate treaty scheduled to be signed in Denmark in December might allow
industrial countries to offset emissions with forest-saving projects in Brazil,
Indonesia and other developing nations.

But the carbon commodity business is controversial. Critics fear that poorly
regulated offsets could hand a get-out-of-jail-free card to heavy polluters.
Should a coal-fired power plant in Nevada avoid slashing carbon dioxide
emissions by paying to preserve trees in Oregon? Is this a complex trading
scheme ripe for fraud?

To create trustworthy offsets, California's Air Resources Board two years ago
set up the nation's first government-sponsored system to quantify and verify
carbon. Those rules are being rewritten for possible use by other states.

"Companies having a hard time meeting their carbon emission limits may want to
invest in forestry as a way to cut costs," said Mary D. Nichols, the board's
chairwoman. "We have hundreds of thousands of acres of forests that can play a
role in helping us to prevent global warming."

Forests are central to Earth's climate because, like oceans, they are a carbon
"sink." Through photosynthesis, trees absorb carbon dioxide, the principal
greenhouse gas that is heating the planet's atmosphere. Allowing trees to grow
larger before logging increases the carbon stored in a forest. So do widening
the forested buffers along streams and clearing out underbrush to allow more
space for trees. Reforesting areas abandoned to brush or destroyed by wildfire
would also greatly boost carbon stock.

"California leads the world with regard to the role of forests in combating
climate change," said Chris Kelly, California director for the Conservation
Fund, a Virginia-based nonprofit that has sold offsets from Mendocino County
preserves. "I just had an inquiry from a Canadian buyer who's expecting Canada
to move in the direction set by California."

But so far, big timber operators, including Sierra Pacific Industries and Green
Diamond Resource Co., have yet to enroll in California's offsets program.
Current standards require owners to agree to a permanent conservation easement,
a legal agreement that would guarantee carbon-storage measures in perpetuity.
Companies have found that too onerous, and as a result only a handful of
woodlands have registered, mainly those managed by conservation groups.

For the past 18 months, members of a task force of environmentalists, timber
operators and state officials have been locked in negotiations to revise the
rules. The new draft, to go before the Air Resources Board soon, substitutes a
100-year contract for the easement, thus allowing development after a century.
It also clarifies rules for companies to quantify and verify carbon.

At least one environmental group is uncomfortable with the changes. "By removing
the easement, you leave the system open to gaming," said Brian Nowicki, a forest
specialist with the Center for Biological Diversity. "The timber industry wants
'business as usual' practices, like clear-cutting, to qualify for carbon
credit."

But groups represented on the task force, including the Environmental Defense
Fund, the Nature Conservancy and Pacific Forest Trust, say that century-long
contracts and strict accounting rules will guarantee that offsets will be
granted only if additional carbon is stored above and beyond conventional forest
practices. David Bischel, president of the California Forestry Association, the
industry trade group, said he expects more landowners to sign up but cautions,
"It is an opportunity in its infancy: When you add up the numbers, it is not a
huge source of revenue."

Nonetheless, he estimates that the state's 14 million acres of private
timberland could be managed to sequester twice as much carbon as they do now.
And he praises conservationists for acknowledging the need for working forests:
"We've moved on from the old timber wars. This is a win-win."

Among the first companies to jump into the forest carbon market was Pacific Gas
& Electric, Northern California's biggest utility. Its "Climate Smart" program
offers customers the chance to pay a tax-deductible surcharge on their bills,
averaging $5, to offset electricity use. In two years, 30,400 customers have
bought 214,000 metric tons of greenhouse gas reductions -- the emissions
equivalent of taking 43,000 cars off the road for one year.

At Van Eck, politicians were among the first purchasers: California Gov. Arnold
Schwarzenegger and House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, both seeking to offset air
travel.

Federal forests, which account for more than half of the state's woodlands, are
not being considered for trading schemes, although officials are studying how to
increase their carbon sequestration. A U.S. Forest Service program invites
individuals to offset their carbon footprint by donating to a Carbon Capital
Fund to pay for tree-planting.

Over the next few decades, however, the state's new standards could allow timber
companies to market at least 13 million metric tons of carbon dioxide offsets
from private lands, according to the Air Resources Board.

Forest owners can earn far more by full-scale logging or selling to developers.
But if offset values rise under mandatory climate regulations, they could offer
a counterweight to development pressure. The U.S. annually loses an estimated
1.5 million acres of private forest to urban sprawl.

Wedged between a gated community and a tract that shows the ragged remains of
clear-cuts, Van Eck is a micromanaged woodland laboratory. "The biggest cost of
meeting carbon rules is labor," said Wayburn, the Pacific Forest Trust's
president. "You have to crawl over the logs, estimate the carbon by measuring
the butt end, and do detailed inventories."

Between giant stumps of redwoods felled in the 19th century, Van Eck's foresters
paint turquoise rings around trees slated for cutting.

"We're re-creating a mature forest," she said. "We will leave some trees to get
600 years old. But we're also thinning over time because wider spacing leads to
an older forest. If you don't harvest at all, you can't restore very well. Fire
comes in. Pests and invasive species come in."

Whether California's forests can be recruited to wage a climate war is linked to
the eventual price of offsets. And the price that companies will pay depends on
the credibility of the offset.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Pacific Forest Trust: Conservation forester John Nickerson
prepares to calculate Van Eck forest's baseline carbon inventory

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              57 of 580 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                           September 22, 2009 Tuesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

COAL CANNOT BE CLEAN;
IT'S A DIRTY BUSINESS FROM START TO FINISH

BYLINE: Robert F. Kennedy Jr.

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. B-7

LENGTH: 883 words


The G-20 summit is coming to Pittsburgh this week because, in President Barack
Obama's words, the city stands as a "bold example" of how to succeed in
"transitioning to a 21st-century economy." So it's a sad irony that the
International Pittsburgh Coal Conference is being held at the same time.

While world leaders will gather at the G-20 summit to consider the way forward
for the global economy, the coal conference, in its misguided promotion of coal
as a clean and sustainable energy source, is pointing America and the world in
the opposite direction.

The simple truth is that, from cradle to grave, coal is inherently filthy; the
environmentally responsible use of coal is impossible. The coal industry is
attempting to put a pretty face on coal through glossy multi-million-dollar
advertising campaigns promoting the lie that coal is not only clean and green,
it's also red, white and blue. But coal is neither responsible nor patriotic.

Coal industry lobbyists are quietly working the halls of Congress, outwardly
promoting the coal industry's attempts to "clean up" while trying to ensure that
any climate-change legislation protects their dirty ways. And they're doing this
at a time when the United States urgently needs to address global climate change
and the critical role played by our continued addiction to coal.

Southwestern Pennsylvania is home to four of the 50 dirtiest coal plants in the
United States, including the Bruce Mansfield plant, 25 miles upwind from
Downtown Pittsburgh. But coal's damage to the region is far greater than the
pollution from these coal plants.

Longwall mining in southwestern Pennsylvania literally undermines homes,
transportation networks and waterways, destroying streams, structures and water
supplies and creating an enormous tax burden on Pennsylvania citizens. Strip
mining destroys ecologically valuable headwater streams and causes blasting
damage to homes and structures. It also contaminates drinking-water supplies,
often with heavy metals. Abandoned mine drainage continues to foul more than
4,000 miles of Pennsylvania streams, rendering many biologically dead.

Then there's the growing crisis of coal-ash storage and disposal.

A recent failure of a coal-ash impoundment in Tennessee released 1.1 billion
gallons of slurry into an adjoining community and into the Emory and Clinch
rivers. Contamination from an impoundment near Pittsburgh called "Little Blue"
has been detected at groundwater monitoring wells in the area. Little Blue is 30
times larger than the Tennessee impoundment, and a potential breach could
threaten the health and lives of 50,000 people. The National Inventory of Dams
gives this facility a "high hazard" rating.

Even if we could reduce toxic emissions from coal-fired power plants -- and
that's a big if -- coal mining and waste disposal are unavoidably destructive to
the environment. Though the International Pittsburgh Coal Conference is touting
industry efforts to clean up coal-fired power, there is no clean way to extract
coal or dispose of coal waste.

And while coal is filthy from an environmental standpoint, the industry also
plays very dirty politics, lobbying hard to prevent Congress from passing a true
clean-energy jobs plan. This was made evident this past July when it was
discovered that letters forged by lobbyists to misrepresent community
organizations' positions on the American Clean Energy and Security Act (ACES)
were sent to several members of Congress, including Pennsylvania Reps. Kathy
Dahlkemper and Chris Carney.

Dirty politics aside, the U.S. House of Representatives' recent passage of the
ACES was a step in the right direction. But it does contain one major loophole
that stands in the way of an economy truly based on clean energy.

ACES, as currently written, does not adequately address carbon-dioxide emissions
spewing from hundreds of existing coal plants across the country -- plants that
contribute over 30 percent of our nation's climate-changing greenhouse gases.
Allowing existing plants to escape regulation encourages the expansion of these
dirty plants, effectively increasing emissions and undercutting the purpose of
the clean-energy act.

The Senate can take several measures to strengthen clean-energy legislation.

First, the dirtiest sources of pollution should be cleaned up. According to the
House bill, only plants permitted after Jan. 1, 2009 would be subject to
performance standards -- giving older, dirtier plants a license for lifetime
pollution.

Second, energy-efficiency and renewable-energy standards should be improved,
eliminating loopholes in the House legislation, to encourage the creation of
additional clean energy jobs.

Third, more money should be invested in clean-energy opportunities that would
help protect us against the impacts of global climate change.

These measures would help our nation begin the transition away from coal toward
cleaner forms of energy generation and would lessen the burden on citizens in
vulnerable Pennsylvania coalfield communities.

Instead of creating additional loopholes that allow for continued coal
pollution, the Senate should ensure that any climate-change or clean-energy
legislation does more to build a true clean-energy economy -- and frees our
country from the coal industry's dirty business-as-usual tactics.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Robert F. Kennedy Jr. is the president of the Waterkeeper Alliance and a
professor at Pace Law School. Alliance affiliates in southwestern Pennsylvania
are Youghiogheny Riverkeeper and the Three Rivers Waterkeeper./

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              61 of 580 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                          December 16, 2009 Wednesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

DEAL TO SAVE FORESTS NEAR?;
EXPECTED ACCORD SEEN AS MOST SIGNIFICANT ACHIEVEMENT OF CLIMATE TALKS

BYLINE: Elisabeth Rosenthal, The New York Times

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. A-4

LENGTH: 524 words


COPENHAGEN -- Negotiators have all but completed a sweeping deal that would
compensate countries for preserving forests and, in some cases, other natural
landscapes like peat soils, swamps and fields that play a crucial role in
curbing climate change.

Environmental groups have long advocated such a compensation program because
forests are efficient absorbers of carbon dioxide, the primary heat-trapping gas
linked to global warming. Rain forest destruction, which releases the carbon
dioxide stored in trees, is estimated to account for 20 percent of greenhouse
gas emissions globally.

The agreement for the program, if signed as expected, may turn out to be the
most significant achievement to come out of the Copenhagen climate talks,
providing a system through which countries can be paid for conserving
disappearing natural assets based on their contribution to reducing emissions.

A final draft of the agreement for the compensation program -- called Reducing
Emissions from Deforestation and Forest Degradation, or REDD -- is to be given
today to ministers of the nearly 200 countries gathered to hammer out a
framework for a global climate treaty.

Negotiators and other participants said that though some details remained to be
worked out, all major points of discord -- how to address the rights of
indigenous people living on forest land and what is defined as forest, for
example -- had been resolved through compromise.

A final pact on the program may not be announced until the end of the week, when
President Barack Obama and other world leaders arrive -- in part because there
has been so little progress on other issues at the climate summit, sponsored by
the United Nations. "It is likely to be the most concrete thing that comes out
of Copenhagen -- and it is a very big thing," said Fred Krupp, head of the
Environmental Defense Fund.

For poorer countries, the payments will provide a much-needed new income stream.
For richer nations, the lure of the program is not cash, but instead carbon
credits that can be used to cancel out, in part, their industrial emissions
under a carbon trading system -- like the cap-and-trade plan currently under
consideration by Congress.

Forests "have become a pot of money or a get-out-of-jail-free card," said Peg
Putt, a consultant to the Wilderness Society. "Either way, there's the prospect
of financial benefit now, as opposed to just being told, 'Do the right thing,'
like it was two years ago."

The new plan represents an important shift from earlier U.N. climate programs,
like the 1997 Kyoto Protocol, in which countries committed to curbing their
industrial emissions but got no credit for reducing emissions through changes in
land use.

The agreement is also being closely watched in the U.S. Congress, where climate
legislation passed the House in June and is currently stalled in the Senate.
Under the cap-and-trade system preferred by Democratic leaders and the Obama
administration, companies that cannot meet their greenhouse gas pollution limit
could buy extra permits by investing in carbon-reduction programs abroad.

Plans to preserve forests under REDD presumably would qualify.

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Chris Ratcliffe/Bloomberg: Britain's Prince Charles applauds
during the opening ceremony of the high-level segment of the COP15 United
Nations Climate Change Conference yesterday in Copenhagen.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              74 of 580 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                            December 18, 2009 Friday
                                 SOONER EDITION

CLIMATE ACCORD PROGRESSES;
U.S., CHINA MAKE SUDDEN CONCESSIONS TO LIFT HOPES OF AN AGREEMENT

BYLINE: Arthur Max, The Associated Press

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. A-1

LENGTH: 843 words


COPENHAGEN -- Large pieces of a climate deal fell into place yesterday with new
offers from the U.S. and China, but other tough issues remained before President
Barack Obama and other leaders can sign off on a political accord to contain the
threat of an overheated world.

An announcement by Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton that the United
States would contribute to a climate change fund amounting to $100 billion a
year by 2020 was quickly followed by an offer from China to open its books on
carbon emissions to international review.

The U.S. delegation did not immediately react to the offer by Vice Foreign
Minister He Yafei. But it went a long way toward the U.S. demand that China
report on its actions to limit the growth of Beijing's carbon emissions and
allow experts to go over its data.

The sudden concessions on the eve of today's final session lifted hopes that the
193-nation conference could reach a framework agreement that could be refined
into a legal accord next year on limiting greenhouse gas emissions and fighting
climate change.

Mr. Obama and Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao were to join more than 110 world
leaders for the last scheduled day of the conference, which for most of its two
weeks was embroiled in angry exchanges, a partial boycott by African countries
and another entire day wasted in procedural wrangling. It's also possible that
once the world leaders depart, the talks could continue at the ministerial level
and stretch late into the night and early tomorrow..

A pair of Greenpeace activists last night crashed a banquet hosted by Denmark's
Queen Margrethe for the world leaders already in town. The couple, dressed in
formal wear, unfurled two banners reading "Politicians Talk, Leaders Act" as
they walked on the red carpet reception line, and were dragged from the hall by
security guards.

French President Nicolas Sarkozy, German Chancellor Angela Merkel and more than
a dozen other leaders returned to work from the banquet to forge a political
declaration, and were expected to meet into the early hours of today. They were
seeking to include a range of emissions targets for rich and developing nations
and outline financial commitments, said several European diplomats who spoke on
condition of anonymity. It also may set deadlines for reaching a legal binding
climate pact by the next U.N. conference in Mexico City next November, they
said.

The conference seems likely to fall short of the goal set by many developing
countries for a deal that would be legally binding on all parties and guarantee
the kind of dramatic emissions reductions by the industrial world that
threatened nations feel are necessary.

Yvo de Boer, the U.N.'s top climate official, said a political deal by the small
group could be the key to unlocking the negotiating stalemate on a host of
issues.

"Leaders came here to lead, and that's what they're doing. They're trying to
reach an understanding on the key political components -- and that's good," Mr.
de Boer told The Associated Press well after midnight. "If they can advance on
that, it can help unstick a lot of other things in the process as well."

But he cautioned that "people won't accept ... an endless process."

Mrs. Clinton's announcement on funding was widely welcomed. Yoshiko Kijima, a
senior Japanese negotiator, said it sent a strong signal by Mr. Obama "that he
will persuade his own people that we need to show something to developing
countries. ... I really respect that."

Swedish Environment Minister Andreas Carlgren said Mrs. Clinton added "political
momentum," and India's Environment Minister Jairam Ramesh called it "a good step
forward."

Independent agencies also praised the move. "I think we're closer now than we
have been in two years," said Tom Brookes, an analyst for the European Climate
Foundation.

"It shows that when the U.S. moves, China moves," said Kim Carstensen, the
climate director for the World Wildlife Fund.

Mr. Obama left last night from Washington for the cross-Atlantic flight to
Copenhagen. Even before the president's departure, the White House was lowering
expectations ahead of Mr. Obama's trip.

"Coming back with an empty agreement would be far worse than coming back
empty-handed," presidential spokesman Robert Gibbs said.

Neither the U.S. nor China raised its commitment on emissions. Mrs. Clinton
repeated the U.S. would cut emissions by 17 percent from 2005 levels by 2020,
and China said its voluntary emissions target was nonnegotiable. It announced
last month it would cut its "carbon intensity," or the amount of emissions in
relation to production, by 40 to 45 percent.

An internal calculation by the United Nations, obtained by The Associated Press,
said pledges made so far by both industrial and developing countries would mean
a 4.8-degree Fahrenheit temperature rise. A panel of U.N. scientists has said
that any rise above 3.6-degrees F could lead to a catastrophic sea level rise
threatening islands and coastal cities, kill off many species of animals and
plants, and alter the agricultural economies of many countries.

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              86 of 580 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                              July 12, 2009 Sunday
                                TWO STAR EDITION

IN DEFENSE OF FEAR;
THIS IS NOT AN FDR MOMENT BECAUSE WE NEED MORE FEAR WHEN IT COMES TO CLIMATE
CHANGE

BYLINE: GEORGE LOWENSTEIN AND PAUL BREST

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. B-1

LENGTH: 666 words


As Congress and public officials around the world debate ways to curb global
warming, it would do well to contemplate the true lessons of the current
economic crisis -- particularly the catastrophic damage resulting from the
absence of fear. That's right, too little fear can be very dangerous.

Many media pundits attribute the current stage of the economic crisis to
excessive fear. They have, once again, revived Franklin Roosevelt's famous
adage, "We have nothing to fear but fear itself." Fearful consumers don't buy;
fearful bankers don't lend; fearful businesses don't invest. Fear inflicts real
damage on the economy, which in turn triggers heightened fear and leads to
further financial paralysis.

The root of our current problems is not, however, that we're too afraid now, but
that we weren't sufficiently afraid when we should have been. We had ample
warnings of economic disaster: the dot-com bubble and bust, a raging government
deficit financed by borrowing from abroad, a housing bubble and skyrocketing
medical costs that have absorbed an ever greater fraction of national income.
Yet we weren't scared into doing anything that might have prevented the
predictable calamity.

Our failure to respond when we should have has created a situation in which fear
is justifiable and even likely to be productive for those who respond sensibly.
Increased spending by fearless consumers might help to shorten the economic
crisis, but it's hard to fault ordinary citizens for feeling that they're safer
with some cash stowed away.

As we lament our current excess of fear about the economy, our fear system is
once again letting us down by not raising sufficient alarms about climate
change. And the consequences may be even more dire.

When it comes to the economy, we can reform our regulatory system and attempt to
spend our way out of the crisis. And eventually, like most economic downturns,
this one will come to an end. If we continue to delay serious action on the
environment until our fear alarms ring, however, it will be far too late for an
effective response.

Fear is an evolved response that mobilizes us and prepares us to react
physiologically and psychically to the kinds of threatening situations
encountered repeatedly in our prehistoric past. Fear triggers a biological
response. Hearing and sight become more acute; we become attuned to threats we
otherwise might not have noticed. Fear sharpens our memory and mobilizes our
analytical system, which can help us respond productively to danger.

Our fear alarm system is superb for dealing with the types of situations it is
evolved to deal with, such as predators, natural disasters and even traffic
accidents. Like a fire alarm that is triggered only after half the building has
collapsed, however, it is ill-equipped to deal with the kinds of slowly evolving
though entirely predictable dangers that pose the greatest threats in the modern
world.

We don't fear climate change for pretty much the same reason we didn't fear the
economic crisis as it developed: the deadly consequences are unfolding gradually
rather than appearing suddenly or violently. Our fear system is adaptive; hold
any risk constant over time and fear tends to drop off. If we had actual
time-lapsed pictures of Earth every decade for the next century and saw vast
portions of the planet returned to the sea, retreating glaciers, spreading
deserts and the mass extinction of species (possibly including our own), our
fear alarms might go off.

The lesson we should learn from the economic crisis therefore is not that we
should fear fear, but that we should mobilize against climate change even if our
fear alarms aren't ringing. The alternative to fear as a mobilizing force is
courageous leadership. We have signs of this in a president who understands the
underlying science and prefers persuasive argument to fear-mongering and
hectoring. The question is whether his colleagues in the Congress and his
counterparts in other nations will rise to the challenge.

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: George Loewenstein is Herbert A. Simon professor of economics and
psychology at Carnegie Mellon University (www.cmu.edu). Paul Brest is president
of the William and Flora Hewlett Foundation (www.hewlett.org).

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              90 of 580 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                            December 4, 2009 Friday
                                 SOONER EDITION

CLIMATE PIQUE;
AUSTRALIAN LEADERS ALSO ARE SPLIT ON GLOBAL ACTION

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. B-6

LENGTH: 357 words


The dilemma of Australian Prime Minister Kevin Rudd on climate change in advance
of the United Nations Copenhagen summit illustrates a problem that President
Barack Obama may face as well.

Mr. Rudd is a strong supporter of the need for decisive, coordinated
international action to deal with global warming. He thus wanted to go into the
Copenhagen summit that will begin next week with a solid Australian position in
hand.

Unfortunately for him, his Labor Party does not hold a majority in the Senate,
the upper house of Australia's legislature. The opposition coalition there has
recently chosen a new leader, Tony Abbott of the Liberal Party, who is a
resolute non-believer in global warming. He holds this position in spite of some
of the extremes of climate that Australia experiences, most recently, as
example, its red dust storm in September. Thus, the Senate has so far rejected
legislation on an emissions trading plan that Mr. Rudd could carry to
Copenhagen.

One thought in Australia is that Mr. Rudd could call an election to try to
change the lineup of political forces in Canberra. But that cannot be done in
time for the Copenhagen meeting. The other problem is that, asked to vote with
climate change as the principal issue, Australian voters might turn against Mr.
Rudd and his party, although their popularity is high.

Mr. Obama also will be going to Copenhagen, with congressional action on global
warming nowhere near passage. It's right that he go to the summit anyway. U.S.
reticence on the subject would be damaging to overall prospects for effective
international action. At the same time, there is the risk that Congress will not
pass the legislation needed to put into effect whatever pledge Mr. Obama may
make there. In that case, his unfulfilled promise would become a political
embarrassment.

It is interesting that there is still skepticism in a country like Australia
over the phenomenon. Doubt is based to some degree on a belief that such
temperature changes are cyclical, accompanied by concern over the financial
costs of proposed measures to slow warming. This battle still has a long way to
go before resolution.

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              94 of 580 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                            August 13, 2009 Thursday
                                  EAST EDITION

COUNCIL REJECTS BID TO STUDY ENERGY USE, CARBON FOOTPRINT

BYLINE: Deborah M. Todd, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: METRO; MONROEVILLE; Pg. EZ-6

LENGTH: 429 words


Members of Monroeville Council engaged in a passionate debate about climate
change Tuesday before voting down a measure to study energy use in the
municipality.

Councilwoman Lois Drumheller's environmental resolution was voted down 5-2, with
Ms. Drumheller and Councilwoman Carol McDevitt voting in favor.

Ms. Drumheller said the resolution would allow the municipality to conduct a
feasibility study to see how it could lower greenhouse gas emissions and reduce
the community's overall carbon footprint. She also said she expected opposition
because a study would cost money to conduct and implement.

"I fear this environmental movement may find opposition because it's going to
cost us. I say to you -- it already costs us," she said.

Councilman Dave Kucherer said he voted against the plan when it was introduced
one year ago because it is possible to reduce energy use without conducting a
study. Comparing Monroeville's progress to Pittsburgh's Climate Action Plan, he
noted that Monroeville had already replaced most of its traffic signals with LED
lights, the municipal building installed motion detectors to reduce light use,
and the police department replaced four older-model cars with more
energy-efficient Ford Focuses.

"We don't need no stinking study. These types of studies are a bureaucrat's
dream," he said. He also accused municipal Manager Marshall Bond of coaching Ms.
Drumheller to get the resolution passed, a charge they both denied.

Councilman Jim Brown took issue with the notion of the study but also expressed
doubts about the idea of climate change in general. Citing a state Department of
Environmental Protection study on the impact of climate change in the
commonwealth, he said projections for future warming in the area were vastly
inflated and could not be relied upon. He also said Pittsburgh's Climate Action
Plan has no way of measuring whether its actions reduce greenhouse gas
emissions.

"In every example projected, the outcome is unknown. The city of Pittsburgh has
this grandiose plan where they're going to take the lead and reduce greenhouse
gas emissions and the end result is they don't know," he said.

Mayor Gregory Erosenko also urged council not to pass the measure, agreeing with
Mr. Kucherer that there are easier ways to rein in energy output.

"We do need to reduce our footprint, but there are ways to do that. Turn off
your lights. Walk more. Drive less," he said.

Ms. Drumheller said she acknowledged what the municipality has done to reduce
emissions but believes that the study would have sustained those efforts for the
future.

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Deborah M. Todd can be reached at dtodd@post-gazette.com or 412-263-1652.
/

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              109 of 580 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                             April 9, 2009 Thursday
                                 SOONER EDITION

EMISSION ALLOWANCE AUCTION FACING DELAY;
POSSIBLE CHANGE BY OBAMA ADMINISTRATION COULD ANGER ENVIRONMENTALISTS

BYLINE: Juliet Eilperin, The Washington Post

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. A-6

LENGTH: 704 words


WASHINGTON -- The Obama administration might agree to postpone auctioning off
100 percent of emissions allowances under a cap-and-trade system to limit
greenhouse gas pollution, White House science adviser John Holdren said
yesterday, a move that would please electricity providers and manufacturers but
could anger environmentalists.

In one of his first interviews since being confirmed March 20 as director of the
White House Office of Science and Technology Policy, Mr. Holdren said a group of
Cabinet-level officials are trying to establish a set of principles to guide the
climate legislation that has just begun to move in Congress.

During the presidential campaign, Mr. Obama called for auctioning off all
greenhouse gas emissions permits at the outset, rather than just a portion of
them. Many industry leaders say a phase-in will be essential to easing the
transition to a low-carbon economy.

"The idea, obviously, is to end up with a bill that reflects both the thinking
of Congress and the administration, a bill that the president can sign," Mr.
Holdren said, adding that when it comes to a 100 percent auction, "Whether you
get to start with that or get there over a period of time is something that's
being discussed."

Mr. Holdren's comments shed light on the administration's behind-the-scenes
effort to shape national climate policy, an issue that Mr. Obama has identified
as a top priority, but has so far left largely to lawmakers to flesh out.

Last week, House Energy and Commerce Committee Henry Waxman, D-Calif., and Rep.
Edward J. Markey, D-Mass., who chairs the panel's energy and environment
subcommittee, released a draft climate bill that they have vowed to send to the
full House by Memorial Day. The Senate Environment and Public Works Committee,
which has primary jurisdiction over the issue in the upper chamber, has yet to
take up a bill.

In an e-mail, White House spokesman Ben LaBolt wrote that Mr. Obama has asked
Congress to deliver "comprehensive energy legislation that would spur a
transition to a clean-energy economy, create thousands of green jobs and wean us
of our dependence on foreign oil."

"He said during the campaign that his preferred approach was 100 percent auction
to create incentives for companies to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions,"
Mr. LaBolt wrote. "Members of Congress are looking at a variety of policy
options to help us make that transition, and the administration will be flexible
during the policymaking process as long as those larger goals are met."

For weeks, the president's assistant on energy and climate change, Carol M.
Browner, has convened regular meetings with roughly a dozen key administration
officials to develop national energy and climate policy. They include Mr.
Holdren; the secretaries of Agriculture, Commerce, Energy, Housing and Urban
Development, Interior and Transportation; and the heads of the Environmental
Protection Agency and the White House Council on Environmental Quality, National
Economic Council, Council of Economic Advisers and Office of Management and
Budget.

The group, whose deputies meet at least once a week if not more, have explored
questions ranging from how to pursue offshore wind energy to agricultural
practices and a new national greenhouse gas emissions standard for vehicles.

Keith Trent, chief strategy, policy and regulatory officer for Duke Energy
Corp., said utility executives are hoping for a 10-year transition to a 100
percent auction, so they can install pollution controls without raising
electricity costs too high. He added that emitters would still have an incentive
to cut carbon dioxide because of the overall federal cap on carbon emissions:
"The cap is what makes the system's environmental integrity, and you can't
exceed that cap because you need an allowance to do it."

But environmental advocate Erich Pica, director of domestic programs for Friends
of the Earth, said giving utility providers free allowances would be less
efficient than rebating the revenue from auctions directly to taxpayers. A 100
percent auction, Mr. Pica said, "forces the polluters from Day One to pay for
the transition to a clean-energy economy, and keeps low- and middle-income
consumers whole during the transition."

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              138 of 580 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                           November 5, 2009 Thursday
                                  EAST EDITION

TEENS ENTHUSED ABOUT ENDING WORLD HUNGER

BYLINE: Deborah M. Todd, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: METRO; GATEWAY SCHOOLS; Pg. EZ-3

LENGTH: 540 words


Save the Children foundation's Carolyn Miles was discussing conditions she said
will lead to 1 billion people dealing with hunger before the end of the year.

As Ms. Miles was doing so, a teenage girl in the audience was discreetly sending
text messages. Two girls beside her were conversing intensely through whispers
and giggles, and a young man at the end of the row nodded off, using his coat as
a blanket.

But once students had a chance to ask questions, the few who weren't listening
were outshone by those who lined up in droves to offer solutions beyond those
suggested by Ms. Miles.

"I didn't think we would get as many questions at the end of the presentation,
and they were great questions," said James Pottinger, gifted coordinator for
Gateway High School. "There were so many, they had to be cut off at the end."

The impassioned reactions of students who attended the World Affairs Council of
Pittsburgh's "Feeding the Future: Security and the Global Food Supply"
presentation at Gateway High School last Thursday were typical, according to Ms.
Miles.

The chief operating officer and executive vice president of Save the Children,
Ms. Miles said she speaks to various crowds about issues that affect world
hunger, but consistently sees heightened enthusiasm with younger crowds.

In an attempt to make the most of that connection, Save the Children now runs
live Web casts during presentations. At least 184 participants watched online
during Gateway's program.

"The reality of population growth and the growth of hungry people and the effect
of climate change ... it's something that gets kids' attention," Ms. Miles said.
"They think, maybe we should be doing something about this now."

But rather than acting out of fear, most students at the presentation said they
offered to support Save the Children simply out of concern for the hungry.

Bill Krut, 17, a Gateway senior, said he does not believe scientific projections
surrounding climate change and human behavior, but wants to help with Save the
Children's mission.

"I want to do humanitarian efforts when I grow up, and it's not because I saw
some kid dying in the street," he said. "It's really more of a self-realization
that the sacrifice you yourself make is worth much more than anything you can
gain in personal value over the course of your life."

Taylor Madigan, 15. a sophomore at Woodland Hills High School, said she believes
most of the students who offered to conduct food drives or raise money for Save
the Children will follow through. But she also said those who weren't engaged
have probably forgotten the presentation.

"I think that if students are mature and if they actually want to help, then,
yes, they will definitely do more to help than the students that just came here
to miss a day of school," she said.

Ms. Miles, a Bethel Park native, said the G-20 Summit put the Pittsburgh area in
a position where issues such as hunger were at the forefront of local news.

And with young people excited to discuss those issues and work toward change,
Ms. Miles believes the region can have a great impact on the goal to eradicate
global hunger by 2015.

"It's great to see particularly young people in Pittsburgh looking out, looking
at the world, and wanting to get involved."

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Deborah M. Todd can be reached at dtodd@post-gazette.com or
412-263-1652./

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              142 of 580 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                          September 26, 2009 Saturday
                                 SOONER EDITION

RENDELL CALLS FOR GREEN ENERGY DEVELOPMENT

BYLINE: Don Hopey, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. A-4

LENGTH: 476 words


Renewable, alternative energy development will provide the economic engine for
Pennsylvania's future, Gov. Ed Rendell said yesterday, and move the state into a
leadership position combating climate change.

Mr. Rendell, speaking at a news conference in the August Wilson Center,
Downtown, said the state's actions to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, a cause
of global warming, have created thousands of jobs and could serve as a blueprint
for changing international energy production and use.

"Alternative energy development will be to our economy for the next 20 years
what information technology and life sciences has been for the last 20," Mr.
Rendell said, noting the opening of two windmill production factories and a
recent permit granted for the state's first hydropower project in many years.

Since 2003, he said, the state has invested $900 million in developing and
deploying alternative energy technologies in approximately 560 economic
development projects that have created 8,300 jobs. The Pew Charitable Trusts
ranked Pennsylvania third in the nation for green jobs earlier this year.

The state also has adopted an energy portfolio standard that mandates the
development of alternative energy sources, energy conservation laws that will
reduce annual carbon emissions by 15 million tons by 2020, and the California
Clean Car Rule to reduce emissions from mobile sources. Together, those three
actions will reduce the state's greenhouse gas emissions, which total 1 percent
of the world's man-made greenhouse gas emissions, by 9 percent in 2020, or 5
percent below 2000 levels.

In a bow to the state's coal industry, Mr. Rendell endorsed research efforts,
including capture and storage of carbon emissions from coal-burning power
plants, and urged coal producers to support those efforts.

"I want to take clean coal from an oxymoron to reality," Mr. Rendell said. "I'm
not saying clean coal technology is guaranteed but the upside for Pennsylvania's
industry is significant enough that we have to try."

But he said efforts by some industries to defeat meaningful energy and climate
control legislation put them on the wrong side of history.

"Many business and industrial forces oppose these measures and are lobbying
heavily to defeat them because they're perceived as a threat to their
interests," the governor said. "However, the interests of our economy, our
people and our planet must prevail."

According to the American Council for an Energy-Efficient Economy, strong energy
efficiency legislation would save each Pennsylvania household an average of $269
a year in reduced energy costs and create 27,200 jobs in the state over the next
decade.

"Other nations are realizing the importance of renewable energy development and
strong policies to combat climate change," Mr. Rendell said. "If America sits
back and waits, this opportunity will pass us by."

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: THE G-20 SUMMIT / Don Hopey can be reached at dhopey@post-gazette.com or
412-263-1983./

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              153 of 580 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                          November 18, 2009 Wednesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

U.S., CHINA AGREE TO OFFER EMISSION REDUCTION TARGETS

BYLINE: JULIET EILPERIN AND STEVEN MUFSON, THE WASHINGTON POST

SECTION: HEALTH, SCIENCE, MEDICINE AND TECHNOLOGY; Pg. A-2

LENGTH: 370 words


WASHINGTON -- Buried in the text of yesterday's joint declaration between the
President Barack Obama and Chinese President Hu Jintao was a significant climate
announcement: The Obama administration will offer concrete emission reduction
targets as part of next month's negotiations, as long as the Chinese offer a
climate proposal of their own.

The question of whether the United States would identify a short-term emission
goal has been one of the main sticking points in the United Nations-sponsored
talks for nearly a year. Almost all industrialized nations, and many major
developing countries, have announced how much they plan to curb their greenhouse
gas output by 2020. Neither the United States nor China -- which is not
obligated to do so under the U.N. framework, even though it now ranks as the
world's biggest carbon emitter -- has done so, hampering the prospects of an
agreement.

Just last weekend, the Obama administration endorsed a proposal by the Danish
government to seek a political agreement on global warming in Copenhagen next
month, which could be codified in 2010 as a legally binding international
treaty. According to the joint declaration, "an agreed outcome at Copenhagen
should ... include emission reduction targets of developed countries and
nationally appropriate mitigation actions of developing countries."

Todd Stern, U.S. special envoy for climate change, said last week that any
emission reduction target the United States adopts on an international level
would be contingent on domestic legislation, which has yet to be finalized.

The House-passed climate bill includes a 17 percent reduction in greenhouse
gases compared to 2005 levels; the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee
has approved a 20 percent cut over the same period, but key senators such as Max
Baucus, D-Mont., have vowed to lower that level.

Michael Levi, a senior fellow on environment and energy issues at the Council on
Foreign Relations in Washington, said the U.S.-China declaration "has moved
expectations up a bit for Copenhagen."

He said it was significant that the Chinese signed off on language saying any
successful outcome in Copenhagen would "provide for full transparency" on
greenhouse gas cuts.

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              178 of 580 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                           November 28, 2009 Saturday
                                 SOONER EDITION

GLOBAL WARMING COULD BRING SOME FOREIGN COMPETITION TO FRENCH WINES

BYLINE: JAMEY KEATEN, THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. A-2

LENGTH: 398 words


PARIS -- Global warming is giving French vintners a new potential headache: In a
few years, Champagne could be going head-to-head with British bubbly.

A leading organization in France's fabled wine industry sounded the alarm Friday
about the ill-effects of rising temperatures on the livelihoods of winegrowers
ahead of a climate summit in Copenhagen next month.

Climate change has sped up harvests in Burgundy, altered the taste of Alsatian
wines and disrupted hydration patterns of grapes grown along France's
Mediterranean coast, an industry expert said.

Michel Issaly, president of Vigneron Independant, a wine growers association
that he says accounts for about half of French total wine production, said the
economic stakes are high.

"For those consumers who like consistency, if things go too far and the taste
fundamentally changes, then we risk losing big chunks of market share," he told
reporters at a Paris wine fair.

Areas where wine can be cultivated are moving northward in Europe. Four or five
decades ago, it was "absolutely absurd" to think wines could be grown
significantly in Britain, Mr. Issaly said. "Alas, and this is a crying example
of the consequences of global warming. Because of increasing temperatures, they
are able to grow in Britain."

"We know -- we've spoken with our British colleagues -- that within a few years,
they will be able to make wine that will be close [in taste] to that of
Champagne," Mr. Issaly added.

Recent weather patterns have brought more hailstorms to some French areas.
Rising temperatures can dry up fields, deprive grapes of their acidity and
increase the alcohol content in wine.

The concerns, mostly, are over the longer-term, he said.

To be sure, higher temperatures doesn't necessarily mean bad news for all
winegrowers. Warmer temperatures and dry conditions can make grapes sweeter, and
reduce the need to add sugar to wine.

"To be really honest, we benefit from global warming because we don't have to
chaptalize our wines any more," said Jacky Martinon, a winemaker in Burgundy,
referring to a process of injecting sugar into wine.

Pascal Husting, director of Greenpeace France, which co-hosted the news
conference at the fair, said a celebrated French craft is on the line.

"There will always be winemaking in France -- that is for sure," he said. "But
it will definitely be no longer the wine that France has built its reputation
on."

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Christophe Ena/Associated Press: Bottles of wine lie in the
cellar of La Tour d'Argent restaurant in Paris.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              180 of 580 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                              May 25, 2009 Monday
                                 SOONER EDITION

COUNTY PLANS TO AUDIT COSTS OF ENERGY USE

BYLINE: Karamagi Rujumba, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. B-1

LENGTH: 698 words


Allegheny County will conduct a full-scale audit of its energy costs and output
in all county buildings and vehicle fleet as part of its Allegheny Green
initiative.

The initiative, which County Executive Dan Onorato launched last year, is an
effort to reduce the county's toxic gas emissions, conserve energy and cut
wasteful spending in county operations.

The county has joined an international association that analyzes the impact of
local government operations on the environment, from things like fuel use in
vehicles to the heating and cooling of buildings and other facilities.

The Oakland, Calif., association ICLEI-Local Governments for Sustainability will
conduct an audit in June. The audit will specifically look at annual
electricity, natural gas, oil or coal usage, fuel usage and mileage in county
vehicles, and the overall cost of these operations.

"The benefit of doing this is to measure our progress in reducing the county's
ecological footprint," said Kevin Evanto, a spokesman for Mr. Onorato. The
audit, he added, "will help us establish a benchmark of just how much we spend
on energy and how we can reduce our greenhouse emissions through all the green
initiatives we have committed to since last year."

In the audit, the county will collect data on its 1,028-vehicle fleet, which
includes equipment like mowers, tractors and other heavy equipment; dump trucks,
vans, and emergency service vehicles; and administrative and law enforcement
sedans and SUVs.

The county also owns 138 buildings and facilities, not including stand-alone
rest rooms, picnic shelters and pavilions, and it also leases space in 55 other
facilities.

The data will be collected by the county's yet to be named sustainability
manager, a position Mr. Onorato created in his administration last year when he
launched the Allegheny Green initiative. The position will be filled in the next
few weeks.

Angela Vincent, a regional director for ICLEI-Local Governments for
Sustainability, said the association will analyze the data using its Clean Air
Climate Protection software "to take a snapshot of a year's worth energy use in
Allegheny County."

That snapshot, Ms. Vincent said, will be tabulated together with an eGrid
multiplier to establish just how much greenhouse gas Allegheny County emits
every year. An eGrid multiplier is data that the federal Environmental
Protection Agency set as a standard of how to measure a particular area's gas
emissions factor.

"The key is to base your calculations on a year that has the most complete
information of energy use," Ms. Vincent said. Allegheny County will use 2007 as
its base year.

The audit, she added, "will give Allegheny County a fundamental understanding of
its energy use and greenhouse emissions. That is the first step in significantly
reducing greenhouse gas emissions at the local government level."

The U.S. Conference of Mayors has established a goal of reducing greenhouse gas
emissions by 80 percent by the year 2050.

Mr. Onorato has said he is "committed to operating an efficient and sustainable
government."

For example, the county has replaced 805 incandescent lights and fixtures with
energy-efficient LED lights in the county jail and recently unveiled plans for
plant and water gardens at county buildings.

Allegheny County is one of the latest governments to join ICLEI-Local
Governments for Sustainability, whose membership includes more than 500 cities,
towns and counties in more than 40 countries.

"We work with local governments ranging from the smallest municipality in New
Mexico to New York City," said Annie Strickler, a spokeswoman for the
association.

Allegheny County's membership dues to the association-- $5,750 annually -- will
be paid by the Pennsylvania Environmental Council through a grant it received
from the Vira I. Heinz Endowment.

"We want to support the county as part of our Pennsylvania climate change road
map," said Scott Van de Mark, director of special projects for the Environmental
Council.

Mr. Van de Mark added that the environmental council, which will only pay the
county's membership dues for the first year, hopes the audit will help the
county draw up a climate action plan, like Pittsburgh did last year.

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Karamagi Rujumba can be reached at krujumba@post-gazette.com or
412-263-1719./

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              187 of 580 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                              June 26, 2009 Friday
                                 SOONER EDITION

ACT RIGHT;
COUNCIL HAS ONE MORE CHANCE ON THE RESCUE PLAN

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. B-6

LENGTH: 698 words


Pittsburgh City Council showed Wednesday why it needs state overseers.

In a preliminary vote, council members loaded the five-year fiscal recovery plan
with dozens of proposed changes, so many that they don't know what will actually
be on the table when they take a final vote on Tuesday.

Some of the changes were well-intentioned, sound goals for the city's future,
particularly Councilman Bill Peduto's proposed mandate for consolidation of more
city services with Allegheny County. The trouble is, the state's Act 47 recovery
team has no authority over county officials, so all the plan really can do is
suggest those efforts. Besides, there's nothing that prevents both City Council
and County Council from ordering more combined government work if they can
muster the political will.

Likewise, no Act 47 plan can force the state Legislature to provide help, either
by extending the city's payroll preparation tax to cover nonprofit organizations
or allowing council to increase the local services tax on people who work in
Pittsburgh from $52 a year to a still-reasonable $145. State overseers favor
city efforts to get such legislation, but that's as far as their power extends.

Council members have argued that, because the plan would force the city to put
at least $10 million a year toward its long-term pension and benefit costs,
they'll be forced to increase local property taxes. That's not really their only
option.

If attempts to win changes in state law fail -- and they are expected to do just
that -- Mayor Luke Ravenstahl says he won't raise taxes that are imposed on city
residents alone, which would preclude a property tax hike. He favors adding a
$5-a-day surcharge for all-day parking in its garages; increasing water rates
for nonprofits and charging the zoo, aviary and Phipps Conservatory and
Botanical Gardens for water they now get for free; imposing a $25 fee on each
hospital admission; and charging colleges $50 per semester for each
undergraduate.

Those changes, among a core package of amendments offered by Mr. Peduto and
members Theresa Smith and Bruce Kraus, are not ideal but are largely doable.

Many of the other proposed changes, however, would undercut gains the city made
under its first recovery plan, adopted in 2004, which gave it improved ability
to manage its work force and also froze salaries and eliminated some positions.

The most damaging proposal was one from outgoing Councilman Jim Motznik, who
called for eliminating the enhanced management powers, reasoning that they took
away union rights in collective bargaining.

The city's contracts with its police and fire unions expire this year, and
that's one of the most important reasons for passing a financial recovery plan
by June 30.

The plan as prepared by Act 47 would provide a $1,000 signing bonus in 2010 and
annual raises equivalent to 2 percent to 3 percent over the subsequent four
years. Talk of any raises at all sounds generous in this economic climate,
particularly when cities across the country are cutting staff, freezing wages
and demanding concessions. Mr. Ravenstahl pointed that out when he met with
council last week, but most members must not have been listening.

Without a plan in writing that limits how much the city can provide for each of
its bargaining units, the city's position in any potential arbitration dispute
will be weakened. As it stands now, no arbitrator can impose contract terms that
are more generous than the plan would allow.

Without a tough Act 47 plan -- and the one proposed by the overseers gives the
mayor and council considerably more leeway than the first plan did -- there will
be, as Mr. Ravenstahl and some council members have warned, significant staff
reductions, no overtime, tax increases and diminished city services.

The next step before another council vote is that Act 47 coordinators James
Roberts and Dean Kaplan must weed through all of council's amendments to see if
any of them are acceptable to the state team.

Council members gave away their authority by failing to exercise discipline and
make the tough decisions. An even worse outcome would be if they fail to enact
whatever responsible alternative the Act 47 team sends back.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              191 of 580 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                              May 26, 2009 Tuesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

CAP & TRADE CHARADE

BYLINE: ELYSE AVERBACH, Squirrel Hill

SECTION: EDITORIAL; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR; Pg. B-6

LENGTH: 187 words


Pittsburgh used to be called "The Steel City." Today we are home to health care,
technology, robotics and financial services companies, and when it comes to
higher education, we can still boast about University of Pittsburgh and Carnegie
Mellon.

Thanks to its business diversity, Pittsburgh is economically strong. The city
added jobs in 2008 while, at the same time, our nation slipped into recession
and unemployment began to climb.

I am concerned that the Waxman-Markey climate change bill could confront
Pittsburgh with a second recession, one it may have difficulty overcoming. The
bill features a cap-and-trade system to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. But
cap-and-trade is rife with complexities and subtleties that would make it easy
to manipulate. Congress is already making backroom deals to give away free
carbon allowances to favored companies, not mindful of the billions of dollars
the carbon credits are worth. Since there's no free lunch, someone will have to
pay for that pork. Who? You, me and the environment.

I would like to see progressive, transparent and positive climate change policy,
but hold the pork.

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              217 of 580 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                            December 14, 2009 Monday
                                 SOONER EDITION

TAIWAN'S EXAMPLE

BYLINE: GARY SHEU Acting Director, Press Division Taipei Economic and Cultural
Office in New York New York, N.Y. \

SECTION: EDITORIAL; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR; Pg. B-6

LENGTH: 251 words


In response to the Nov. 30 editorial "Climate Progress," we firmly agree that
global warming is an issue that "cannot be attacked without coordinated
international action." We would like to remind your readers that there is an
often-overlooked but nonetheless critically important voice left out of the
dialogue.

The government of the Republic of China (Taiwan) has no direct representation in
the U.N. Framework Convention on Climate Change, and thus cannot participate in
the talks in Copenhagen. While President Barack Obama has the leisure to choose
whether he will attend, Taiwan has no such option.

Though left out of the international framework for these issues, Taiwan is
already taking steps domestically that demonstrate its commitment to
environmental responsibility. Earlier this year the legislature passed the
Renewable Energy Development Act to encourage businesses to use renewable
sources of energy. The Cabinet recently established a New Energy Promotion
Committee, and in November the Taiwan EPA proposed a plan for tax credits on
environment-friendly vehicles. These policies are indicative of Taiwan's real
commitment to reaching its stated voluntary emission targets: a return to 2008
emission levels for the period between 2016 and 2020, and a return to 2000
emission levels by 2025.

Taiwan is setting an example of progress that could contribute significantly to
the talks. While acknowledging those who will be in attendance, we must keep in
mind as well those who are being left out.

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              247 of 580 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                             July 9, 2009 Thursday
                                 SOONER EDITION

BYLINE: Andrew Druckenbrod; Adrian McCoy

SECTION: ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT; THE HOT LIST; Pg. W-2

LENGTH: 2030 words


OPENING TONIGHT

PICT's 'Doubt'

John Patrick Shanley's riveting Pulitzer Prize-winner, "Doubt," has been a tour
de force opportunity for actresses from Cherry Jones on Broadway to Meryl Streep
on the big screen.

Kate Young takes on the role of hard-edged Sister Aloysius Beauvier, who is
overcome with suspicions -- and doubt -- about the priest in a Bronx Catholic
School in the Pittsburgh Irish & Classical Theatre production of "Doubt,"
tonight through Aug. 1. Young is joined by two former Post-Gazette Performers of
the Year, David Whalen and Maria Becoates-Bey, under the direction of Jeffrey M.
Cordell.

"Doubt" is at the Henry Heymann Theatre, Oakland. Tickets are available at
www.proartstickets.org or 412-394-3353.

ALL WEEKEND

It's All Good

In this 40th anniversary year of Woodstock, the closest you can get to it around
here would be the 13th Annual All Good Music Festival, which delivers more than
30 bands over 40-plus hours at Marvin's Mountaintop in Masontown, W.Va.

Among the headliners will be Ben Harper and RELENTLESS7, which finds the soul
man and steel-guitar hero fronting a more rock 'n' roll-oriented project.
Joining them will be Bob Weir & RatDog, moe., Umphrey's McGee, STS9 and Dark
Star Orchestra, plus the likes of Robert Randolph & the Family Band, Yonder
Mountain String Band, Les Claypool, Keller Williams, Galactic, Lotus,
Buckethead, Donna the Buffalo and BK3 featuring Bill Kreutzmann.

New this year are:

* VIP camping with private showers and premium campsites overlooking the main
stage.

* The Grassroots Stage will feature a Thursday night lineup with Keller
Williams, Lotus, BoomBox and Seepeoples, plus bands like The Recipe and Jazzam
Friday through Sunday.

* Workshops on the Grassroots Stage by the likes Al Schnier, Stanton Moore, Jim
Donovan, Steve Kimock and the Dark Star Orchestra,

Also, the Conscious Alliance will run its fifth annual food drive at the
festival, where fans who donate 10 nonperishable food items will receive a free
limited-edition All Good Festival poster created by Marq Spusta.

It begins today and runs through Sunday. A weekend pass for the camping event is
$139 in advance. For details, go to www.allgoodfestival.com.

FRIDAY

Wayno at Zombo

Zombo Gallery in Lawrenceville celebrates its second anniversary with the Friday
opening of "File Under: Pop," featuring the work of Pittsburgh's rock 'n' roll
cartoonist, Wayno.

It features 40 black and white portraits of musicians and other entertainers
originally created as illustrations for the Rhino Records division of Warner
Music Group. Unlike his past work, these portraits reveal a clean "cartoon
realism" that Wayno describes as "Roy Lichtenstein without the halftone dots."

The exhibition also includes larger paintings based on the portraits. And the
exhibit catalog is done in coloring book form to encourage the audience to take
part in the creative process.

The opening is 6 to 9 p.m. Friday. Call 412-904-3703, or visit
www.zomboworld.com.

Machine age

We've come to expect the unexpected from symphony orchestras in the modern era,
but a concert with a Pink Floyd tribute band? Who saw that coming?

The Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra will back The Machine Friday night at Heinz
Hall, with conductor Daniel Meyer using charts created by Maxim Moston.

The program will include "The Dark Side of the Moon" performed in its entirety,
as well as seldom heard tracks such as "Set the Controls for the Heart of the
Sun," "Sorrow" and "Shine On, You Crazy Diamond." The band will be bringing its
"Interstellar Light Show," including computerized lighting and multimedia
displays.

It begins at 8 p.m. Tickets are $20 to $70. Go to www.pittsburghsymphony.org.

Frick masterworks

The title "The Dutch Italianates" may leave you scratching your head, but it's
just another example of the great influence Italy has had on artists through the
centuries. While some of the 17 artists represented in this exhibition of 39
paintings at The Frick Art Museum visited Italy, others did not. But they all
infused their landscapes with the feel of the Roman countryside.

The 17th-century masterworks are traveling for the first time from the Dulwich
Picture Gallery in London, England's oldest public art gallery. An opening
reception will be held from 6 to 8 p.m. Friday at 7227 Reynolds St., Point
Breeze ($25, members $20; reservations recommended). For information call
412-371-0600 or visit www.TheFrickPittsburgh.org.

Coffee and books

"Friday Night 'Wrights" play-reading series begins at 8 p.m. Friday with a
reading of "Switched at Birth" by Denise Pullen, an associate professor of
theater at Seton Hill University.

The Inspiration Cafe, in the restored former Duane Hotel at 243 South Main St.
in Washington, Pa., will be the scene of the five readings. It starts with
Pullen's comedy about Amy, a young woman determined to find a family of her own.
It turns out that her last chance might be to prove she was ... switched at
birth. "Switched at Birth" was awarded a 2006 Fellowship from the Pennsylvania
Council on the Arts and recently received readings at the Epiphany Theatre
Company in New York and the Pittsburgh Playwrights Theatre. Participating actors
include Jen Luta, Susan Martinelli, Collette Schreiber and Mark Stevenson.

The "Friday Night 'Wrights" series is a venture of the Terra Nova Theatre Group
and Pittsburgh PlayWorks.

Specialty coffee drinks featuring La Prima Coffee and a wide variety of sweet
treats and snacks will be available for purchase, and works by Wash Arts'
instructors and affiliated artists are on display.

SATURDAY-SUNDAY

PSO gets its game on

A symphony of video game music? Should we expect French horn Frogger or Double
Bass Donkey Kong?

Well, sort of. The mono music of the arcade games of the late '70s and '80s is
iconic and brings laughs when orchestrated in a portion of Video Games Live, a
touring concert coming to Heinz Hall this weekend.

But out of those electric beeps and pings emerged a group wave of rich and
expressive music to accompany games, written by talented composers and the
centerpiece of the concerts. Created by composer Tommy Tallarico, the concert
has sold out around the world, and will try to do the same with the music of
"Mario Brothers," "Zelda" and "Tetris" up through "Final Fantasy," "World of
Warcraft" and "Halo" at 8 p.m. Saturday and at 2:30 p.m. Sunday.

Bringing it from digital to real life will be the Pittsburgh Symphony and the
Mendelssohn Choir. With big-screen video, synchronized lighting, live action and
audience-interactive segments, the concerts will entertain an audience that
doesn't tread into Heinz Hall too often, which is a good thing. $30-$100;
412-392-4900.

-- Andrew Druckenbrod

Icy wonders

Polar-themed activities at the Carnegie Museum of Natural History are designed
to give visitors new perspectives on how global climate change is affecting the
polar regions and the rest of the planet.

In "Greenland's Changing Glaciers: Perspectives From the Ice," Dr. Mark
Fahnestock of the University of New Hampshire will talk about the impact warming
is having on glaciers in Greenland, using time-lapse photography and satellite
images to illustrate the changes.

Museum visitors will be able to talk by phone to scientists and students working
with the Polaris Project in the Siberian Arctic. This Earth Theater presentation
is Saturday at 2 p.m.

It's the opening weekend for a new Earth Theater Show. "Ice Worlds" explores the
icy landscapes of other planets and moons in the solar system. Show times this
weekend are Saturday at 11 a.m., noon, 2:30, 3, 3:30 and 4 p.m., and Sunday at
1, 2, 3 and 4 p.m.

"DOUBLEXPOSURE: Photographing Global Climate Change" is an exhibit of photos
documenting the effect of global warming around the planet. The photos were
taken by mountaineer Bradford Washburn and the Boston Globe's David Arnold.
They're on display in the Third Floor Alcove through Sept. 13.

Visitors can also check out the museum's permanent exhibits, including Polar
World: Wyckoff Hall of Arctic Life, which documents 4,500 years of Canadian
Inuit history, and Needle to the North, which highlights the museum's research
in the Arctic from 1901 to 2004.

-- Adrian McCoy

SUNDAY

Lone Stone

Mick Taylor was on board for what is generally considered the greatest era of
the Rolling Stones -- 1969-74, which included "Sticky Fingers" and "Exile on
Main Street" -- and then he departed rather mysteriously.

In October 1979 he told Rolling Stone, "It doesn't necessarily follow that
because you're in a successful rock 'n' roll band, you're going to stay in a
situation like that and be satisfied. For me it was personally restricting. I'm
not saying that it wasn't fun. It was a helluva lot of fun; it was great. But I
had to move on and do something else."

Most fans won't be able to point to much he did since leaving, other than maybe
hooking up with Jack Bruce and doing a short stint with Bob Dylan.

So, it's hard to know what to expect of Taylor when he performs Sunday night at
Hartwood Acres. Recent set lists show his band performing such songs as "Can't
You Hear Me Knocking," "No Expectations" and "Love in Vain," along with Taylor
solo stuff.

It probably won't sound like the Stones, but it will be a shock if Taylor's
playing isn't fluid and soulful.

The free show is at 7:30 p.m.

Scrapbook tips

The Pennsylvania Trolley Museum in Washington has launched a new monthly summer
series for seniors and their families. "Senior Sunday" features family
activities, along with brunch. This Sunday's theme is "Photos and Scrapbooking."
Families can learn scrapbooking techniques, have a family photo taken in front
of an antique trolley, tour the Trolley Display Building and take a four-mile
scenic trolley ride.

Reservations for Senior Sunday activities are recommended, but not required.

Brunch is served from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m.; brunch prices are $8/adults and
$5/children. Museum admission is $9/adults, $8 for people over 62, and $5 for
ages 3 to 15. Information: 724-228-9256.

Oberst rock

For most of his career, the name Conor Oberst was interchangeable with the name
of his loose Omaha chamber-pop ensemble, Bright Eyes. But now Bright Eyes is on
the back burner and the one-time emo poster boy is stepping forward as Conor
Oberst and the Mystic Valley Band.

When they stop at Mr. Small's on Sunday night, they'll draw from their two
albums on Merge and there won't be a single Bright Eyes song in the set. Oberst
and the Mystic Valley Band -- Nik Freitas (guitar), Taylor Hollingsworth
(guitar), Macey Taylor (bass), Nate Walcott (keyboards/organ) and Jason Boesel
(drums) -- is a more stripped-down, straightforward rock band that takes its
cues from Dylan (once again), Big Star and the Grateful Dead and still allows
Oberst his quirks.

Judging from recent reviews, there will be a small dose of solo Oberst and a few
songs from the other members, so try to be patient and don't scream for songs
from "Lifted" or "Fevers and Mirrors."

The show is at 8 p.m. with A.A. Bondy and Deep Sea Diver. Tickets are $25. Call
1-866-468-3401.

Budapest folk

The Tukros Zenekar, an ensemble from Budapest, calls upon hundreds of years of
traditional folk music and dance from the villages of Transylvanian Hungary (not
the part of Romania ravaged by Count Vlad). With strings, double bass, cimbalom
and haunting vocals, Tukros seeks to revive its impressive tradition without
having to inject any modern elements. "There is no need to improve it," says
violist Peter Arendas on the group's MySpace page, "only to play it as
authentically as possible." Tukros gets everyone dancing, Hungarian or not, on
Sunday at 8 p.m. at Your Inner Vagabond coffeehouse, 4130 Butler St., in
Lawrenceville. All ages are welcome. For information: 412-683-1623 or
www.yourinnervagabond.com.

NEED TO KNOW

* Jr. Walker's All-Star Band performs at South Park Friday at 7:30 p.m.

* The 18th annual Fireworks Festival will spark up on Saturday in downtown New
Castle, concluding with Zambelli Internationale fireworks at 10 p.m. The
festival starts at 3 p.m. and features a Rock Wall climbing, EuroBungee jumping,
mechanical bull riding, children's pony rides, a Lego Building Contest and more.
Go to www.FireworksCapitalofAmerica.com or call 1-888-284-7599.

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: WEEKEND MAG

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: "Roman Fountain With Cattle and Figures" by Nicholaes P. Berchem
is in "The Dutch Italianates: Seventeenth-Century Masterpieces from Dulwich
Picture Gallery, London" opening Friday at The Frick Art Museum. \
PHOTO: Conor Oberst and the Mystic Valley Band will stop at Mr. Small's Sunday
night.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              258 of 580 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                              May 24, 2009 Sunday
                               FIVE STAR EDITION

THEY DIED FOR YOU;
10 THINGS AMERICANS SHOULD KNOW ABOUT WORLD WAR II

BYLINE: RICK ATKINSON

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. G-1

LENGTH: 1704 words


The first thing to know about World War II is that it was a big war, a war that
lasted 2,174 days and claimed an average of 27,600 lives every day, or 1,150 an
hour, or 19 a minute, or one death every three seconds. One, two, three, snap.
One, two, three, snap.

In an effort to get our arms around this greatest calamity in human history,
let's examine 10 things every American ought to know about the role of the U.S.
Army in WWII.

1) The U.S. Army was a weakling when the European war began in earnest on Sept.
1, 1939, with the German invasion of Poland. The U.S. Army ranked 17th among
armies in size and combat power, just behind Romania. It numbered 190,000
soldiers. It would grow to nearly 8.5 million by 1945.

When mobilization began in 1940, the Army had only 14,000 professional officers.
The senior ranks were dominated by political hacks of certifiable military
incompetence. Not a single officer on duty in 1941 had commanded a unit as large
as a division in World War I. The Army's cavalry chief assured Congress that
four well-spaced horsemen could charge and destroy an enemy machine-gun nest
without sustaining a scratch.

2) The war affected all Americans. A total of 16 million served in uniform;
virtually every family had someone in harm's way; virtually every American had
an emotional investment in our Army. That WWII army of 8.5 million existed in a
country of about 130 million; today we have an army of roughly 500,000 in a
country of 307 million.

Still, the U.S. Army mobilized only 90 divisions by the end of the war. That
compares to about 300 for Germany; 400 for the Soviet Union, and 100 for Japan.

One reason was the gradual recognition that the Soviet Union was fighting most
of the German army. Another was the recognition that the United States could
provide industrial muscle unlike any nation on earth, to build tanks, airplanes,
and trucks, to make things like penicillin and synthetic rubber, not only for us
but for our Allies. That meant keeping a fair amount of manpower in factories
and other industrial jobs, while getting women into the workforce as never
before.

3) The U.S. Army did not win World War II by itself. We can be proud of our
role, but we must not be delusional, chauvinistic or so besotted with American
exceptionalism that we falsify history.

The war began 27 months before America joined the fray. It was fought on six
continents, a global conflagration unlike any seen before or since. The British
had done a great deal in those 27 months to keep alive the hopes of the western
democracies. Russia lost an estimated 26 million people in the war, and its
military did most of the bleeding for the Allied cause. By the end of the war,
there were about 60 nations on the Allied side. In Italy alone, Brazilians,
Poles, Nepalese, New Zealanders, French, Italians and a number of other
nationalities fought beside us.

4) The U.S. Army's role in the liberation of Europe didn't start at Normandy. It
started in North Africa.

President Franklin Roosevelt and British Prime Minister Winston Churchill agreed
that the first task was to defeat Germany, but they didn't agree on where to
begin. U.S. military leaders wanted to cross the English channel and head
straight for Berlin. Britain wanted to start by attacking the periphery of the
Axis empire in North Africa. Roosevelt eventually sided with the British.

The initial landings occurred on Nov. 8, 1942, in Morocco and Algeria. Over the
next two months, the Allies gained air supremacy and almost complete control of
the seas, strangling the Axis supply line from Europe. After Africa came Sicily,
then the campaign in Italy. Then came Normandy.

5) The U.S. Army for a long time after we entered the war was not very good.
Part of the WWII mythology is that all the brothers were valiant and all the
sisters were virtuous. War is the most human of enterprises, and it reveals
every human foible and frailty, as well as human virtues: cowardice and
tomfoolery, as well as courage and sacrifice. The Greatest Generation
appellation is nonsense.

In the first couple years of American involvement the Army was burdened with
clearly inferior equipment and commanders. Those first couple years of war
required a sifting out, an evaluation at all levels within the Army of the
competent from the incompetent, the physically fit from the unfit.

It has sometimes been argued that in an even fight, when you matched one
American battalion or regiment against a German battalion or regiment, the
Germans tended to be superior, the better fighters. But who said anything about
an even fight? Global war is a clash of systems. What matters is which system
can generate the combat power needed to prevail, whether it's in the form of the
13,000 Allied warplanes available on D-day; the 10:1 American advantage in
artillery ammunition often enjoyed against the Germans; or the ability to
design, build and detonate an atomic bomb. What matters is which system can
produce the men capable of organizing the shipping, the rail and truck
transportation, the stupendous logistical demands of global war.

Germany could not cross the English Channel, which is only 21 miles wide, to
invade Britain. The United States projected power across the Atlantic, the
Mediterranean and the Pacific and into Southeast Asia and the Indian
subcontinent. Power-projection, adaptability, versatility, ingenuity,
preponderance -- these are salient characteristics of the U.S. Army in WWII.

6) The U.S. Army in WWII comprised much more than riflemen. It included, for
example, the Army Air Forces, which in turn embodied the single greatest
military disparity between us and our enemies: the ability to flatten 50 German
cities, to firebomb Tokyo, to reduce Hiroshima and Nagasaki to ashes.

Those fleets of airplanes -- a thousand bombers at a time attacking enemy
targets -- are perhaps the most vivid emblem of the "arsenal of democracy" that
outfitted our military and our allies. The United States built 3.5 million
private cars in 1941; for the rest of the war, we built 139. Instead, in 1943
alone, we built 86,000 planes, 45,000 tanks and 648,000 trucks.

All of this gave the U.S. Army a mobility that permitted the rapid movement and
concentration of firepower. The German army relied on hundreds of thousands of
horses to pull their artillery and to haul supplies.

7) The Army remained under civilian control throughout the war. When the
president made the decision to invade North Africa contrary to the advice of
virtually all of his military advisers, he signed the order: "Franklin D.
Roosevelt, commander in chief." Harry S. Truman, not the military, made the
decision to drop the atomic bomb on Hiroshima and Nagasaki.

8) The U.S. Army in WWII was perhaps the greatest agent of social change in the
country during the 20th century. This is ironic given the inherent conservatism
of the institution.

In 1939, fewer than 4,000 blacks served in the Army. By early 1944, that number
exceeded 750,000, and the disparity between the avowed principles for which the
nation fought and the stark, hypocritical reality of American life in the 1940s
gave impetus and legitimacy to the civil rights movement. Many African Americans
endorsed what they called the "Double V" campaign: a righteous struggle for
victory over both enemies abroad and racism at home.

Restrictions on combat roles for black troops gradually eased; a group of
fighter pilots known as the Tuskeegee airmen demonstrated the inanity of those
restrictions, including assertions that black pilots lacked the reflexes to be
good fighter pilots. It's hard to imagine Barack Obama elected as president of
the United States in 2008 without the accelerated social change of WWII.

The Army in WWII was also an overwhelmingly male institution, and exclusively
male in senior leadership roles. But the extraordinary demand for military
manpower meant that women were drawn into the national workplace in exceptional
numbers; it's hard to put that genie back in the bottle.

The Army was a democratizing institution, too, even though it was and remains
relentlessly hierarchical. Of 683 graduates from Princeton University's Class of
'42, 84 percent were in uniform by 1945, and those serving as enlisted men
included the valedictorian and salutatorian; 25 classmates would die during the
war, including 19 killed in combat.

9) The history of the U.S. Army in WWII is among the greatest stories of the
20th century. It ought to be taught and learned as a story, with character,
plot, conflict and denouement.

John Updike wrote that WWII was the 20th century's central myth, "a vast
imagining of a primal time when good and evil contended for the planet, a tale
of Troy whose angles are infinite and whose central figures never fail to amaze
us with their size, their theatricality, their sweep."

Two cautionary notes: first, as the British historian Sir Michael Howard warns,
military history has "all too often been written to create and embellish a
national myth, and to promote deeds of derring-do." Triumphalism is not the
point.

Second, we should not view the present and the future through the distorting
lens of the past. One residue of WWII is a tendency to narrowly define power in
military terms, and to define threats in terms of traditional human enemies bent
on doing ill. Climate change and our addiction to foreign oil have the potential
to do more damage to American sovereignty and our way of life than anything
al-Qaida can pull off.

10) They died for you. We've talked about the WWII Army as both an organism and
a machine, an institution that grew stupendously, that demonstrated flexibility
and adaptability. But we ought never forget that at the core of this story is
suffering. The U.S. military sustained almost 300,000 battle deaths during the
war, and about 100,000 others from accidents, disease, suicide. Many of those
deaths were horrible, premature and unspeakably sad. One, two, three, snap.

War is a clinic in mass killing, yet there's a miracle of singularity; each
death is as unique as a snowflake or a fingerprint. The most critical lesson for
every American is to understand, viscerally, that this vast host died one by one
by one; to understand in your bones that they died for you.

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Rick Atkinson, the author of "The Army at Dawn" and "The Day of Battle,"
is working on the third volume in his trilogy on the role of the U.S. military
in the liberation of Europe in World War II. This article is based on a talk he
gave at the Foreign Policy Research Institute in Philadelphia earlier this month
(www.fpri.org). (C) Copyright Foreign Policy Research Institute 2009/

GRAPHIC: DRAWING: Stacy Innerst/Post-Gazette

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              260 of 580 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                           November 4, 2009 Wednesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

CZECHS SIGN OFF ON EU REFORM

SECTION: WORLD; WORLD BRIEFS; Pg. A-4

LENGTH: 571 words


PRAGUE -- A charter designed to transform the 27 countries and half a billion
people of the European Union into a more unified and powerful global player has
passed its last major hurdle and looks set to become law within weeks.

Once that happens, the Lisbon Treaty will allow more policy decisions by
majority rather than unanimous votes at European summits. Those policies would
then increasingly be shaped by the elected parliaments of each nation and the
European Parliament, which currently has little say.

Projecting this more decisive EU abroad would be the role of a new fixed-term
president -- in place of a decades-old system that rotates the presidency among
governments every six months -- and a new foreign minister.

That all became possible when Czech President Vaclav Klaus, who has been highly
skeptical of increasing the EU's powers, signed the Lisbon Treaty at the Prague
Castle yesterday, hours after his nation's Constitutional Court struck down a
complaint against it.

Ayatollah rejects US talks

TEHRAN -- Iran's supreme leader, spurning what he described as several personal
overtures from President Barack Obama, warned yesterday that negotiating with
United States was "naive and perverted" and said Iranian politicians should not
be "deceived" into starting such talks.

Ayatollah Ali Khamenei said Mr. Obama has approached him several times through
oral and written messages. In his harshest comments against the Obama
administration to date, Mr. Khamenei, 70, said yesterday that the United States
has ill intentions toward Iran and is not to be trusted.

No crosses in Italy schools

ROME -- The Vatican on yesterday denounced a ruling by the European court of
human rights that said the display of crucifixes in Italian public schools
violates religious and education freedoms.

In a decision that could force a review of the use of religious symbols in
government-run schools across Europe, the court ordered Italy to pay a
5,000-euro ($7,390) fine to a mother in northern Italy who fought for eight
years to have crucifixes removed from her children's public school classrooms.
The Italian government said it would appeal.

Tough road for climate talk

BARCELONA -- Boycotts on either side of the Atlantic yesterday showed just how
difficult it will be to clinch an agreement on global warming next month.

At U.N. climate talks in Barcelona, Spain, African nations walked out of
meetings to protest rich nations' reluctance to make substantial carbon-cutting
commitments. In Washington, some conservative Republicans boycotted the start of
committee debate on a bill to curb greenhouse gases, fearful of the cost to the
U.S. economy.

Just a coincidence?

MEXICO CITY -- Here was Mauricio Fernandez, being sworn in again as mayor of one
of northern Mexico's most exclusive communities, and he had wonderful news to
share: "Black Saldana, who apparently is the one who was asking for my head, was
found dead today in Mexico City," he told his cheering supporters in San Pedro
Garza Garcia.

The problem was that the barefoot, blindfolded corpse of "Black Saldana" --
whose real first name is Hector -- wasn't found for another 3 1/2 hours,
according to Mexico City prosecutors. And he wouldn't be identified for two
days.

The mayor is facing tough questions about the killings. His initial answer,
repeated in a series of interviews, was simple: "Sometimes there are
coincidences in life; it's better to look at it this way."

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              283 of 580 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                             August 9, 2009 Sunday
                                TWO STAR EDITION

BYLINE: Compiled by Greg Victor, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: EDITORIAL; CUTTING EDGE NEW IDEAS SHARP OPINIONS; Pg. B-4

LENGTH: 683 words


Working moms on the move

Chris Briem at Null Space notes what appears to be progress in Pittsburgh that's
been a long time in coming:

"Well, this is something. Forbes now has a ranking of best places for working
moms and Pittsburgh is No. 8. All I can really say is that whether local moms
agree or disagree it's an amazing contrast with one of the more amazing quotes I
have ever seen written in the vast wonkopedia of Pittsburgh self-analysis over
the years:

" '[Pittsburgh] will, however, slowly decline unless new industries employing
women and those engaged in the production of consumer goods are attracted to the
area.'

"This is from a report written by a place called the Econometric Institute based
in New York City and titled: 'Long Range Outlook for the Pittsburgh Industrial
Area,' stamped Feb. 12, 1947."

Ban tobacco?

Tony Newman at CNN.com notes that 400,000 people die prematurely every year from
smoking and writes:

"When we analyze the harm from drugs, there is no doubt that cigarettes are the
worst. They kill more people than cocaine, heroin, methamphetamine and all other
illegal drugs combined.

"More than 800,000 people are arrested every year for marijuana, the vast
majority for possession, yet all the data from studies that compare the two
substances show that cigarettes are more harmful to an individual's health. If
we make these other drugs illegal, shouldn't we outlaw the leading killer?"

God's OK with global warming

Lee Fang at Think Progress noticed that when former House Republican Leader Dick
Armey appeared as a witness for the Republican climate-change hearing on Capitol
Hill the other day, he explained God's thinking on global warming.

"What I'm suggesting is we have a sort of an eco-evangelical hysteria going on
and it leads me to almost wonder if we are becoming a nation of environmental
hypochondriacs ? I take it as an article of faith if the lord God almighty made
the heavens and the Earth, and he made them to his satisfaction and it is quite
pretentious of us little weaklings here on earth to think that, that we are
going to destroy God's creation."

God: Attack Iraq

James A. Haught at Free Inquiry reports that a French author has confirmed with
Jacques Chirac that in early 2003 President George W. Bush told the former
French president "that Iraq must be invaded to thwart Gog and Magog, the Bible's
satanic agents of the Apocalypse.

"Honest. This isn't a joke. The president of the United States, in a top-secret
phone call to a major European ally, asked for French troops to join American
soldiers in attacking Iraq as a mission from God.

"Now out of office, Chirac recounts that the American leader appealed to their
'common faith' [Christianity] and told him: 'Gog and Magog are at work in the
Middle East ? The biblical prophecies are being fulfilled ? This confrontation
is willed by God, who wants to use this conflict to erase his people's enemies
before a New Age begins.'

"Chirac says he was boggled by Bush's call, and 'wondered how someone could be
so superficial and fanatical in their beliefs.' "

A conspiracy is born

Dan Kennedy at Comment Is Free thought the "birthers" -- the conspiracy
theorists who insist that Barack Obama was not born in the United States and is
therefore unqualified to serve as president -- had gone away after the Obama
campaign posted the then-candidate's birth certificate on the Internet. But now
they are back with a vengeance, receiving a respectful hearing from the likes of
CNN talk show host Lou Dobbs and some Republican members of Congress.

Mr. Kennedy acknowledges his debt to Charles Pierce, author of "Idiot America:
How Stupidity Became a Virtue in the Land of the Free," in explaining "how talk
radio, cable news shows and, too often, less dubious sectors of the media have
built the promulgation of foolishness into a growth business." Mr. Pierce's
take:

1) "Any theory is valid if it sells books, soaks up ratings or otherwise moves
units."

2) "Anything can be true if someone says it loudly enough."

3) "Fact is that which enough people believe. Truth is determined by how
fervently they believe it."

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              294 of 580 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                            October 19, 2009 Monday
                                 SOONER EDITION

THE U.S. IS BECOMING ITS OWN WORST ENEMY

BYLINE: JOHN BROBST, Bradford Woods

SECTION: EDITORIAL; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR; Pg. A-10

LENGTH: 254 words


The election of Barack Obama as president of the United States was filled with
hope that we as a nation would come together in an effort to correct some
long-standing problems: health care, climate change, neglected infrastructure
and alternate energy sources, to name a few. Alas, it is not to be.

If health-care reform is enacted it will be so diluted as to do little good.
Lean will be the accomplishment toward climate change, alternate energy sources
and even infrastructure. Why such failure? It is that the Democrats have
conveniently -- convenient for the GOP -- shot themselves while solution
hunting. Once it was obvious that Republicans would oppose every Democratic
effort, Mr. Obama should have excluded them as possible allies.

The real culprits are the Blue Dog Democrats, who should have stood behind Mr.
Obama and passed legislation smoothly and quickly, which would have attenuated
the endless rancor that infects the airwaves. Ronald Reagan told the nation that
"big government was the problem, not the solution" and 30 years later we've
ended up with a nation of predator businesses that sold our work force out to
enrich their upper management.

We've ended up with citizens too selfish to care about those less fortunate,
we've encouraged gluttony to the point that we can't manage our personal debt.
We've inherited a mecca that is crumbling into ruin as we quarrel over states'
rights vs. federal government. Nations without similar philosophical arguments
will now write history. We are our own worst enemy.

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              323 of 580 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                           September 8, 2009 Tuesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

JIM FERLO: A POLITICIAN WITH SOUL OF A PROTESTER;
WILL RUB FOLKS WRONG WAY IF FOR GOOD CAUSE

BYLINE: Rich Lord, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. B-1

LENGTH: 1775 words


Jim Ferlo came to Pittsburgh 40 years ago to protest a war.

Now, 20 years after he crashed the tent of power, he understands why people from
throughout the country, and maybe the world, will be marching and shouting here
in two weeks, when the G-20 economic summit attracts the shapers of a troubled
world order.

The state senator is among those seeking permits to protest the summit, even as
he hopes to maintain a recently wobbly relationship with Mayor Luke Ravenstahl's
administration, which is trying to figure out how to keep order during the
summit.

"I'm sure maybe they're less than thrilled that I'm trying to fight and ensure
civil liberties and the right to demonstrate," Mr. Ferlo said. But the man who
was among those shouting outside the 1968 Democratic National Convention in
Chicago, and at many a protest since, isn't apologizing. "I've reached the
latter stages in my life, and am still fighting unjust wars."

These days his battles most often involve revitalizing a neighborhood, saving a
library or mitigating the effects of the global economy. He'll often
simultaneously use both the inside game -- working the levers of power -- and
the outside game of organizing and mobilizing people to achieve an end. The G-20
may be a test of those skills.

"I respect the senator's, and really everybody's, First Amendment right and am
thankful for his willingness to lead that charge in one respect," Mr. Ravenstahl
said Thursday. "But then in another respect, I hope that the senator will be a
leader in making sure that we can control these protests and making sure they
are peaceful protests."

Mr. Ferlo said he's all about peace, and doesn't want property damage, but won't
rule out civil disobedience. And he wants Pittsburghers to think about the gulf
between the things they fear -- unruly demonstrations, broken windows, blocked
streets -- and the injustices some of the protesters will decry.

"When people talk about [protester] violence," Mr. Ferlo said Friday, "these
[protesters] are folks who wake up every day and hear about an unmanned drone
that successfully killed seven Taliban, and 70 civilians that are considered
collateral damage."

Deep into his second term, the 58-year-old senator from Highland Park has wider
influence than he probably ever imagined when he came here from Rome, N.Y., as a
teenaged idealist.

He's the city's go-to guy in the Senate -- within limits -- and a member of its
Urban Redevelopment Authority board. He works with towns from Wilkinsburg to
Vandergrift to get state help. But he can't address all of the changes driven by
the global economy.

"When working people from the three counties that I represent see plant closing
after plant closing," he said, "there is a serious question on what is our role
economically and how do we maintain a sustainable economy."

When the summit comes, he'll try to get a message out -- not so much to the
leaders huddled in the David L. Lawrence Convention Center, but to the thousands
of journalists who will follow.

"These are people that are going back to their respective countries," he said.
"They're going to be talking about free trade vs. fair trade, climate change"
and military spending.

So he's working with academics, labor leaders and environmentalists on a
People's Summit the week before the G-20, and a Sept. 23 pro-environment rally
in Point State Park, which he hopes will feature former Vice President Al Gore.
The latter plan puts him at cross purposes with Mr. Ravenstahl, who planned to
use the park as a staging point for thousands of police officers.

"I don't have a formal permit, no," Mr. Ferlo said Friday. He does have a
meeting scheduled with police. "I think we'll work through it."

He sent a staff member to a Pittsburgh City Council hearing on Wednesday to
decry the imbalance between the attention the city is giving to public safety
and its interest in civil liberties. He said he's worried that groups haven't
gotten formal permits yet, distressed at the pending "de-facto, militarized,
martial law situation in the Downtown corridor" and hopeful that police will
respect protesters who go outside the lines.

"If people want to sit down in the street at the end of [a march], to me
harkening back to the beginning of the civil rights movement," he said, "I don't
think that should be demonized."

Before winning elective office, Mr. Ferlo was carried out of the Council Chamber
in 1986 when he wouldn't stop demanding that Mayor Richard Caliguiri personally
defend a complex subsidy for the Pirates.

He won a council seat in 1987, on his third try. Still, in 1991, he was arrested
for defiant trespass and obstructing traffic when he tried to stop demolition of
the Syria Mosque in Oakland.

"He's just not somebody who has unrecognizably compromised," unlike "everyone
[else] who said they were going into the system to change it," said longtime
activist Vincent Eirene.

Traditionally, council members do what mayors want. But Mr. Ferlo sent one of
Mayor Sophie Masloff's memos back with a handwritten f-bomb on it. Mayor Tom
Murphy in 2003 called him "a scorpion," summarizing their transformation from
allies to bitter foes.

"I never need a mayor to get anything done," Mr. Ferlo said in a 2002 Pittsburgh
City Paper profile.

In 2006, though, he got the mayor he'd wanted for years when Bob O'Connor was
inaugurated. Mr. O'Connor's death eight months later brought to the office
another friend, Mr. Ravenstahl. "He's been a supporter of mine from the very
beginning," the mayor said Thursday.

Mr. Ferlo fought for Mr. Ravenstahl when Councilman Patrick Dowd challenged the
mayor in this year's Democratic primary. Just four days before the May primary,
Mr. Ferlo held a series of events -- touted in state-paid mailers -- for Mr.
Ravenstahl in neighborhoods that are in both his senatorial district and Mr.
Dowd's council district. Mr. Ravenstahl then won Mr. Dowd's home ward, dominated
by Highland Park, by eight votes on his way to a citywide romp.

Seeing Mr. Ferlo lined up against you "is kind of exciting," said Mr. Dowd, who
called the senator "a talented, talented elected official. ... You have to
figure out how to navigate around someone like that."

"People are always saying he's the consummate insider, or he's controlling the
mayor," said Mr. Dowd. "Sometimes he might be in the middle, on the inside, and
sometimes he's not, and that's OK."

Mr. Ferlo's first big public disagreement with Mr. Ravenstahl came last month,
when he voted for sweeping legislation to avert a statewide municipal pension
meltdown. Among other things, it would have the state take over Pittsburgh's
retirement fund.

Mr. Ravenstahl wants the city to replenish its pension fund with proceeds from
leasing its parking garages. But Mr. Ferlo voted for the bill that would have
the state seize the fund, plus give Philadelphia the right to boost its sales
tax by 1 percentage point to deal with a cash flow crisis there.

When Mr. Ferlo and other area senators voted for the legislation, Mr. Ravenstahl
publicly reminded them that they represent Pittsburgh, not Philadelphia. Mr.
Ferlo shot back with a three-page letter, co-signed by Sens. Jay Costa and Wayne
Fontana, rebuking the mayor for those comments, and listing 11 ways they'd
improved the legislation.

Still, Mr. Ferlo's vote earned him some rebukes.

"He likes to portray himself as pro-labor. I don't view him as a pro-labor
politician anymore in this day and age," said Teamsters Local 249 President Joe
Rossi. He called the vote "a complete slap in the face."

"I think Jim has been put into a light that's not appropriate," countered Mr.
Costa. "Not a single employee in Pittsburgh is affected negatively in any way
except that their pension benefit is frozen."

On Friday, Mr. Ravenstahl said he won the support needed to get a two-year
reprieve from a pension takeover. If it gets House approval and comes back to
the Senate, "I would certainly be respectful of that," said Mr. Ferlo.

"Maybe the administration's not thrilled with me, but I want to continue to work
with them."

Mr. Ravenstahl said he and the senator "talked after the pension bill, et
cetera. And we've agreed to disagree on the issue. ... The good news is, 90
percent of the time, or 90-plus percent of the time, we agree."

On the URA board, Mr. Ferlo makes no apologies for directing development
attention to his stomping ground. The city "had to [redevelop] South Side, and
Second Avenue [in South Oakland], those are major priorities. But now we have
the Allegheny riverfront," he said. "That time has come now. And it won't just
be this mayor. It'll probably be two mayors."

When he joined the Senate in 2003, there were questions about whether an urban
activist would serve a district that stretches from Brighton Heights in the city
and Wilkinsburg on its doorstep up the Allegheny River and down the Kiskiminetas
into Armstrong County. He seems to be working every corner of it.

"Sen. Jim Ferlo has been phenomenal for the Borough of Apollo," said that town's
council president, John C. Ameno Jr. When Apollo wasn't big enough to get
certain state development funds, the senator engineered the creation of the
Freeport, Leechburg Apollo Group -- or FLAG -- allowing those towns to jointly
get money they couldn't touch singly.

Mr. Ferlo also has worked -- sometimes in a suit, sometimes in coveralls -- on
everything from sewer improvements to lot cleanups in the river towns, said Mr.
Ameno.

When Sharpsburg was at risk of losing its library, the senator organized a
fundraising concert involving the Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra, reeled in some
state money, and identified a foundation that provided a grant to buy a new
building for the much-needed facility, said Sharpsburg Borough Manager Ron
Borczyk. The new library opened in January.

Even in Republican-voting Fawn, he's been a presence, especially after remnants
of Hurricane Ivan caused flooding in 2004.

"Sen. Ferlo's office has been very helpful in assisting us with some of the
remediation," getting labor and seeking money to fix the Bull Creek watershed,
said David Montanari, chairman of Fawn's board of supervisors, a Republican.

Much of his district is more conservative than his Highland Park home ward and
his Lawrenceville power base. But even if Mr. Ferlo appears on TV screens
everywhere railing against the G-20 while protesters cheer, that's not likely to
hurt his popularity when he presumably runs again in 2010, said several
observers from the district's towns.

"There's a lot of concern, and one of the few rights that we still have is the
right to be different," said Mr. Montanari. "Jim's just standing for that voice,
and it's a welcome voice in today's world."

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: THE G-20 SUMMIT/ Rich Lord can be reached at rlord@post-gazette.com or
412-263-1542./

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Darrell Sapp/Post-Gazette: State Sen. Jim Ferlo sits in the
conference room of his Lawrenceville office during a meeting on the development
of the Community Environmental & Energy Assistance Center.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              333 of 580 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                           February 26, 2009 Thursday
                                 SOONER EDITION

SECTION: BUSINESS; BUSINESS BRIEFS; Pg. C-1

LENGTH: 487 words


Del Monte raises earnings guidance

San Francisco-based Del Monte Foods Co. raised guidance for fiscal year earnings
per share from continuing operations to a range of 64 cents to 68 cents, above
the earlier 58- to 62-cent range. The pet food and packaged fruit company, which
has an administrative center on Pittsburgh's North Shore, reported net income of
$60.5 million, or 30 cents per share, in the three months ended Jan. 25 as
compared to $53.3 million, or 26 cents last year. Analysts polled by Thomson
Financial had expected 22 cents per share. Total sales rose 8.4 percent to
$942.3 million, with a significant contribution from price hikes the company
said were needed to cover costs increases over the past few years.

Z Gallerie closing at SouthSide Works

The Z Gallerie home furnishings store at SouthSide Works is closing, one of a
number of locations being shuttered by the 77-store Gardena, Calif., chain as a
result of the deteriorating economy. News reports have put the closings so far
in the 20 to 25 range but, "We're still determining" the total number of stores
that will be closed based on their results, a spokesman said. No date for the
Pittsburgh store closing has been set, although clearance sales have begun.

Japanese carmakers see drop in production

Japan's top automakers yesterday reported a sharp plunge in production for
January, the latest evidence of how severely the country's mainstay auto
industry is being hit by the global slowdown. Toyota Motor Corp., the world's
biggest automaker, said its worldwide production slid 39.1 percent from a year
earlier to 487,984 vehicles in January. Worldwide vehicle production at Honda
Motor Co. declined 33.5 percent in January. The fall was particularly severe in
the United States, where Honda's production dropped 50.1 percent from a year
earlier to 47,246 vehicles.

Mortgage applications decline by 15 percent

Mortgage applications in the United States fell last week as higher borrowing
costs tempered refinancing. The Mortgage Bankers Association's index of
applications to purchase a home or refinance a loan decreased 15.1 percent to
743.5 in the week ended Feb. 20 from 875.3 in the prior week. The group's
refinancing measure dropped 19.1 percent and the purchase index slipped 2.6
percent.

Local gas prices down by a nickel

The average price of a gallon of regular gasoline yesterday in the Pittsburgh
area was $2.003, about a nickel less than last week's price, according to the
AAA Fuel Gauge report. Nationally, the average price yesterday was $1.90 per
gallon. One month ago, the average price locally was $1.869 per gallon, and one
year ago, it was $3.196.

World Health Organization approves generic HIV drug

The World Health Organization approved a generic version of Abbott Laboratories'
drug Kaletra, an HIV drug designed to withstand heat in warm climates, Mylan
Inc. said yesterday. Cecil-based Mylan owns a controlling interest in Matrix.

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              350 of 580 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                              May 12, 2009 Tuesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

ENDINGS DETRACT FROM FINE ACTING IN TWO PLAYS

BYLINE: Bob Hoover, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT; STAGE REVIEW; Pg. D-1

LENGTH: 1292 words


The past meets the future in two plays running on Pittsburgh stages. While they
both give audiences scenes of exceptional theater, their muddled endings don't
deliver on the promises the plays make early on.

Blame it on the playwrights August Wilson and Tom Stoppard.

In "Seven Guitars," the fifth of Wilson's 10-play cycle and staged by Pittsburgh
Playwrights Theatre Company, the American dream is thwarted by an unreasonable
allegiance to a mythical past.

Presented by Pittsburgh Irish and Classical Theatre, Stoppard's "Rock 'n' Roll"
is a critical and popular success in a long career of triumphs. It demands that
we consider the ideals of communism while we gather souvenirs from the rubble of
the Berlin Wall.

Yet, despite the heady intellectual drive of Stoppard's writing, he resorts to a
convenient conclusion slapped together from Jane Austen novels rather than Karl
Marx's theories. Considering Marx's writing style, that probably makes sense,
but not satisfying theater.

Clearly from the titles, music is the central motif of both. Wilson steeped
himself in the sounds and meaning of the blues and wrote his plays with a rhythm
and poignancy to match.

Stoppard grabbed the energy and insolence of rock music, turning it into a
symbol of personal freedom in a climate of repression in his native
Czechoslovakia.

Legendary musicians play muses -- Buddy Bolden for Wilson, Syd Barrett for
Stoppard. Cornet player Bolden, who died in 1931, pioneered jazz playing in New
Orleans. Barrett was an original Pink Floyd member, who left the band after a
breakdown in 1968.

Both plays open with songs. Louise, resident of a Hill District tenement, coos a
bawdy blues ballad. Barrett perches on a garden wall in Cambridge, England,
singing "Golden Hair" to a golden-haired 16-year-old.

From the dirt backyard in 1948 Pittsburgh to the greenery of an English garden
in 1968, the plays are poised on the edge of change. America is beginning the
slow dismantling of segregation -- the armed forces were integrated that year --
while "the Prague Spring" in Czechoslovakia anticipated the collapse of Soviet
domination two decades later.

The play's characters both anticipate and resist the changes, creating the tug
and pull that charge the works with tension.

The sets of "Seven Guitars" and "Rock 'n' Roll" play major roles by making
imaginative use of the cramped quarters where the works are staged.

Mark Clayton Southers, who also directed the Wilson play, re-creates in the
tight space of 542 Penn Ave., Downtown, the neglected, down-at-mouth feel of the
Hill a few years away from its widespread destruction for the Civic Arena. From
its dirt floor to its sagging porch railing, the set mirrors the poverty of its
inhabitants.

Faced with a play that moved ahead 12 years and jumped back and forth from
Cambridge to Prague, designer Narelle Sissons elegantly combined 18 projection
screens and a widened stage at the Heymann Theatre to allow the production to
flow smoothly.

PICT's "Rock 'n' Roll" is both a triumph of technology, using still and moving
pictures in concert with rock music, and solid dramatic achievement by a cast of
polished, confident actors.

Under the direction of PICT artistic director Andrew Paul and in the hands of
veterans Helena Ruoti, Sam Tsoutsouvas, Sam Redford and Simon Bradbury,
discussions of dialectical materialism and Sapphic poetic meter seldom sounded
so entertaining. Stoppard's writing demands intelligence and preciseness. That
quartet manages it all quite nicely.

"Rock 'n' Roll" depends on more than political debate. In the rocky marriage of
the academics Eleanor and Max, Stoppard creates a powerful emotional conflict
between the demands for love and for recognition.

Ruoti inhabits the cancer-ravaged body of the classics scholar Eleanor with a
fierce determination to stand as an equal to the stubborn anachronism of Max, a
hard-line Marxist and argumentative bully, played by Tsoutsouvas with the proper
bluster.

Near the end of the first act, Ruoti erupts in a moving scene of pain and
despair. "I want your grieving soul or nothing," she tells Max who's been
lecturing everybody about materialism, Soviet style. Concluding nearly 90
minutes of intellectual repartee, it's a shocker, made even more so by Ruoti's
intensity.

The need for love also leads to an intense and moving scene in the first act of
"Seven Guitars." Here, Vera, a young woman jilted by performer Floyd "Schoolboy"
Barton, throws his casual suggestion of reunion back in his face:

"... I looked up and you was back here after I had given you up. After I had
walked through an empty house for a year and a half looking for you. After I
would lay myself out on that bed and search my body for your fingerprints..."

Pittsburgh newcomer Ericka Ratcliff invests the role of Vera with the powerful
pride of a person scorned. Like Ruoti, she and the audience are left shaken by
the force of her wounded soul crying in pain.

Played by Homestead native Montae Russell, a Wilson play veteran, Schoolboy is
the future of "Seven Guitars." Down on his luck, his electric guitar trapped in
a pawn shop, he is riding high when his recording is getting airplay in
Pittsburgh.

His sound anticipates the amplified music of the 1950s, but Schoolboy doesn't
have the cash for a Chicago recording trip to claim the success he so
desperately craves.

His opposite is King Hedley (Wali Jamal), another tenement boarder who is
sinking into the craziness of frustration with America's discrimination. At 59,
he clings to the dream of his father's debt repaid by Buddy Bolden so he can
escape white culture and live like, well, a king.

Where Barton courts his white manager, Hedley waves his machete and says, "Now
Hedley ready for the white man when he come to take me away." The opposites are
destined to clash in the play's climax.

(He is the inspiration for Wilson's 1999 "King Hedley II" that debuted at the
Pittsburgh Public Theater.)

Jan is a young Czech student in England working with Max in '68, but more in
love with rock 'n' roll than the dictatorship of the proletariat. As Stoppard
tells us, it's Jan's political apathy that is the true threat to communist dogma
and major irritant to hardliner Max.

The English actor Redford, part of the fine cast of "The Seafarer" earlier this
year at City Theatre, interprets Jan as a bright, yet naive young man eager to
please his mentor and later, his own country's secret police, done in a nasty
turn by Bradbury. Jan learns the hard way that apathy isn't possible during a
time of political upheaval.

Both plays raise serious social and political issues, issues that challenge the
private lives of their characters and the hearts and minds of their audiences.

This is daunting theater, performed with professional elan and energy by the
Playwrights and PICT. The disappointment comes when we discover that both
playwrights have lost their nerve by the last scene.

"Rock 'n' Roll" declines into a pleasant domestic comedy; "Seven Guitars"
glosses over its hopelessness with religious cliches.

Don't blame the theater companies, though. PICT and Playwrights have met the
demands of these challenging plays with spirited performances that deserve our
attention.

b&t; 'SEVEN GUITARS'

/b&t;

* Where: Pittsburgh Playwrights Theatre Company at 542 Penn Ave., Downtown.

* When: Through May 24; 8 p.m. Thurs., Fri., Sat; 7 p.m. Sun.

* Tickets: $22.50; $17.50 students and seniors; proartstickets.org or
412-394-3353.

b&t; 'ROCK 'N' ROLL'

/b&t;

* Where: Pittsburgh Irish and Classical Theatre at the Henry Heymann Theatre in
Stephen Foster Memorial, Oakland.

* When: Through May 30; 7 tonight; 8 p.m. Wed., Thurs., Fri., Sat; 2 and 7 p.m.
Sun; also 2 p.m. May 23 and 30.

* Tickets: $46 to $17 (for youths under 25); proartstickets.org or 412-394-3353

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Contact Bob Hoover at 412-263-1634 or bhoover@post-gazette.com

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mark C. Southers: In "Seven Guitars," the cast includes, from
left, Alan Bomar Jones as Canewell, Ericka Ratcliff as Vera and Teri Bridgett as
Louise.\
PHOTO: In "Rock 'n' Roll," Sam Redford's Jan is interrogated by Simon Bradbury's
secret police officer in Prague. Narelle Sissons Jan (Sam Redford) is
interrogated by a secret police officer in Prague (Simon Bradbury) in the
Pittsburgh Irish & Classical Theatre production of "Rock 'n' Roll".

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              351 of 580 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                              May 19, 2009 Tuesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

ANOTHER TAKE ON TWO MAYORAL CANDIDATES

BYLINE: Sarah Troetschel

SECTION: LIFESTYLE; ELECTION DAY; Pg. D-9

LENGTH: 883 words


Even though I am not old enough to vote in the mayoral primary and live in
Munhall, I know this race is important because decisions made by the mayor will
affect urbanites and suburbanites.

Key issues are the city's budget and taxes, public transportation, crime and
violence. I talked to Carmen Robinson and Patrick Dowd about these subjects.
They both seem like very savvy candidates.

I was unable to speak with Mayor Luke Ravenstahl, despite my best efforts over a
period of six weeks and dozens of attempts to arrange an interview.

Carmen Robinson

Mrs. Robinson was the first candidate to respond to me. Here is what she had to
say:

Q: What is your vision for Pittsburgh?

A: I want to change the way our current leadership is responding to
sustainability. I'm amazed that the current leadership is Democratic because I
think that they represent Reagan's trickle-down economics. They're focused on
big-time developers, big-money projects at taxpayer expense. They support
developers with projects Downtown, then they offer tax abatements at the middle
class's expense. I would like to take that money and target our community's
businesses. I want to give tax abatements to commercial property owners with the
condition that they offer reduced rent to people who want to start small
businesses.

Q: Tell me about your background.

A: I was a Pittsburgh police officer for 15 1/2 years, eight of which I was a
sergeant. I decided I needed to do more with my life, so, while I was a
sergeant, I decided to go to law school during the day and work as a sergeant at
night. After finishing law school, I left the police department and became an
intern for the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania. I then took a clerkship with Judge
Dwayne Woodruff, who serves in Allegheny County Common Pleas Court's family
division. I am in private practice and practice in all areas, but I consider my
specialty criminal law.

Q: If elected, how are you planning to deal with violence and crime?

A: You have to tackle the problem. Violence is a preventable illness. Let's
address the problem -- the environment that's causing the problem. In 2003, when
the city was having its financial problems, it closed all the community centers
that had anything to do with children. When you close down outlets like that,
crime like this is what you get.

You also have to look at the schools. We spend over $15,000 per pupil, yet we
have a 60 percent drop-out rate. You have to address that.

Q: How do you plan to attract people to Pittsburgh?

A: First, it is important for us to stop people from LEAVING. The second thing I
would do is take care of our neighborhoods. If you take care of the people here,
people elsewhere will be so jealous of how we treat our people that they'll want
to come here. Also, if we can get our economy to prosper with small businesses
we will show people outside that this really is the most livable city, and
people will want to come here.

Patrick Dowd

Mr. Dowd is an early riser. Here is what he had to say early one bright morning:

Q. What is your vision for Pittsburgh?

A. The three things that I think need to be taken care of based on what I've
heard from talking to people are building a city government that people can be
proud of, getting focused and committed to increasing the number of good-paying
jobs, and reduction of crime and violence.

Q. Can you tell me about your background?

A. I came to Pittsburgh in 1991 when I was 23. I didn't know a whole lot about
Pittsburgh, but I knew I wanted to study with a particular person who was at the
University of Pittsburgh. It was there that I met my wife. We fell in love with
the city, got married and had five children. I got committed to improving public
education. In 2003, I ran for a school board seat and won. In 2007, I ran for
City Council and won again.

Q. What budget reforms are you planning to make if elected mayor?

A. One thing is we have a surplus of cash (about $45 million), and I've been
critical of the way the mayor has accumulated that. I would lock that money away
for pension and debt payments. The mayor will tell you that it has been locked
away, but don't listen to that. The money is actually sitting in an account that
says it's going to be used for debt unless we change our mind, in which case
we'll use it for something else. I'll lock that money away to pay down pension
or debt.

The second thing is we have to get honest about budgeting. The current
administration has taken money from our authorities and our school system and
used that money to keep its own budget afloat. That is no way to balance a
budget. You balance it by bringing your expenses and revenue in line with one
another.

Q: How do you plan to attract people to Pittsburgh?

A: The first thing is to reduce debt. You also need to make the government more
professional so people feel like when they pay their taxes they get quality in
return. Another thing is to start a fund, which Mayor Ravenstahl has upon our
suggestion, to help young people access capital to start a future generation of
great businesses in Pittsburgh. Finally, you have to create a city climate that
is attractive to people. I've been a big advocate for things like bike and
pedestrian initiatives, so people can access different modes of transportation.
We should also look at clean air initiatives.

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: MY GENERATION: For kids About kids By kids/ Sarah Troetschel, 17, lives
in Munhall and is home schooled. /

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              366 of 580 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                           August 12, 2009 Wednesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

GREENING OF RETAIL BRINGS CONFUSION, SKEPTICISM

BYLINE: Teresa F. Lindeman, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. A-6

LENGTH: 932 words


The problem of saving the planet one purchase at a time doesn't seem to be a
difficult one to grasp. Just to solve.

Consider the kitchen stocked with Dolphin Safe tuna, Fair Trade coffee and
Certified Organic produce.

The refrigerator gets a good Energy Star rating, the wall paint was certified
under the EcoLogo program and the light bulbs were suggested by Home Depot's Eco
Options.

Are carbon emissions more important than treatment of coffee growers? How do
paint fumes and pesticides play into the future the planet? Where does
protecting the ocean's resources fit into the equation?

"It's a complex area because what is green is changing and it's
multidimensional," said Anastasia O'Rourke, co-founder of sustainability issues
firm Big Room Inc. in Vancouver, British Columbia.

There's no end of efforts by retailers and suppliers and various organizations
to help guide shopping choices based on sustainability issues -- to the point
that many consumers are either confused or skeptical about claims on labels.

"That is definitely a problem, and a lot of people have identified that as a
problem," said Dr. O'Rourke, whose company last year tried to help out by
producing a directory of more than 280 ecolabels used around the world on nearly
500,000 products.

Next up, an iPhone app to help shoppers understand eco labels and offer
recommendations as they are standing in a store.

Last month, heavyweight retailer Wal-Mart threw its heft behind a plan to create
a worldwide sustainable product index that would produce yet another rating
system.

It's hard to tell if the move will strike a blow for green clarity or just be
another piece of the puzzling process.

Wal-Mart plans to survey suppliers -- about 100,000 of them -- on issues such as
greenhouse gas emissions, water use, community reinvestment and raw material
sources.

The retailer also is backing a consortium involving universities that would work
with retailers, government agencies and other interested parties.

"We want to spur the development of a common database that will allow the
consortium to collect and analyze the knowledge of the global supply chain,"
said Wal-Mart CEO Mike Duke, in the mid-July announcement.

The big company's sustainability shove has been received with a mix of support
and skepticism from those who know the Bentonville, Ark., retailer's history.

Wal-Mart has, with mixed success, used its acres of shopping racks to push such
causes as more efficient packaging and radio frequency identification
technology.

In July, the retailer's call for health care reform involving employer mandates
brought a public rejection from the National Retail Federation.

On the sustainability front, Dan Butler, vice president of retail operations
with the Washington, D.C., trade group, applauded Wal-Mart for trying to be a
leader, but he didn't discount the complications.

Mr. Butler has talked to as many as 300 different retailers who are all at work
on some piece of this issue, whether it's green marketing or merchandising or
environmentally sensitive construction or recycling. They all have a different
style, he said.

"The challenge becomes expecting everyone to do everything the way you want them
to be done. It's not very realistic," he said.

While a number of suppliers have been quoted as indicating a willingness to work
with Wal-Mart on its sustainability project, bloggers have questioned whether
the push will create new costs for those trying to earn good ratings.

Many suppliers have already been at work on their own systems and products. In
some cases, changes were driven by cost-cutting from better packaging and energy
use. Consumer demand and competition also has spurred many on. Suppliers have to
meet certain standards if they want to serve various retailers.

"We don't see it as a fad," said Mr. Butler. "This isn't something that's going
to pass in a year or two. Retailers are making permanent changes."

Dr. O'Rourke praised the initial outline of Wal-Mart's plan because the retailer
seems to be acknowledging work already done. Among 15 questions being sent to
suppliers are ones asking if a manufacturer has reported greenhouse gas
emissions to the Carbon Disclosure Project or if it already has received certain
third-party certifications.

"A lot of companies have already done that work," she noted.

For Jay Golden, an assistant professor in Arizona State University's School of
Sustainability and co-director of the Sustainability Consortium, Wal-Mart's
splashy announcement carries risks.

Dr. Golden spent about two years as a noncompensated adviser to Wal-Mart on
these issues, and he's enthusiastic about the possibilities.

The big retailer's support brings momentum to the consortium. "When they move,
they really move the whole industry," he said.

But the index will need to develop an identity beyond that of Wal-Mart's pet
project.

The program, under way for at least a year, already involves other companies --
both big and small -- as well as universities both inside and outside of the
United States.

The consortium, whose other co-director is from the University of Arkansas, is
launching pilot projects to look at indexing various products such as laundry
detergents and apparel.

The goal is to work on categories in waves and eventually produce ratings that
consumers can trust and understand.

Part of the process is to understand what's important to customers, Dr. Golden
said. That could vary by country, climate and culture.

"We've had a lot of people say, 'We're skeptical that it can be done,'" he
acknowledged. Yet, he added, "There's a lot of people that want to give it a
try."

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Teresa F. Lindeman can be reached at tlindeman@post-gazette.com or at
412-263-2018.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              386 of 580 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                            October 18, 2009 Sunday
                               FIVE STAR EDITION

YANKEES HAVE A BIG SCRAPBOOK TO FILL WITH THEIR NEW STADIUM

BYLINE: Mark Whicker, The Orange County Register

SECTION: SPORTS; COMMENTARY; Pg. C-2

LENGTH: 761 words


First and foremost, there are no bad ballparks. You say, Shea Stadium, but that
just proves the rule.

Yes, some baseball stadiums are better -- prettier, more functional, more
comfortable -- than others.

And then there's Dodger Stadium, the blue Vatican as it bears down on 50.
Everything lines up behind it.

The Yankees opened a new stadium this year and had to improve on its own
battleground, the old Yankee Stadium across the street. And yet they had to
adhere closely to tradition. If the old Stadium, which was itself remodeled in
the 1970s was good enough for 26 world champions, the new place shouldn't look
like miniature golf.

It doesn't. They took more than $1 billion and came up with something gorgeous,
to be sure, but also something you can recognize. There is absolutely no
question that you're inside Yankee Stadium, even though you're not scraping
things off your shoes, even though you're not shoulder-blocking people to get
down the hall.

You don't go "Wow." You just nod your head. Yes. They made everything old look
new again.

The old stadium is on the other side of 161st Street, and it will not be with us
much longer. Blue construction screens encircle it now. With the new jewel box
nearby, it's hard to remember how dominant the old park was in this
neighborhood, especially when you saw it from the Deegan Expressway.

But then you fly into Houston these days and see the gargantuan Reliant Stadium,
and then you see what looks like a thimble next to it. That's the Astrodome.
Forty-four years ago, that was the Eighth Wonder of the World, the first indoor
stadium, an idea so outrageous that you wondered who would dare build the next
one. Now you have teams so blase about climate control that they move from domes
to outdoors. What the Yankees did was master the tricky art of change.

"When you get on the field, everything's the same as the old place," said Brett
Gardner, Yankees outfielder. "It didn't take much time for the crowd to reach
the same levels of excitement. It's just a lot better place for us."

The old Yankees clubhouse was a smallish room made smaller by the
ever-increasing media infestation.

It had posts and inconveniently located tables and few perks. The new room is a
bright, yawning circle with fresh carpet and Internet access at every locker.

"When you need to get loose now, you've got places to do it," Gardner said.
"Across the street we used to run down the hall. Sometimes we'd put nets up in
the clubhouse and get extra hitting that way. Now there's everything we need."

"If we run into weather problems," said manager Joe Girardi, as a nettlesome
storm prepared to camp out in Gotham, "we can just go into the cage underneath
and get extra hitting. We'd have to go down the right-field line in the old
place."

The new stadium also improved Monument Park. The statues aren't visible from the
seats, but the display is better organized. The Yankees also preserved their
connections to the past by failing to change Lou Gehrig's notation. No, his
record of 2,130 consecutive games played is not likely to last forever.

Physically, the new place is not as claustrophobic and oppressive as the old.
Most of those seats were in the upper deck, which went straight up. Most of
these seats are in the lower portions, and the fans are slightly farther away. A
fusillade of Yankees home runs into a suspiciously short right-field porch, and
a major-league high 15 walk-off victories, have made this a noisy, hostile
locale anyway.

But will Yankee Stadium II be the same throbbing postseason stage? That's up to
the Yankees, of course, but that's a big scrapbook to fill.

In many ways it's a good thing that there will never be a night like Game 3 of
the 2001 World Series, when President Bush, in his finest hour, defiantly
stepped to the mound in a flight jacket and fired the first pitch, six weeks
after terrorists savaged New York and targeted the Capitol. But no one there
will forget it.

Something about the old ballpark brought out the mischief in people. Instead of
K cards for David Wells' strikeouts, they put up cards of frosty mugs, and
sequential moose for Mike Mussina. They bellowed Der-ek Jet-er and Ber-nie
Will-iams until those Yankees waved back at them, from their stations. In
October, they were never off their game.

It has been nine years since the Yankees won a World Series anywhere and six
years since they've played in one. That's a lot of lung power, stored up, and
the Angels will hear most of it. When they close their eyes they'll swear
they're in Yankee Stadium. When they open them, they will, too.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Kathy Willens/Associated Press: If history is going to start to
be written this month at new Yankee Stadium, it's going to be written in cold,
damp weather. Yankees shortstop Derek Jeter warms up before practice Thursday.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              400 of 580 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                            August 6, 2009 Thursday
                                 SOONER EDITION

'SUMMER HOURS': MORE THAN JUST ABOUT A FINE OLD HOUSE

BYLINE: Kenneth Turan, Los Angeles Times

SECTION: ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT; MOVIR REVIEW; Pg. W-18

LENGTH: 668 words


"Summer Hours" opens, as so many French films do, with a major family reunion at
a marvelous old house in the country. But while the setting is familiar, even
Chekhovian, what writer-director Olivier Assayas does with it is not.

Assayas, whose credits include "Clean," "Demonlover" and "Irma Vep," is not the
type to do things as usual, or even do anything classically French. So it is a
pleasant surprise to see him working in a naturalistic form but bringing his own
particular sensibility to it.

For "Summer Hours" turns out to be global as well as personal, a family drama
with a larger point. While the film is elegiac in the best sense, concerning
itself with what the passage of time does to a family, it also takes on broader
questions about the disintegration of both a culture and the society that
supports it.

None of this is visible when the film starts on a fine summer's day, at a
country house to die for, some 50 minutes outside Paris. Children are playing,
dogs are barking, the aging cook is grumbling -- it all feels very much like
business as usual for a warm afternoon. Only it isn't.

The three adult children and their own kids gathered for their mother's 75th
birthday party not only rarely see one another, they are rarely in the same
country. Jeremie works for a multinational shoe company in China. Adrienne
(Juliette Binoche) is a designer who's based in New York. It's only Frederic
(Charles Berling), an economist and academic, who lives and works in France.

Although her birthday is the nominal cause of the gathering, mother Helene
(Edith Scob, whose career dates back to 1960's cult classic "Eyes Without a
Face") has her own agenda. She wants to talk to Frederic, the only son in
France, about what she wants to be done with the house and its furnishings after
she's dead.

For this is not your run-of-the-mill beautiful country house. It belonged to
Helene's uncle, Paul Berthier, a well-known painter, and it is filled with the
paintings and furnishings he collected over a lifetime of friendship with some
of France's great artists.

Despite that, and despite Helene's passion for the house, she insists to
Frederic that it and everything in it be disposed of after her death. The
children are scattered, they lead lives of their own, and she doesn't want the
house to be a burden. Frederic, who is passionate about the house, disagrees,
insisting it should be passed down intact to the next generation.

Naturally, the inevitable happens sooner rather than later, and, in a scene that
is the heart of the film, the re-gathered siblings engage in spirited discussion
as, balancing reasons of practicality with those of emotion, they wrestle with
the question of what should be done with the house. What they decide and how
that plays out in practical terms take up the bulk of the film.

Adding even more drama to the discussion is the realization that "Summer Hours"
is talking not just about the potential end of this house but the possible
disintegration of a society and a culture as well. What does it mean when money
determines the value of everything? Is society diminished or improved when
things of worth exist only in museums?

Despite the importance of these questions, "Summer Hours" also finds time to
explore the personal, to examine the warm but wary way these siblings interact
with each other. And the emotions surrounding Helene's death are always close at
hand, as is the realization of how continually disturbing death is to the
living.

What is most unusual about "Summer Hours" is that it is concerned about what
will be left of French culture if the country's best and brightest move
offshore. French films traditionally take France and its eternal appeal for
granted. "Summer Hours" is the rare film that worries about that, worries about
the future, and that proves to be invaluable.

"Summer Hours" opens Friday at the Harris Theater.

'Summer Hours'

Critic's Call: * * * 1/2

Starring: Juliette Binoche, Charles Berling.

Rating: Unrated. In French with English subtitles.

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: WEEKEND MAG

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jeannick Gravelines: Juliette Binoche plays Adrienne, who must
come to terms with her siblings over what to do with their mother's French
country house in "Summer Hours."

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              401 of 580 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                            August 6, 2009 Thursday
                                 NORTH EDITION

WHERE'S MY HULA-HOOP?

SECTION: METRO; GOOD MORNING; Pg. N-1

LENGTH: 387 words


The Alliance Against Drugs is out to test the memories of those who lived
through -- or studied -- the 1950s (and beyond) with a trivia competition, with
lots of dancing and music.

The fundraiser, for those over 21, will include silent and live auctions and
will be held from 7 to 11 p.m. Aug. 14 at the Chadwick, 1 Wexford Square in
Pine.

Cash bar. Tickets are $100 per couple and $50 per person and include buffet and
activities. For tickets, contact kehoe@consolidated.net or call Debbie Kehoe at
724-612-5554.

Salute to vets

Seneca Valley School District is once again organizing a Veterans Recognition
Day during the first game of Raider football Sept. 4.

To attend, please submit your name, rank, branch, years of service, and war
served, if applicable. If you have attended this program in the past, all we
need is your name and current address. Information should be provided by Aug. 26
to Linda Andreassi, Seneca Valley School District Communications, 124 Seneca
School Rd., Harmony, PA 16037, or you can e-mail this information to
andreassill@svsd.net

Long time coming

It's been 40 years since Woodstock, and Hair Peace Charities will mark the
occasion with a concert commemorating that legendary mudbath.

Hair Peace Charities helps breast cancer patients face treatment with
determination, support and hair.

"Concert in the Park," featuring largely local talent, will recreate the famous
festival by asking each act to play its own version of a song that was performed
on Max Yasgur's farm 40 years ago. Headlining will be jazz artist Jessica Lee.

The concert will begin at 2 p.m. Sunday in Sewickley Heights Park on Fern Hollow
Road. The cost is $10 per car, $5 per two-wheeler and free for those on
horseback. T-shirts and raffles will be available.

Warm up to this issue

The Audubon Society of Western Pennsylvania, the National Audubon Society and
local global warming experts will present creative methods for taking action
against global warming in a workshop at Beechwood Farms Nature Preserve from 9
a.m. to 3 p.m. Monday.

Learn what's happening now in Pennsylvania, how you can integrate this important
issue into your life and how to encourage others to become involved. The cost is
$5 per person registration, and includes lunch. For a full listing of the day's
events, please visit aswp.org or call 412-963-6100.

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              404 of 580 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                           January 7, 2009 Wednesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

CORPORATE ETHICS, MISSING IN ACTION;
THE WALL STREET MESS REFLECTS BADLY ON AMERICA'S BUSINESS SCHOOLS

BYLINE: CLARKE THOMAS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. B-5

LENGTH: 830 words


Regarding the Wall Street financial mess, don't you wonder how top officers with
MBAs from some of the highest-ranking business schools displayed such a lack of
ethics?

Is saying "business and ethics" a contradiction in terms? Perhaps we have come
to a crossroads between two attitudes on the subject.

One is that of Nobel Prize-winning Milton Friedman, who offered this oft-quoted
declaration: "There is only one social responsibility of business: to use its
resources to engage in activities designed to increase its profits as long as it
engages in open and free competition without deception or fraud."

The other is that expressed by Robert Gates, then president of Texas A&M
University and now U.S. secretary of defense, in the wake of the Enron scandal:
"All of these cheats and thieves are graduates of our universities. The
university community cannot avert its eyes and proclaim that is not our problem,
that there is nothing we can do or that these behaviors are an aberration from
the norm."

If a change of attitude is needed, where does that put schools of business,
including those in the Pittsburgh region?

First, one needs to know that there is a continuing national debate about
business education, with Pittsburgh in the thick of the argument.

One faction holds that the best way to teach proper conduct is to sprinkle
ethics throughout economics, marketing, finance, accounting and other courses.

Another faction contends that this isn't enough -- that stand-alone ethics
courses must be required for every business-school student.

National leaders for this latter viewpoint include William Frederick, now
retired from the University of Pittsburgh's graduate business school, and two of
his MBA proteges: Diane Swanson, now a professor at Kansas State University, and
James Weber, founder of the Beard Center for Leadership in Ethics at Duquesne
University.

Unfortunately, this Pittsburgh faction has been unsuccessful in persuading the
national accrediting association, the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools
of Business, to accept the stand-alone ethics-course requirement. Many faculty
members resist having their core curriculum "diluted" by ethics courses.

The latest report on the subject, from Bloomberg News, says only about one-third
of U.S. business schools require stand-alone ethics courses. Whether the Wall
Street meltdown will have any sway with the deans -- the real decision makers in
the business-school association -- remains to be seen.

If one takes the stand-alone requirement as a gauge, the record in the
Pittsburgh region is spotty. Duquesne clearly is out front, with an exemplary
effort to inculcate ethics throughout the university. Every Duquesne student is
required to take a three-credit ethics course.

In addition, Duquesne's Donahue Graduate School of Business requires every
undergraduate to take a stand-alone business ethics course and every graduate
student to take an applied business ethics course. Part of the school's mission
is to prepare students to be "ethical business professionals and community
leaders with an understanding of the global context of business and its social
impact." No other business school in southwestern Pennsylvania is this rigorous
on the subject.

Duquesne's influence goes beyond the university. The Beard Center every month or
so hosts a lunch for the ethics compliance officers of the two dozen Pittsburgh
corporations affiliated with the national Ethics & Compliance Officer
Association. Included are such firms as Alcoa, Bayer, Consol, Highmark, PPG,
U.S. Steel, and Union Switch and Signal. The agenda may be a lecture or a
discussion on such topics as ways to investigate alleged unethical activity or
to assess the overall ethical climate of a corporation.

Mr. Weber attaches the burgeoning of corporate interest in ethics to three
dates. The 1977 Foreign Corrupt Practices Act forbidding bribery abroad. The
1991 U.S. Corporate Sentencing Guidelines, which tightened once discretionary
rules. And the 2002 Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which, in the wake of the Enron and
WorldCom scandals, added a host of new accounting requirements, including
auditor independence, internal control assessment and enhanced financial
disclosure.

Mr. Frederick believes that with globalization, ethics takes on a dimension
beyond accounting and marketing practices. Corporations must act responsibly in
dealing with the world ecosystem, for instance, whether the issue is global
warming, population pressure, pollution, the preservation of rain forests and
wildlife, and the like. Governments and international organizations alone cannot
solve these problems, he says; corporations have a vital stake, too, for their
own future as well as that of humanity.

Business must be a partner in such efforts, not a foot dragger, and must include
a greater emphasis in MBA curricula on ethics, centering on stand-alone ethics
courses. This clearly is needed to help rebuild public trust in the morality of
America's business leaders.

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Clarke Thomas is a Post-Gazette senior editor (clt77@verizon.net).

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              412 of 580 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                            February 6, 2009 Friday
                                 SOONER EDITION

SUICIDE BOMB KILLS 24 PEOPLE

SECTION: WORLD; WORLD BRIEFS; Pg. A-4

LENGTH: 535 words


ISLAMABAD, Pakistan -- A suicide bomber blew himself up among worshippers
streaming toward a Shiite Muslim mosque in central Pakistan, killing 24 people
and wounding dozens more.

The attack in the city of Dera Ghazi Khan yesterday risks sparking sectarian
fury in a country already battling rising militancy along the Afghan border and
tension with India over the Mumbai terrorist attacks.

The bomb detonated as a crowd approached the mosque for an evening prayer
ceremony. Television footage showed bystanders and emergency workers trying
frantically to help victims lying in the darkened street.

Clinton to visit Asia

WASHINGTON -- Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton will visit Japan, South
Korea, China and Indonesia later this month on her first overseas trip as the
top U.S. diplomat, a signal of President Barack Obama's eagerness to strengthen
ties in a region crucial to U.S. interests.

Mrs. Clinton will visit the four countries starting Feb. 15, with the global
financial crisis, climate change and efforts to get North Korea to abandon its
nuclear weapons topping her agenda, State Department spokesman Robert Wood said.

Cease-fire request

COLOMBO, Sri Lanka -- Sri Lanka's prime minister yesterday rejected calls for a
cease-fire from donor countries worried by reports of growing civilian
casualties in the South Asian nation's civil war, instead demanding the Tamil
Tiger rebels' unconditional surrender.

Prime Minister Ratnasiri Wickremanayake told Parliament the government will only
accept an unconditional surrender by the Tamil Tigers, who are facing defeat
after a fruitless 25-year war for a separate Tamil homeland.

Hundreds of civilians have reportedly been killed in recent fighting in the
Vanni region in the north, where government forces have squeezed the rebels --
and an estimated 250,000 trapped civilians -- into a rapidly shrinking
30-square-mile coastal war zone.

Anglicans try to mend rift

NEW YORK -- Anglican leaders urged their churches yesterday to maintain a
5-year-old moratorium on consecrating another openly gay bishop and developing
prayers for same-sex unions, as they try to restore unity in their fractured
fellowship.

An Anglican advisory panel also raised deep concerns about a North American
province sought by theological conservatives to rival the Episcopal Church.

Archbishop of Canterbury Rowan Williams, the Anglican spiritual leader, will
arrange professional mediation for all leaders involved in the North American
conflict, leaders said.

The statements were released as the Anglican archbishops, or primates, ended a
five-day private meeting in the Egyptian coastal city of Alexandria.

The 77 million-member Anglican Communion has been splintering since 2003, when
the Episcopal Church -- the Anglican body in the U.S. -- consecrated the first
openly gay bishop.

U.S. diplomat killed?

ADDIS ABABA, Ethiopia -- A young American diplomat has been found dead at his
house in the Ethiopian capital and foul play is suspected, U.S. and Ethiopian
officials said yesterday.

A U.S. State Department official said the body of Brian Adkins was discovered
Saturday in Addis Ababa.

Mr. Adkins would have turned 26 on Tuesday, according to his father, Dan Adkins
of Columbus, Ohio.

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              413 of 580 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                            February 6, 2009 Friday
                                 SOONER EDITION

SWEDEN LIFTS BAN ON BUILDING NEW NUCLEAR REACTORS

BYLINE: Karl Ritter, The Associated Press

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. A-4

LENGTH: 372 words


STOCKHOLM -- The Swedish government yesterday agreed to scrap a three-decade ban
on building new nuclear reactors, saying it needs atomic power to avoid
producing more greenhouse gases.

Though Sweden is a leader on renewable energy, it is struggling to develop
enough alternative sources, like hydropower and wind, to replace nuclear power,
which accounts for half of its electricity production.

If parliament approves rescinding the ban and a phase-out of existing reactors,
Sweden would join a growing list of countries rethinking nuclear power, amid
concerns over global warming and the reliability of energy suppliers such as
Russia. Britain, France and Poland are planning new reactors, and Finland is
currently building Europe's first new atomic plant in more than a decade.

The agreement was made possible after a compromise by the Center Party, a junior
coalition member that has long been skeptical on nuclear power. "I'm doing this
for the sake of my children and grandchildren," said party leader Maud Olofsson.
"I can live with the fact that nuclear power will be part of our electricity
supply system in the foreseeable future."

Lawmakers decided to phase out nuclear power after a referendum in 1980, when
concerns about nuclear safety were running high in the wake of a partial
meltdown a year earlier at the Three Mile Island plant near Harrisburg, Pa.

Only two of Sweden's 12 reactors have been closed. Prime Minister Fredrik
Reinfeldt said he didn't feel bound by the referendum because it didn't specify
how to replace nuclear energy. Public opinion polls have shown growing support
for nuclear energy because of the lack of alternatives.

The center-right coalition government's proposal, which needs parliamentary
approval, calls for new reactors to be built at existing plants to replace the
10 operational reactors when they are taken out of service.

The plan also calls for renewable energy to account for 50 percent of Sweden's
energy in 2020. Today, that figure is roughly 40 percent -- one of the highest
in Europe -- mostly because of hydropower.

The government said it aims to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 40 percent by
2020, compared to 1990 levels, by expanding wind power and raising taxes on
fossil fuels.

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              420 of 580 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                            February 22, 2009 Sunday
                               FIVE STAR EDITION

NUCLEAR EMPOWERED;
NUCLEAR ENERGY IS THE ONLY SOURCE OF ELECTRICITY THAT PRODUCES NO GREENHOUSE
GASES AND CAN READILY MEET AMERICA'S GROWING NEED FOR ELECTRICITY

BYLINE: ARIS S. CANDRIS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. G-1

LENGTH: 878 words


If there is a silver lining to be found in the current economic crisis, it's
that the United States now stands at the threshold of a historic opportunity to
achieve real energy independence. Even better, a sustainable energy future based
on a diverse portfolio of conservation measures and domestic energy sources that
are green, abundant and cost competitive also promises to create significant job
growth, much of it right here in Western Pennsylvania.

Economic growth depends upon abundant and affordable electric power, and U.S.
electricity demand is expected to increase by at least 25 percent over the next
20 years.

To keep pace with rising demand and remain competitive in the global economy,
the United States needs to add significant new electricity-generating capacity
here at home. Fossil fuels, such as coal and natural gas, along with nuclear
energy, represent the largest sources of electricity today.

New coal-combustion technology has made dramatic improvements in reducing
emissions, and must remain an important component of America's energy portfolio
for years to come.

The Marcellus shale deposits, the source of a natural gas field deep underground
here in Western Pennsylvania and in other parts of Appalachia, is an important,
newly discovered resource that could provide 15 to 20 years' worth of domestic
natural gas supply while creating 100,000 jobs, making it one of America's most
significant potential energy resources.

But any new proposals to expand fossil-fuel combustion will have to be weighed
against concerns about greenhouse gases and other pollutants, which are
inevitable consequences of these energy sources.

Renewable sources, such as solar, hydro and wind, are also making a greater
contribution to our nation's energy supply than ever before and the economics of
energy production from these sources are becoming more favorable. But while we
need to continue to expand our use of renewables, the fact is that these sources
combined comprise only about 10 percent of the total energy capacity in this
country, and, even by the most optimistic projections, won't be able to fill the
gap in new electricity demand for the foreseeable future.

Nuclear energy is the only source of electricity that produces no greenhouse
gases, manages 100 percent of its waste stream and can readily meet America's
growing need for electricity.

The nuclear power industry is on the threshold of significant growth both here
and around the world. Today, 440 operating nuclear power plants generate 16
percent of the world's electricity. In France, 58 plants generate approximately
80 percent of that country's electricity, and other countries like Belgium,
Lithuania and Slovakia derive more than half of their electric power from
nuclear power plants.

Here in the United States, 104 nuclear power plants provide 20 percent of our
total electricity.

These reactors have been extremely safe and are operating at a record level of
efficiency. This performance is the result of an industry-wide commitment to
safety and ongoing reactor operator training.

As a result, nuclear energy today is recognized by most scientific and many
environmental organizations as an essential response to concerns over global
climate change and the need to fuel worldwide economic growth. Three-fourths of
Americans now favor the expanded use of nuclear power for electricity
generation.

Year after year, the price of fossil fuels has climbed steadily while the cost
of nuclear-powered electricity has steadily declined. That's great news for
consumers and an economy that stands to realize significant new job creation and
lower electricity-production costs with the growth of a domestic nuclear power
industry.

In Western Pennsylvania, the prospects are brighter still. Once the capital of
America's industrial heartland, our region is now the cradle of a robust and
sustainable green energy industry. New businesses providing technologies in
nuclear, wind, solar, fuel cells and other forms of green power are growing and
thriving here.

Westinghouse Electric Co. is among those companies with bright prospects for the
future. For the past four decades, Westinghouse has been the leader in
commercial nuclear power in the United States, and we helped found the nuclear
power industry right here in the Pittsburgh area. Today, Westinghouse is well
positioned to lead the nuclear industry in meeting America's energy needs in the
years ahead. In the last four years alone, we have added 4,000 new employees, 40
percent of whom are now living and working in Western Pennsylvania. We expect to
hire an additional 500 to 750 new employees per year for the foreseeable future.

A balanced energy portfolio is the cornerstone of the Obama administration's
energy policy, one that draws on not only our vast energy resources here at
home, but also on our technology and ingenuity to help reduce, and eventually
end, our dependence on foreign sources of energy.

We at Westinghouse strongly support this policy and hope that it will be matched
with an equally broad approach to energy conservation.

The time has come to seize on this historic opportunity to achieve energy
independence, strengthen our national security, improve environmental quality
and fuel economic growth for years to come.

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Aris S. Candris is the president and chief executive officer of the
Westinghouse Electric Co. (www.westinghouse.com).

GRAPHIC: PHOTO ILLUSTRATION: No Caption

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              422 of 580 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                           February 28, 2009 Saturday
                                 SOONER EDITION

IN BAD TIMES, SEED SALES GROW

BYLINE: DOUG OSTER

SECTION: LIFESTYLE; BACKYARD GARDENER; Pg. D-1

LENGTH: 686 words


In the midst of bailouts, stimulus packages and talking heads on TV reporting
the doom and gloom that is our economy, it's wonderful to know that seedsmen
continue to thrive.

W. Atlee Burpee Co. has been selling seeds for over 125 years. They've seen a
depression, lots of recessions and two great wars, but have always flourished
regardless. They are one of the biggest suppliers of seeds and plants for
gardeners.

"Most of the seed companies are fairly recession-proof on the vegetable side,"
says Burpee chairman George Ball Jr. "It's sort of the Victory Garden
phenomenon. Gardening not only takes your mind off things but it is also is very
cost-effective."

During this economic downturn, the company has thrived as more families return
to gardening to save money and grow safe food.

Last year, the company saw a 30 percent increase in sales and expects to add
another 20 percent this year. Organic seed sales have jumped nearly 50 percent
since last January and seed-starting kits are up 10 percent over 2008, an
indication more first-time gardeners are entering the market.

Burpee research shows that $50 spent on seeds and fertilizer could result in a
produce harvest worth $1,250. This season, Burpee offers a $10 Money Garden
packet that's filled with $20 worth of seeds. It contains six packets of seeds,
including some of the company's favorite varieties of lettuce, tomato, pepper,
peas, carrot and beans.

The key to getting the most out of the garden, according to Mr. Ball, is to keep
planting all summer. By filling up fallow ground, the garden is used more
efficiently and more produce can be picked. He adds that nutrients from fresh
vegetables are much higher than in produce from the store and as far as taste
goes, there's no competition.

"A family of four can literally not have to go to the supermarket for vegetables
for an entire half year."

Over the past two years, Mr. Ball has watched as the economy and other issues
have helped the seed industry.

"There's been a huge change if you go from the salmonella last year alone, then
add to it the fuel crisis and the economy. You've got three big factors, any one
of which alone would have been adding to a big spike in orders."

At the locally owned Heirloom Seeds in West Finley, Tom Hauch is buried in seed
orders. He runs the business with his wife, Barb, their daughter and one
part-time person who works from home.

"They say the economy is bad, but it's not affecting us at all."

For the past 21 years, business has improved each year. The company now does
business via Internet only.

He sees lots of first-time gardeners and has noticed a dramatic sales increase
in some of his package deals.His Complete Garden Packages are sealed in plastic
with a silica gel insert. The seeds can be stored for three years are for people
concerned about a complete economic meltdown.

"They are either trying to save money by growing their own, or they are scared
that something might happen and there might be shortages."

Bill McKay, owner of Seeds from Italy, is so busy he was packing seeds during a
phone interview. "I thought last year was really good. This has got to be one of
the few recession-proof businesses in the world."

He has been selling specialty seeds from Italy from his Winchester, Mass.,
office for the past 10 years. He has talked to lots of first-time gardeners.
Some of his repeat customers are ordering many more seeds this year.

"Some of the orders have just been astounding, the size of them."

But in his opinion, it's not just the economic climate that's affecting sales.
"More and more people are concerned with buying local, eating local quality
stuff and often the only way you can do that is growing your own."

Mr. McKay hopes that the economic downturn starts new family traditions.

"It's really good that people are actually starting to grow their own stuff
again, and I think they'll stick with it.

With a laugh he adds, "fire those landscapers and turn over your backyards."

b> SOURCES

/b>

* Burpee: 1-800-333-5808 or www.burpee.com

* Heirloom Seeds: 724-663-5356 or www.heirloomseeds.com

* Seeds from Italy: 1-781-721-5904 or www.growitalian.com

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Doug Oster can be reached at doster@post-gazette.com or 724-772-9177.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: W. Atlee Burpee & Co.'s Money Garden packet

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              434 of 580 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                             March 29, 2009 Sunday
                                TWO STAR EDITION

FINANCIAL CRUNCH WEIGHING HEAVILY ON CHURCHES

BYLINE: Ann Rodgers, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette\

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. B-1

LENGTH: 1602 words


At a meeting last week of the Urban Church Network, leaders of 80 predominantly
black churches in Allegheny County discussed how to stem a financial crisis that
has forced some pastors to take a second full-time job and a few churches to
close.

Their first concern was how to help neighborhoods through times so hard that
robbery and high blood pressure have soared, said the Rev. Jermaine McKinley,
assistant director of the Metro-Urban Institute at Pittsburgh Theological
Seminary. With little of their own to give, they want to teach others how to tap
into the government stimulus package to improve their communities.

"Most churches are not in the business of building houses. We don't build roads.
But what we can do is help the community to address the issue," she said.

That is one of many responses congregations have made to the economic crisis.
There are no major studies, though anecdotes say income went down while
neighborhood needs and utilities shot up. Some wealthy congregations may hurt
worse than those accustomed to scraping by.

Bishop Kurt Kusserow, who oversees 201 parishes in the Southwestern Pennsylvania
Synod of the Evangelical Lutheran Church in America, tracks the impact through
donations to missions. Some parishes cut their gifts; others increased theirs.
The difference isn't related to size, he said.

"Whether it's very small or large, if the spirit of the congregation is turned
outward in ministry to the community, it seems to be more vital and more able to
increase its ministry," he said.

Holy Trinity Lutheran Church in Jeannette is bordered by crack houses that the
church has been buying to tear down. Giving is down from the 400 members, and
last month's gas bill was nearly $3,000. But the church hasn't cut outreach.

"We have added ministries because there is more need," said the Rev. Daniel
Defassio.

Its meals aren't fundraisers, but are free to the public. There's a pizza party
after every home high school football game, children's Halloween and Christmas
parties, a fall dinner that served 550 and a Longest Day party for those with
the Christmas blues.

This year, the church is adding A Chili Night Out on New Year's Eve. With help
from the Community Action Program and Thrivent Financial for Lutherans, it is
hosting new classes on budgeting. The youth group made 150 Easter baskets for
shut-ins, including low-watt light bulbs donated by Allegheny Power.

That's just some of what's done on a $183,000 budget that includes about $24,000
in grant money, with another $10,000 in grants administered separately.

"But we are finding that grants are being cut back," the Rev. Defassio said.

Rather than do likewise, he seeks new donors, such as Allegheny Power.

In Pittsburgh Presbytery, "a few churches are having to choose between paying
for a full-time pastor or paying the utility bill," said the Rev. Doug Portz,
acting pastor to the presbytery.

But that's not the whole story.

"Many of the challenges we face are spiritual in nature. Christians have a
history of responding generously, even in difficult times," he said.

Past studies have shown that members don't view giving to their congregation as
discretionary. They cut other expenses first, said David Roozen, director of the
Hartford Institute for Religion Research.

Mid-sized congregations with a tiny staff and huge building are the most
squeezed. "They have a lot of fixed costs, and it's not easy to cut them," he
said.

The smallest congregations already know how to cope. "In cold climates, they may
close the church in the winter and meet in someone's home," he said.

St. Mary's Orthodox Church, South Side, has just 64 members, but it has remained
active despite soaring bills for gas and insurance. Job loss hasn't hit yet.

"Most of our people are either retired or are professionals who have been
untouched. I suspect that will change, but we have been blessed so far," said
the Rev. Patrick Carpenter.

Parishioners increased gifts to the food pantry. "Our people are responding to
the needs of their neighbors," he said.

He prays that General Motors won't go bankrupt and gut the pensions of a dozen
retirees. The lay leaders took precautions. cutting this year's budget by
$5,000, to $94,000.

"We decided to tighten our belt so if we start having more serious problems, we
can help parishioners," he said.

Congregations of 2,000 and up fare the best. A survey by The Leadership Network
of Dallas, a group for mega-church pastors, found that outside of five states,
California, Florida, Arizona, Michigan and Nevada, hit hardest by the economic
crisis, they are faring well.

They often have more financial savvy than smaller churches, said David Travis,
managing director of the Leadership Network. They have full-time financial
managers and, with staffs of 50 or more, they can cut a few jobs without
affecting ministry. Many have lines of credit to carry them through slumps. But
they also teach financial stewardship.

"Many of them saw this coming in late 2007, made adjustments in 2008 and planned
for 2009 to be a no-growth year financially," he said.

Those that rely on endowments took big hits, Dr. Roozen said. "It's not a matter
of shutting down, but of significantly reduced ministry," he said.

East Liberty Presbyterian Church, a force for revitalization in its impoverished
neighborhood, has an eight-figure endowment that subsidizes much of its
seven-figure budget.

"We are feeling the budget crunch like everyone else," said the Rev. Randy Bush,
the senior pastor.

The good news was that the congregation of 700 increased its giving
substantially. But the Rev. Bush is concerned about the next 18 months.

The congregation supports the many social services of East End Cooperative
Ministry, East Liberty Development Inc., the Hope Academy arts program for more
than 300 children, the Open Hands program for first-time homeowners and a host
of other groups. If the church must make major cuts, it will start with outside
groups before placing its own ministries at risk, the Rev. Bush said.

"We feel optimistic that we, as a church and a nation, can weather this storm.
But it will likely mean some additional reductions in staff and program funds."

Rodef Shalom Congregation in Oakland has also benefited from generous
endowments, though it is less dependent on them than East Liberty Presbyterian
is. Like most synagogues, Rodef relies on a sliding-scale dues system. So far,
members aren't coming to Jeffrey Herzog, the executive director, seeking a
reduction in dues, though some people who have given above their dues have cut
back.

"We're doing OK, considering the circumstances. Nevertheless we are looking at
every single expenditure to determine how money can be saved," he said.

St. John of God Catholic parish is in McKees Rocks, a blue-collar community that
never recovered from the steel industry collapse 30 years ago. But that's now a
strength, said the Rev. Lou Vallone, the pastor.

While giving to collections that go outside the parish is down, regular giving
has held steady despite job losses.

"The people in our area have come to grips with these things in the past. They
know how to deal with ups and downs," he said.

His biggest worry is the school. Although volunteers are up, "Our high-end
givers have almost pulled the rug out from under us," he said.

Dan Hotchkiss, a senior consultant with the Alban Institute of Herndon, Va.,
which does strategic planning with congregations, said the crisis can be an
opportunity for a congregation to re-examine its mission.

Some are ending subsidies to preschools that they founded as an outreach, but
which evolved into competitive, expensive toddler Ivies, he said. Others are
mulling whether they need a huge sanctuary, but might sell it and share space
elsewhere.

"These are hard decisions, but they can push a congregation into asking what its
real core purpose is," he said.

He worked with a congregation of 35 that was spending its endowment to pay a
16-voice choir. Members were proud of their commitment to tradition, and had
rejected offers to buy the building. That changed when the treasurer confessed
that each day the church stayed open, it frittered away "$1,500 of God's good
dollars."

Members began to pray about how God wanted them to use the assets. They
dissolved the congregation, sold the property and gave the money to their sister
churches and charities.

"They were able to leave a much more substantial legacy to their denomination
and community than they would otherwise have been able to do," he said.

Hot Metal Bridge Faith Community on the South Side has benefited from such
thinking. Founded as a mission of Pittsburgh Presbytery and the United Methodist
Conference of Western Pennsylvania, it has 225 members, though most are students
or street people with little income. With help from both denominations, last
year Hot Metal bought a restaurant for $550,000, and is renovating it.

Much of the money came from the sale of a Methodist church that had closed. The
recession isn't a problem, said the Rev. Jeff Eddings, the co-pastor.

"God has brought people into play for us at the right time. The architect has
donated much of his time," he said.

Although several of the 1,600 members of Southminster Presbyterian Church in Mt.
Lebanon have lost jobs, a budget surplus and a jump in donations led to a budget
that is 15 percent above last year's. Most of the increase is for missions, said
the Rev. Daniel Merry.

He believes a growing emphasis on mission to others helped stir generosity.

"The church continued to survive even during the Great Depression," he said.
"The presence of the people of God is more important now than ever."

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Ann Rodgers can be reached at arodgers@post-gazette.com or 412-263-1416.
/

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              436 of 580 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                             April 2, 2009 Thursday
                                 SOONER EDITION

CALIPARI GOES TO KENTUCKY;
CONTRACT PUTS SALARY ISSUE IN FOREFRONT

BYLINE: Colin Dunlap, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. D-1

LENGTH: 1142 words


Sometime in the 1980s, Malcolm Moran, then a reporter at The New York Times, was
thumbing through his newspaper's archives, researching a story related to
University of Texas football.

A clipping from the 1940s caught his eye -- "just two or three paragraphs,
nothing very long," Moran said.

But it was a sign of what was to come, a trend already set in motion.

That clipping told a brief tale of former Texas football coach Dana X. Bible,
who coached the Longhorns from 1937-46, and how some people were in an uproar
because he made more money for coaching the football team than the university
president made for guiding the school.

So when the subject of John Calipari's eight-year, $31.65 million deal to coach
the University of Kentucky basketball program was brought up yesterday, Moran
said it was understandable that some might see a financial imbalance.

"That old clipping about Dana X. Bible just tells me that this has been going on
for 50 years and, really, the only thing that has changed now are the zeroes and
the commas," said Moran, now the Knight Chair in Sports Journalism and Society
at Penn State University. "Salaries of coaches were an issue back then, just as
they are now."

Calipari's deal, which made him the highest-paid college basketball coach in
history, was thrust to the forefront on ESPN, Bloomberg and other media outlets,
not just by the size of his salary but also that dollar amount coupled with the
current state of a fragile economy.

A Moon native, Clarion graduate and former Pitt assistant, Calipari was
introduced in Lexington yesterday as the new head coach at one of the nation's
most prestigious and successful programs.

His base salary at Kentucky will be $400,000. The remainder of his guaranteed
contract is funded by radio, TV and other sponsorships and Southeastern
Conference revenue-sharing funds. In addition, the university paid a $200,000
buyout to the University of Memphis, where Calipari had been coaching since
2000.

The deal Calipari signed topped that of University of Florida coach Billy
Donovan, who had been college basketball's highest-paid coach, receiving a deal
worth about $3.5 million annually after winning consecutive national
championships in 2006 and '07.

Mitch Barnhart, the University of Kentucky athletic director, had no trouble
justifying Calipari's lofty salary.

"First, I'm always proud to have the opportunity to discuss how this athletic
department is one of the really small number of programs that is self-funded,"
Barnhart said. "We do not use any state appropriation or university funding to
pay our coaches. Except for his base salary of $400,000, the bulk of this
compensation is derived from our multimedia rights contract that includes radio
and television agreements, other sponsors and conference revenue sharing.

"The marketplace that we operate in, to be the premier basketball program in
America, you want the best coach, you must pay a premium price. If done
correctly, the investment in a coach will pay for itself and yield returns for
the overall program in general. We've got a lot of sports programs, 22 of them,
that depend on our men's basketball program and our football program to make
sure they have an opportunity to exist."

Locally, Pitt men's basketball coach Jamie Dixon made $1,296,482 in salary in
2007, plus $39,690 in employer contributions to benefit plans and $13,227 for
expenses.

So, what did Pitt athletic director Steve Pederson think of Calipari's contract?
He likened it to the guaranteed $32 million, eight-year deal Alabama signed Nick
Saban to in 2007.

"It's reminiscent of what we went through when Nick Saban got that contract from
Alabama," Pederson said. "But it didn't lead to any dramatic change in the
landscape."

Pederson added that in compensation for coaches, Pitt tries "to pay people
fairly and aggressively."

But Calipari's hiring comes at a time when students at the University of
Kentucky are being asked to pay more for their education. Last month, the board
of trustees at the taxpayer-funded school of slightly more than 25,000 students
approved a 5 percent tuition increase for next school year.

It also is a trying financial climate for the Commonwealth of Kentucky, whose
unemployment rate jump from 8.8 percent in January to 9.2 percent in February,
the highest it has been since the rate was9.2 percent in December 1986.

The financial strain on the state even found its way to the governor's mansion
in Frankfurt. In December, Gov. Steve Beshear took a 10 percent salary cut, from
$124,384 annually to $111,945.

In 1999, Andrew Zimbalist, a professor of economics at Smith College in
Massachusetts, wrote the book "Unpaid Professionals: Commercialization and
Conflict in Big-Time College Sports" and has been an outspoken critic of what he
believes is a disproportionate salary structure in collegiate and professional
sports.

Zimbalist sees Calipari's salary as tremendous overpayment by the university.

"It is morally improper and economically improper," Zimbalist said. "The reason
this is happening is that the market value is not true, and it is trumped up and
artificial. The producers, the players in this case, do not get paid, and these
universities benefit from tax preferences from the IRS. Also, there are no
stockholders banging down the door when something goes wrong. The levels that a
coach like this makes are simply not congruent with the moral or economic salary
structure."

And Zimbalist believes universities should be taken to task for paying what he
views as exorbitant salaries.

"These athletic departments are cut off from any meaningful supervision and
constraint from the universities they serve," he said. "These salaries, such as
the one Calipari is making, are simply not economically justified."

At his introductory news conference yesterday on Kentucky's campus, Calipari was
asked about wins and losses and said: "I'm not going to make promises. I'm not
going to do that. But I'll tell you what, we're going to run a program that
we're proud of."

Just how much that is worth is the bigger debate.

Fat 'Cat

At a time when tuition rates have spiked at the University of Kentucky and state
higher education funds have shrunk, John Calipari's $31.65 million contract to
coach the Wildcats basketball team will pay him an average of $4 million a year
over eight years.

Calipari also gets:

* Two "late model, quality automobiles," plus mileage.

* Membership in a country club of his choice, including monthly dues and
initiation fees.

* 20 prime "lower-level" season tickets to UK home games.

* Eight tickets for each UK home football game.

* Hundreds of thousands of dollars in incentives for reaching certain
milestones, such as a 75 percent graduation rate or better ($50,000) or winning
the national title ($375,000).

* The right to income from conducting basketball camps using UK facilities.

-- Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Gene Collier contributed to this report. / Colin Dunlap can be reached at
cdunlap@post-gazette.com /

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              439 of 580 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                             April 7, 2009 Tuesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

HAT CHECK

SECTION: LIFESTYLE; Pg. D-1

LENGTH: 365 words


Cindy Burns was a frustrated woman. She couldn't find any interesting or unusual
hats in Pittsburgh. "You can go to Target or Kmart or Macy's, but the selection
isn't that good. And Saks carries some brands that are ultraexpensive," she
says. "But mostly, the hats that I found were very plain-looking."

A native of Rochester, N.Y. ("they have worse hats there!), Ms. Burns says she
has always loved hats and been interested in fashion. After selling advertising
for the Yellow Pages and working for PNC, she wanted a change. So a year ago she
started Fedora Pittsburgh, a small company that specializes in casual and
special-occasion hats.

As a new business in a tough economic climate, she's had to be inventive about
how she sells. And so she joined forces with another small businesswoman, Nancy
Stillson, who owns Occasions Dress Shop in Squirrel Hill.

The store carries a wide selection of Fedora Pittsburgh hats in a broad range of
prices. Even better, it's possible to find a dress and a hat to go with it, or
the other way around, at the same time.

Sales are brisk this time of year with Easter, the Kentucky Derby and the
popular Pittsburgh Parks Conservancy Spring Hat Luncheon all happening within
the next few weeks. And then it's on to summer, and weddings ...

Ms. Burns sells hats by Louise Green, Betmar, Toucan and Walaroo, but hats also
can be special-ordered, custom-made or adorned with feathers, ribbons, crystals,
flowers or whatever you need to complement a certain outfit. Since her overhead
is low, so is her markup. Her standard advice is simple: "A bigger woman would
want to wear a wider-brimmed hat, a petite woman should wear something closer to
her body, a cloche style," she says.

Two Saturdays a month, you can find Ms. Burns in the Strip, on the corner of
20th Street and Penn Avenue, selling casual hats and men's hats, which are
increasingly hard to find.

She also frequents the charity circuit, donating a percentage of her sales to
Family House Polo, the Magee Twenty-Five Club and other organizations that have
boutique shopping events.

Occasions Dress Shop, 5873 Forbes Ave., 412-531-1500.

Fedora Pittsburgh, 412-256-0147 or www.fedorapittsburgh.blogspot.com.

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A man's straw fedora by Betmar ($45)\
PHOTO: Toucan's classic straw ($49)\
PHOTO: A cloche by Toucan ($69)\
PHOTO: Wide-brimmed straw from Louise Green ($249) \
PHOTO: The Madhatter by Louise Green ($269)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              441 of 580 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                             April 13, 2009 Monday
                                 SOONER EDITION

POPE'S EASTER MASS PROMOTES HOPE DURING HARD TIMES

BYLINE: Nicole Winfield, The Associated Press

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. A-4

LENGTH: 583 words


VATICAN CITY -- Pope Benedict XVI sought to give a message of hope on Easter to
victims of wars, poverty and financial turmoil, saying yesterday that it was
urgently needed to overcome the miseries that are plaguing Africa, the Middle
East and other parts of the globe.

Pope Benedict delivered his "Urbi et Orbi" message -- Latin for "to the city and
the world" -- after celebrating Easter Mass before tens of thousands of people
who packed St. Peter's Square and the boulevard leading up to it.

The piazza, decorated with yellow tulips, azaleas, apple blossoms and other
spring flowers, overflowed with the faithful celebrating the most joyous and
important day in the Christian church calendar, Christ's resurrection.

In his speech, Pope Benedict said hope was urgently needed around the globe,
despite mounting reasons for despair.

"At a time of world food shortage, of financial turmoil, of old and new forms of
poverty, of disturbing climate change, of violence and depravation which force
many to leave their homelands in search of a less precarious form of existence,
of the ever-present threat of terrorism, of growing fears over the future, it is
urgent to rediscover grounds for hope," he said.

In Jerusalem, the faithful celebrated Mass at the Church of the Holy Sepulcher,
traditionally believed to mark the site where Jesus was crucified, buried and
then resurrected. Brown-robed friars marched into the church to the sound of
bagpipes, followed by clergymen in purple capes and others bearing crosses.

And in the earthquake-ravaged central Italian city of L'Aquila, survivors
gathered in makeshift chapels set up in tent cities that are housing some of the
55,000 people driven from their homes by last Monday's 6.3-magnitude temblor.

"We are all a little bit angry with God because we never expected a tragedy this
big," L'Aquila Archbishop Giuseppe Molinari told the faithful gathered in a
tent. "But even anger toward God is a sign of faith."

Pope Benedict, who is expected to visit the quake zone soon, issued special
Easter wishes to the quake survivors, praying that they have "the courage
necessary to go forward together to build a future open to hope."

The pontiff delivered his Easter message from the loggia of St. Peter's
Basilica, tripping slightly as he climbed up to his gilded chair. As aides
lunged to steady him, he recovered and delivered his speech to the crowds below.

He noted that he plans to travel to the Holy Land in just a few weeks and said
he would bring a message of hope and love to the region.

"Reconciliation -- difficult but indispensable -- is a precondition for a future
of overall security and peaceful coexistence, and it can only be achieved
through renewed, persevering and sincere efforts to resolve the
Israeli-Palestinian conflict," he said.

And he recalled his recent trip to Africa in urging the faithful to keep up hope
to combat poverty and wars.

"Africa suffers disproportionately from the cruel and unending conflicts, often
forgotten, that are causing so much bloodshed and destruction in several of her
nations, and from the growing numbers of her sons and daughters who fall prey to
hunger, poverty and disease," Pope Benedict said.

The crowd shouted "Benedetto" -- Italian for Benedict -- as they waited for him
to appear at the loggia. They cheered as they awaited his Easter blessing, this
year delivered in 63 languages.

Pope Benedict celebrated Easter Mass after presiding over the solemn,
three-plus-hour Easter Vigil ceremony Saturday night.

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              465 of 580 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                            June 10, 2009 Wednesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

WHO IS TO BLAME FOR $1 TRILLION DEFICIT?

BYLINE: David Leonhardt, The New York Times

SECTION: NATIONAL; ANALYSIS; Pg. A-5

LENGTH: 731 words


There are two basic truths about the enormous deficits that the federal
government will run in the coming years. The first is that President Barack
Obama's agenda -- ambitious as it may be -- is responsible for only a sliver of
the deficits, despite what many of his Republican critics are saying. The second
is that Mr. Obama does not have a realistic plan for eliminating the deficit,
despite what his advisers have suggested.

The New York Times analyzed Congressional Budget Office reports going back
almost a decade, with the aim of understanding how the federal government came
to be far deeper in debt than it has been since the years just after World War
II. This debt will constrain the nation's choices for years and could end up
doing serious economic damage if foreign lenders become unwilling to finance it.

Mr. Obama -- responding to recent signs of skittishness among those lenders --
met with 40 members of Congress at the White House yesterday and called for
re-enactment of pay-as-you-go rules, requiring Congress to pay for any new
programs it passes.

The story of today's deficits starts in January 2001, as then-President Bill
Clinton was leaving office. The Congressional Budget Office estimated then that
the government would run an average annual surplus of more than $800 billion a
year from 2009 to 2012. Today, the government is expected to run a $1.2 trillion
annual deficit in those years.

You can think of that roughly $2 trillion swing as coming from four broad
categories: the business cycle; President George W. Bush's policies; policies
from the Bush years that are scheduled to expire, but that Mr. Obama has chosen
to extend; and new policies proposed by Mr. Obama.

The first category, the business cycle, accounts for 37 percent of the $2
trillion swing. It reflects the fact that both the 2001 recession and the
current one reduced tax revenue, required more spending on safety-net programs
and changed economists' assumptions about how much in taxes the government would
collect in future years.

About 33 percent of the swing stems from new legislation Mr. Bush signed. That
legislation, like his tax cuts and the Medicare prescription drug benefit, not
only continue to cost the government, but also increased national debt interest
payments.

Mr. Obama's main deficit contribution is his extension of several Bush policies,
like the Iraq war and tax cuts for households making less than $250,000. Such
policies, together with the Wall Street bailout -- signed by Mr. Bush, supported
by Mr. Obama -- account for 20 percent.

About 7 percent comes from the stimulus bill Mr. Obama signed in February. And
only 3 percent comes from his agenda on health care, education, energy and other
areas.

If the analysis is extended well beyond 2012, the Obama agenda makes up only a
slightly higher share of projected deficits.

How can that be? Some of his proposals, like a plan to put a price on carbon
emissions, don't cost the government any money. Others would be partly offset by
proposed tax increases on the affluent and spending cuts.

University of California, Berkeley, economist Alan Auerbach, author of a widely
cited study on the current deficit's dangers, describes the situation like so:
"Bush behaved incredibly irresponsibly for eight years. On the one hand, it
might seem unfair for people to blame Obama for not fixing it. On the other
hand, he's not fixing it. And not fixing it is, in a sense, making it worse."

When challenged about the deficit, Mr. Obama and his aides generally start
talking health care. "There is no way you can put the nation on a sound fiscal
course without wringing inefficiencies out of health care," White House budget
director Peter Orszag told me.

Outside economists agree. The Medicare budget really is the linchpin of deficit
reduction. But there are two problems with leaving the discussion there.

First, even if a health overhaul does pass, it may not include the tough
measures needed to bring down spending. Ultimately, the only way to do so is to
take money from doctors, drugmakers and insurers. It isn't clear whether Mr.
Obama and Congress have the stomach for that fight.

Second, even serious health care reform won't be enough. Obama advisers
acknowledge as much, saying systemic changes would likely have a big effect on
health spending in five to 10 years. But the national debt will grow dangerously
large sooner.

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              466 of 580 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                             June 11, 2009 Thursday
                                  WEST EDITION

SECTION: METRO; STUDENT NEWS; Pg. W-6

LENGTH: 891 words


Moon Area High School junior David Korotky has been honored for his film talent
for the second year in a row at the Challenge High School Film Festival awards
ceremony at the Carnegie Science Center.

David won the Communicating Science Award for his five-minute film, "A Global
Mission," which addresses how to solve climate change. His prize included $300,
a director's chair, Carnegie Science Center passes and Three Rivers Film
Festival tickets. He also received a $1,500 check and trophy for his high
school.

b>* * *

/b>

Moon Area High School sophomore Molly McDonald, 16, of Crescent, has been
selected for the National Security Language Initiative for Youth Program, which
will take her to the Republic of Korea.

This is the first time that a Moon Area High School student has been chosen for
the program, which is administered by the U.S. State Department's Bureau of
Educational and Cultural Affairs.

She will leave for Korea in July, where she will take a six-week language course
at Seoul National University and then attend a high school and live with a host
family.

b>* * *

/b>

Moon Area students bested hundreds of other competitors at the 2009 national
tournament of the Academic Games Leagues of America in Knoxville, Tenn.

Moon Area Middle School students Selin Sirinterlikci, Abby Eberts, Allison
Murphy and Ashley Hall were national team runner-ups. Sixth-graders Jessica
Peng's and Maria Arbelaez's team finished in the top three in the World Events
competition.

b>* * *

/b>

Sophia Worrall, an eighth-grader at St. Philip Catholic School in Crafton, has
received a Youthtowne Young Scholars Scholarship to Our Lady of the Sacred Heart
High School in Moon. Sophia will receive tuition assistance as well as other
educational and extracurricular opportunities.

b>* * *

/b>

The team of Maddy Burgess, Natalie Celmo and Maria Graziano from the Bishop
Canevin High School Future Business Leaders of America finished third in the
management decision-making category of the state leadership conference in
Hershey.

Fourth-place awards were won by Chelsea Pacconi in Miss Future Business Leader
competition and Casey Tarasi in sports management.

b>* * *

/b>

Carlynton High School senior Christina Chiccitt received an honorable mention
for her artwork, "Imagination," in the 14th annual Congressional District
Artistic Discovery competition.

Her artwork will be displayed in the high school.

b>* * *

/b>

Monica Nicole Jones, of Sheraden, a senior at Pittsburgh Perry Traditional High
School, received a $1,000 scholarship from the Kiwanis Club of Sheraden toward
tuition at Alabama A&M University.

She ranks 17th in her class of 181 students and is graduating with a grade point
average of 4.04. Monica's community service roles include assistant Sunday
school teacher at her church, tutor at Pittsburgh Lincoln Elementary school and
assistant cheerleading coach.

b>* * *

/b>

Three eighth-graders who are reporters for The Red and White Pages, the
newspaper for St. Joseph Catholic School in Coraopolis, were winners in a recent
diocesan-wide competition.

Erica Belloma received an award of merit, or second place, and Janelle Gilmer
received an honorable mention, or third place, in the best feature story
category. In the best opinion category, Sara Lavin received an award of merit.

b>* * *

/b>

Nicholas P. Stamatakis, of Montour High School, has won a $6,000, four-year
Alcoa Foundation Sons & Daughters scholarship based on academic achievement,
leadership, character, volunteerism and community service.

The program awards college scholarships to the children of Alcoa employees.

Nicholas, of Robinson, was captain of his high school Hi-Q team, president of
the law team, president of the marching band, vice president of the National
Honor Society and treasurer of the Montour Hidden Angels charity group.

He lettered in tennis for two years, took first place in the Pittsburgh Piano
Teachers Association Solo Piano-Senior Division and is an Eagle Scout.

Nicholas has been accepted into the University of Pittsburgh Honors College,
where he plans to study engineering and music.

b>* * *

/b>

Moon Area Middle School sixth-grader Yuki Adama finished first among 50
sixth-graders to win the Wordsmith Tournament at North Allegheny School
District. Hannah Bartus, also a sixth grader, placed third.

b>* * *

/b>

Moon Area Middle School seventh-grader Brian Shaffer finished in second place
out of more than 100 other Allegheny County students at the spring Calcusolve
math competition May 13 at Montour School District's David E. Williams Middle
School. This was Moon Area's best performance in a spring Calcusolve
competition.

Moon Area eighth-graders Joel McCoy, Selin Sirinterlikci, Eric Burgeson and Ryan
Pannebaker and seventh-grader Ashley Hall competed in the event, which requires
participants to answer seven questions under time restrictions.

b>* * *

/b>

These Cornell High School students have been awarded scholarships: Tiana Smith,
Caplan scholarship, $1,000; Paige Hayman, Questeq award, $500; Andrew Logan,
Ryan Madonna Memorial Scholarship, $1,000; Karissa Liberatore, Ralph B.
Canterbury Scholarship, $1,250; and Danni Lin, Rotary Club of Pittsburgh,
$2,500. These Cornell High students received a Groom Campbell scholarship of
$500 each to study these fields: Ashley Betsch, nursing; Christian Jackson,
arts; Jesse Smith, engineering; and Joseph Faherty, business.

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              475 of 580 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                             July 8, 2009 Wednesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

WQED LAYS OFF 9 EMPLOYEES

BYLINE: Rob Owen, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT; Pg. C-5

LENGTH: 307 words


WQED Multimedia laid off nine employees yesterday and eliminated two additional
staff vacancies, and in a statement said the move was made due to the economic
climate, the potential decline in revenue sources and the expectation that a
delayed state budget will eliminate all public TV funding for fiscal year 2010,
including $1.1 million for WQED.

"Since 1968, WQED used these state monies for station operations and
production," WQED president George Miles said in the statement. "For the past
five months we mounted a public communications campaign to explain why those
monies were important to our daily operations. We now have to confront the
reality that these state monies may never be reinstated."

Neither Miles nor WQED general manager Deborah Acklin immediately returned calls
seeking comment.

The statement did not indicate which staff members were let go. Most of those
let go were lower-level staffers -- a janitor, a part-time graphics artist --
and the highest-ranked staff member was the executive producer of local
programming. No existing top-tier executives were laid off.

It's unclear if any of those let go were in on-air roles. The statement said the
staff reductions do not immediately impact WQED's ability to continue to produce
some of the station's signature shows, such as "On Q," "Dave and Dave's
Excellent Adventures" and "Black Horizons."

But Miles said those programs remain at risk. The station may also have to
eliminate some national programs purchased separately, such as "The Lawrence
Welk Show."

Laid off employees will be given a package to assist in job searches.

Station spokeswoman Rosemary Martinelli would not comment.

"The release stands as is," Martinelli said. "There will be no additional
details provided. There won't be any interviews."

WQED last had layoffs in October 2005 when six staffers were let go.

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Contact TV editor Rob Owen at rowen@post-gazette.com or 412-263-1112.
Read the Tuned In Journal blog at post-gazette.com/tv./

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              492 of 580 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                            August 15, 2009 Saturday
                                 SOONER EDITION

FAIREY 'EXCITED' TO EXHIBIT AT WARHOL

BYLINE: Liyun Jin, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT; Pg. D-1

LENGTH: 774 words


Shepard Fairey boasts a criminal record that would impress many rappers.

The street artist has been arrested 15 times, accumulating some 25 nights in
jail during the course of his career. He has faced lawsuits as both defendant --
when his artwork provoked accusations of "borrowing" copyrighted photographs --
and plaintiff, when he countered The Associated Press' lawsuit for
misappropriation.

But above these legal tangles, Fairey is inarguably the picture of artistic
success.

Creator of the iconic "HOPE" poster that became the unofficial emblem of
President Obama's campaign, the Charleston, S.C., native has designed album
covers for the The Smashing Pumpkins and Black Eyed Peas, and his work appears
at The Smithsonian Institution in Washington, D.C., the Museum of Modern Art in
New York City and, beginning Oct. 18, The Andy Warhol Museum on the North Shore.

Such accomplishments beg the question: Why does Fairey continue to tag public
property when he clearly can make a living from so much else?

"I'm a populist," he said. "It's never been about legal vs. illegal. It's about
figuring out ways to share my work with as broad an audience as possible."

Fairey's Pittsburgh debut is all about his communal philosophy. He and his team
of assistants scoured the city last week for buildings on which to install his
murals, a preview to his upcoming exhibit that will feature 250 works spanning
20 years. The result is 10 locations, from the Strip District to Downtown, that
now bear his signature, bold, trichromatic prints.

Yesterday afternoon, a paint-splattered Fairey put the finishing touches on a
mural across the street from The Warhol Museum on the North Shore.

Perched on a ladder, he dipped a broom into a bucket of wallpaper paste and
acrylic gel before scrubbing the mixture onto the brick facade and cohering
squares of paper onto the building.

Slowly, the panels came together and formed images that, like much of his work,
were imbued with political themes.

For instance, a new piece created to promote MoveOn.org's Power Up America
campaign for a new energy economy featured red, white and blue windmills resting
on a bed of stars, with "Clean Energy for America" emblazoned at the bottom.
(See photo at top of Page D-1.)

Like the symbolic content of his images, the placement of these public art
installations is also purposeful. The murals are meant to not only publicize his
upcoming exhibit, but also to urge G-20 summit leaders to address climate change
and adopt clean energy standards.

"As an artist, I'm not just interested in making pictures that look nice,"
Fairey said. "There's a much more significant desire to communicate and to use
an arousing visual as an entry point to that communication."

"When the world's perfect," he smiles, "I'll start making pictures of things
that just give me pleasure in the process of making them."

Although his political discontent might provide fodder for his countercultural
art, which, among other topics, shows opposition to war in Iraq and corporate
greed, he considers his personal world to be close to perfect already.

"I've been very fortunate with a few of my images to tap into something that has
encouraged people to think, to look further into the content."

Today, the Rhode Island School of Design graduate sells prints, stickers and
other merchandise on his OBEY Web site and oversees Studio Number One, a Los
Angeles-based creative agency whose clients have included Google, the Guggenheim
Museum, Red Bull and Saks Fifth Avenue.

That's a stark contrast to the early stages of his career, however.

"For the first 10 years, I was technically a complete failure," he said. "I was
broke, and my parents told me that I should figure out something else to do."

But Fairey, who said he has always defined success by standards other than
money, toiled on, eventually receiving critical recognition about a decade ago.

Today, it's evident that the artist -- who laughs upon discovering his
glue-dappled pants are stuck to his chair -- still doesn't consider financial
success to be the measure of his achievement.

"My goal is to make work that affects people and spread it around and to do
things on my own terms. That's success," he said. "The financial side just helps
facilitate my goal to have real substance."

And nothing defines success more to Fairey than his exhibit at The Warhol, where
he cannot help but slip into someone's office to marvel at a neon print of Queen
Elizabeth II hanging above the desk.

"I'm super, super excited about showing here. In a lot of ways, Warhol paved the
way for me, so to be recognized as part of his lineage is a really profound
validation for me."

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Liyun Jin can be reached at ljin@post-gazette.com or 412-263-1410. /

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Steve Mellon/Post-Gazette: Shepard Fairey puts up a poster on a
wall across the street from The Warhol Museum.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              505 of 580 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                          September 17, 2009 Thursday
                                 SOONER EDITION

NOTHING VENTURED, NOTHING GAINED;
RECESSION BOOSTS INTEREST IN THE 3RIVERS VENTURE FAIR

BYLINE: ERICH SCHWARTZEL, PITTSBURGH POST-GAZETTE

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. E-1

LENGTH: 505 words


Since 2002, the 3Rivers Venture Fair has brought together startup companies
looking for money from potential investors -- like a blind date, only with
BlackBerries.

A down stock market only upped attendance at this year's venture fair, as
investors and entrepreneurs alike looked to Pittsburgh to capitalize on the
cheap prospect of starting a business in a recession. The event hosted by the
Pittsburgh Venture Capital Association drew 30 companies and 600 attendees to
the Lexus Club at PNC Park.

It was a business crowd, for sure. Though varied in specialty, every company
presented an 11-minute pitch that shared a universal acknowledgement of the
nationwide recession and a love for PowerPoint. Malcolm Gladwell's ears were
burning: Buzz phrases he popularized such as "stickiness factor" and "tipping
point" dominated the discussion. Picture the kind of crowd told to set their
cell phones to vibrate (no one here goes totally unreachable).

The financial crisis couldn't go unnoticed. Echoing efforts across the country,
Kelly Szejko, executive director of the venture fair, said the fund-raising year
was "harder than most." But that same climate boosted the power of the
checkbooks of visiting investors.

Brian Murphy at New Spring Capital has found deals at the venture fair before
and said the down market makes it easier for investors looking for cheaper
costs.

"If you believe in the circularity of the markets, this is a great time to get
money out," Mr. Murphy said. "Business is open."

Mr. Murphy's firm is based near Philadelphia, but Pittsburgh's specialties
brought investors from all over.

Pittsburgh's work in the health care and energy sectors attracts investors,
venture fair co-chair John Manzetti said. One-half of the entrepreneurs this
year work in life sciences and that industry's presence at the fair grows every
year.

One such company, Carmell Therapeutics Corp. in Pittsburgh, harvests blood
plasma from blood banks to manufacture plastic products that accelerate healing.
The company's first product: a $2,500 patch that helps heal rotator cuff
injuries.

In a presentation seeking $3 million from investors, President and CEO Alan West
said there might be a price reduction "depending on what happens with health
care in the next few months."

Like most presentators, Metis Secure System LLC President and CEO Mark Kurtzrock
highlighted his company's hypothetical "planned exit" strategy. In industry
talk, that means building up the company to a point where it's bought by a
behemoth such as Siemens or Johnson & Johnson (hopefully for the right price).

Mr. Kurtzrock's company designs systems that alert college students of a campus
emergency through voice and text messages. The technology was developed in
cooperation with Carnegie Mellon University researchers.

Many companies pitching at the event were spun off from research at the
University of Pittsburgh and CMU. Pittsburgh-based Etcetera Edutainment was
founded by CMU grad Jessica Trybus and offers computer simulation training for
on-the-job safety.

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Erich Schwartzel can be reached at eschwartzel@post-gazette.com or
412-263-1455./

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Bob Donaldson/Post-Gazette: Presenter Caroline Crisafulli,
center, and Dr. Wayne Pool, right, of Minimally Invasive Devices at the
company's table at the Three Rivers Venture Fair at PNC Park's Lexus Club, where
startup companies can find investors. \
PHOTO: Alan West, CEO of Carmell Therapeutics, pitches his company at the fair.
His company makes biologically active products that aid in surgical recovery and
healing.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              507 of 580 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                           September 20, 2009 Sunday
                               FIVE STAR EDITION

AUTONOMY OF 'CZARS' QUESTIONED

BYLINE: Michael A. Fletcher and Brady Dennis, The Washington Post

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. A-6

LENGTH: 1100 words


WASHINGTON -- On paper, they are special advisers, chairmen of White House
boards, special envoys and Cabinet agency deputies, asked by the president to
guide high-priority initiatives. But critics call them "czars" whose powers are
not subject to congressional oversight, and their increasing numbers have become
a flash point for conservative anger at President Barack Obama.

Lists drawn up by conservative groups detail as many as 40 "czars" linked to Mr.
Obama, although some of the positions existed long before he took office and
some did, in fact, win Senate approval. There's "faith-based czar" Joshua
DuBois, who heads the White House's Office of Faith-Based and Neighborhood
Partnerships, a post created by then-President George W. Bush in 2001;
"Afghanistan czar" Richard Holbrooke, appointed by Mr. Obama as special envoy
for Afghanistan and Pakistan; "intelligence czar" Dennis Blair, the director of
national intelligence, a post created in the wake of the Sept. 11, 2001,
terrorist attacks; Mideast peace czar George Mitchell; and "border czar" Alan
Bersin, an assistant secretary of homeland security recently charged with
improving security along the southern border.

Some of the "czars" are guiding the president on central policy issues. Carol
Browner serves as Mr. Obama's assistant for energy and climate change; Paul
Volcker chairs the president's Economic Recovery Board; Ed Montgomery
coordinates federal efforts to spark economic development in areas hard hit by
the sharp decline in auto industry jobs; and Nancy-Ann DeParle heads the White
House Office of Health Reform.

Critics of the proliferation of "czars" contend that the White House uses the
appointments to circumvent the normal vetting process required for Senate
confirmation and to avoid congressional oversight of their activities. They
mobilized recently with the resignation of Van Jones, an adviser to the White
House Council on Environmental Quality, known as the "green jobs czar." Mr.
Jones had avoided the kind of vetting to which Cabinet officials are subjected,
causing controversy when a conservative commentator unearthed Mr. Jones' past
affiliations and comments.

Earlier controversy centered on "car czar" Steven Rattner, who abruptly resigned
in July. After leading the administration's efforts to restructure Chrysler and
General Motors, Mr. Rattner departed amid reports that New York Attorney General
Andrew Cuomo was investigating the Quadrangle Group, an investment firm
co-founded by Mr. Rattner.

The White House defends using special advisers to coordinate responses to
problems involving several government agencies.

"Lots of these are designed to bring many different efforts together and
coordinate them in a way that is more structured and more efficient than the
governmental work chart might ordinarily allow," said White House press
secretary Robert Gibbs. Asked about accountability, Mr. Gibbs said that
ultimately "the president is the person accountable that the policy is right."

Historically, presidents have used special officials to deal with difficult
problems.

When the Mississippi River burst its levees in 1927, leaving more than 27,000
square miles flooded across seven states, President Calvin Coolidge invested
extraordinary power in then-Commerce Secretary Herbert Hoover to oversee relief
efforts. Mr. Hoover's success in mobilizing private humanitarian aid bolstered
his national visibility.

Franklin Delano Roosevelt appointed a host of special advisers to coordinate
policy to combat the Great Depression. Richard Nixon named a drug czar and
energy czar, to combat the burgeoning problem with illegal drugs and the oil
crisis of the 1970s. And President George W. Bush named "czars" to coordinate
policy efforts on a wide range of issues including bird flu, AIDS, cyber
security and the Gulf Coast reconstruction following Hurricane Katrina. By one
count, Mr. Bush had 36 "czar" positions filled by 46 people during his
presidency.

Historian I.M. Destler, University of Maryland professor, said there are
legitimate questions about the number of presidential advisers who do not face
Senate confirmation.

Still, he maintained, presidential "czars" can increase government efficiency.

"Government is organized by traditional functions, and problems don't always fit
into those categories," he said. "You need people who are specifically
substance-oriented, who are tasked to deal with particular problems. Sometimes
it can be very useful to task somebody with responding to a certain problem."

Fueled by conservative commentators such as Glenn Beck and Sean Hannity, the
issue has grown into a staple of anti-Obama activism. On Saturday, at the
"anti-big government" march in Washington, some demonstrators carried signs
saying "CZARS BELONG IN RUSSIA."

At a recent rally in West Virginia, Mr. Hannity, a Fox News commentator, turned
to Mr. Jones' resignation.

"Do you want another czar?" he asked the crowd. "No!" they shouted in unison.

"I don't think so," Mr. Hannity replied. "By the way, we got rid of one, and my
job starting tomorrow night is to get rid of every other one. I promise you
that!"

The crowd cheered.

Although the issue is mostly fanned by Republicans, members of Congress from
both parties have questioned "czar" appointments. After Mr. Jones' departure,
Rep. Patrick McHenry, R-N.C., called for "czars" to testify before Congress
about their "authority and responsibilities."

"His ability to slip into a position of power without due congressional
diligence only further underscores the necessity for a confirmation process,"
Mr. McHenry said of Mr. Jones.

Rep. Mike Pence, R-Ind., chairman of the House Republican Caucus, called on Mr.
Obama to suspend any further "czar" appointments until Congress exams the roles
and constitutionality of people serving in those roles.

Mr. Pence's call came after Rep. Jack Kingston, R-Ga., introduced legislation in
July that would effectively end the president's power to appoint special
advisers.

Mr. Kingston has compiled a list of 34 Obama "czars." "They have staff and
offices and immense responsibility. All that needs to come before Congress."

On the Democratic side, Sen. Robert Byrd, D-W.Va., wrote to Mr. Obama in
February asserting "the rapid and easy accumulation of power by White House
staff have taken direction and control of programmatic areas that are the
statutory responsibility of Senate-confirmed officials."

He added, "As presidential assistants and advisers, these White House staffers
are not accountable for their actions to the Congress, to Cabinet officials and
to virtually anyone but the president."

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Van Jones -- The "green jobs czar" lost his own job as adviser
to the White House Council on Environmental Quality when his past affiliations
were unearthed.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              529 of 580 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                           November 14, 2009 Saturday
                                 SOONER EDITION

PRESIDENT WILL DECIDE 'SOON' ON AFGHANISTAN

BYLINE: Anne E. Kornblut, Blaine Harden and William Branigin, The Washington
Post

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. A-4

LENGTH: 652 words


TOKYO -- In a news conference with Japanese Prime Minister Yukio Hatoyama on the
first stop of his Asian tour, President Barack Obama pledged yesterday that he
would make a decision "soon" on U.S. military options in Afghanistan and
suggested that critics of his deliberate approach do not understand what is
happening in the war-ravaged country.

Mr. Obama also stressed that the U.S. commitment in Afghanistan cannot be
"open-ended," and he rejected the idea that he is waiting for some missing bit
of information before deciding among at least four alternatives for reinforcing
U.S. troops engaged in an eight-year war against Afghanistan's Taliban movement.

In response to questions about Afghanistan, Mr. Obama said his drawn-out
deliberations over military options there -- unresolved after eight high-level
war council meetings -- are focused not on nailing down any specific "datum of
information," but on trying to determine what actions will enhance U.S.
security.

"The decision will be made soon," he said. Critics of the lengthy process "tend
not to be folks who, I think, are directly involved in what's happening in
Afghanistan," he added.

Addressing a sensitive domestic issue in Japan, Mr. Obama made clear that he
expects the Japanese government to implement a 2006 agreement under which a U.S.
Marine air station at Futenma in a crowded part of Okinawa would be relocated to
a more remote part of the island.

Mr. Hatoyama, who took office in September, expressed support during his
election campaign for moving the air base off Okinawa entirely, a position
rejected by Defense Secretary Robert Gates. Mr. Hatoyama yesterday said he wants
a resolution as soon as possible and warned that "as time goes by, ... it will
become even more difficult to resolve the issue."

The two countries agreed Tuesday to form a high-level working group on Futenma,
and both leaders indicated yesterday that the group has been set up. "Our goal
remains the same, and that's to provide for the defense of Japan with minimal
intrusion on the lives of the people who share this space," Mr. Obama said. The
president appeared before reporters with Mr. Hatoyama a few hours after arriving
in Tokyo for the start of a week-long trip to Asia. The trip will span four
countries and is Mr. Obama's first to the region as president.

During a 90-minute meeting at the Kantei, the Japanese equivalent of the White
House, Mr. Obama and Mr. Hatoyama discussed climate change, Afghanistan and
nuclear proliferation. Both leaders expressed warm praise for each other,
minimizing their differences and emphasizing instead their hopes for peace and
stability in the region.

Declaring that the United States "is a Pacific nation," Mr. Obama said the
futures of the United States and Asia are "inextricably linked," and said his
administration "will be deepening our engagement in this part of the world."

The joint news conference was brief, with only one Japanese journalist and one
American journalist allowed to ask questions. The Japanese reporter, from Fuji
television, asked Mr. Obama whether he believed that the United States had done
the right thing by dropping nuclear weapons during World War II on Hiroshima and
Nagasaki -- cities that many Japanese have urged the Nobel Peace Prize-winning
president to visit.

Mr. Obama, who will remain in Tokyo during his 24-hour stay in Japan, did not
answer the question directly. Instead, he expressed his aspirations for a
nuclear-free world, and said, "It would be meaningful for me to visit those two
cities in the future."

While the Okinawa base issue has dominated headlines in Japan, it does not
appear to have hurt Mr. Obama's popularity. A Pew Research Center survey found
in July that 85 percent of Japanese were confident that Mr. Obama would do the
right thing in world affairs. A year earlier, only a quarter of those polled had
similar confidence in then-President George W. Bush.

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Paula Bronstein/Getty Images: Afghan women pray by the family
grave at a local cemetery for Hazara people yesterday in Kabul. Afghans often
visit the family grave on Fridays to offer prayer.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              556 of 580 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                          September 24, 2009 Thursday
                                WEB ONLY EDITION

THE BIG STORY

SECTION: LOCAL; THE BIG STORY; Pg. WEB

LENGTH: 1544 words


Sep 24 2009

Small crowd gathered at Arsenal Park for unpermitted march

By Jerome L. Sherman

Just a few dozen protesters mulled around the playground in arsenal park today,
an hour and a half before an unpermited march was supposed to begin.

There were nearly as many media and legal observers from the ACLU and the
National Lawyers Guild, wearing orange and green hats.

Andrew Davis, 19, a freshman at the University of Tennessee, arrived in
Pittsburgh at 3:30 a.m. this morning after driving all night with friends. He
said he blamed the G-20 leaders for the current economic crisis, and this was
the first major protest he had ever attended.

"I want to be part of a momment," said Sam Brown, 22, of Sewickley. Mr. Brown is
a recent graduate of Wheaton College in Massachusetts, where he majored in art
history and Asian studies. Now the poor economy has forced him to move back with
his mother in the Pittsburgh suburbs, and he scours Craigslist every day for
jobs.

As he spoke, a dozen police officers on motorcycles roared up 40th Street.

Was he worried about a confrontation with police?

"I think it will be fine," he said.

Up the street, Fred Jones, an unemployed house painter from Detroit, stood with
a bag with a red cross on the side.

He's a volunteer with Pittsburgh Medics, a group that provides street medics to
protest groups.

He was carrying bandages, bottled water and granola bars.

"This gets people together," he said of the gathering in the park. "I don't
think the protests are particularly effective at anything but that."

World Wildlife Fund advocates climate financing strategy

By Don Hopey

The G-20 summit needs to reach an accord on a climate financing strategy that
will support a sustainable pathway out of the global economic crisis, creating
jobs, investment and economic growth, World Wildlife Fund officials said today.

This week's G-20 meeting is a critical opportunity for advancing success at the
United Nations Climate Summit in Copenhagen in December, said Kim Carstensen,
leader of the WWF global climate initiative. She spoke during a news conference
at the summit.

The WWF estimates that public funding for climate action in developing countries
will cost $160 billion by 2015. Ms. Carstensen said the G-20 should acknowledge
that funding level and give the UN climate process a mandate to propose a
financial plan for managing the funding.

Obamas arrive at Phipps

At 6:05 p.m., President Barack Obama arrived at Phipps, waving through a light
rain at news reporters, accompanied by wife Michelle. An aide sheltered the
couple with an umbrella. Mr. Obama nodded to photographers and thanked an aide
in the doorway before walking through the conservatory's lower entrance.

You are there

Mackenzie Carpenter

September 24, 2009

Surely some of you have wondered what it's like to cover something called the
G-20. What does that MEAN, exactly? Is admission into this world -- after being
"swept" by the Secret Service -- akin to an out-of-body experience? Are you
somehow transported into some parallel universe populated by world leaders who,
by virtue of sharing your airspace, have brought "The World" to you ...?

How the heck do we know? All we that we DO know is that we have journeyed into
the heart of the G-20 and it's... just the David L. Lawrence Convention Center,
the same place you took your kids to PiratesFest a few years ago.

Except that the woman washing her hands in the spotless ladies room answers her
cell phone by saying "Oui?" And overheard conversations are along the lines of
-- "Oh, did you go to Caracas?" (from another woman striding self-importantly to
her Eurovision TV cubicle, to her companion, in the thickest of thick English
accents). And the nice young man earnestly interviewing Mayor Luke Ravenstahl
isn't doing it for the Tribune Review but for THE GUARDIAN, a very cool British
newspaper. Luke remains resolutely on message throughout -- yesterday's episode
involving Greenpeace protesters rappelling off the West End bridge was
"interesting," he tells the Guardian's Andrew Clark, who later tells us how
beautiful the city seems to him, sounding slightly surprised. Ditto with Douglas
Herbert, a Paris-based reporter for France24, a CNN-like television channel, who
is overhead reporting on his cell phone about the the city -- "NOT a Rust Belt
city... done away with steel... the universities are a giant deal here... beacon
of hope... test case on whether other cities can succeed..." You get the idea.

Finally, we visited some journalist colleagues at one of the Big Serious Wire
services stationed on the second floor of the convention center (we're in the
all purpose media room on the first floor right next to Al Jazeera) and we told
them we were going to be in the press pool for Michelle Obama's tour of the
city's Creative and Performing Arts (CAPA) High School tomorrow. Apparently,
France's First Lady Carla Bruni Sarkozy, a former supermodel, will be on the
school tour too.

"See if you can find out two things," asked my friend, a grizzled veteran of
many a world summit. "First, is Barack Obama going to go to Copenhagen next week
with Michelle when she makes a final pitch for Chicago to be the site of the
2016 Olympics, and secondly -- is Carla Bruni Sarkozy pregnant?"

We told you there wasn't much news at this G-20 summit. At least not yet.

Green city, brown streets

By Cindi Lash

Out-of-town and out-of-country journalists are still continuing to write stories
about Pittsburgh, in the absence of any real breaking or developing news to
report. We spotted one crew -- in an apparent effort to illustrate a story about
Pittsburgh's transition to a "green city" -- painstakingly videotaping shots
from various angles of the convention center's recycling bins...

Outside, our colleague Mike Sigov reports joining a cluster of chuckling folks
at the intersection of Sixth Avenue and Smithfield Street, where a group of
police officers in patrol cars steered and veered from side to side in an effort
to avoid running over the deposits left moments earlier by about 20 of their
horse-mounted brethren.

No credentials

By Tracie Mauriello

Pittsburgh Mayor Luke Rahvenstahl and County Executive Dan Onorato stand out
from the crowd in the Lawrence L. Davidson Convention Center, and it's not just
because they lack the ink-stained fingers and grizzled look of the hundreds of
reporters gathered here to cover the G-20 Summit. They're the only ones in the
building without security tags around their necks. They, along with Gov. Ed
Rendell, U.S. Sen Bob Casey, U.S. Sen. Arlen Specter and Congressman Mike Doyle
-- and no one else -- have blanket security rights to roam the convention center
during the G-20, Mr. Onorato said. Security officials have their pictures on
file and recognize them when they enter.

Nerf football spotted on Penn Avenue

By Jerome L. Sherman

It's so quiet at Penn and 18th that a couple of guys were out in the street
tossing an orange Nerf football back and forth.

Who do they think they are, PNC Park?

Journalist alert: If you're planning on covering the G-20 summit at the David L.
Lawrence Convention Center, be prepared to pay some BIG $$ for food. A cup of
coffee is $2.50, a bottle of "Lifewater" -- lightly flavored WATER, for heaven's
sake -- is $3, and the heavenly, aromatic beef brisket sandwich is ... $10!!!!
Okay, the sugar free muffin was only $2.50, but still... Pittsburgh WELCOMES the
world? How about -- as one of my colleagues who shall remain nameless put it --
"Pittsburgh rips off the world" ...

Not to be cranky or anything.

WSJ: Pgh better than London

By Timothy McNulty

Take that, sneering beltway elites -- Wall Street Journal blogger Bob Davis says
Pittsburgh is a better G-20 host than London:

Guess what? So far Pittsburgh is a much nicer site. London stuck the leaders
(and the press that trail along) in the drafty little used Excel Center - a
place with the charm of an airline hangar - in the Docklands area. To get there,
required a long metro ride to a vacant lot. Then a bus ride to the
aforementioned airline hangar - um convention center.

Security-conscious London took away credentials from anyone leaving the place,
so you had to sign in again to get back. Needless to say few left. Even
potential terrorists must have thought it was a hassle to get to the place.

Pittsburgh is hosting this summit in the graceful, six-year old Lawrence
convention center in the heart of downtown. Pittsburgh residents couldn't be
nicer about directing people there, even though the city has put up big black
fence barriers around a big part of downtown. Plus, it's warm enough in
Pittsburgh that they even put on the air conditioner.

Officers on duty are accommodating

By Michael A. Fuoco

While manning their various posts, police from throughout the country and the
Pennsylvania National Guard were professional yet friendly with the public and
journalists alike. They smiled, gave directions and were otherwise
accommodating.

One officer from Tucson, Ariz., stationed on Liberty Avenue near Stanwix Street
smiled when asked what he thought of Pittsburgh.

"I haven't gotten to see much of it," he said with a laugh, indicating most of
what he had seen was from the post he was manning, a quarter block away from
other Tucson officers. "I hope we get to see more of it Saturday."

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: THE G-20 SUMMIT / (Photos and videos available at post-gazette.com)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              557 of 580 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                            October 16, 2009 Friday
                                 SOONER EDITION

LOUSY WEATHER MAY NOT BE HARBINGER

BYLINE: Jon Schmitz, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. A-1

LENGTH: 532 words


It seems way too early to begin worrying about snow and long-range winter
forecasts, but try telling that to people in places like Bradford, Warren, St.
Marys and Du Bois.

They were under a winter storm warning that extends to tomorrow morning, with
dire predictions of up to a foot of wet, heavy snow in higher elevations that
could collapse trees and cause power outages.

Pittsburgh might see some flakes of snow mixing with rain over the next few
days, but National Weather Service meteorologist Lee Hendricks said it was
unlikely we would break or match the record for earliest measurable snowfall:
Oct. 18, in 1972.

Accumulating snow was unlikely anywhere south of northern Butler County, he
said. The air and ground here are still too warm for snow to stick.

Tom Kines, an AccuWeather meteorologist who watched the snow fall in State
College yesterday, coating grassy areas and even roads on the ridges, said the
early flurry of winter weather might not be an omen.

"Most people are concerned with this recent cold spurt that this is a sign of
things to come and it's going to be a horrible winter. That's not necessarily
true," he said.

By Tuesday, when the National Weather Service forecast calls for 60-degree
temperatures and sunshine, we could be fretting about global warming again.

Mr. Kines said current AccuWeather forecasts are for normal or above-normal
temperatures in November and "maybe December as well." Rougher weather, if it
comes, will be in January and February, as is typical, he said.

AccuWeather's expert long-range forecaster, Joe Bastardi, has said the
Pittsburgh area would have a colder-than-normal winter overall. He said the
Appalachians could have their snowiest winter in seven years, with up to 100
inches. Whether that drifts back to Pittsburgh was in doubt -- the forecast map
puts the city on the line between "normal snowfall" and "cold and snowy."

"Pittsburgh is kind of on the fence," Mr. Kines said. "It will depend on what
kind of track the storms take."

Mr. Bastardi said "winter will be centered over an area from Maryland to the
Carolinas" with "the stormiest and coldest pattern in recent years."

Pittsburgh gets about 41 inches of snow in a typical winter. Heavier snowfalls
have been very rare in recent years. In the past four winters, Pittsburgh has
recorded only five snowfalls exceeding 4 inches, and only one exceeding 5
inches.

The last time the city got more than 6 inches was Feb. 16 and 17, 2003, when 14
inches piled up.

For its part, the Old Farmer's Almanac says winter "will bring rapid changes in
the weather, from mild to very cold and back to mild again. Temperatures will be
slightly below normal, on average, while precipitation will be above normal,
with near-normal snowfall ... The snowiest periods will occur in late January,
mid-February, and early March."

Mr. Hendricks said to forecast weather beyond 10 to 14 days, "you have to talk
in generalities." The National Weather Service outlook for December, January and
February says temperatures and precipitation are likely to be normal or below
normal.

By next month, he said, those outlooks could change as weather patterns shift.

So keep the snow shovels -- and the sunglasses -- handy.

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Jon Schmitz can be reached at jschmitz@post-gazette.com or 412-263-1868.

GRAPHIC: INFORMATIONAL GRAPHIC: NOAA; AP: (U.S. winter forecast predicted)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              561 of 580 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                            February 3, 2009 Tuesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

VOLUNTEER REACHES OUT IN FIGHTING POVERTY

BYLINE: Kara Voorhees, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: LIFESTYLE; THE JEFFERSON AWARDS; Pg. B-1

LENGTH: 791 words


Nearly 20 years ago, Cheryl Kubitz, a single working mother of two young
children, was so stretched financially that she didn't have money to buy a
turkey for Thanksgiving Day.

She turned to her local food bank in Brookline for help. For a year she returned
to the food bank monthly to provide her children, ages 4 and 10, with food and
toys.

"I had to move on after that year," she recalls. "It was time for someone else
to be blessed. Someone else needed it more than I did."

Still living in Brookline, she never forgot how kindly she was received by the
charity's volunteers.

Last June, Ms. Kubitz, now 52 and the manager of the McKeesport Huntington Bank,
hosted a food drive out of her office for the Greater Pittsburgh Community Food
Bank. The drivedonated more than an estimated 750 pounds of food.

Ms. Kubitz saw this not only as a success, but also as a way of giving back.

Her volunteering extends beyond food drives, with time also spent volunteering
at Highmark Caring Place, Children's Hospital of Pittsburgh, McKeesport Hospital
Foundation and the Lions Club. Last year she also went on a medical missions
trip to Guatemala.

However it's for her work as the region's top volunteer for Operation HOPE, a
global nonprofit organization that aims to eradicate poverty by teaching
financial responsibility, that she has won a 2008 Jefferson Award for Public
Service. The program, which recognizes outstanding volunteers, is facilitated
locally by the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette, Highmark, The Pittsburgh Foundation and
The Heinz Endowments.

At an award ceremony on Feb. 12 the PNC Foundation will donate $1,000 to
Operation HOPE on her behalf.

With more than 30 years in the banking business, she is highly skilled to help
with Operation HOPE Inc.

For three years Ms. Kubitz has been teaching financial literacy to
childreninfourth to 12th grade, visiting them in the McKeesport Area School
District schools and the McKeesport YMCA. In the monthlong programs, she teaches
students how to balance a checkbook, save money and plan for the future. She
also gives advice about loans and smart shopping.

"Not everybody teaches their children the difference between needs and wants,"
she explains, "That's what we hope to do, show them how hard life can be without
financial responsibility. And, somehow, as much as I might have to say, I always
learn more than I teach."

William C. Long, program manager of Operation HOPE's Pittsburgh office,
nominated Ms. Kubitz for the award.

"I would be remiss if I did not nominate this woman. I have trained over 400
volunteers, and she is the best of all of them," he said.

Mr. Long remembers his first interview with her.

"Within five minutes of listening to her voice on the phone, I knew we had to
have this woman working with us. She's dynamic and she's a live wire. And she's
taken McKeesport by storm. And on top of all that, she's selfless enough to keep
giving elsewhere, like her mission trip."

Last February, Ms. Kubitz spent eight days in the mountains of Guatemala with a
medical missions team, a trip supported by the First Presbyterian Church in
Murrysville, helping to give aid to the indigenous Mayans. A friend's son, who
is a nurse, recommended her to the doctors because of her dauntless enthusiasm
and commitment to volunteering. They met with Ms. Kubitz several times before
their trip and recognized that she would be an asset on the mission.

They worked under difficult conditions without running water or a sewerage
system.

She worked mainly with the children who came to the mission's temporary clinic.

"I showed them how to blow bubbles," she said about the Mayan children. "They
were so enthralled with the bubbles. It was like a luxury to them. They followed
me everywhere. I didn't speak a word of their language. But we communicated just
fine."

The missions team returned in May without Ms. Kubitz, and the children
continually asked, "Where is the American lady with all the bubbles?"

Her special way of relating to children also served her well in the two years
she volunteered at Children's Hospital and the seven years she has served at
Highmark's Caring Place, a center for grieving children and their families.

The volunteering doesn't stop there.

Last September, Ms. Kubitz hosted a coat drive out of her bank's office called
Keep McKeesport Warm. There was an outpouring of community donations.

"My goodness, I didn't know what to do with all the coats. People are still
bringing me garbage bags full of winter clothes."

With the help of the YMCA's Teen Lead, more than 50 garbage bags of donated
winterwear were distributed to families in need.

True to the spirit of volunteerism, she said, "I always say yes. I just can't
say no. Because, it's not about me. It's about whatever work I'm doing."

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Tomorrow: George O'Donnell, founder of the organization that helps those
with special needs. / Chatham University student Kara Voorhees just completed an
academic internship at the Post-Gazette. /

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Bob Donaldson/Post-Gazette: Jefferson Award winner Cheryl
Kubitz.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 P.G. Publishing Co.
