
                              14 of 461 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                              June 1, 2007 Friday
                                 SOONER EDITION

BUSH URGES CLIMATE CHANGE PACT;
CALLS ON NATIONS TO JOIN U.S. IN SETTING GOALS FOR CUTTING EMISSIONS

BYLINE: SHERYL GAY STOLBERG, THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. A-1

LENGTH: 785 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


President Bush, fending off international accusations that he was ignoring
climate change, proposed for the first time yesterday to set "a long-term global
goal" for cutting greenhouse gas emissions, and he called on other industrial
nations to join the United States in negotiations aimed at reaching an agreement
by the end of next year.

If carried through, such an agreement would be the first in which the United
States, the world's biggest source of the emissions that scientists say are
warming the planet, has committed itself to a specific target for cutting them.

It would be a major shift for Mr. Bush, who has resisted such absolute goals in
part for economic reasons. The president has also steadfastly rejected the
so-called Kyoto Protocol, which limits greenhouse gas emissions, on the grounds
that two other major polluters -- China and India -- are not bound by the accord
in the same way as the United States would be if it joined.

The proposal, delivered in a speech at the U.S. Agency for International
Development in Washington, reflects the difficulties the Bush administration is
facing in grappling with climate change, as the scientific consensus has
continued to build in favor of action to control the buildup of heat-trapping
gases in the atmosphere.

"In recent years, science has deepened our understanding of climate change and
opened new possibilities for confronting it," Mr. Bush said, previewing the
climate change package he is to present when he meets the leaders of the Group
of 8 industrialized nations in Germany next week. "The United States takes this
issue seriously."

The speech was greeted with intense skepticism by environmental advocates and
some European officials. Some critics accused Mr. Bush of trying to hijack
continuing environmental talks like those under the Kyoto treaty by substituting
his own program, which, even if successful, would not bear fruit until he is
about to leave office in 2009. And, they said, the president delivered no clear
statement on what steps the United States will take to limit emissions over the
next 10 to 20 years, while he is working on long-term goals for the next 50
years and beyond.

Even those goals, said James L. Connaughton, the president's top environmental
adviser, are "aspirational." They would not be binding unless individual nations
choose to bind themselves.

"There is no more time for longwinded talks about unenforceable long-term
goals," said David Doniger, climate policy director for the Natural Resources
Defense Council, an advocacy group in Washington. "We need to get a serious
commitment to cut emissions now and in the G-8."

The speech yesterday was the biggest shift on climate change by Mr. Bush. In
July 2005, he offered his first explicit acknowledgment that humans might be
contributing to the problem of global warming. This year, for the first time, he
mentioned climate change in his State of the Union address.

In one sense, the change in tack has been forced on Mr. Bush by scientific
advances in the understanding of how greenhouse gas emissions contribute to
global warming. But it is also an example of the kind of policy adjustment that
is becoming increasingly common in the second half of his second term. Another
example is the announcement this week of economic sanctions to prod Sudan on
Darfur.

The White House seems determined to change the president's image on climate
change before he leaves office in January 2009. The issue is a high priority for
two of Mr. Bush's closest European allies -- British Prime Minister Tony Blair
and German Chancellor Angela Merkel -- and with Democrats now controlling
Congress, the president also faces domestic pressure to act.

Mr. Bush promised to convene a series of meetings, beginning in the fall, with
10 to 15 countries that produce the most greenhouse gas emissions, including
China and India. Each country would establish mid-term national targets for
reducing emissions over the next 10 to 20 years, while working together to set a
longer-term goal.

The talks would also bring together industry leaders, Mr. Bush said, so the
countries could work with them to pool their knowledge and promote investment in
energy-efficient technologies, including solar and wind energy, clean-coal
technologies and nuclear power. But each country would be free to set its own
national goals, and there would be no binding international framework for
enforcement.

"The United States is taking the lead, and that's the message I'm going to take
to the G-8," Mr. Bush said.

But how well that message will be received remains to be seen. Germany, backed
by Britain and now Japan, has already proposed cutting global greenhouse gas
emissions by 50 percent by 2050.

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: INFORMATIONAL GRAPHIC: Energy Information Administration; AP: (U.S.
emits one-fifth of carbon dioxide)
INFORMATIONAL GRAPHIC: Energy Information Administration; AP: (Increased
emissions for Asian countries)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              34 of 461 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                          December 19, 2007 Wednesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

REPORT TARGETS PA.'S EMISSIONS;
STATE IS THIRD IN NATION IN AMOUNT OF GREENHOUSE GASES

BYLINE: DON HOPEY, PITTSBURGH POST-GAZETTE

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. A-8

LENGTH: 507 words


Pennsylvania is one of three states that individually emit more global warming
causing carbon dioxide than the combined emissions of 101 developing nations,
according to a new report by the National Environmental Trust.

The report highlighting the United States' role as the world's largest
greenhouse gas emitter is part of an effort by environmental groups to rally
public support for swift, mandatory, national and state policies to reduce those
emissions.

"The focus of this report's release is especially timely, coming as it does
after the Bali conference which focused on cutting greenhouse gas emissions
after 2012," said Meredith Montalto, Pennsylvania organizer for the National
Environmental Trust. "Given that Pennsylvania is a top carbon dioxide polluter
it carries special responsibility."

Pennsylvania utilities, industries and vehicles emit more greenhouse gases than
Poland, a developed nation with three times the state's population. Only two
other states -- Texas and California -- are bigger emitters, according to the
150-page report released yesterday.

The report urges the U.S. and individual states and local municipalities to
break the logjam that developed following the Kyoto accord and take the lead in
adopting policies that mandate greenhouse gas emission reductions. It also
encourages developing nations to enact and expand on their own emission
reduction policies before they are subject to the binding targets of future
treaties.

Brian Hill, president and chief executive officer of the Pennsylvania
Environmental Council, said climate change will take a heavy toll on
Pennsylvania unless the state takes strong steps to conserve energy, promote
renewable alternative energy sources and manage sprawl.

Speaking from Harrisburg, Mr. Hill praised pending legislation aimed at
controlling emissions and a Rendell administration "Energy Independence
Strategy" plan slated for release early next year, but said utilities and energy
industries are lobbying against those initiatives.

The Pennsylvania Coal Association, a Harrisburg-based lobbying organization
representing the industry, was unavailable for comment yesterday afternoon.

State Rep. Greg Vitali, D-Delaware County, who participated in a conference call
that released the report, said polls show the public is out in front of the
state Legislature in accepting the need to act decisively on climate change
issues.

"The politicians have acknowledged it as a real problem but not to the point
that they're able to take tough steps on legislation," Mr. Vitale said. "I think
that's affecting our ability to get a state energy strategy passed."

Mr. Hill said the Environmental Council's "Climate Change Roadmap" released in
June predicts the state predicts's greenhouse gas emissions will rise
significantly without significant changes in the state's energy policy.

"Because of climate change we're going to see changes in the state's
agriculture, changes in its recreation and changes in the kinds of species found
in the state," Mr. Hill said. "So action is needed."

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Don Hopey can be reached at dhopey@post-gazette.com or 412-263-1983.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              54 of 461 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                           November 27, 2007 Tuesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

SPECTER TOUTS CLEAN ENERGY;
SENATOR USES SIEMENS VISIT TO SELL HIS CLIMATE PROPOSAL

BYLINE: BILL TOLAND, PITTSBURGH POST-GAZETTE

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. A-7

LENGTH: 588 words


With the U.S. Senate considering several climate bills and an international
forum on climate change convening next week, Pennsylvania Republican Sen. Arlen
Specter has been touting his own bill to reduce greenhouse gases, a tour that
brought him to Pittsburgh yesterday.

He visited the Siemens Stationary Fuel Cells plant in Churchill -- a subsidiary
of Germany's Siemans AG that has been researching the conversion of coal into
synthetic natural gas, which can be used to efficiently produce electricity.

Last month, he visited a power plant east of Harrisburg and touched on some of
the same themes he discussed yesterday: namely, that the reduction of industrial
carbon emissions is key to healing the environment and curbing global warming.

Promoting fuel-cell technology, and the researchers who nurture the technology
to commercial viability, is an important part of the proposed "Low Carbon
Economy" act, a piece of legislation being sponsored by Mr. Specter and Sen.
Jeff Bingaman, D-N.M. The legislation has the support of some major electrical
companies, as well as the AFL-CIO and the United Mine Workers of America.

The bill, introduced in the summer, would set a national, mandatory cap on
greenhouse emissions, allowing businesses with lower emissions to sell "credits"
to facilities with larger carbon emissions. The goal is to reduce U.S.
greenhouse gas emissions to "avoid the problems of air pollution" and the "very
imminent threat of global warming," he said yesterday.

Mr. Specter's bill would try to reduce carbon emissions to 2006 levels by 2020
and to 1990 levels by 2030, via the caps and research-and-development funding
provided under the bill. Still, there are several competing bills -- the leading
one, sponsored by Sens. Joe Lieberman and John Warner, has made it out of
subcommittee and could be up for a Senate vote in 2008.

But handicappers have said that an alliance of political opponents, industry
lobbyists and environmental groups that think the bills don't go far enough
could ruin the chances of any climate bill emerging from the 110th Congress.
Further, President Bush has not signaled support of carbon caps.

Meanwhile, critics say Mr. Specter's proposal is flawed -- some prefer outright
carbon taxes to the "cap-and-trade" method. Others note the Bingaman-Specter
bill contains a provision that allows companies to buy an unlimited number of
$12-per-ton emission credits directly from the federal government, instead of
from companies that operate more efficiently. That could cancel out the
mandatory caps, but Mr. Specter and proponents note that the proceeds from
selling the credits would go to fuel and energy technology research.

Rep. Tim Murphy, R-Upper St. Clair, echoed Mr. Specter yesterday in his opinion
that Congress has done too little for too long on the issue of greenhouse gases.

"Whether you're concerned about the condition of the planet, or the condition of
one's wallet," he said, referring to high gas and energy prices, "we're in a
situation where other nations, such as China, open up a new coal-fired power
plant every day with no scrubbers, [no] equipment on it to clean the air."

It's time to be responsible stewards of the environment while also crafting a
bill that attracts the support of energy firms, manufacturers and coal
producers, Mr. Murphy said.

Mr. Specter's tour of Siemens came just a week before representatives from a
number of nations are set to convene in Indonesia for a United Nations
conference on climate change, pollution and greenhouse gases.

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Bill Toland can be reached at btoland@post-gazette.com or 412-263-2625.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Steve Mellon/Post-Gazette: Employees at Siemens Stationary Fuel
Cells Division in Churchill keep their eyes on Sen. Arlen Specter, foreground,
before Mr. Specter spoke about global climate change and the need for clean
energy technology and energy efficiency.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              56 of 461 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                            March 22, 2007 Thursday
                                 SOONER EDITION

CAPITOL HILL WARMS TO GORE'S RETURN

BYLINE: Faye Fiore and Richard Simon, Los Angeles Times

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. A-5

LENGTH: 469 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The doors swung open, and he made his entrance with cameras clicking. The wooden
politician denied the presidency and derided as "Ozone Man" was coming home to
the Capitol. But this time, they called him a movie star and likened him to a
prophet.

Al Gore left Washington seven years ago bowed by the 2000 election and a little
disgraced in the eyes of his party: "Couldn't he at least have won his home
state?"

But he returned yesterday reincarnated: the subject of an Academy Award-winning
film, a Nobel Peace Prize nominee, a 58-year-old guy who, slightly grayed and a
little puffy, can share a stage with Leonardo DiCaprio and still manage to be
the center of attention.

The one-time representative, senator and vice president was back, this time to
testify about global warming. The gold Oscar statuette for "An Inconvenient
Truth" -- the documentary about his traveling slide show on the ravages of
climate change -- doesn't even belong to him; it's the director's. But it has
pushed Mr. Gore into another orbit in Washington's universe. People started
lining up as early as 7 a.m. to get a glimpse of him.

"This is the most dangerous crisis we have ever faced," Mr. Gore told a joint
meeting of two House energy committees in an impassioned appeal for bold action,
repeating his case on the Senate side. "This problem is burning a hole in the
top of the world. ... We need to turn the thermostat back down before that
melts."

Mr. Gore, who arrived in a new hybrid Mercury, sat beside a stack of brown boxes
with 516,000 messages urging "real action," gathered in just a few days on his
Web site, AlGore.com.

"There is a sense of hope in the country that this United States Congress will
rise to the occasion and present meaningful solutions to this crisis," he said.
"Congress is a repository of hopes and dreams of people all across this Earth."

As the morning hearing convened on the House side, the repository of hopes and
dreams spent several minutes bickering about where the committee members should
sit and how much time they had to speak. They appeared to divide pretty much
along party lines.

Democrats hailed the "Goracle," who saw this coming 30 years ago, and
Republicans dismissed him as an alarmist.

Among Mr. Gore's ideas: a pollution tax; an immediate freeze on carbon-dioxide
emissions, with sharp reductions in future years; stricter vehicle
miles-per-gallon rules; a moratorium on construction of highly polluting
coal-fired power plants; a strong global climate-change treaty; and creation of
a federally operated Carbon Neutral Mortgage Association that would serve as
incentive for building energy-efficient homes.

"I listen to you sometimes in wonderment," said Rep. J. Dennis Hastert, R-Ill.,
predicting that Mr. Gore's proposals would cost "tens of thousands of jobs and
more empty factories."

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Dennis Cook/Associated Press: Former Vice President Al Gore
testifies on Capitol Hill in Washington yesterday.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              67 of 461 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                              April 8, 2007 Sunday
                                TWO STAR EDITION

MAURITANIA FIGHTS LOSING BATTLE AGAINST MOVING SANDS

BYLINE: RUKMINI CALLIMACHI, THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. A-6

LENGTH: 861 words

DATELINE: CHINGUETTI, Mauritania


On nights when the wind hisses across the dunes, the old man sits on his straw
mat, draws a blanket around his shoulders and counts his money.

In the morning, Sidahmed Ould Magaya, 75, will be trapped inside his concrete
one-room house, the wooden door sealed shut by a wall of sand accumulated
overnight. In exchange for about $6, workers will liberate him, hauling the
yellow sand away in burlap bags.

At that rate, he has to sell a goat a month to pay for keeping the desert at bay
in a country where the dunes are said to be shifting at an estimated 4 to 6
miles per year, according to government data.

Throughout Mauritania, a desolate, dune-enveloped country twice the size of
France, men and women wage a daily battle against the sand.

With less rain falling now than in years past, the dunes have become dry and
unstable. Global climate change bears part of the blame, as does the uprooting
of the scraggly trees that once dotted the landscape to use as camel feed,
firewood or for insulation, leaving nothing to bind the sand.

When the winds whip the land, the dunes advance like fingers, overtaking walls,
forcing their way into courtyards and creeping under doors. Whole houses are
swallowed. Entire cities have been abandoned.

"When I built my house, I chose this spot because it was flat. Now there's a
mountain outside," says Mr. Magaya of his house, currently free of sand but
precariously positioned at the edge of an advancing dune. His front door opens
onto the face of the dune, which rises sharply upward and crests just above the
roof from where it bears down on the old man like a yellow giant.

A wave of sand has crashed into his neighbor's home, swallowing the front door,
forcing the family to use the back entrance. In the towns under the most sand,
families go in and out of their windows. Snow plows crisscross the national
highway, pushing sand aside to let cars through.

Europe and North America have hurricanes, floods and snowstorms; the nations
lying across the Sahara -- Mauritania, Mali, Niger, Chad and the southern edges
of Libya, Algeria and Egypt -- have sand, and a warming planet is making it less
predictable.

Surface temperatures have risen by a little over 1 degree Fahrenheit in the last
century, said Patrick Gonzalez, a climate scientist on the U.N.'s
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. The rise in the temperature of the
Earth, as well as of the Atlantic Ocean bordering Mauritania, has had an impact
on rainfall: It's down a fifth from the 1950s.

Without moisture to keep the sand in clumps, it moves freely, dissipating in a
yellow mist.

"It's a vicious cycle, brought on by the changes in our climate and worsened by
the actions of mankind," said Moustapha Ould Mohamed, who heads the National
Research Center on Desertification in Nouakchott, the Mauritanian capital.

Although it is now illegal to cut much of the vegetation, desert dwellers refuse
to live without some plants -- for example "alfa," a shrub used as roof
insulation. Those living here say they often see donkeys coming into town laden
with alfa.

"The battle against the dunes cannot be uncoupled from the battle against
poverty. If these people don't have an alternative, they will continue to cut
the trees," said Mohamed Lemine Ould Cheikh El Hadrami, Mauritania's environment
secretary.

In a 109-page national action plan written by the ministry last year, the
Mauritanian government proposed a series of measures from the creation of a
green belt around threatened cities to planting sticks in formations that halt
the flow of sand.

Although commissioned by the government, the plan gets no funding in
Mauritania's current budget, underscoring an inability to grasp the threat, said
Mounkaila Goumandakoye, the acting director of the U.N. Development Program's
Drylands Development Center.

"What's happening in Mauritania is dramatic and something needs to be done," he
said. "Politicians are used to doing things to improve their country's GDP. They
haven't yet understood the link between the advance of the dunes and their
economic health."

In the arid interior, where the dunes undulate like the surface of the sea, that
link is all too obvious.

Dates are the backbone of the desert economy, but cones of sand now surround
some of the oldest palm trees, and once the cone reaches the fronds, the tree
suffocates.

As recently as 1960, the town of Chinguetti had 18 square miles of date-bearing
palms.

"Now, not even 2 hectares [5 acres] remain," said Mayor Mohamed Ould Amara.

The town, on an ancient caravan route, was Mauritania's most populous with a
population of 20,000 in the 19th century. It's now down to 3,000, he said,
adding that over 300 of its 1,000 homes have been abandoned.

Among the palms still standing are a dozen or so owned by Mr. Magaya. He's
running out of goats to sell each time his door needs digging out, and counts on
the palms to finance his old age at the foot of the yellow-colored dune.

He takes comfort in the fate he knows awaits him, whether or not the dune gets
to him first.

"When I die, I'll be put in a coffin and that coffin will be buried in the
sand," he said. "So I can't be upset. Either way, I'll end up in the dirt."

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Schalk van Zuydam/Associated Press: Sidahmed Ould Magaya, 75,
sits with a friend at the desert town of Chinguetti, Mauritania.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              81 of 461 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                             April 3, 2007 Tuesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

HIGH COURT STEPS IN ON GLOBAL WARMING;
TELLS EPA IT MUST REGULATE TAILPIPE EMISSIONS IF IT CAN'T PROVE THEY DON'T
CHANGE CLIMATE

BYLINE: LINDA GREENHOUSE, THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. A-1

LENGTH: 824 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


In one of its most important environmental decisions in years, the Supreme Court
yesterday ruled that the Environmental Protection Agency has the authority to
regulate heat-trapping gases in automobile emissions. The court further ruled
that the agency could not sidestep its authority to regulate the greenhouse
gases that contribute to global climate change unless it can provide a
scientific basis for its refusal.

The 5-4 decision was a strong rebuke to the Bush administration, which has
maintained that it does not have the right to regulate carbon dioxide and other
greenhouse gases under the Clean Air Act, and that, even if it did, it would not
use the authority. The ruling does not force the EPA to regulate auto emissions,
but it would almost certainly face further legal action if it fails to do so.

Writing for the majority, Justice John Paul Stevens said the only way the agency
could "avoid taking further action" now is "if it determines that greenhouse
gases do not contribute to climate change" or provides a good explanation why it
cannot or will not find out whether they do.

Beyond the specific context for this case -- so-called "tailpipe emissions" from
cars and trucks, which account for about one-fourth of the country's total
greenhouse gas emissions -- the decision is highly likely to have a broader
impact on the debate over government efforts to address global warming.

Court cases around the country had been placed on hold to await the decision in
this case. Among them is a challenge to the EPA's refusal to regulate carbon
dioxide emissions from power plants, now pending in the District of Columbia
federal appeals court. Individual states, led by California, are also moving
aggressively into what they have seen as a regulatory vacuum.

Justice Stevens, joined by Justices Anthony M. Kennedy, David H. Souter, Ruth
Bader Ginsburg and Stephen G. Breyer, said that by providing nothing more than a
"laundry list of reasons not to regulate," the Environmental Protection Agency
had defied the Clean Air Act's "clear statutory command." He said a refusal to
regulate could be based only on science and "reasoned justification." While the
statute left the central determination to the "judgment" of the agency's
administrator, he wrote, "the use of the word 'judgment' is not a roving license
to ignore the statutory text."

The court decided a second Clean Air Act case yesterday, adopting a broad
reading of the EPA's authority over factories and power plants that add capacity
or make renovations that increase emissions of air pollutants. In doing so, the
court reopened a federal enforcement effort against the Duke Energy Corp. under
the Clean Air Act's "new source review" provision. The vote in the second case,
Environmental Defense v. Duke Energy Corp., was 9-0.

The two decisions left environmental advocates exultant. Many said they still
harbored doubts about the federal agency and predicted that the decision would
help push the Democratic-controlled Congress to address the issue. Even in the
nine months since the Supreme Court agreed to hear the case, Massachusetts v.
Environmental Protection Agency, and accelerating since the elections in
November, there has been a growing interest among industry groups in working
with environmental organizations on proposals for emissions limits.

Dave McCurdy, president of the Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers, the main
industry trade group, said in response to the decision that the alliance "looks
forward to working constructively with both Congress and the administration" in
addressing the issue. "This decision says that the U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency will be part of this process," he said.

If the decision sowed widespread claims of victory, it left behind a prominent
loser: Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr., who argued vigorously in a dissenting
opinion that the court never should have reached the merits of the case or
addressed the question of the agency's legal obligations.

His dissent, which Justices Antonin Scalia, Clarence Thomas and Samuel A. Alito
Jr. also signed, focused solely on the issue of legal standing to sue: whether
the broad coalition of states, cities and environmental groups that brought the
lawsuit against the EPA four years ago should have been accepted as plaintiffs
in the first place.

This was the issue on which the coalition's lawsuit had appeared most
vulnerable, given that in recent years the Supreme Court has steadily raised the
barrier to standing, especially in environmental cases. Justice Scalia has long
been a leader in that effort, and Chief Justice Roberts has made clear that he
is fully on board Justice Scalia's project.

Chief Justice Roberts said the court should not have found that Massachusetts or
any of the other plaintiffs had standing. The majority addressed the standing
question by noting that it was only necessary for one of the many plaintiffs to
meet the definition of standing.

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              82 of 461 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                              May 8, 2007 Tuesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

CONGRESS URGED TO AID GREENHOUSE GASES FIGHT

BYLINE: Elwin Green, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. A-8

LENGTH: 362 words


Congress needs to enact legislation to hasten the adoption of technologies to
help businesses improve their energy efficiency and reduce their environmental
impact, an Alcoa spokesman said yesterday.

Lee Califf said Paul O'Neill, Alcoa's former chief executive officer, determined
in the late 1990s that "there was no longer a question about the science of
climate change -- that it was a real issue and something that required attention
and action." Now, he said, Alcoa's greenhouse gas emissions from operations are
about 30 percent below their 1999 level.

But while such voluntary action is important, "It will not get us where we want
to go" in controlling emissions, he said.

In a news briefing sponsored by the National Wildlife Federation, Mr. Califf was
joined in the call for new legislation by Jerome Ringo, president of the Apollo
Alliance, a largely labor-based coalition that seeks to free America from
dependence on foreign oil while creating 3 million jobs; Jeanette Pablo,
spokeswoman for PNM Resources, an Albuquerque, N.M.-based energy holding
company; and Mindy Lubber, president of Ceres, a national network of investors,
environmental organizations and other public interest groups focused on
sustainability.

They did not come down firmly on whether it would be better to implement a tax
on carbon emissions or a so-called "cap and trade" system that would set a
ceiling on emissions and grant credits to companies with lower emissions that
could be traded to companies with higher emissions.

"The goal is to send the right market signal, that it have clarity, and that it
happen sooner rather than later," Ms. Lubber said, "We may need several pieces
of legislation that are not inconsistent."

The organizations were responding to a report last week by the United Nations
International Panel on Climate Change. The U.N. panel's fourth assessment report
generated a flurry of comments even before its official release Friday, when its
"Summary for Policymakers," published in February, expressed 90 percent
certainty that carbon dioxide emissions from human activity were causing climate
change. Previous reports had not expressed such a high level of certainty.

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Elwin Green can be reached at egreen@post-gazette.com or 412-263-1969.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              88 of 461 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                           December 18, 2007 Tuesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

LATER IS OVER;
TIME IS RUNNING OUT TO SAVE THE EARTH WE KNOW

BYLINE: Thomas L. Friedman

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. B-7

LENGTH: 766 words


The negotiators at the U.N. climate conference here in Bali came from almost 200
countries and spoke almost as many languages, but driving them all to find a
better way to address climate change was one widely shared, if unspoken,
sentiment: that "later" is over for our generation.

"Later" was a luxury for previous generations and civilizations. It meant that
you could paint the same landscape, see the same animals, eat the same fruit,
climb the same trees, fish the same rivers, enjoy the same weather or rescue the
same endangered species that you did when you were a kid -- but just do it
later, whenever you got around to it.

If there is one change in global consciousness that seems to have settled in
over just the past couple of years, it is the notion that later is over. Later
is no longer when you get to do all those same things -- just on your time
schedule. Later is now when they're gone -- when you won't get to do any of them
ever again, unless there is some radical collective action to mitigate climate
change, and maybe even if there is.

There are many reasons that later is over. The fact that global warming is now
having such an observable effect on pillars of our ecosystem -- like the frozen
sea ice within the Arctic Circle, which a new study says could disappear
entirely during summers by 2040 -- is certainly one big factor. But the other is
the voracious power of today's global economy, which has created a situation in
which the world is not just getting hot, it is getting raped.

Throughout human history there was always some new part of the ocean to plunder,
some new forest to devour, some new farmlands to exploit, noted Carl Pope,
executive director of the Sierra Club, who came to observe the Bali conference.
But "now that economic development has become the prerogative of every country,"
he said, we've run out of virgin oceans and lands "for new rising economic
powers to exploit."

So, too many countries are now chasing too few fish, trees and water resources,
and are either devouring their own or plundering those of neighbors at alarming
rates.

Indeed, today's global economy has become like a monster truck with the gas
pedal stuck, so no one can stop it from wiping out more and more of the natural
world, no matter what the global plan.

There was a chilling essay in The Jakarta Post last week by Andrio Adiwibowo, a
lecturer in environmental management at the University of Indonesia, about how a
smart plan to protect the mangrove forests around coastal Jakarta was never
carried out, leading to widespread tidal flooding last month.

This line jumped out at me: "The plan was not implemented. Instead of providing
a buffer zone, development encroached into the core zone, which was covered over
by concrete."

You could read that story in a hundred different developing countries today. But
the fact that you read it here is one of the most important reasons that later
has become extinct.

Indonesia is second only to Brazil in terrestrial biodiversity and is No.1 in
the world in marine biodiversity. Just one and a half acres in Borneo contains
more different tree species than all of North America -- not to mention animals
that don't exist anywhere else on earth. If we lose them, there will be no later
for some of the rarest plants and animals on the planet.

And we are losing them. Market-driven forces emanating primarily from China,
Europe and America have become so powerful that Indonesia recently made the
Guinness World Records for having the fastest rate of deforestation in the
world.

Indonesia is losing tropical forests the size of Maryland every year, and the
carbon released by the cutting and clearing -- much of it from illegal logging
-- has made Indonesia the third largest source of greenhouse gas emissions in
the world, after the United States and China. Deforestation actually accounts
for more greenhouse gas emissions than all the cars and trucks in the world, an
issue the Bali conference finally addressed.

I interviewed Barnabas Suebu, the governor of the Indonesian province of Papua,
home to some of its richest forests. He waxed eloquent about how difficult it is
to create jobs that will give his villagers anything close to the income they
can get from chopping down a tree and selling it to smugglers, who will ship it
to Malaysia or China to be made into furniture for Americans or Europeans. He
said his motto was, "Think big, start small, act now -- before everything
becomes too late."

Ditto for all of us. If you want to help preserve the Indonesian forests, think
fast, start quick, act now. Just don't say later.

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Thomas L. Friedman is a syndicated columnist for The New York Times.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              92 of 461 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                              June 8, 2007 Friday
                                 SOONER EDITION

U.S. AGREES TO CONSIDER EMISSION CUTBACKS

BYLINE: MARK LANDLER AND JUDY DEMPSEY, THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. A-4

LENGTH: 389 words

DATELINE: HEILIGENDAMM, Germany


The United States agreed yesterday to "seriously consider" a European plan to
combat global warming by cutting in half greenhouse gas emissions by 2050,
averting a trans-Atlantic deadlock at a meeting of the world's richest
industrial nations.

The compromise, worked out in tough negotiations between the United States and
Germany, also endorses President Bush's recent proposal to bring together the
world's largest emitting countries, including China and India, to set their own
national goals for reducing emissions.

The agreement reached yesterday does not include a mandatory 50 percent
reduction in global emissions by 2050, a key provision sought by Chancellor
Angela Merkel of Germany, nor does it commit the United States or Russia to
specific reductions.

Nevertheless, Ms. Merkel, the host of the Group of Eight meeting, proclaimed it
a major victory. She had placed climate change at the top of the agenda for the
gathering, and in recent days she pressured Mr. Bush to relax his opposition to
mandatory cuts in emissions, though he ultimately did not.

"If you think of where we were a few weeks ago, and where we have reached today,
this is a big success," Ms. Merkel told reporters in this Baltic Sea resort.

The United States had threatened to reject large parts of the German proposal,
which reaffirmed the role of the United Nations as the primary forum for
negotiating climate agreements.

Now, the Bush administration has agreed for the first time to take part in
negotiations to develop a new global agreement on climate policy by 2009.

Such a pact could form the basis of a successor to the Kyoto Protocol, which
expires in 2012 and was never ratified by the United States.

British Prime Minister Tony Blair, who has long prodded Mr. Bush to embrace a
stricter climate policy, said the agreement represented "a very substantial
coming together" of the world's leaders.

Environmental groups were more mixed in their reaction.

"He has only agreed to consider the goal," said Philip E. Clapp, president of
the National Environmental Trust, an advocacy group. "This is the kind of
language that emerges from a discussion in which people say, 'We have to have
something to take back to our publics.' "

Other advocates said it was significant that the Bush administration had agreed
to help negotiate a new climate agreement by 2009.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: THE G-8 SUMMIT

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              110 of 461 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                            December 9, 2007 Sunday
                                TWO STAR EDITION

TROUT UNLIMITED UNVEILS POSITION ON WARMING

BYLINE: Deborah Weisberg

SECTION: OUTDOORS; FISHING; Pg. C-15

LENGTH: 480 words


Trout Unlimited's focus is on cold water, but this week the group released its
first position statement on global warming.

Using its own studies and new data from the U.S. Forest Service, the Washington,
D.C., based cold water fisheries lobbying group predicts climate change will
cause the widespread loss of trout and salmon -- as much as 90 percent in
Appalachia and other regions -- over the next 50 years unless the public and
private sectors partner to protect habitat now.

"Even a 4 1/2-degree increase in the mean July air temperature can have a
dramatic impact on trout fisheries," said TU fisheries scientist Nathaniel
Gillespie, who warned of an expanding list of endangered trout species and a
huge decline in more common varieties. "Climate change will add additional
stress to areas already heavily impacted by humans in terms of landscape and
water quality."

The challenge is to help fisheries build resilience now, Gillespie said, through
riparian tree planting, erosion and sedimentation control, dam removal and the
restoration of flood plains. "We need to protect areas where fish are still in
good shape," he said. "We have to look at whole watersheds, get rid of barriers
and reconnect streams so fish have cooler water to move to, provide shade, keep
livestock out of sensitive areas ... these kinds of things."

TU's public stance on global warming coincides with the introduction of the
Climate Security Act, Senate Bill 2191, which would enable Congress to provide
$175 billion over 30 years for projects aimed at helping fisheries cope with
reduced snowpack, earlier spring runoff and other effects of rising mercury.

Although the measure has yet to wend its way through the legislative process,
Gillespie said it is bringing new awareness to one of the planet's most dire
dilemmas, "one that will be a driving factor in everything we do from now on."

Tom Shetterley, resource management chairman of the Chestnut Ridge chapter of
Trout Unlimited and a southwestern Pennsylvania representative to the
Pennsylvania Fish and Boat Commission, called TU's statement "long overdue," and
said the bottom line is that "we have to pull the reins in on fossil fuels,
which cause global warming."

He said state agencies, not volunteers, should be expected to take the lead in
protecting streams, because they hold the purse strings and have the expertise.
"A lot of physical things have to be done," he said, "and physical things cost
money."

Ken Undercoffer, president of the Pennsylvania Council of Trout Unlimited, which
oversees the commonwealth's 53 TU chapters, hopes TU's call to action will
expand conservation efforts.

"The chapters have always been involved in stream work," he said.

"This just gives them special impetus to do more of the same. It helps get the
issue of global warming and the whole concept of protecting streams more into
the public consciousness."

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: TU's position statement, "Healing Troubled Waters," is posted on the
group's Web site at http://www.tu.org.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              129 of 461 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                          September 27, 2007 Thursday
                                 SOONER EDITION

BUSH AT THE U.N.;
REHASHED THEMES DON'T HELP AMERICA OR THE WORLD

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. B-6

LENGTH: 549 words


President Bush's speech Tuesday at the U.N. General Assembly ignored the central
theme of this session, global climate change.

It was instead a tired rehash of his usual, in places hypocritical, themes
identifying six enemies and capped by a claim that Iraq and Afghanistan are "on
the path to democracy and freedom."

U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon had tried to make global climate change,
clearly perceived by most nations of the world as the current central challenge,
the theme of this 62nd General Assembly. He scheduled a one-day advance summit
of some 80 heads of state for Monday. Mr. Bush didn't attend, although he did go
to New York to attend a private banquet that evening. Mr. Bush, instead, has
unhelpfully scheduled a rival Washington summit of 15 industrialized nations on
the subject for this week.

The American president's address to a new General Assembly frequently attracts a
lot of attention, signaling Washington's foreign policy intentions for the
coming year -- this time potentially even for the rest of the president's
remaining term of office.

Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad had already stolen much of this General
Assembly's public relations thunder with his explosive speech at Columbia
University on Monday. If Mr. Bush's speech had any potential to be of much
interest to the gathered world leaders, the Iranian president followed Mr.
Bush's with another headline-stealer. He declared that Iran's nuclear programs
were no longer a political issue susceptible to the U.N. Security Council action
that the United States seeks, but had become a technical issue, subject to the
appropriate jurisdiction of the International Atomic Energy Agency.

Mr. Bush announced tighter U.S. sanctions on Myanmar, which he continues to call
"Burma." The evolving situation in that country is receiving much attention. The
risk is that because Mr. Bush favors a tougher line toward Myanmar's ruling
generals, at least some of the rest of the world will take the other side. The
American president, prone to making enemies' lists at home and abroad, denounced
Belarus, Cuba, Iran, North Korea, Syria and Zimbabwe.

Laying America open to charges of hypocrisy, Mr. Bush made several references to
the 1948 Universal Declaration of Human Rights as a standard of countries'
behavior. It was hard for observers to hear him and not recall the Declaration's
statement of rights to health care in light of his impending veto of a bill
extending health coverage for poor children.

Other jarring notes included his reference to the Declaration's statement
against arbitrary detention and a pledge of opposition to nuclear proliferation,
considering his administration's advocacy of a nuclear deal with India and close
relations with Pakistan and Israel, all three of which are nonproliferation
treaty nonsignatories.

Mr. Bush continued to offer only words on the crisis in Sudan's Darfur region
and did not address the contradiction between U.S. support of democracy in the
Middle East and nonrecognition of Hamas' victory in last year's Palestinian
elections.

All in all, instead of embarrassing America with a speech of the sort he
delivered in New York on Tuesday, Mr. Bush should have stayed home. Secretary of
State Condoleezza Rice could easily have delivered the same unconvincing
address.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              131 of 461 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                            October 23, 2007 Tuesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

CARBON DIOXIDE RATE IN AIR RISING FASTER THAN EXPECTED

BYLINE: RANDOLPH E. SCHMID, THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: HEALTH SCIENCE MEDICINE AND TECHNOLOGY; Pg. A-5

LENGTH: 360 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Just days after the Nobel prize was awarded for global warming work, a new study
finds that carbon dioxide in the atmosphere is increasing faster than expected.

Carbon dioxide emissions were 35 percent higher in 2006 than in 1990, a much
faster growth rate than anticipated, researchers led by Josep G. Canadell, of
Australia's Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organization, report
in today's edition of Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences.

Increased industrial use of fossil fuels coupled with a decline in the gas
absorbed by the oceans and land were listed as causes of the increase.

"In addition to the growth of global population and wealth, we now know that
significant contributions to the growth of atmospheric CO2 arise from the
slowdown" of nature's ability to take the chemical out of the air, said Dr.
Canadell, director of the Global Carbon Project at the research organization.
The changes "characterize a carbon cycle that is generating
stronger-than-expected and sooner-than-expected climate forcing," the
researchers report.

Kevin Trenberth of the climate analysis section of the National Center for
Atmospheric Research in Boulder, Colo. said the "paper raises some very
important issues that the public should be aware of: Namely, that concentrations
of CO2 are increasing at much higher rates than previously expected, and this is
in spite of the Kyoto Protocol that is designed to hold them down in Western
countries."

Alan Robock, associate director of the Center for Environmental Prediction at
Rutgers University, added: "What is really shocking is the reduction of the
oceanic CO2 sink," meaning the ability of the ocean to absorb carbon dioxide,
removing it from the atmosphere.

The researchers blamed that reduction on changes in wind circulation, but Dr.
Robock said he also thinks rising ocean temperatures reduce the ability to take
in the gas.

Neither Dr. Robock nor Dr. Trenberth was part of Dr. Canadell's research team.

Carbon dioxide is the leading "greenhouse gas," so named because their
accumulation in the atmosphere can help trap heat from the sun, causing
potentially dangerous warming of the planet.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              183 of 461 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                             August 12, 2007 Sunday
                                TWO STAR EDITION

ALGERIA AIMS TO TAP DESERT SUN FOR EXPORTABLE ENERGY

BYLINE: AIDAN LEWIS, THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. A-4

LENGTH: 712 words

DATELINE: ALGIERS, Algeria


It's a vision that has long enticed energy planners: solar panels stretching out
over vast swaths of the Sahara desert, soaking up sun to generate clean, green
power.

Now Algeria, aware that its oil and gas riches will one day run dry, is gearing
up to tap its sunshine on an industrial scale for itself and even Europe.

Work on its first plant began late last month at Hassi R'mel, 260 miles south of
Algiers, the capital. The plant will be a hybrid, using both sun and natural gas
to generate 150 megawatts. Of that, 25 megawatts will come from giant parabolic
mirrors stretching over nearly 2 million square feet -- roughly 45 football
fields.

Experts say it's the first project of its kind to combine gas and steam turbines
with solar thermal input in a hybrid plant.

The plant should be ready in 2010, and the longer-term goal is to export 6,000
megawatts of solar-generated power to Europe by 2020, about a tenth of current
electricity consumption in Germany.

"Our potential in thermal solar power is four times the world's energy
consumption so you can have all the ambitions you want with that," said Tewfik
Hasni, managing director of New Energy Algeria, or NEAL, a company created by
the Algerian government in 2002 to develop renewable energy.

The project is still at an early stage and faces daunting financial and
technological obstacles. Solar power's supporters say it will take 10 years for
it to become economically competitive, and while undersea cables to Sicily and
Spain are planned for construction in 2010-2012, it isn't known who will finance
them.

But as the world grows increasingly anxious about climate change and dwindling
fossil fuels, ideas that once sounded like science fiction are becoming ever
more plausible.

The European Union this year set a mandatory target of producing 20 percent of
its energy consumption from renewable sources by 2020, and there are also big
political imperatives in play.

In Algeria's case, exporting solar power through undersea cables would add flesh
and bone to the idea floated by Nicolas Sarkozy, France's new president, of a
"Mediterranean Union" that would bind Europe and North Africa closer together.

The Algerian program is part of a broader reassessment of green technologies by
countries that owe their wealth to oil and gas. Algeria, population 33 million,
remains heavily dependent on oil and gas exports, which earned it about $54
billion last year.

"Until now, all the oil-producing countries under the lead of Saudi Arabia did
everything to torpedo renewable energies," said Wolfgang Palz, chairman of the
independent World Council for Renewable Energy, speaking on the sidelines of an
international conference on renewable energy in Algiers in June.

"This is really a big change now because with all this talking about the
limitations of conventional resources," oil-producing countries "feel obliged to
do something," he said.

Algeria seems an obvious source of solar power.

Africa's second largest country is more than four-fifths desert, with enough
sunshine to meet Western Europe's needs 60 times over, according to estimates
cited by Algeria's energy ministry.

"The solar potential of Algeria is huge, enormous, because solar radiation is
high and there is plenty of land for solar plants," said Eduardo Zarza Moya, who
works on solar power for Spain's public energy research center, CIEMAT. "The
price of the land is low, it's cheap, and there is also manpower."

The Hassi R'Mel site represents large-scale power generation. It is the first of
four planned hybrid plants which will use Algeria's abundant natural gas to
supplement sunshine and ensure power at night or in cloudy weather. The Hassi
R'Mel plant, which will produce power for domestic consumption, will also house
a research center to study how to reduce solar power costs.

The hybrid plants will use a thermal technology called concentrating solar
power, or CSP, in which sunlight heats fluids to drive an electricity-generating
turbine.

The system is widely regarded as being cheaper and having better storage
potential for large-scale energy production than photovoltaic technology, which
converts sunlight directly into electricity. CSP plants have operated in
California since the 1980s, but when gas prices fell, new construction stopped.

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              184 of 461 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                          September 15, 2007 Saturday
                                 SOONER EDITION

MOVEON BECOMING A DEMOCRATIC FORCE

BYLINE: MICHAEL LUO AND JEFF ZELENY, THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. A-6

LENGTH: 467 words


There is no mistaking the influence of MoveOn.org, with its 3.2 million members
and powerful fund-raising apparatus, within the Democratic Party.

The liberal activist group has come to occupy a prominent seat at the table
among the party elite, so much so that Republicans leaped at a chance to hold
Democrats and their presidential candidates responsible for the group's position
after it ran an advertisement attacking the credibility of Gen. David H.
Petraeus, the top U.S. commander in Iraq.

MoveOn, which has raised tens of millions of dollars for Democratic candidates
since its inception in 1998, clearly enjoys friendly relations with Democratic
Party officials. MoveOn leaders have met several times over the year with House
Speaker Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., and Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, D-Nev.,
to discuss policy and strategy on ending the Iraq war.

MoveOn representatives also take part, as co-founders of a coalition of antiwar
groups together under the umbrella Americans Against Escalation in Iraq, in a
daily conference call with Congress' Democratic leadership staff to coordinate
efforts.

Despite conservatives' efforts to lump together the grass-roots organization and
party -- and to force individual Democrats to take responsibility for MoveOn's
wordplay on Gen. Petraeus as "General Betray Us" in its advertisement in The New
York Times -- the relationship between the two is often complicated and, at
times, shows visible fractures.

"I think Democrats understand that, when we can join forces and work together,
it's very powerful," said Eli Pariser, executive director of MoveOn Political
Action. "And then when we can't, it's not fun."

This month, MoveOn sent an e-mail message to members, asking whether it should
start organizing potential primary challenges against Democrats who were not
tough enough on the war -- a move that upset Democratic leaders. The group plans
to announce its survey results Monday.

The group also sent a harshly worded warning in the spring to Capitol Hill
Democratic leaders not to capitulate to the White House as they struggled to
come up with a strategy after President Bush's veto of the $124 billion Iraq
spending bill that tied the money to a withdrawal timetable.

With its attention primarily focused on Congress, MoveOn has yet to become
vigorously involved in the presidential race, but members have been encouraged
at points to phone Sens. Hillary Rodham Clinton and Barack Obama's offices to
keep them in line regarding Iraq.

The group has held two online presidential forums: one on Iraq in April, and
another on climate change in July. Mr. Obama came out on top in a straw poll for
offering the best hope for leading the country out of Iraq, and former North
Carolina Sen. John Edwards won on climate change. Mrs. Clinton trailed in both.

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              185 of 461 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                           September 25, 2007 Tuesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

OUR FUEL FUTURE

BYLINE: RICHARD NOCETI Whitehall

SECTION: EDITORIAL; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR; Pg. B-6

LENGTH: 275 words


The concerns of Costa Samaras and Paulina Jaramillo in their Sept. 18 letter
("Reduce Oil Dependence and Harmful Emissions") have been voiced before. With
properly designed production plants, coal-to-liquids-based fuels would emit no
more greenhouse-gases than those from petroleum.

Coal-based liquid fuels have never been touted as a solution to climate change
but only as a partial solution to dependence on imported oil. Vehicle
efficiency, to include various hybrid vehicles and new, diesel-powered vehicles
will certainly help both causes with respect to transportation fuels. Hybrids
may soon benefit further by replacement of heavy battery packs with
ultracapacitors. Newly designed diesels can run as cleanly as gasoline engines,
especially on coal-based fuels, and have none of the injector clatter and smoke
clouds of their ancestors.

Coal-based diesel fuel is more environmentally friendly than traditional diesel
because it has no sulfur and little-to-no aromatic content. It is so clean that
it will probably be used, initially, in a blend with petroleum-based diesel to
provide a much better and cleaner fuel. The phrase "harmful emissions" means
more, to many readers, than merely carbon dioxide.

The encouragement that these letter writers call for will be in the form of
higher fuel prices that will drive consumers toward more efficient vehicles.
These higher prices are inevitable as oil production will peak during the next
few decades while world demand increases.

Policies should be implemented that move the nation toward energy independence,
in an environmentally responsible fashion, without adversely affecting our
quality of life.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              197 of 461 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                              June 29, 2007 Friday
                                 SOONER EDITION

RULING MARKS SIGNIFICANT SHIFT TO THE RIGHT

BYLINE: CHARLES LANE, THE WASHINGTON POST

SECTION: NATIONAL; ANALYSIS; Pg. A-12

LENGTH: 948 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The Supreme Court's decision overturning school desegregation policies in two
U.S. cities yesterday culminates a fractious term in which the new Roberts court
moved the law significantly to the right, legal analysts said.

In a series of 5-4 decisions this term, the court also upheld a federal ban on a
late-term abortion procedure and gutted a key provision of the McCain-Feingold
campaign finance law. Along with yesterday's schools case, each of these
decisions left open the possibility of more change in areas of the law on which
the court had seemingly ruled definitively within the past decade.

"Conservatives got everything they could reasonably have hoped for out of the
term," said Washington lawyer Thomas Goldstein, who specializes in Supreme Court
litigation. "The table is set, particularly if there are more changes in the
court, for wholesale changes in constitutional law. There were some incremental
steps, but they were in a distinct direction and a uniform direction."

The conservatives' advance was limited by the occasional defection of Justice
Anthony Kennedy. Yesterday's case showed Justice Kennedy's moderating influence,
as he issued a concurring opinion that may have blunted the practical impact of
the court's ruling.

Because of Justice Kennedy's continued role as a swing voter, some analysts
suggested that this term's decisions may be the high-water mark for the right
rather than a tidal shift. "It is a conservative court, but at the same time,
just barely so," said constitutional law professor Eugene Volokh at the
University of California at Los Angeles. "The liberals are a forceful bloc and
are willing to fight some old battles, and win some when they swing Justice
Kennedy around."

Still, Justice Kennedy is a different kind of swing voter from Justice Sandra
Day O'Connor, the centrist whom Justice Samuel Alito replaced in 2006. He seems
more likely than she was in recent years to side with the right in close cases.
Justice Kennedy wrote the court's opinion upholding the federal ban on what
opponents call "partial-birth" abortion.

This term, the justices split 5-4 in 24 cases, a third of the total. Justice
Kennedy sided with the four most conservative justices -- Chief Justice Roberts
and Justices Alito, Antonin Scalia and Clarence Thomas -- in 13 of the 5-4
cases, while backing liberal Justices John Paul Stevens, David Souter, Ruth
Bader Ginsburg and Stephen Breyer just six times. In five other 5-4 cases, the
court did not split along liberal-conservative lines.

The most significant victory of the term for liberals came when they secured
Justice Kennedy's vote for a ruling that required the Environmental Protection
Agency to justify its refusal to regulate greenhouse gases in vehicle exhaust.

And whereas Justice Kennedy occasionally applied the brakes to the court's
conservatives, Justices Scalia and Thomas sometimes demanded that they move
further and faster to the right -- the two of them suggesting that Chief Justice
Roberts and Justice Alito were straining to depict their rulings as consistent
with the court's past cases, rather than just overruling some outright, as they
ought to do. That view echoed the accusations from the court's liberals, who
have seemed increasingly united in their view that the Roberts court is
deviating from settled law without openly saying so.

The liberals -- Justices Stevens, Souter, Ginsburg and Breyer -- have taken
turns reading their dissenting opinions from the bench in a show of dismay with
the court's direction.

And the liberals' dismay has been evident even in what might otherwise have been
relatively minor, technical cases. On June 14, Justice Thomas announced a 5-4
ruling in which the conservatives said a convicted murderer could not pursue an
appeal because he had missed a filing deadline, even though his attorney had
relied on a judge's erroneous assurance that he had enough time. "It is
intolerable for the judicial system to treat people this way," Justice Souter
wrote. The majority could reach its result, he said, only by overruling two
little-known cases from the 1960s.

As Chief Justice Roberts read his opinion in the schools cases yesterday,
Justice Breyer shifted in his chair, rubbed his temples and occasionally shook
his head. When his turn came to read his dissent, Justice Breyer spoke heatedly
for almost a half-hour, much longer than the chief justice himself had taken to
read his opinion.

The 77-page opinion, twice as long as any other dissent that Justice Breyer has
written, clearly occupied much of the justice's time and energy during the term.
As his liberal colleagues have done in their dissents, Justice Breyer accused
Chief Justice Roberts and fellow conservatives of violating stare decisis, the
legal principle that decisions should generally be left undisturbed.

"The majority is wrong," Justice Breyer said. "It's not often in law that so few
have changed so much so quickly."

The charge of ignoring or twisting precedent stings, because it is essentially
an accusation that the conservatives have abandoned the judicial restraint that
they so often preach, in pursuit of policy results they favor.

And Chief Justice Roberts, who pledged "judicial modesty" and respect for
precedent in his 2005 confirmation hearings, has responded, defending his
rulings as applications of the court's existing doctrine.

Yesterday, the chief justice peppered his opinion with phrases such as "under
our existing precedent" and "the established law."

Chief Justice Roberts also responded in kind to Justice Breyer, arguing that his
dissent "alters or misapplies our well-established legal framework," and that
his "appeal to stare decisis rings particularly hollow."

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              198 of 461 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                              July 8, 2007 Sunday
                                TWO STAR EDITION

CAMBRIA NATIVE MAKES 'GREEN TEAM'

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. B-4

LENGTH: 470 words

DATELINE: ALTOONA, Pa.


A 23-year old Virginia Tech graduate's fight against global warming has taken
him from the mountains of Cambria County to the pages of Vanity Fair magazine.

Carrolltown-area native Tom Owens, who says he developed a love for nature
exploring the region's streams and forests, and a few dozen other college-aged
activists were featured in a two-page Vanity Fair spread as the generation-next
of environmentalists.

The magazine's first "green issue" put the mostly 20-somethings -- students and
recent grads working to energize high school and college campuses -- on a list
that included well-known "global citizens" such as Robert Redford and Leonardo
DiCaprio.

"They are saying, 'Hey, these people are out there to make the change,' " Mr.
Owens said of the green issue. "To see yourself next to all of these people:
environmentalists, world-shakers, politicians and actors ... we could hardly
believe it was happening."

Mr. Owens is a 2002 Cambria Heights graduate now living in Richmond, Va. His
work partly is funded by the Chesapeake Climate Action Network and partly by the
Campus Climate Challenge.

Barely out of college himself, Mr. Owens is the climate group's Virginia
coordinator, in charge of energizing and mobilizing college students in the
state to take up the fight against global warming and press for more clean
sources of energy on campuses.

"Colleges can serve as the paradigms for the rest of society. We're trying to
create this clean energy movement, something that we realize as youth, we need
to be at the center of," Mr. Owens said.

It's something Mr. Owens said he was drawn to growing up. He said time spent on
Cambria County's trails, roads and mountains pushed him for different reasons.

While he recognized the region's beauty, he also saw the scars that industry,
particularly "King Coal," left behind, he said.

Polluted streams and abandoned bony piles were, and remain, too common, he said.

But Mr. Owens says he still returns to northern Cambria County regularly and
praises regional and state efforts to embrace clean energy in recent years. The
state's alternative energy mandates are one example, he said. And in the
Cambria-Blair county region, the towering energy-producing windmills that will
help fill that mandate are another.

"You're already seeing a couple farms producing tons of energy. Gamesa Energy
opening a manufacturing plant in Ebensburg that employs local people is great,
too," he said. "What people might not realize is that Pennsylvania is ahead of
the game."

Mr. Owens hopes the exposure the group has been getting, including the Vanity
Fair photo shoot, will enable their efforts to continue to flourish.

"They put us in the Greenpeace warehouse on ledges where a bunch of materials
were stored and got to work," Mr. Owens said. "It shows just how serious we are
about the future."

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              199 of 461 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                            August 1, 2007 Wednesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

HAWKINS LEAGUE UNDERGOES CHANGES

BYLINE: TYLER BATISTE, PITTSBURGH POST-GAZETTE

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. D-2

LENGTH: 862 words


This summer has been one of transition and adjustment for the Connie Hawkins
Summer Basketball League.

Some of the change was caused by the league's directors and organizers. A major
one was imposed by the NCAA.

For the first time in its 31-year history, the Connie Hawkins League, which
holds its championship game at 7 p.m. today at Club4Life Fitness in Monroeville,
features no current Division I players because the NCAA did not certify the
league this season.

According to William Neal Jr., CEO of Champion Enterprises who founded the
league in the mid-1970s, Division I players must have a letter of permission
from their athletic director allowing them to participate in summer basketball
leagues. One player didn't have that consent in 2006, resulting in a loss of
certification this year.

Neal said believes the problem occurred when the friend of one of the league
members participated in a game or two last summer.

"The coach doesn't know he's a D-I player. He just knows that he's Johnny's
buddy," Neal said. "Apparently, that's the kind of thing that happened."

The timing of the incident could not have been worse for the Connie Hawkins
League. The Pittsburgh Basketball Club Pro-Am League started last summer and
several Division I coaches and players have favored that league over others in
the area.

The Pro-Am league held its championship game July 20 and featured players such
as Pitt's Mike Cook and Levance Fields and West Virginia's Joe Mazzulla.

Former Pitt players John DeGroat and Marcus Coleman and former West Virginia
standout Drew Schifino are among those who have played in the Connie Hawkins
League this summer.

DeGroat said he has played in a few Pro-Am games, but prefers the Hawkins League
because it reminds him of his basketball roots.

"I played in a couple of leagues out here, and it was just basically up and
down. This league, players get at it," said DeGroat, who graduated in 2006.
"Everybody out here wants to dunk on everybody. It's kind of like playing back
in New York."

Debra Coleman, director of the Connie Hawkins League, said the shift of Division
I players to other leagues was a slow process that began before the Hawkins
League lost its certification. She said that migration has not affected her
league's quality of play.

"Even though those are Division I ball players from Pitt and Duquesne, we still
have quality ball players here in this league, too -- Division II, junior
college, NAIA," Coleman said.

"Division I players don't make or break this league," Neal said. "This league
has always been built on the greater number of players being on an even [level].
When you get the guys of [Division I] stature, that's a plus. That's icing on
the cake."

In addition to the one-year suspension, the Connie Hawkins League has moved from
an outdoor league to an indoor one.

This summer marked the first time league games were played inside. It is also
the first time admission has been charged to spectators, $5 for adults and $2
for children.

Neal said the move inside was made to eliminate wear and tear caused by the
asphalt of outdoor courts and to put the players and fans in safer surroundings.

"In today's social environment, you don't know who's in the crowd and what
they're carrying," he said. "What we experienced the last couple of years was a
change in the social climate that just didn't make it conducive to remain
outside."

The Hawkins League held court in East Liberty for 12 years before moving to
Monroeville to a location Neal selected because of the low cost and scheduling
conflicts with indoor facilities in Pittsburgh.

Some current and former league players believe the move indoors has caused the
league to lose some of its well-known fan atmosphere.

"Some years, you couldn't find a parking spot in the park," said Myron Brown, a
Slippery Rock graduate and former second-round draft pick of the Minnesota
Timberwolves.

"[There] was never any violence. That's a nice atmosphere. You don't have that
environment now, but you still have that competition."

Brown, who has played in the Connie Hawkins League since 1987, said it will be
hard for inner-city Pittsburgh residents to get out quickly and support the
league, but he hopes the Monroeville community will embrace it as time goes on.

Karen Hall, a Pittsburgh native and guard for UNLV in the late-1980s, was the
first woman to play in the Connie Hawkins Summer League. She also was a coach
from 1989-1991, winning two league championships.

She said the aura the league has now is not nearly what it was when she played
and, while the competition is still there, the draw is not.

She feels the way to bring the attention and support back is to reel in more
Division I players once the one-year suspension has ended.

"Get sanctioned again. Get some of these D-I players from the area back to the
league. Bringing that element back will help the excitement and the intensity."

"A lot of followers we've had over the years still don't know we're out here,"
Coleman said. "We've contacted people, we've passed out fliers and gotten the
information out there, but there's still a number of people who don't know we're
out here ... although next year I'm sure that'll change."

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              200 of 461 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                            August 4, 2007 Saturday
                                 SOONER EDITION

VIRTUAL WORLD BANS GAMBLING

BYLINE: THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: BUSINESS; TECH BRIEFLY; Pg. A-7

LENGTH: 672 words


SAN FRANCISCO -- The virtual world "Second Life" has banned gambling, a maneuver
that could dent revenue and spark anger among fans.

Although "Second Life" is home to large corporations such as Toyota Motor Corp.
and Intel Corp., which have virtual advertisements and marketing promotions,
thousands of gambling shops dominate commerce. Virtual characters, known as
"avatars," may compete at baccarat, poker, slots or other games.

San Francisco-based Linden Lab, which operates "Second Life," imposed the
gambling ban last week, citing in a blog "conflicting gambling regulations
around the world."

Numerous "Second Life" fans complained in message forums and on their blogs that
the ban was a heavy-handed move to restrict freedom, and experts said the ban
could crimp revenue.

Steve Nelson, chief strategy officer of Berkeley-based Clear Ink Inc., which
provides virtual-world consulting services, said "Second Life" casino operators
would be the hardest hit by the ban -- but it also could result in an overall
downturn in spending.

Spain Updating Water Control

VALENCIA, Spain -- The Moorish invaders who once ruled Spain brought with them a
clever irrigation system that helped turn arid land into verdant fields. A
millennium later it is still largely in use, and Spain remains one of Europe's
breadbaskets.

But after years of chronic drought coupled with vastly increased water use, not
to mention worrying climatic change, farm groups have realized it's high time
for change.

Spain's federation of irrigators, known as Fenacore, is promoting an initiative
to computerize Spain's irrigation system by 2010, connecting some 500,000
farmers to an irrigation network headquartered outside Madrid.

The scheme should allow valuable water to be monitored and controlled by
computer, drop by precious drop.

"We're jumping from the 13th century to the 21st century," said Juan Valero,
Fenacore's secretary general.

Farmers are being encouraged to move away from outdated, wasteful Moorish-style
flood irrigation systems toward drip and aspersion irrigation.

They also are asked to lay highly efficient telecommunications cables alongside
main water conduits so that the irrigation grid can be monitored from a national
computer center.

Companies Seek Control Of '.us'

NEW YORK -- In Britain, ".uk" is the suffix of choice for Internet addresses. In
Germany, it's ".de."

In the United States, however, ".us" is the forgotten stepchild. Web sites tend
to prefer ".com," which was designed as a global moniker for commercial sites
but is heavily populated by Americans.

Two companies prominent in the domain name industry want to challenge that
notion.

Believing they could do a better job marketing the country's own domain name,
".info" operator Afilias Ltd. and registration company GoDaddy.com Inc. are now
trying to take over the operations of ".us." They'll face a challenge from its
current operator and possibly others. The U.S. government could rule as early as
this month.

NeuStar Inc. won the ".us" contract in 2001. "Now is the time to change [the
'.us'] leadership and put it on a growth track," said Roland LaPlante, chief
marketing officer for Dublin, Ireland-based Afilias, whose U.S. arm is bidding
with GoDaddy for the ".us" contract when the current one expires Oct. 25.

NeuStar won't step aside without a fight. It is seeking a contract renewal and
believes that quality rather than quantity is what counts.

ComScore Expands

NEW YORK -- ComScore Inc., a company best known for measuring the popularity of
leading Web sites, has launched a new service for profiling computer hardware,
configurations and usage.

ComScore believes that by providing information on what kinds of computers are
in use and what software and settings are on them, developers will be able to
better tailor their products, identify cross-promotion opportunities and
understand adoption trends.

The new service, known as comScore Tech Metrix, is the company's "first foray
into non-Web based measurement," said Linda Boland Abraham, executive vice
president at comScore.

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A ban on gambling in the virtual "Second Life" world could anger
some fans.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              214 of 461 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                             April 15, 2007 Sunday
                                TWO STAR EDITION

DEMONSTRATORS RALLY ON WARMING

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. A-18

LENGTH: 312 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


Americans worried about climate change gathered yesterday on ski slopes and in
cities for a nationwide day of demonstrations aimed at drawing attention to
global warming.

More than 1,300 events were organized in every state under the banner Step It Up
2007 to push Congress to require an 80 percent cut in carbon dioxide emissions
by 2050.

"When it comes to global warming, I don't exactly think President Bush is doing
such a hot job," said 12-year-old New Yorker Tiffany Cordero. "A lot of people
are thinking just of now. But we won't have a 'now' if we don't focus on the
future."

Tiffany delivered a speech for a rally in lower Manhattan's Battery Park,
overlooking New York Harbor, where people dressed in blue -- some equipped with
scuba gear and beach balls -- gathered to form a Sea of People human line to
symbolically mark New York's future coastline.

Scientists say melting polar ice caps and glaciers will cause ocean levels to
rise, although estimates vary as to how much. Some scientists warn the sea level
could rise 10 feet or more, enough to flood lower Manhattan and other low-lying
coastal areas.

The threatened rise in the ocean also was dramatized by a New Coast Parade in
Portland, Maine.

The nationwide events were spearheaded by a group of recent graduates from
Vermont's Middlebury College, who organized a campaign of blogs, e-mail messages
and word-of-mouth communications.

In Chicago's Daley Plaza, about 500 people listened to speeches from a panel of
environmental experts who called for a reduction in carbon dioxide emissions.

In Santa Monica, Calif., hundreds gathered along the Third Street Promenade just
east of the Pacific Ocean to listen to lectures and listen to makers of "green"
products pitch their wares.

In one of the day's first demonstrations, skiers unfurled a protest banner in
April snow on Whiteface Mountain near Wilmington, N.Y.

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              218 of 461 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                              May 15, 2007 Tuesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

BUSH CALLS FOR REDUCED EMISSIONS FROM VEHICLES;
ORDERS AGENCIES TO DRAW UP REGULATIONS BY THE END OF HIS ADMINISTRATION

BYLINE: STEVEN MUFSON AND MICHAEL A. FLETCHER, THE WASHINGTON POST

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. A-5

LENGTH: 679 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


With gasoline prices spiraling to record highs last week and a recent Supreme
Court ruling requiring executive action to restrict global warming gases,
President Bush yesterday ordered four federal agencies to draw up regulations to
reduce greenhouse gas emissions from cars and trucks by the end of his
administration.

But Democrats, environmentalists and some energy experts said the president was
simply delaying measures that he has the power to impose now.

During a brief event in the White House Rose Garden, Mr. Bush said he was asking
for rules to "cut gasoline consumption and greenhouse gas emissions from motor
vehicles." The regulations, he said, should be consistent with his previously
announced plan to reduce projected gasoline consumption by 20 percent over the
next decade.

"We're taking action by taking the first steps toward rules that will make our
economy stronger, our environment cleaner and our nation more secure," Mr. Bush
said.

Critics responded that the president's announcement fell short of what was
needed at a time when gasoline prices are soaring, the American automobile
industry is in turmoil and Congress is trying to raise fuel efficiency standards
for the first time in a generation.

They also noted that Mr. Bush had shifted the policy focus to the Environmental
Protection Agency, which has a lengthy rulemaking process, and away from the
Transportation Department, which sets corporate average fuel economy, or CAFE,
standards.

"In effect, the president asked his agency heads to share ideas and come up with
a plan that is due three weeks before he leaves office," said Rep. Edward
Markey, D-Mass., chairman of the new House select committee on climate change.
Mr. Markey said that "will leave motor vehicle fuel economy stuck in neutral
until Mr. Bush's successor takes office."

The Sierra Club's executive director, Carl Pope, said Mr. Bush has "the clear
authority" to raise CAFE standards, which haven't been changed in two decades.
"He can and should act immediately to do so," Mr. Pope said.

Under Mr. Bush's plan, the federal departments of Agriculture, Energy and
Transportation will work with the EPA to develop a regulatory structure to lower
vehicle emissions. "This is a complicated legal and technical matter, and it's
going to take time to fully resolve," Mr. Bush said.

EPA Administrator Stephen Johnson said in a conference call that the
administration will still prefer legislation mandating more efficient cars and
trucks. In his State of the Union address in January, Mr. Bush called for
raising fuel efficiency standards by about 4 percent a year for the next 10
years, but the administration has not introduced legislation to do so.

Two Senate measures that would have a similar effect have attracted widespread
Democratic and Republican support.

Political pressure has mounted with gasoline prices. Yesterday, the Energy
Department's Energy Information Administration announced that gas prices last
week shot up by 5 cents a gallon, to an average of $3.10 for unleaded regular
fuel. That beat the previous record set after Hurricane Katrina disrupted oil
supplies in late 2005, although it fell short of the inflation-adjusted record
of $3.22 a gallon set in 1981.

Mr. Bush's announcement yesterday came more than a month after the Supreme Court
admonished his administration for failing to regulate greenhouse gas emissions
from cars and trucks. The court said the Clean Air Act gives the EPA the
responsibility to regulate carbon dioxide and other gases that scientists say
contribute to global warming. The administration had argued that it did not have
that authority or obligation under the act.

Yesterday, the administration went to federal appeals court in San Francisco to
fight a lawsuit brought by 11 states, the District of Columbia and four
environmental groups that say the Transportation Department's 1.3
mile-per-gallon increase in standards for light trucks was inadequate.
California Attorney General Edmund G. Brown Jr., the lead plaintiff in the case,
yesterday called the increase "pathetic and illegal."

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Charles Dharapak/Associated Press: President Bush, followed by
Transportation Secretary Mary Peters and EPA Administrator Stephen Johnson,
walks to the Rose Garden of the White House yesterday to speak about CAFE
standards and alternative fuel standards.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              226 of 461 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                              June 5, 2007 Tuesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

OUR GREEN SMOKESCREEN;
WE TALK GREEN BUT DON'T DO ANYTHING SERIOUS TO TACKLE OUR ENERGY PROBLEMS

BYLINE: Thomas L. Friedman

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. B-7

LENGTH: 774 words


Surely the most glaring contrast in American political life today is the amount
of words, speeches and magazine covers devoted to the necessity of "going
green," "combating climate change" and gaining "energy security," and the actual
solutions being offered by our leaders to do any of these things. You could very
comfortably drive a Hummer through the gap between our words and deeds.

We are playing pretend -- which, when you think about it, is really troubling.
Here are the facts: Our worst enemies, like Iran, have been emboldened by all
their petrodollars. The vast majority of scientists tell us that global warming
caused by our burning of fossil fuels is a real danger. And with 3 billion new
consumers from India, Russia and China joining the world economy, it is
inevitable that manufacturing clean, green-power systems, appliances, homes and
cars will be the next great global industry. It has to be, or we will not
survive as a species.

And yet our president and our Congress still won't give us an energy bill that
would create the legal and economic framework to address these issues at the
speed and scale required.

If you were President Bush, wouldn't you want to leave behind something big,
bold and important on energy, just in case -- you know, just in case -- Iraq
doesn't turn out so well?

I sure would. But the president still has not challenged Congress or the country
to undertake a radical departure on energy. So we still have only "energy
politics," not "energy policy." Like previous energy bills, the packages working
through the House and Senate today represent more "the sum of all lobbies," as
the energy expert Gal Luft, co-chairman of the Set America Free Coalition, puts
it, not the sum of our best ideas.

Some lawmakers are pushing corn ethanol from Iowa, either because they hail from
that area and are looking to give more welfare to farmers by wasting money on an
alternative fuel that will never reach the scale of what is needed, or because
they plan to run in the Iowa caucuses. Others are pushing huge subsidies to turn
coal into gasoline, because they come from coal states. Those who don't come
from Michigan want higher mileage standards imposed on Detroit, while those who
come from Michigan prefer to continue their assisted suicide of the U.S. auto
industry by blocking tougher mileage requirements.

"The only green that they are serious about in Congress right now is the one
with Ben Franklin's picture on it," Mr. Luft said.

Yes, it is helpful that Mr. Bush expressed a desire last week to work with other
nations to limit greenhouse gases. His bully pulpit matters. But no one will --
or should -- take him seriously unless his government first leads by example.
What would that look like? It has to start with a clear, long-term price signal.
That is, a carbon tax or gasoline tax -- or a cap-and-trade system with a
binding national ceiling on carbon dioxide emissions -- which would set a price
for dumping carbon into the atmosphere or driving a gas-guzzling car.

Get Washington to signal that gasoline is never going to retreat from a level of
$3.50 or $4 a gallon -- and that wind and solar subsidies will be there for a
decade, not stop and start as they always have before; get Washington to commit
to buying a fixed volume of solar and wind power for government buildings and
Army bases for 10 years, with only U.S.-based manufacturers able to compete for
contracts; get Washington to set a new fleet average of 35 miles per gallon for
Detroit within 10 years -- with no loopholes; establish government loan
guarantees for any company that wants to build a nuclear power plant; and,
finally, build a national transmission grid -- a green power superhighway -- so
that solar energy from Arizona or wind from Wyoming can power homes in Chicago.
Do all that and our private sector will take America from green laggard to green
leader.

Unfortunately, Congress is brewing instead a hodgepodge of incrementalism. This
is particularly disappointing when America's corporate icons -- GM, GE, AIG,
DuPont, PepsiCo -- "have all come out in favor of a national mandatory limit on
carbon emissions," notes Fred Krupp, president of Environmental Defense. "But
Democrats and Republicans in the Senate have not risen to their challenge."

We have a multigenerational problem that requires a systemic, multigenerational
response, and that can happen only if we get our energy prices right. Only that
will guarantee green innovation and commercialization at scale. Anything less is
wasted breath and wasted money -- and any candidate who says otherwise is only
contributing to global warming by adding hot air.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Thomas L. Friedman is a syndicated columnist for The New York Times.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              231 of 461 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                              June 15, 2007 Friday
                                 REGION EDITION

AUDUBON: STOCKS OF MANY FAMILIAR BIRDS DECLINE

SECTION: NATIONAL; NATIONAL BRIEFS; Pg. A-7

LENGTH: 600 words


WASHINGTON -- The populations of 20 common American birds -- from the
fence-sitting meadowlark to the whippoorwill with its haunting call -- are half
what they were 40 years ago, according to an analysis released yesterday.

Suburban sprawl, climate change and other invasive species are largely to blame,
said the study's author Greg Butcher of the National Audubon Society.

"Most of these we don't expect will go extinct," he said.

Last month a different group of researchers reported that seven species had
dramatically declined because of West Nile virus. The species harmed by West
Nile are different from those listed in the new study -- except for the little
chickadee, hard-hit on both lists.

Many of the species listed as declining in the new study depend on open grassy
habitats that are disappearing, said Mr. Butcher, Audubon's bird conservation
director.

Limits on unions upheld

WASHINGTON -- States may force public sector labor unions to get consent from
workers before using their fees for political activities, the Supreme Court said
yesterday.

The court unanimously upheld a Washington state law that applied to public
employees who choose not to join the union that represents them in contract
talks with state and local governments. The workers are compelled to pay the
equivalent of union dues, a portion of which the union uses for political
activities.

Justice Antonin Scalia, writing for the court, said the law does not violate the
union's First Amendment rights.

But the state's Democratic governor and Democratic-controlled legislature
recently changed the law to eliminate the provision that was upheld yesterday,
blunting the impact of the court ruling.

Subsidies to student lenders

WASHINGTON -- The House education committee voted Wednesday to cut subsidies to
student lenders and to halve the interest rates on a key student loan program
over the next five years.

The bill, approved in a 30-16 vote that included many Republicans on the yes
side, underscored the vastly changed landscape facing the student loan industry,
which is facing major challenges this year, including investigations of its
marketing and underwriting practices. The Senate education committee is taking
up its own bill next week, expected to include even deeper cuts in subsidies to
lenders than the $19 billion in the House bill, and President Bush also proposed
cuts in payments to lenders.

The bill met with sharp criticism from the lending industry. In a statement, the
Consumer Bankers Association, which represents lenders, called it an
"anti-student bill in pro-student clothing."

The bill raises the maximum Pell grants for low- and moderate-income students
over the next five years, to $5,200 from the current $4,700.

New diet pill goes on sale

A new weapon in the war against fat arrives today in pharmacies and retailers
across the nation, when alli, the first FDA-approved, over-the-counter diet
pill, goes on sale.

Unlike the hundreds of other weight-loss products for sale without a
prescription, alli (pronounced AL-eye), is the only diet drug deemed safe and
effective by the Food and Drug Administration. Dieters who stick to a low-fat,
reduced-calorie diet and exercise regularly can lose more weight when they add
the fat-blocking pill, according to manufacturer GlaxoSmithKline.

Some doctors are concerned about potential abuse, especially among youth, who
are not authorized to take alli, and many people are skeptical that any pill is
going to help people lose weight. Still others say potential side effects --
such as gas and loose stools -- may be a deterrent to those contemplating the
drug.

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              233 of 461 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                              July 27, 2007 Friday
                                 SOONER EDITION

4 POWER PLANTS AMONG NATION'S DIRTIEST;
SHIPPINGPORT SITE RANKED 17TH; OTHERS ARE LOCATED IN INDIANA COUNTY

BYLINE: Don Hopey, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. B-1

LENGTH: 660 words


Four coal-fired power plants in Western Pennsylvania have landed on this year's
ranking of the 50 dirtiest for emissions of the greenhouse gas carbon dioxide,
according to a new report by a nonprofit environmental group.

FirstEnergy Corp.'s Bruce Mansfield plant in Shippingport, Beaver County, ranked
17th in the nation for emitting more than 17.3 million tons of carbon dioxide
last year, said the Environmental Integrity Project, a Washington, D.C.-based
organization that advocates for better enforcement of existing federal and state
anti-pollution laws.

Also on that list are Reliant Energy's Conemaugh Generating Station, at 29th,
and Keystone power plant, at 42nd, and Edison International's EME Homer City
plant, at 43rd. All three are in Indiana County.

Pennsylvania, with four power plants on the "50 dirtiest" list for total carbon
dioxide emissions, tied Indiana for second most. Both ranked behind Texas, which
had five plants on the list.

The annual listing and report by Environmental Integrity, based on 2006
emissions data from 378 of the largest fossil fuel-burning power plants
nationwide, also ranks their sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxide and mercury
emissions. The rankings reflect both the total amounts of emissions and the
emission rate, which is the amount of emissions per megawatt-hour of electricity
produced.

The ratings show that last year's trend toward reduced sulfur dioxide and
nitrogen oxide emissions from power plants is continuing. Emissions of mercury,
a dangerous neurotoxin that can harm pregnant women and children who eat fish or
seafood, are, however, holding steady at 48 tons nationwide.

But the report's primary focus, on the electric power industry's carbon dioxide
emissions, notes they are unchecked and unregulated, and could rise 34 percent
by 2030 as up to 159 new coal- and natural gas-fired power plants come on line.

Carbon dioxide is a greenhouse gas that has been building up in the atmosphere
and has been linked to climate change and global warming.

"While Congress is poised to seriously consider legislation to limit the
greenhouse gases that made 2006 the hottest year on record, the electric power
industry is racing to build a new fleet of coal-fired power plants that rely on
conventional combustion technologies that would only exacerbate global warming,"
said Ilan Levin, an Environmental Integrity attorney and lead author of the
report released yesterday.

Seven of the new coal-fired power plants are planned for Pennsylvania, which
already has 36 coal-fired facilities.

Jan Jarrett, vice president of Citizens for Pennsylvania's Future, a statewide
environmental group, said some power plant emissions are declining, but strong
pollution controls are still needed.

"Reductions in sulfur dioxide and nitrogen pollution from power plants are a
direct result of a strong federal Clean Air Act, but it took more than 30
years," Ms. Jarrett said.

"That's one of the reasons we fought so hard for the Pennsylvania mercury rule,
which will cut mercury pollution by 90 percent by 2015. We knew the federal
government wasn't about to take action, so the state had to. Now is the time to
demand cuts in carbon dioxide pollution to fight global warming."

Chris Eck, a FirstEnergy spokesman, said the Bruce Mansfield power plant is one
of the 20 biggest in the nation, producing 2,460 megawatts of power, so its high
tonnage of carbon dioxide and nitrogen oxide emissions -- it ranks 19th
nationally -- are not out of line with its output.

He said the plant's emission rate -- that is the amount of emissions per
megawatt-hour of electricity produced -- is "very competitive," ranking 243rd
for carbon dioxide and 166th for nitrogen oxide.

Nationwide, electric power plants emit about 40 percent of man-made carbon
dioxide, about two-thirds of sulfur dioxide, 22 percent of nitrogen oxides and a
third of all mercury emissions.

The full Environmental Integrity Project report can be viewed online at
www.dirtykilowatts.org.

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Don Hopey can be reached at dhopey@post-gazette.com or 412-263-1983.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              239 of 461 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                            August 21, 2007 Tuesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

STATE WINDMILL PLAN CAUSING QUITE A FLAP;
FOES SAY SPINNING TURBINES ENDANGER BATS AND BIRDS

BYLINE: DON HOPEY, PITTSBURGH POST-GAZETTE

SECTION: STATE; Pg. A-1

LENGTH: 1004 words


The Pennsylvania Biological Survey has gone to bat for the bats in a swirling
policy debate over whether commercial wind power development should be permitted
in state forests.

The debate pits advocates of wind power as an alternative energy source against
those who fear that windmills are harmful to bats and birds.

The Biological Survey last week objected to the state Department of Conservation
and Natural Resources' planned adoption of voluntary guidelines for new
commercial windmill development now being considered for the first time in
publicly owned forests.

The organization said the guidelines -- originally developed by the Pennsylvania
Game Commission to guide wind development on private land -- are not based on
the best science, don't include siting guidelines and do nothing to mitigate the
harmful impacts of commercial wind turbines on bats.

"To continue to promote and use such a protocol would be to put the interest of
the wind industry before the interest of the Commonwealth," Michael Gannon,
chairman of the Biological Survey's Wind Energy and Bats Subcommittee, said in a
letter to DCNR Secretary Michael DiBerardinis last week.

The Biological Survey is the official scientific advisory committee to the Game
Commission but wasn't consulted in developing the voluntary guidelines, Dr.
Gannon said, although wind energy companies were.

Chris Novak, a DCNR spokeswoman, said the agency is planning to adopt the Game
Commission protocol, but won't decide until fall if commercial wind power
projects will be allowed in state forests. If Mr. DiBerardinis decides to allow
wind power development, the state Legislature would have to approve that new use
for state forest land.

"The secretary said he didn't think the state can be serious about addressing
climate change without considering wind power development on our own land," Ms.
Novak said. "Screening to protect natural resources and wildlife is appropriate,
but looking at alternative energy sources is also appropriate due to the threat
climate change poses to the state forests.

"We're not committed to wind development, but we are committed to determining if
it is appropriate."

Ms. Novak said the department has determined that commercial wind power
development could take place on about 2 percent, or 37,753 acres, of state
forest land, all on the Appalachian ridge tops in the south and south central
part of the state. No wind development would be allowed on state forest land in
the northern tier counties, a region being promoted for tourism as "Pennsylvania
Wilds."

The state also will not locate commercial wind turbines in state parks, although
small noncommercial wind turbines already provide a limited amount of power
within six state parks. And although the Game Commission produced the voluntary
wind development protocol the DCNR wants to adopt, the commission will not allow
wind development on its state game lands, deeming it an incompatible land use.

Wind energy is the fastest-growing energy technology in the state and nation,
and a key component in the Rendell administration's widely promoted plans to
expand alternative energy use in the state.

Pennsylvania is already the leading producer of wind energy east of the
Mississippi River, generating 153 megawatts, enough to power 70,000 homes. The
administration's goal is to boost wind power production to more than 3,000
megawatts, a twentyfold increase, over the next 15 years.

Such a massive expansion of wind turbines along the state's highest and windiest
ridges has the potential to fatally impact bats and birds, according to the
Biological Survey. In 2004, for example, hundreds of migratory birds and up to
4,000 bats were killed by the whirling blades of 44 turbines in the Mountaineer
Wind Energy Center on Backbone Mountain in West Virginia. Heavy bat mortality
also occurred at the 20-turbine wind farm in Meyersdale, Somerset County, which
also came online in 2004.

After the 2004 deaths on Backbone Mountain, West Virginia started a state-level
review and permitting program for all wind power development proposals. It takes
into account impacts on wildlife, but there's no such program in Pennsylvania,
according to Dr. Gannon.

According to the Biological Survey review of the Game Commission guidelines,
they "will not help avoid or effectively mitigate the harmful impacts to our
natural heritage from the pending development of industrial wind energy in
Pennsylvania or even serve to adequately monitor the effects such development
has on wildlife."

An internal Biological Survey report in June said the biggest flaw in the Game
Commission's voluntary guidelines allows wind industry companies to block public
access to research information on bird or bat mortality caused by a wind turbine
operation if it is deemed by the company "not to be in their best interest" to
make it public. It also said the guidelines for wildlife research and mitigation
to minimize fatalities are "very constrained and exceedingly weak," and
criticized the Game Commission for "setting the bar low" to get wind industry
cooperation.

"The scientific standards are not there," said Dr. Gannon, a biology professor
at Penn State University and research associate at the Carnegie Museum of
Natural History. "We're not opposed to wind energy. All we're asking is that it
be regulated like any other industry."

John Quigley, DCNR's director of legislation and strategic initiatives, said the
Game Commission guidelines are a good starting point and, if necessary, can be
adjusted to meet the needs of those who want wind power development on state
lands. He added that any wind development proposals also would go through an
environmental review process, similar to that now applied to oil and gas leases.

"There's a lot we don't know about wind and wildlife interactions and we've
developed a strategic research agenda so we can get better information," Mr.
Quigley said. "Bats are high on that agenda. We want to get to the point that we
know what is needed to enhance [their] protections."

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Don Hopey can be reached at dhopey@post-gazette.com or 412-263-1983.

GRAPHIC: INFORMATIONAL GRAPHIC: Pennsylvania Department of Conservation and
Natural Resources; Post-Gazette: (Wind in the trees)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              249 of 461 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                           November 27, 2007 Tuesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

NOBEL-WINNER GORE MAKES IT TO OVAL OFFICE ... TO VISIT BUSH

BYLINE: MARK SILVA, CHICAGO TRIBUNE

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. A-6

LENGTH: 560 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


George W. Bush won the White House.

Albert A. Gore Jr. won the Nobel Peace Prize.

Yesterday, after a private Oval Office meeting with President Bush, the former
vice president insisted they had spoken about global warming "the whole time."
It wasn't clear if the Nobel winner, who shared the honor for his work on
climate change, was serious about his report on the closed-door talks.

"Of course," they had spoken about global warming, Mr. Gore insisted, strolling
down a rain-slick Pennsylvania Avenue with wife, Tipper, after slipping out the
side door of the West Wing.

For Mr. Gore, who had gone into the White House for Mr. Bush's reception for
American winners of the 2007 Nobel prizes, this was his first return to the Oval
Office since leaving office in early 2001.

This also was the first private meeting involving Mr. Gore and Mr. Bush since
the Tennessee Democrat had claimed a plurality of the popular vote in the
presidential election of 2000, only to lose in the Electoral College following a
36-day court fight over Mr. Bush's disputed 537-vote margin in Florida.

But Mr. Gore, calling the meeting "very cordial" and "substantive," declined to
elaborate on their talks. "I'm not going to do an interview here," Mr. Gore said
in his walk on the streets outside the White House. "I don't want to comment
more."

This may have been a cordial reunion of erstwhile adversaries from a contested
election, but it was kept discreetly private, within the confines of the Oval
Office -- where only photographers and pool reporters arrived near the end for
"a photo opportunity." The pool report noted smiles on Mr. Bush and Mr. Gore,
chatting and good humor.

Mr. Gore had come, along with the other American winners of the 2007 Nobel
Prize, for an official reception by the president. Mr. Bush, who had personally
telephoned Mr. Gore to invite him and arranged the date of the Nobel
recognitions to fit Mr. Gore's travel schedule, also received the Gores in a
private session before the "photo-op" with Mr. Gore's fellow Nobel laureates.

Mr. Gore shared the Nobel Peace Prize this year for his work fighting global
warming, a cause that Mr. Bush has only reluctantly embraced -- with the Bush
administration lately acknowledging the role that humans play in global warming,
but still opposing mandatory caps on polluting emissions.

Mr. Gore also has been outspoken in his criticism for other administration
policies, most notably the war in Iraq.

The White House insists the president holds no ill will toward Mr. Gore, who
carried his challenge of the outcome of the 2000 election to the Supreme Court.
"I don't believe so," Bush press secretary Dana Perino said of any "bad blood"
between the two. "I know this president does not harbor any resentments. He
never has."

The two had met one another publicly at the dedication of the Clinton
presidential library in Arkansas, and both had attended the funeral of President
Gerald Ford, but the White House said yesterday's meeting was the first
opportunity they had to meet privately.

"The president didn't make a calculated decision to invite Al Gore to the White
House. ... He invited him because he's one of the Nobel winners," Ms. Perino
said when pressed about the purpose of the additional private meeting. "I didn't
psychoanalyze the president to find out why. ... It was a presidential,
gentlemanly thing to do."

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gerald Herbert/Associated Press: President Bush, right, poses
yesterday for a photo with former Vice President Al Gore with other 2007 Nobel
Prize recipients, in the Oval Office of the White House in Washington.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              250 of 461 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                           November 29, 2007 Thursday
                                 SOONER EDITION

ONCE GREEN CHAMP, TOYOTA ENCOUNTERS NEW ENVIRONMENT

BYLINE: Doron Levin

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. D-2

LENGTH: 773 words


Just moments ago, or so it seems, Toyota Motor Corp. was the darling of
environmentalists, basking in kudos for having created the popular,
gasoline-electric hybrid Prius, a car long on mileage and looks.

How quickly bouquets can turn into barbs.

At a news conference in Los Angeles on Nov. 14, Bob Carter, head of Toyota-
branded vehicles, introduced the automaker's new, larger Sequoia sport utility
vehicle.

Afterward, a man pretending to be a journalist (but actually a representative of
the Rainforest Action Network, one of many environmental-activist groups)
confronted Mr. Carter.

With his video camera aimed at Mr. Carter, the activist demanded: "Sir, why not
pull Toyota off of the California [dealer] lots?"

Mr. Carter, forgetting his media-manners training, shoved the man's video camera
to the ground.

Police officers eventually escorted the impostor from the Los Angeles Convention
Center.

I can hardly blame the Toyota executive for losing his cool.

It must be maddening to go from hero to goat in the blink of an eye.

As Toyota inches toward becoming the world's largest automaker, it's getting a
tutorial in what it has been like to be General Motors Corp., the current leader
and longtime focus of social critics and self-appointed reformers.

While Toyota was introducing its biggest, most fuel-hungry Sequoia ever, based
on the same chassis used by the new Toyota Tundra pickup truck, GM was
introducing its Chevrolet Tahoe SUV, powered by a gas-electric hybrid.

The Tahoe hybrid is supposed to improve the vehicle's fuel economy by 50 percent
in the city.

Eco-friendliness is replacing horsepower as a basic tenet of automotive
marketing, and GM wants to burnish its image to stay ahead of Toyota. But being
the leader is a mixed blessing.

The target on the back of No. 1 is especially tempting to those who view
personal transportation, particularly vehicles such as Tahoes and Sequoias, as a
form of villainy.

In bygone days, GM took its lumps from Ralph Nader's safety campaigns.

Toyota now has a Web site, www.truthabouttoyota.com, that accuses the automaker
of "talking out of both sides of its mouth when it comes to increasing fuel
economy."

But the latest anti-Toyota campaign is more than just the price the automaker
pays as it nears leadership status.

Any automaker is liable to be slimed these days by activists simply because they
build vehicles that burn fossil fuels, which rightly or wrongly are blamed for
global climate change.

Toyota's main crime seems to be its support of federal regulation that would
raise Corporate Average Fuel Efficiency standards, though not as high as the
fringe environmental movement favors.

As Voltaire said, the enemy of the perfect is the good.

The U.S. Senate has proposed legislation that would raise the standard by 2020
to 35 miles per gallon, for the first time combining the categories of cars and
light trucks.

The rule now requires 27.5 mpg for cars and 22.2 mpg for light trucks.

The House of Representatives has been discussing an average increase to 32 mpg
to 35 mpg, with a critical difference from the Senate's proposal: car and
light-truck categories would remain separate, making the standard easier to
achieve.

Neither standard is as effective as a broad-based energy tax to reduce
consumption.

The auto industry has given up trying to explain that argument to lawmakers and
the public.

Toyota's executives in the United States think they could comply with the
stricter CAFE rules; but the automaker has decided to cast its lot with Detroit.

A few years ago, U.S. automakers invited Toyota to join the Alliance of
Automobile Manufacturers, a then newly constituted industry group representing
the 10 largest vehicle makers in the United States, including GM, Ford and
Chrysler. Previously Toyota had been excluded.

No doubt some at Toyota, especially when they are suffering abuse at the hands
of environmentalists, have wondered whether joining Detroit was wise.

Detroit automakers are apt to overlook their alliance with Toyota and grumble
about the weakness of the Japanese yen compared with the dollar, insinuating
that Japan is engaging in currency manipulation that unfairly benefits its auto
industry.

The U.S. environmental movement's pressure tactics are designed to peel Toyota
from the U.S. carmakers and thus weaken the industry's bargaining position with
respect to fuel standards.

It isn't likely to happen soon.

The Toyoda family in Japan remembers and appreciates the fact that the automaker
it founded was invited to be a U.S. industry insider.

Fortunately, Toyota was smart enough to align its interests with automaking and
the American public, not the radical greens.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Doron Levin is a Bloomberg News columnist.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              261 of 461 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                              May 27, 2007 Sunday
                               FIVE STAR EDITION

BORDER FENCE COULD DAMAGE ECOSYSTEM

BYLINE: LYNN BREZOSKY, THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: HEALTH SCIENCE MEDICINE AND TECHNOLOGY; Pg. A-3

LENGTH: 744 words

DATELINE: ALAMO, Texas


Nancy Brown drives the government truck slowly past mossy ponds, thick shrouds
of beard-like Spanish moss and majestic ebony trees, gleefully identifying the
song of the kiskadee and the gurgling call of the chachalaca.

As the truck rounds a bend near the greenish-brown Rio Grande, a bobcat scampers
ahead, disappearing into the lush subtropical foliage. Lizards dart about. A
tortoise lazes in the sun. Somewhere in the forest, well-camouflaged by
evolution, are ocelots and jaguarundi, both of them endangered species of cats.

These are some of the natural wonders in the Rio Grande Valley that Ms. Brown
and other wildlife enthusiasts fear could be spoiled by the fences and adjacent
roads the U.S. government plans to erect along the Mexican border to keep out
illegal immigrants and smugglers.

Environmentalists have spent decades acquiring and preserving 90,000 riverfront
acres of Texas scrub and forest and protecting their wildlife. Now they fear the
hundreds of miles of border fences will undo their work and kill some land
animals by cutting them off from the Rio Grande, the only source of fresh water.

A fence could also prevent the ocelots and other animals from swimming across
the water to mate with partners on the other side.

"If you have a fence that runs several miles long, if you are a tortoise or any
animal that can't fly over or go through it, then you have a pretty long
distance that you have to go to get water," said Ms. Brown, an outreach manager
at the Santa Ana National Wildlife Refuge, 225 miles south of San Antonio. Also,
"any destruction of any brush is very damaging."

In addition, some worry that the barrier -- described in some plans as
triple-layer metal fencing -- will damage the tourism industry along the Rio
Grande.

The wild cats, reptiles and at least 500 species of birds attract visitors from
around the world who bring the impoverished region $150 million a year.
Depending on how far inland the fence is built, it could create a no man's land
north of the river, hurting tourism.

While the Department of Homeland Security said it has not made any final
decisions on where the fence will go, meetings this week with the Border Patrol
have wildlife officials convinced that some of the 70 miles planned for the Rio
Grande Valley will be erected on the string of wildlife refuges along the
border.

Homeland Security spokesman Russ Knocke said environmental concerns will be
taken into account in the final decisions. But Homeland Security Secretary
Michael Chertoff has used his authority to waive environmental regulations for
security reasons in other states, and Mr. Knocke said he would do so in the Rio
Grande Valley if necessary.

"We do have to be mindful of the fact that we are remedying a problem that has
been more than two decades in the making," he said.

The refuges show signs of immigrant activity -- food wrappers and water jugs,
discarded wet clothing, the plastic bags used to carry a change of clothing
across the river. Similar evidence is found up and down the river, despite the
presence of Border Patrol agents and the sensors and cameras that make up the
current "virtual" fence.

The fence idea "is wholly incongruous with a 30-plus year investment by the
federal government, the citizens and the landowners of the Rio Grande Valley who
have worked hard to protect their special land and waters," said Carter Smith of
the Nature Conservancy. The organization said the government should instead use
more border agents, sensors and cameras.

President Bush called for about 700 miles of fence along the U.S.-Mexico border,
and Homeland Security is committed to completing 370 miles by the end of 2008.
Congress has budgeted $1.2 million for the fences.

Close to $100 million has been spent creating, restoring and maintaining the
refuges, wildlife officials said.

"The bottom line is the wildlife corridor took us many years to put together,"
said Karen Chapman of Environmental Defense. "It represents work, hard work, by
a number of federal, state and local agencies and citizens of the Valley. And
when we were working to put that wildlife corridor together, nobody was doing it
with the thought that someday it was going to be stuck behind a wall."

The four-county Rio Grande Valley contains 11 distinct ecosystems, Ms. Brown
said.

"From a biological standpoint, this area is really, really impressive," she
said. "You have a coastal climate meeting a desert climate meeting the temperate
and the tropical."

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: INFORMATIONAL GRAPHIC: AP; U.S. Fish and Wildlife Science:
GlobalSecurity.org: (Wildlife clashing with borderr security)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              262 of 461 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                              June 24, 2007 Sunday
                                TWO STAR EDITION

REPORT CARD ON MAYOR: NOT BAD;
RAVENSTAHL MAKING PROGRESS ON MORE THAN HALF HIS GOALS

BYLINE: RICH LORD, PITTSBURGH POST-GAZETTE

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. A-1

LENGTH: 1024 words


Nearly 10 months ago, Mayor Luke Ravenstahl took office pledging to do little
more than implement his predecessor's platform. Now he finds himself the owner
of a challenging agenda, pressed by a looming general election to prove he can
fulfill it.

He's made scores of pledges -- on diversity, public safety, neighborhoods,
development, education and the function of city government -- since the Sept. 1
death of Bob O'Connor put him in the mayor's seat.

On the Post-Gazette's report card of 38 pledges, Mr. Ravenstahl gets A's in
seven for meeting his goals, B's in 17 for making substantial progress, C's in
13 for little progress and D in just one for making no improvement.

Some are natural extensions of Mr. O'Connor's platform. Others, like the Propel
Pittsburgh Commission to advance young professionals' concerns, spring from the
mind of the 27-year-old mayor. A few seem cribbed from the playbook of his
frequent foe, Councilman William Peduto, or were ad-libbed to address the day's
news, whether it was a shooting or a spat among his staff.

Whether that agenda is aggressive enough, and whether it's being achieved, is
likely to be an issue in the race with Republican mayoral candidate Mark
DeSantis.

"My impression is that Luke Ravenstahl is focused on the right things," said
Maxwell King, president of The Heinz Endowments. The agenda and its
implementation, he said, "are a little scattershot, but you would expect that in
a new administration, and you would expect that in someone who is new in
management."

"Most of these are pretty realistic," said Morton Coleman, former director of
the University of Pittsburgh's Institute of Politics, as he looked over a list
of mayoral pronouncements. What's lacking may be an overall strategy for
revitalizing the population-losing, financially struggling city, he said. The
mayor's pledges "seem like unrelated activities, and I'd like to see how he'd
like to connect them all."

Mr. Ravenstahl said his strategy has two main thrusts.

"Number one is continuing the financial recovery of the city," he said. He's
trimming health insurance costs and has started seeking a solution to the $484
million shortfall in the city's pension fund.

"On the second side, the economic development climate in Pittsburgh is certainly
a priority of mine."

He made a new arena a top development goal with a September letter saying he'd
do everything possible to keep the Penguins here. That cemented his role as a
junior partner with Gov. Ed Rendell and Allegheny County Chief Executive Dan
Onorato in talks that resulted in an arena deal.

Check that off the to-do list.

On the other hand, December's announcement of a multimillion-dollar plan to
guarantee college funding to all graduates of city schools starting next year is
far from fulfilled, with just $10,000 raised so far.

That could change. By multiple accounts, fund-raising efforts are starting to
gain traction.

"I am very, very confident that we will have the necessary funds" to award the
first scholarships next year, said school Superintendent Mark Roosevelt. "We'll
have something in place for these kids."

Many of the mayor's other promises relate to improving government's
responsiveness and function. The 311 help line, for instance, became reality in
October, while efforts to bring more automation and accountability to city
decision-making on everything from permitting to paving are just starting.

A committee led by University of Pittsburgh Chancellor Mark A. Nordenberg is
seeking ways to improve efficiency in city and county government, with
suggestions likely this fall. The mayor said he'll "consider them."

Questions on integrity

An October vow to uphold the integrity of his administration, driven by
controversy over then-Operations Director Dennis Regan, remains a question mark.

Mr. Regan quit and was exonerated, despite the acting solicitor's view that he
overstepped his role in police discipline. His primary accuser, police Cmdr.
Catherine McNeilly, was demoted, only to be restored to her post by a federal
judge, and granted an $85,000 settlement.

In May, Redd Up Campaign workers were caught wearing a candidate's campaign
shirts on the job, again raising integrity issues. They were suspended without
pay for five days, but allowed to return to work after two days while they
appealed.

On the neighborhood level, some key pledges have brought change. Council
approved tax abatements for new housing Downtown and in 28 neighborhoods, set to
go into effect next month. The buyback of old tax debt sold in the 1990s has
allowed community groups to move scores of properties closer to redevelopment.
The new Community's Technical Investigative and Preparedness Section, or C-TIPS,
police squad has impressed neighborhood leaders.

"I love C-TIPS," said Aggie Brose, deputy director of the Bloomfield-Garfield
Corp. The squad is "focused on identifying key actors that, if I take these out,
it'll make a huge difference."

Mr. Ravenstahl's record on diversity is incomplete. The Mayor's Office staff is
two-thirds female, but most directorships are filled by white men, with many
empty or in flux thanks to an ongoing reshuffle.

No action has yet been taken to improve the demographic balance of the police
and fire bureaus, though a program to hire minority paramedics is starting.

So far, the Ravenstahl agenda could translate into "a more progressive, greener,
more knowledge-oriented, desirable city," said Allyson Lowe, director of Chatham
University's Pennsylvania Center for Women, Politics and Public Policy. But it
falls short of changing "the underlying structure of government," which she
thinks the city needs to do in light of huge shifts in population and economics.

If the city emerges from the next few years with a scholarship fund, a new
arena, more accountable government, safer neighborhoods, more housing, better
city-county cooperation and improved diversity, "it'll be a home run for
Pittsburgh and a home run for Luke," said Mr. King.

If not? "If I fail," Mr. Ravenstahl said, "then we as Pittsburgh will have taken
a step backward. I don't think we will, and I think the people of the city
understand that change is needed."

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Rich Lord can be reached at rlord@post-gazette.com or 412-263-1542./ To
view graphic go to www.post-gazette.com

GRAPHIC: INFORMATIONAL GRAPHIC: (Ravenstahl's report card)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              263 of 461 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                             July 4, 2007 Wednesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

HURRICANE CENTER CHIEF FACING INTERNAL STORM

BYLINE: MARTIN MERZER, MCCLATCHY NEWSPAPERS

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. A-6

LENGTH: 888 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Three National Hurricane Center senior forecasters yesterday called for the
ouster of recently appointed Director Bill Proenza, saying he has damaged public
confidence in their forecasts, fractured morale and lost their support.

"I don't think that Bill can continue here," said James Franklin, one of the
center's five senior forecasters. "I don't think he can be an effective leader."

Two others -- Richard Pasch and Rick Knabb -- told The Miami Herald that they
concur. "We need a change of leadership here at the hurricane center," Mr. Pasch
said. "It's pretty much as simple as that."

The open rebellion flared as an "assessment team" dispatched by Mr. Proenza's
superiors in Washington spent a second day at the hurricane center in West
Miami-Dade County. The team is trying to determine whether forecasters can
fulfill their mission under the outspoken and controversial director.

Some forces expressed support for Mr. Proenza, but with pressure intensifying
from within and without, his grip on the $150,000-a-year job he accepted just
six months ago seemed increasingly at risk.

Mr. Proenza said late yesterday that he will not resign, and blamed the center's
morale problems on "Washington harassment" -- a reference to a letter of
reprimand he received last month and the unannounced inspection by five federal
officials, including a lawyer who specializes in personnel matters.

"It is my intention to continue to be the director of the National Hurricane
Center and not in any way hesitate to do what I need to do," said Mr. Proenza,
62, a weather service forecaster and manager for more than 40 years. "We are
ready to carry out our mission, and we will move forward."

Since taking the most prominent government job in meteorology, Mr. Proenza
repeatedly has criticized his bosses at the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration, saying they have not provided the hurricane center with adequate
research funds and failed to plan for the eventual demise of an important
weather satellite. He has been widely viewed as the underdog in a David vs.
Goliath battle against the federal bureaucracy, a scenario the forecasters
called misleading.

"The public debate has been extremely one-sided," said Mr. Franklin, who has
been at the hurricane center since 1999, and with NOAA since 1982. "Bill is
viewed as a hero in the media for speaking up against NOAA management, and he is
portrayed as having the support of his staff. But the hurricane specialists, by
and large, do not agree with much of what he has done."

In any event, as the drama played itself out, the climate at the hurricane
center turned stormy. Some lower-ranking staff members support Mr. Proenza, and
shouting matches between the two camps erupted yesterday, several people said.

The tensions and distractions come at an inopportune time. The hurricane season
began June 1 and runs through Nov. 30. The season has been relatively tame so
far, but forecasters monitored a disturbance yesterday in the Atlantic and said
the tropics were likely to heat up later this month or in August.

Craig Fugate, director of Florida's Division of Emergency Management, originally
supported Mr. Proenza, but yesterday said he is growing concerned about the
situation: "It certainly is disconcerting that we are now dealing with these
issues in the middle of the hurricane season."

Should Mr. Proenza stay or go? "I think NOAA needs to make a decision," Mr.
Fugate said. "Whether Bill stays or leaves, there has to be a resolution, and
they have to move on very quickly."

At the same time, everyone on both sides of the battle -- and some knowledgeable
outsiders -- insisted that the hurricane center is fully prepared to meet its
obligations. "The public has to know that the staff of the National Hurricane
Center is still intact, and it is a superb staff, and their forecasts will be as
good as ever," said former director Max Mayfield.

Forecaster Lixion Avila, who ignited the public phase of the rebellion Monday
night in comments to The Miami Herald that were critical of Mr. Proenza,
yesterday said he was not ready to join the call for Mr. Proenza's departure.
"I've lost a little bit of faith in him," Mr. Avila said, "but I don't want to
be part of his removal or support him to stay."

The fifth senior forecaster, Jack Beven, was on vacation and unavailable for
comment.

Staff members who support Mr. Proenza said they believed that the rebellious
forecasters were overreacting to recent events and were upset by Mr. Proenza's
management style and operational changes he has requested, including alterations
to some forecast maps.

The forecasters and Mr. Mayfield said Mr. Proenza has exaggerated the magnitude
of the satellite issue, unintentionally leaving the public -- and Congress --
with the impression that forecasters are not capable of doing their jobs. That
controversy involves a satellite called QuikScat, which measures wind speeds
over the distant ocean and is operating beyond its designed life span without a
replacement under construction.

No one doubts its importance when it comes to storms far out to sea, but the
senior forecasters said its loss would not compromise the accuracy of forecasts
of storms that are approaching land -- the most important forecasts they issue.
Hurricane hunter planes provide much more crucial data about those threats.

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              278 of 461 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                            January 4, 2007 Thursday
                                 REGION EDITION

BYLINE: G. MacLean Upper Saint Clair Rita Palmer McKeesport H. Scott Prosterman
Berkeley, Calif. Dr. Tom Green Washington, Pa. Mary Horner Bethel Park

SECTION: ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT; Pg. WE-31

LENGTH: 1181 words


Mr. Jones: It's 2007, not 1957

I wish fashion editor LaMont Jones would "get a grip" for 2007.

His article "Style wishes for the New Year" (Jan. 1) was annoying on many
fronts, but most notably his assertion that ALL women should wear makeup. As a
member of the dreaded "over 35" category, I take exception to that remark.

I am not competing with Eva Longoria, Heidi Klum or Halle Berry. In fact, I'm
not competing with ANYbody. I don't care if it's true that makeup can accentuate
my best features. I have enough self-confidence that I don't feel I need to do
that in order to make a good impression. In fact, I think makeup makes me look
OLD. (Hey, I got CARDED in the liquor store over the holidays and was wearing NO
makeup! How's THAT for an old hag?)

Mr. Jones, there are a lot of us women who don't think the sum of our
personalities is in how we apply our makeup. To hear you tell it, we're still in
the 1950s, a time when Donna Reed was seen lying in bed, thinking, and her face
was perfectly made up -- and she wore her pearls while vacuuming the floors in a
cocktail dress and heels! This is 2007, NOT 1957!

And while we're on the subject, if you think all women should wear makeup,
especially old relics like me, what about MEN? Do YOU wear makeup regularly and
well, Mr. Jones? Somehow, I highly doubt it.

Radio to the right

KDKA radio seems to be driving over a cliff. I thought it went downhill in 2006,
and now with its dropping John McIntire's show in favor of another right winger,
Neil Boortz, 2007 looks even worse.

The country is moving away from support for President Bush, the Iraq War and the
right-wing agenda, yet KDKA insists on sticking to the same tired old formula.
I'm also frustrated with the reduced presence of Chris Moore on KDKA.

KDKA, were you paying attention to the 2006 election and the political polls?
Have you heard of progressive host Ed Schultz, who has become a big success on
talk radio? With his discussion of football, hunting and fishing in addition to
politics, he'd be a big success in Pittsburgh.

No wonder liberals like myself have moved to the Internet and satellite radio
for relevant and interesting talk.

Remembering The Godfather

My bar mitzvah was in Memphis five weeks after Martin Luther King Jr. was killed
there. One of my presents was front-row seats for the James Brown concert at the
Mid-South Coliseum, for the astonishing price of $6.

The day of the concert, rumors were flying all over town about whether the show
would go on because of the climate in the aftermath of MLK's assassination.
Thankfully, they were only rumors.

My buddy Marc and I arrived a couple of hours before show time because that was
the only ride we could get. I carefully studied each move made by the road crew,
watching them set up two drum sets and lecterns for a string section. At that
point, I said to myself, "Damn, I have to sit through a warm-up act before I get
to see James Brown."

Thankfully, there was no warm-up act, and when the two violins and violas
plucked out the melody to "I Want to Be Around," I came to the revelation that
symphony strings can work in rock 'n' roll.

In an audience of more than 13,000 (they sold the seats behind him, too), Marc
and I were two of maybe 10 white people. EVERYONE was especially gentle,
hospitable and welcoming toward us -- two bar mitzvah boys in a sea of blackness
that spanned the age spectrum.

All night long, James Brown preached about love, brotherhood and acceptance,
while he sang every song we knew from him.

Although I later saw him two other times, that first concert in Memphis in 1968
was a defining moment in my life. Years later, when I was a jazz and blues DJ in
Memphis (WEVL-FM) and Pittsburgh, I would delight in staging on-air "cutting
contests" between James Brown and Sinatra ("Prisoner of Love"), or between James
Brown and Tony Bennett ("I Want to Be Around"). James Brown cut the original
"master" every time.

Thus, he earned his place alongside them, in the same pantheon with Louis
Armstrong and Duke Ellington. James Brown represents the transition from the
original jazz and blues to rhythm and blues. And he was the godfather of
EVERYONE who has soul!

The writer is a former WYEP blues DJ.

Notes on comics

I am a huge comics fan and really appreciate the selection of the PG. I know
that you have to cater to a selection of tastes and have a nice variety of
comics to suit those tastes. I also appreciate the fact that you're interested
in your readership by taking a survey of the selections you offer. I've been
reading the letters defending the lack of interest in the strip "Mary Worth."

"Mary Worth" is on the fourth generation of cartoonists (and writers) and
unfortunately is running out of steam. A search on the Internet will reveal that
more newspapers are dropping it due to lack of readership. The stories have
become silly in nature and adults are acting quite puerile in character.

This strip has endured for a long time and was so popular here locally, that
when the Pittsburgh newspaper carrying it in the 1970s went on strike, the comic
was read on the local radio and television news.

Usually when a cartoonist dies and another takes over, the strip does not do
well (except for ones like "Blondie" or "Hagar"), and the quality goes down.

For years "Mary Worth" endured, but this is no longer the case. We saw how this
affected "Shoe."

It used to be a great thing to look forward to see what was going to happen next
in "Rex Morgan, MD" and "Mary Worth," but now the stories are dull and
characters sometimes even appear stupid. I agree with the reader survey and
think that it's time for a change with some of the comics. Story strips are seen
less often, and I would like to still see "The Amazing Spider-man" and "Prince
Valiant" stay. I would think that readership of "The Amazing Spider-man" will
increase at the time the next movie comes out.

These comics entail a great deal of artwork but are so shrunken down on Sundays
that it is hard to appreciate it. Perhaps "Opus" could change places with
"Prince Valiant" or shrink down to half the space to allow more space to add
"Frank & Ernest" or "Wizard Of Id" on Sundays.

I also miss "Dick Tracy," "Gasoline Alley" and "Judge Parker," which used to be
mainstays in the PG. These story strips seemed to lose reader interests in
surveys as well. It probably is time for some new strips.

Perhaps the PG would look into getting "Big Nate" or "Stone Soup." Another
suggestion is to add comics or links to comics on the Web site.

Service lacking

I could not have agreed more with Elizabeth Downer's review of Tambellini's on
51 (Dec. 21) had I written it myself.

Instead of "Tried and True" Tambellini's, I would have the headline as Tired and
True. I cannot review the food, but I can comment on the outdated decor and the
waitresses who are not interested in diners who are not their regulars.

One would assume the restaurant would like to have even more customers, but the
attitude does not make one want to return. The new owners have much to improve.
I hope to return once the remodeling and retraining have taken place.

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Matt Dunham/Associated Press
The death of James Brown brings back fans' memories of the Godfather of Soul.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              301 of 461 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                             June 6, 2007 Wednesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

ARTISTS COMMENT ON GLOBAL WARMING IN CORAL REEF EXHIBIT

BYLINE: MARY THOMAS, PITTSBURGH POST-GAZETTE

SECTION: ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT; ART REVIEW; Pg. C-1

LENGTH: 1029 words


One of the most fascinating, wide-reaching contemporary artworks/projects I've
come across is at The Andy Warhol Museum, and anyone -- grandmother, fine arts
major, crafter, theoretical mathematician -- who knows how to crochet may become
a part of it.

The "Crochet Hyperbolic Coral Reef" is at the North Side museum only through
June 17, but it's developing a global grass-roots following, and its life span
has just begun.

The "Reef" is the creation of Margaret and Christine Wertheim, twin sisters and
natives of Australia who now live in Los Angeles. It's part of the Warhol's "6
BILLION PERPS HELD HOSTAGE! Artists Address Global Warming," fitting into that
exhibition because of the damage being done to coral reefs around the world by
pollutants and climatic changes.

While the "Reef" has been on display at the museum, there's been a steady rise
in the amount of blogging about the exhibition and the piece itself, says Rick
Armstrong, Warhol communications manager.

And contributions to the growing work keep arriving at its home base, the
Institute For Figuring in Los Angeles. Crocheted coral has come from California,
New York, Oregon, England and Australia, the latter a pleasant surprise to the
sisters who hadn't previously met any of the crocheters from their native
country. More corals are expected soon from Canada, Boston and Seattle.

The Wertheims' personal interest is Australia's famed Great Barrier Reef, which
they first became enthralled by when they were children.

That ecosystem has suffered serious damage in the past three decades, much of it
because of agricultural runoff, Margaret Wertheim said in a lecture at The
Warhol in March.

Last month, a New York Times article headlined "Coral Is Dying. Can It Be
Reborn?" cited biologist David E. Vaughan who said that 25 percent of the
world's corals have been lost in the past 25 years and that 25 percent more are
expected to die in the next decade or two. Vaughan is director of the Center for
Coral Reef Research at the Mote Marine Laboratory in the Florida Keys, where
scientists tend a coral nursery with plans to re-establish locally compatible
species in nearby waters.

The "Reef" artwork was designed as an homage, with the hope that it would draw
attention to the plight of corals around the world and act as a remembrance if
they die out.

Wertheim began her talk with a discussion of the life cycle of a coral colony,
which shares nutrients and engages in synchronous spawning, usually under a full
moon. Marveling at how these primitive nerveless organisms know when to
simultaneously engage in reproduction across thousands of miles of ocean, she
said they're "a nice model for us -- communal, sharing, attuned to the cosmos."

The project, which has environmental, biological and aesthetic aspects, also
involves higher math and feminism.

Both are anchored in a discovery a decade ago by mathematician Daina Taimina,
who figured out how to make a long-elusive physical model of a hyperbolic plane.
She did it using crochet hooks.

Since she made the first one, Taimina has been getting requests from all over to
purchase them as teaching tools, and one has found its way to the Smithsonian
collection of mathematical models.

Wertheim described hyperbolic space as "another kind of geometry" that could be
envisioned as "the geometric opposite of a sphere. Spherical space is positively
curved space, while hyperbolic space has negative curvature."

"A lot of marine organisms have hyperbolic structure," Wertheim said.

Aware of Taimina's discovery, the Wertheims, who grew up knitting and
crocheting, decided to create "a woolly taxonomy," and soon found that "just as
nature seems to have endless variations, the same is true of crocheted forms."
When they think the variations have all been represented, they hold a workshop
and someone comes up with something new.

"It's a kind of project in practical evolution," Wertheim said with a smile.

A particularly gratifying aspect of the project for the sisters is that
contributions are being made by little ladies in the countryside as well as hip
young urbanites.

"Middle-aged women who would never be taken seriously by the art world,"
Wertheim said. One of their chief contributors runs a sheep farm in Australia.
Another is a former geneticist who did DNA analysis. One of the most recent is a
middle-aged black woman who lives in the San Fernando Valley. The sisters came
across her work -- a hyperbolic structure the woman had created on her own -- at
an art fair. When asked how she came to make such a form, the woman answered
"The Lord gave it to me. The Lord guided me."

The accomplishments of women are traditionally under-recognized in the
scientific and art worlds, Wertheim said. "When I can get people like [these]
into The Warhol, it is a feminist act."

The Institute For Figuring defines itself as "an organization dedicated to the
poetic and aesthetic dimensions of science, mathematics and the technical arts,"
a catholic embrace of knowledge that positions it well for such a multifaceted,
multinational endeavor.

"From the physics of snowflakes and the hyperbolic geometry of sea slugs, to the
mathematics of paper folding, the tiling patterns of Islamic mosaics and
graphical models of the human mind, the institute takes as its purview a complex
ecology of figuring."

The "Reef" is only one of the concerns of the institute, as a troll through
their well-developed Web site will reveal www.theiff.org/main.html.

A related project, the "Rubbish Vortex," comprising cut and knotted used plastic
bags, is inspired by an accumulation of plastic in the Pacific, the result of
natural current flow, that's now twice the size of Texas -- "the satanic plastic
vortex twin to the coral reef," Wertheim dubbed it.

Along with instructions on how to submit to the "Reef," other entrees range from
an interview with Shea Zellweger, who developed a visual language that he named
the "Logic Alphabet," to an article on the "computational origami" of the late
David Huffman, who was professor of computer sciences at University of
California at Santa Cruz.

"This is technically my hobby project," Wertheim said, "but it is threatening to
take over my life."

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Post-Gazette art critic Mary Thomas may be reached at
mthomas@post-gazette.com or 412-263-1925.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Hand-made ocean creatures are part of the "Crochet Hyperbolic
Coral Reef" project.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              303 of 461 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                            June 20, 2007 Wednesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

NEW MODELS ARE LOADED WITH FEATURES

BYLINE: Don Hammonds, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: BUSINESS; LEXUS; Pg. G-10

LENGTH: 328 words


What you'll see at your Lexus dealer this summer will change your mind about
luxury cars.

Have you seen the astounding LS 460 and LS 460 L sedans? These two cars are
blowing the super-luxury field apart with the features and technology they
offer.

The LS 460 is powered by a new 380-horsepower, 4.6-liter V-8 backed by the
world's first eight-speed automatic transmission. Mileage rating is 19 mpg in
the city and 27 on the highway. All this and an engine that hits 60 mpg in less
than 6 seconds.

The first thing you'll notice of course, is the styling -- sleek, sexy,
semi-fastbacked, voluptuous and not a thing like the current model. It's the
finest expression of Lexus' new design idiom ("L finesse," as it's known). With
the introduction of the LS 460, the company's entire passenger car lineup, save
the SC430 Hardtop Convertible, has been totally revamped.

The 21st-century features this car packs includes an optional advanced parking
guidance system that virtually parks the car itself, real-time traffic
navigation, climate-controlled front seats and a heated steering wheel.

If that all doesn't float your boat, try the Executive Class seating package. It
includes a rear-seat entertainment system, a four-zone independent front and
rear air conditioning system with air purification, the world's first ceiling
climate diffusers and a right rear-seat recliner with ottoman leg rest included.
It even has a multi-function massage feature that includes an enhanced massage
mode for the right rear seat.

Prices start at $61,000 for the LS 460 and $71,000 for the LS 460 L, billed as
the company's first ever long-wheelbase model.

Coming In 2008

Big news for 2008 will be the arrival of the Lexus LS 600h L, the world's
fastest hybrid powered car. It will hit 60 mph in 5.5 seconds, but its hybrid
system, which puts out 438 horsepower, still is rated at 20 mpg in the city and
22 mpg on the highway. All wheel drive is standard and interior room gargantuan
on this car.

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: 2008 NEW CAR & TRUCK BUYERS GUIDE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              305 of 461 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                            June 27, 2007 Wednesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

2 OIL GIANTS BOW OUT OF VENEZUELA

BYLINE: FABIOLA SANCHEZ, THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. A-4

LENGTH: 562 words

DATELINE: CARACAS, Venezuela


Exxon Mobil Corp. and ConocoPhillips yesterday refused to sign deals to keep
pumping heavy oil under tougher terms in Venezuela's Orinoco River basin,
signaling their departure from one of the world's largest oil deposits.

But analysts said the move won't have a major effect on supplies or lead to
higher prices at U.S. pumps, because production by the two companies will shift
to other producers who agreed to the pacts.

The changes are part of a broader nationalization drive by Venezuela's President
Hugo Chavez to assume greater control over strategic areas of the economy. Aside
from the oil industry, the government recently nationalized the country's top
telecommunications and electricity companies.

Mr. Chavez, a fierce critic of U.S.-style capitalism, argues that a larger state
role is necessary to ensure that industry profits and services benefit
Venezuelans, instead of enriching private companies. His detractors contend that
he is violating contracts and ruining the investment climate to Venezuela's
long-term detriment.

The government took majority control of Venezuela's last privately run oil
projects May 1 and gave the companies until yesterday to decide whether they
would accept new terms as junior partners. Four major oil companies --
U.S.-based Chevron Corp., BP PLC, France's Total SA and Norway's Statoil ASA --
accepted at a signing ceremony yesterday establishing the new minority stakes.

"Exxon Mobil is disappointed that we have been unable to reach an agreement on
the terms," the Irving, Texas-based company said in a statement. "However, we
continue discussions with the Venezuelan government on a way forward."

Elogio Del Pino, a director of the state oil company, said Houston-based
ConocoPhillips, the third-largest U.S. oil company, is not leaving the country
completely and will maintain a 50 percent share in the Deltana Platform natural
gas project.

Officials said Exxon Mobil, the world's largest publicly traded oil company,
will have no remaining oil interests in the South American country.

Venezuela "has an informal agreement to continue talking" with Exxon Mobil and
ConocoPhillips about the terms of finalizing their involvement in the heavy
crude projects, Oil Minister Rafael Ramirez said at a signing ceremony in
Caracas. "In the case of Exxon Mobil and ConocoPhillips, they are ending their
participation in the businesses" of the Orinoco and other exploration
activities, Mr. Ramirez said. Mr. Ramirez said the signed agreements will
benefit Venezuelans. He thanked the companies that agreed to the new terms,
saying they are working toward a "secure future" in Venezuela.

It remains unclear how the companies are being compensated for their losses. The
six companies invested more than $17 billion in the Orinoco projects and hold
some $4 billion in outstanding debts, but Petroleos de Venezuela SA, also known
as PDVSA, would not be assuming those obligations, Mr. Ramirez said. "Each
company is responsible before the banks for its commitments," he told reporters.

The U.S. State Department urged Venezuela to provide proper compensation. "The
government of Venezuela, like any other government, has the right to make these
kinds of decisions to change ownership rules," said State Department spokesman
Tom Casey. "We want to see them meet their international commitments in terms of
providing fair and just compensation."

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              322 of 461 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                           September 16, 2007 Sunday
                               FIVE STAR EDITION

SUDDENLY, A FRONTRUNNER;
THERE'S BEEN A DISCERNIBLE SHIFT TOWARD HILLARY CLINTON, WHICH CHANGES THE
CAMPAIGN DYNAMIC

BYLINE: David M. Shribman

SECTION: EDITORIAL; MY POINT; Pg. G-3

LENGTH: 925 words


These things happen quietly, subtly, without pronouncements, sometimes without
anyone ever noticing they are occurring. But often -- not always, mind you --
one candidate surges to such an advantageous position in the fight for a
presidential nomination that the contender suddenly becomes the frontrunner. It
just happened.

It's not quite clear what celestial or temporal event prompted it. No one took a
straw vote (the Republicans did that, and they still have no frontrunner), and
no one caucused. It's not a mainstream media conspiracy, either. It's just a
discernible adjustment in the political climate. But find me someone who thinks,
deep in his or her heart, that Hillary Rodham Clinton isn't in the strongest
position right now in the race for the Democratic presidential nomination in
2008.

This isn't a matter of survey data, or a question of money raised, or crowds
roused, or debate questions parried, or bumper stickers distributed, or
editorials drafted or e-mails forwarded. It's more a question of sitting here in
September and thinking of the role of Mr. October or, to put it more plainly, to
see who is playing the role of Reggie Jackson, who once was quoted in Sport
Magazine as saying he was the straw that stirred the drink on the New York
Yankees.

When it comes to the 2008 race, Sen. Clinton, who seldom gives a speech that can
be described as stirring, is doing a lot of stirring nonetheless. To change the
sports metaphor: "She has played above the rim without a mistake," says a top
New Hampshire Republican.

In some ways this presidential campaign, so different from its predecessors in
so many ways, is nevertheless so much the same as some of the ones that preceded
it. In 1984, for example, former Vice President Walter F. Mondale was the
frontrunner, followed by Sen. John H. Glenn Jr. and Sen. Gary W. Hart. Mr. Glenn
and Mr. Hart sought to diminish their rival by declaring him the tool of the
special interests and unions that bankrolled him. Mr. Hart, who had more of an
insurgent's profile than Mr. Glenn, sought to stay close to Mr. Mondale in the
polls so as to be well-positioned if he stumbled.

Those are the relative positions Sen. Clinton and Sen. Barack Obama have fallen
into in recent weeks. We don't have the advantage of knowing who will win Iowa
(Mr. Mondale did in 1984) or New Hampshire (Mr. Hart), but we do know that Sen.
Clinton possesses some classic frontrunner attributes. They are:

* Everything bad that there is to be said about her already has been said, maybe
a hundred times. Is there a soul alive who has not heard about her marriage, her
disastrous effort at overhauling the health-care system, her transformation from
Goldwater Girl to Wellesley activist, her role in the Rose Law Firm, her
miraculous success in the commodity futures market, her real-estate forays at
Whitewater? No matter what the subject, she and her stone-wall defenders can
dismiss it with a yawn and the two most beguiling words in the political
lexicon: old news.

* She's battle tested. Is there a media focus harder to handle than the one that
was thrown at the woman whose husband's extramarital adventures were the subject
of an independent counsel's investigation known throughout the world? Few
presidential candidates are confronted with tests of poise, composure, character
and courage remotely as formidable as what she went through in 1998.

* She's disciplined. This was Mr. Mondale's great strength, and his great
weakness. Like Mr. Mondale, who seldom strayed off his text, schedule or agenda,
Sen. Clinton has an iron will. Mr. Mondale made a giant strategic miscalculation
-- that winning the 1984 nomination with 1948 tactics, emphasizing union bosses
and county chairmen, was the way to go -- but he made no tactical errors as he
sought the nomination nearly a quarter-century ago. He never said anything
stupid or frivolous or, come to think of it, even controversial. He was one of
the most relaxed, most engaging men of his political generation, but there
wasn't a touch of informality to his campaign.

All of this gets to the difficulty Sen. Obama faces, along with the usual
hurdles of running a national campaign, raising zillions of dollars, taking
positions and positioning himself to appeal to a primary electorate. He's
increasingly dependent upon slips by his rival. But the lady, to paraphrase
Margaret Thatcher in 1980, is not for slipping.

Which is not to say that the Democratic campaign is over. It's not. One
frontrunner, Sen. Edmund S. Muskie of Maine, who in some ways was in a stronger
position in 1971 than Sen. Clinton is in 2007, slipped terribly and then nearly
slipped from view, resurfacing briefly as secretary of state in the Carter
years.

Sen. Clinton still has challenges ahead. She still must battle a public
story-line (that she is a hard-bitten, cold, calculating careerist with a lust
for power) that has not entirely disappeared. But she is taking that on and,
ironically, even though she is one of the big-money candidates, she is using the
small-money settings of Iowa and New Hampshire to soften her edges and boost her
human appeal.

The Republicans are still saying that Sen. Clinton is the candidate they most
want to oppose next November. That's easy to say in September 2007. But a Sen.
Clinton who negotiates all the difficulties of the 2008 Democratic presidential
nomination minefield is a Sen. Clinton who could be even more formidable than
the one they see on the hustings right now. The same could be said of the
Republican frontrunner, if there ever is one.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: David M. Shribman is the executive editor of the Post-Gazette
(dshribman@post-gazette.com, 412-263-1890).

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              333 of 461 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                            December 9, 2007 Sunday
                               FIVE STAR EDITION

FOREST FADING IN INDONESIA;
PULP, PAPER COMPANIES RUN ROUGHSHOD OVER PRISTINE TERRAIN

BYLINE: PETER GELLING, THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. A-16

LENGTH: 600 words

DATELINE: KUALA CENAKU, Indonesia


Here on the island of Sumatra, about 1,200 miles from the global climate talks
under way on Bali, are some of the world's fastest-disappearing forests.

A look at this vast wasteland of charred stumps and dried-out peat makes the
fight to save Indonesia's forests seem nearly impossible.

"What can we possibly do to stop this?" said Pak Helman, 28, a villager here in
Riau province, surveying the scene from his leaking wooden longboat. "I feel
lost. I feel abandoned."

In recent years, dozens of pulp and paper companies have descended on Riau,
which is roughly the size of Switzerland, snatching up generous government
concessions to log and establish palm oil plantations. The results have caused
villagers to feel panic.

Only five years ago, Helman said, he earned nearly $100 a week catching shrimp.
Now, he said, logging has poisoned the rivers snaking through the heart of Riau,
and he is lucky to find enough shrimp to earn $5 a month.

Responding to global demand for palm oil, which is used in cooking and cosmetics
and, lately, in an increasingly popular biodiesel, companies have been claiming
any land they can.

Fortunately, from Helman's point of view, the issue of Riau's disappearing
forests has become a global one. He is now a volunteer for Greenpeace, which has
established a camp in his village to monitor what it calls an impending
Indonesian "carbon bomb."

Deforestation, during which carbon stored in trees is released into the
atmosphere, now accounts for 20 percent of the world's greenhouse gas emissions,
according to scientists. And Indonesia releases more carbon dioxide through
deforestation than any other country.

Within Indonesia, the situation is most critical in Riau. In the past 10 years,
nearly 60 percent of the province's forests have been logged, burned and pulped,
according to Jikalahari, a local environmental group.

"This is very serious -- the world needs to act now," said Susanto Kurniawan, a
coordinator for Jikalahari who regularly makes the arduous trip into the forest
from the nearby city of Pekanbaru, passing long lines of trucks carting palm oil
and wood. "In a few years it will be too late."

The rate of this deforestation is rising as oil prices reach new highs, leading
more industries to turn to biodiesel made from palm oil, which, in theory, is
earth-friendly. But its use is causing more harm than good, environmental groups
say, because companies slash and burn huge swaths of trees to make way for palm
oil plantations.

Even more significant, the burning and drying of Riau's carbon-rich peatlands,
also to make way for palm oil plantations, releases about 1.8 billion tons of
greenhouse gases a year, according to Greenpeace officials.

But it is also in Riau that a new global strategy for conserving forests in
developing countries might begin. A small area of Riau's remaining forest will
become a test case if an international carbon-trading plan called REDD is
adopted.

REDD, or Reducing Emissions from Deforestation and Forest Degradation, is to be
one of the central topics of discussion at the Bali conference.

Essentially, it would involve payments by wealthy countries to developing
countries for every hectare of forest they do not cut down.

Indonesia, caught between its own financial interest in the palm oil industry
and the growing international demands for conservation, has been promoting the
carbon-trading plan for months.

But there are plenty of skeptics, who doubt it will be possible to measure just
how much carbon is being conserved -- and who question whether the lands
involved can be protected from illegal logging and corruption.

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              345 of 461 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                             June 7, 2007 Thursday
                                 SOONER EDITION

BYLINE: Scott Mervis

SECTION: ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT; LOCAL SCENE; Pg. W-15

LENGTH: 429 words


Soma sounds

* "Deeper, deeper, I sink," Christiane D. sings on the second track of
"Telomere," a sixth record from Soma Mestizo that mines some heavy emotional
ground.

The Pittsburgh band -- which describes its sound as "deep, dark, sexy global
-genre busting, booty-shaking, head-filling magic music" -- turns up as part of
the Three Rivers Arts Festival's 4th River Project this weekend with a
multi-media event that will combine music, art and dance.

It will serve as the release party for the record, which Soma calls its most
personal work. Christiane D. says it's about "fighting the invisible battle
about who we are."

A frontwoman with a dark smoky voice, she spits her poetic lyrics about
relationships and personal identity over highly improvisatory music filled with
jazzy riffs, global beats and deep didgeridoo grooves.

They'll do it live at 121 7th Street, 6th Floor, Downtown, Friday and Saturday
at 7:30 and 10 p.m. and Sunday at 7:30 p.m. Admission is $5.

Black Moth super

* Black Moth Super Rainbow ruffled some feathers here when frontman Tobacco
bashed the local scene in Rolling Stone last month, but Monday night's show at
the Three Rivers Arts Festival was a happy homecoming, a way to re-connect with
fans.

Playing amid the shiny buildings in that span between light and dusk, Black Moth
got a warm reception from a packed crowd of around 1,000 people.

There's not a lot of action on the stage during a BMSR show. Bassist Power Pill
Fist and drummer Iffernaut are the only members who seem to move. The rest have
their heads buried in their vintage keyboards. But the band perfectly executed
its trippy trademark sound with a jammy rhythm section, dreamy synths and
Mellotrons and Vocoder vocals that evoke a visit from friendly aliens.

Black Moth punctuated the show with a sly dig. Reacting perhaps to a mixed
review of "Dandelion Gum" by Manny Theiner in the PG, Black Moth flashed on its
busy video screen a Photoshopped image of Theiner in a red, white & blue hat
that said "God Bless Manny."

I would have gotten a better look at it if I hadn't been distracted by the
kettle corn.

Light breaking

* The Morning Light, a new pop-punk band featuring two former members of
Transition, will release its debut, "The Sounds of Love EP," with a show
Saturday night at 6:30 at Mr. Small's.

The Morning Light lists its influences as The Beatles, the Beach Boys and Ben
Folds, while still managing to sound like Dashboard Confessional.

Joining them will be All Time Low, Victory Lane, Mark This Day and Annasay.

Admission is $8 advance; $10 at the door. Call 1-866-468-3401.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: WEEKEND MAG

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              348 of 461 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                           November 1, 2007 Thursday
                                 REGION EDITION

FUEL-EFFICIENT OR SEXY CAR?;
HOW 'BOUT BOTH?

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. C-8

LENGTH: 669 words


Car designers are straining their imaginations like never before to be
fuel-miserly and earth-friendly, to create vehicles that may be driven with a
clear conscience.

Except when they're reverting to form and introducing the latest sexy,
gas-hungry hot rod with head-snapping acceleration.

Nissan Motor Co. showed its tiny Pivo2 electric concept car at the 40th Tokyo
Motor Show last week. It's equipped with lithium-ion batteries and
multidirectional wheels that let the driver park in the tightest of spots.

Pivo2 isn't for sale and may never be. Automakers call cars like this a design
exercise, to help test ideas that might show up in future cars. Nissan and other
automakers must be ready: Lawmakers worldwide are responding to concerns of
global warming with tighter and tighter fuel-consumption standards.

Automakers increasingly are at pains to stay within the regulations and continue
to manufacture larger cars and multipurpose vehicles, which by dint of their
size, weight and power may consume 50 percent or more fuel than a dinky,
plain-Jane econobox.

After years of growing larger and heavier, new models (even gas-electric hybrids
and those that burn diesel or a mix of gasoline and ethanol) are bound to get
smaller and slower than their predecessors. Consumers might be willing to
sacrifice in theory to keep the planet cool. But they won't be happy as they try
to cram kids, dog and hockey sticks into cramped backseats or cargo areas.

Designers aren't entirely relinquishing their dreams of creating fast,
beautiful, powerful machines. I suspect some are secretly praying for a
prolonged streak of cold weather. And maybe they're waiting for someone to prove
that warm temperatures aren't caused by human activity and carbon emissions.

Nissan is displaying another car in Tokyo, one slated for production that will
win no awards for environmental responsibility. Nissan's all-wheel-drive GT-R is
a beauty, powered by a 3.7-liter V-6 engine that develops 470 horsepower and is
capable of reaching 60 mph (97 kilometers per hour) from a dead stop in less
than four seconds.

When GT-R shows up in U.S. dealerships in June, it should sell for roughly
$80,000. The price equates to somewhere between half and two-thirds of a Porsche
Turbo with similar fire-breathing performance characteristics.

"GT-R is a symbol for how much Nissan can do," said Shiro Nakamura, Nissan
senior vice president in charge of design and brand management. At a typical
Nissan dealership, a GT-R will sit just a few feet away from a Nissan Versa
subcompact, which gets 34 miles per gallon on the highway. No one cares about
its 0-to-60 time.

Nissan isn't conflicted about what kind of cars it must build. Tighter rules
mandating average fuel-economy standards necessitate more and more small cars
and fewer big ones. But Nissan and all automakers, no matter their rhetoric,
still fall back on status, image and fantasy to sell vehicles.

Pint-sized Versa is one of Nissan's most popular; sales exceeding 60,000 units
are up fourfold in the United States through the first nine months of the year.
Cost is at the opposite extreme compared with its fuel efficiency -- as little
as $12,000. A rolling carbon offset, if you will.

Nissan, by contrast, doesn't expect to sell more than a few thousand GT-Rs in
the United States next year. No one cares about its fuel economy. But the
Japanese automaker is counting on consumers selecting Versa, Sentra, Altima and
other, more pedestrian models because the glamorous GT-R has raised the status
of the Nissan brand.

Toyota Motor Corp. has shrewdly positioned its Prius gas-electric hybrid sedan
as a worldwide badge of eco-purity. Toyota also exhibited its fastest Lexus ever
at the Tokyo Motor Show, the $67,000 IS-F, which is capable of generating 400
horsepower and a 4.9-second, 0-60 speed.

Toyota will sell 40 a month in Japan and 7,000 globally next year. Hyprocrisy?
Not really. Any automaker that can't find the middle ground between consumers'
demands and government mandates won't survive.

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Doron Levin is a Bloomberg News columnist.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              355 of 461 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                           January 18, 2007 Thursday
                                 SOONER EDITION

ECONOMIC REPORTS POINT TO STABILITY

BYLINE: Martin Crutsinger, The Associated Press

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. C-2

LENGTH: 452 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Wholesale prices moderated in December after a big surge the previous month,
while industrial production rebounded from three consecutive declines.

The Federal Reserve, meanwhile, reported that the economy was expanding at a
modest pace at the beginning of the year in spite of a weakness in housing.

Analysts said the trio of reports released yesterday indicated the Fed is on
track to achieve its goal: The economy is growing, but slowly enough so
inflation is under control without pushing the country into a recession.

The Labor Department reported that wholesale prices rose by 0.9 percent in
December, far more than economists expected but not as much as the 2 percent
gain in November, the biggest in 32 years.

Excluding volatile food and energy, however, core wholesale prices rose only by
0.2 percent last month, a moderate showing that should lend support to the view
that inflationary pressures are starting to wane. And for the year, core
wholesale inflation showed an increase of 2 percent, up slightly from a 1.7
percent increase for all of 2005.

On the factory front, industrial production rose by 0.4 percent, which proved
much better than expected.

Manufacturing rebounded, with gains at auto plants and factories making
computers, electronic products, machinery and aircraft. Production had declined
in September, October and November.

December's increase supported forecasts that manufacturers should enjoy a solid
2007. The belief is that strength in exports and business investment will offset
weakness in housing-related industries such as lumber and furniture.

Also yesterday, the Fed released its latest survey of business conditions,
reporting a modest pace in economic growth at the beginning of the year despite
a severe slowdown in housing.

The Fed's report will aid policymakers when they meet on Jan. 30-31. Most
analysts believe the Fed, which increased rates for two years to combat
inflationary pressures, will keep rates unchanged probably through mid-2007.

"Inflation continues at a moderate pace which is neither too hot for the Fed to
do anything nor cold enough for a rate cut," said Joel Naroff, chief economist
at Naroff Economic Advisors.

For all of 2006, wholesale prices rose by just 1.1 percent, the smallest since
prices fell by 1.6 percent in the recession year of 2001, vs. a 5.4 percent
increase in 2005. Despite a surge in gasoline prices last summer to record
levels above $3 a gallon, energy costs for the year fell by 2 percent after
having soared by 23.9 percent in 2005.

For December alone, energy costs rose 2.5 percent after a jump of 6.1 percent in
November. But with global oil prices falling to 19-month lows, analysts believe
further declines in energy are on the way.

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: To view the chart, go to the hard copy or microfilm editions of the
Post-Gazette

GRAPHIC: CHART: By AP; Bureau of Labor Statistics: PRODUCER PRICES (To view the
chart, go to the hard copy or microfilm editions of the Post-Gazette)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              356 of 461 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                           February 15, 2007 Thursday
                                 SOUTH EDITION

BIG SHOTS;
RIFLE TEAMS STILL MAKING THE ROUNDS IN PURSUIT OF WPIAL GOLD

BYLINE: Maria Sciullo, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. S-11

LENGTH: 1572 words


In competitive rifle, the pursuit of excellence can take your breath away.

For the 12 schools involved in WPIAL-sanctioned team rifle this winter, the
ability to hit a target smaller than a dime, from 50 feet away, from a prone
position is a matter of skill, concentration and confidence. It's also largely
dependent on the shooter's ability to harness his or her emotions and just ...
stop... breathing.

"It's a low-heart-rate sport," said Mt. Lebanon coach George Dietz. "I want my
kids sitting around right before a match, sleeping. I don't want them running,
yelling, eating chocolate before a match."

"The one thing I compare it to," said Bethel Park junior John Kiselica, "is that
when you're down in your position before you're ready to shoot... I try to fall
asleep."

"A good shooter is a person who can get down with the rifle, completely clear
their minds and maintain a good position. You concentrate on releasing the shot,
time and again, without fundamental change," said Plum coach Bob Eikey.

It's also one of few sports where men and women can compete equally.

"The boys and girls are on an equal footing," Bethel Park coach Dean Baumgardner
said. "It's all about positioning and trigger squeeze. Our rifle team probably
has the highest grade point average in the school; it attracts smart kids,
probably because of the concentration involved."

Two of the Black Hawks' top 10 shooters are female.

"Girls seem to have a better ability to relax," Baumgardner said.

"Every year, we have more than 50 kids try out; we try to maintain a team with
40 kids," Butler Area coach Eric Beveridge said. "It's a wide mix of males,
females. Our [boy-girl ratio] is probably 50-50 this year."

But the sport has had some nerve-wracking times. As recently as the 1960s, just
about every school in the WPIAL still had a rifle team. Budget cuts, combined
with the growing climate of firearms restriction, led dozens of schools to
abandon rifle, although Eikey said that Pennsylvania still has a
disproportionately higher share of programs in this country.

"Rifle is a political hot potato," he added, noting that increased anti-gun
sentiment, plus the tensions of Vietnam War-era America, led to the decrease in
scholastic rifle's popularity in the late '60s.

Rifle is not sanctioned by the PIAA, although the WPIAL still maintains a
championship for teams and individuals and sets the regular-season schedule.

In lieu of a PIAA title match, a state-level competition is run by McGuffey High
School coach Howard Ashbrook at the Frazier-Simplex range in Scenery Hill,
Washington County.

"We divide the state into three regions -- West, Central and Eastern," Ashbrook
said. "Based on how many teams are shooting in the region, we take 25 percent,
so this area [WPIAL] gets three."

Western Pennsylvania is a very good area for rifle. Last year, Trinity defeated
McGuffey for the WPIAL team title and the positions were switched at the state
competition. This year's district team competition will be held tomorrow at the
Dormont/Mt. Lebanon Sportsmen's Club in Canonsburg. The individual championships
are this afternoon at the same range.

McGuffey junior Joel Nuzum won the state title last year after finishing in a
four-way tie for the WPIAL championship. He was brought up around firearms, he
said, learning to hunt when he was very young.

Skill at hunting, however, doesn't necessarily translate into success on the
range.

"They are very different," Nuzum said. "It's a whole different feel, holding
your breath, slowing down your heart."

"This type of shooting does not transfer well to hunting; the skills involved
aren't that closely related," Baumgardner said.

Section 1 comprises Bethel Park, Butler, Mt. Lebanon, Plum and Woodland Hills.
Section 2 has Avella, Indiana, McGuffey, Trinity, Upper St. Clair and
Washington.

A 12th school, Hempfield, rejoined the WPIAL rifle program as a club this
season.

Even if a high school doesn't have a team, opportunities to shoot in competition
abound. Western Pennsylvania still teems with gun clubs from Aliquippa Bucktails
to Vandergrift Sportsmen's Association, from Ellwood City's Ellwood Wampum Rod
and Gun Club to the LaTrobe Sportsmen's Association. Many are private, but
larger ranges, such as Frazier-Simplex, regularly accommodate high school
practices.

The National Rifle Association has a range finder at
www.nrahq.org/shootingrange/findlocal.asp?State=PA.

Safety first

School districts with an eye on their sports budgets get a lot of (literal) bang
for their bucks because rifle is fairly inexpensive.

Beyond the initial outlay for the single-shot rifles, which begin at around
$1,500 but, as Ashbrook said, will last at least 25 years, there's little in the
way of equipment or facility rental.

Schools must purchase the jackets and slings worn by the athletes, and
ammunition.

"Once it's initially funded, the cost is minimal," Ashbrook said.

Over the years, Mt. Lebanon has collected 15 rifles, which seems to be the
average. At least two members of the Butler team own their guns. At least five
members of the McGuffey team bought their own, including Nuzum.

"My gun is top-of-the-line, with more bells and whistles than Willy Wonka's
train," Nuzum said. "Most people who have their own guns shoot at a club."

There are dozens of active gun clubs in Southwestern Pennsylvania, although most
WPIAL teams shoot at their school's on-site ranges. Although many ranges are
tucked away in basements and storage areas, McGuffey incorporated a modern
facility into its football stadium renovations.

All schools have locked storage for their rifles, and each coach interviewed for
this story stressed that safety measures are taught and enforced from Day 1. Yet
the sport underwent painful scrutiny in December when a member of the McGuffey
squad took a rifle to the adjacent locker room and fatally shot himself during
practice.

The Allegheny County Medical Examiner's office ruled the boy's death a suicide.

"At Butler [after the incident], I got no phone calls from parents. In fact, our
AD, as far as I know, got no phone calls," Beveridge said. "They understand
that, as far as sports goes, we have the best safety record around.

"We have had zero accidents in 40 years at Butler and I think most schools have
that record. You're more likely to have some kids fall and sprain an ankle on
the icy steps to our basement."

A flier posted on a storage closet wall at Mt. Lebanon's range reads: "Since the
incident at McGuffey, Mt. Lebanon now requires the use of a plastic safety
bullet or a safety flag in the chamber when the rifle is not in use. This
clearly signifies that a bullet is not loaded in the chamber."

"To get to the guns at our school, you have to go through two locked doors and
our head coach is the only one able to get into the armory," Kiselica said.

They don't do the wave

Even its coaches will admit: from a spectator's standpoint, rifle is not a
thrilling sport. But neither is poker, and look what the TV networks have done
with that.

A recent afternoon match between Mt. Lebanon and Butler took place in a dimly
lit, concrete block range tucked away at the far end of an older part of Lebo's
high school building.

Humorous little touches -- toy monkeys hanging from pipes along the low ceiling,
a sign reading "Your Mother does not work here, CLEAN UP" -- brighten what by
necessity must be a severe environment.

By the third of five relays, the faintly acrid smoke starts to build, and the
combined noise of gunfire can be headache-inducing, even with ear protection. To
spend so much time in such a dark, claustrophobic place? It must be love.

The six shooters in each relay have 15 minutes to complete their rounds. They
take their unloaded rifles to the line, get into position, and are brought the
live rounds of ammunition.

When everyone is settled, Dietz announces when it's time to begin.

It's almost like listening to a bag of popcorn cooking in a microwave oven. At
first, the pop-crack sounds come quickly but soon, as each shooter drops into a
rhythm, the reports come intermittently.

Sitting about 10 feet directly behind the shooters, coaches and teammates focus
on the targets through high-powered scopes and call out adjustments. When this
relay is finished another takes its place; five relays count toward a team
score.

"You try to put your steadier shooters in the last relay, and the first," Dietz
said. "Maybe the younger kids in the middle."

That afternoon, Mt. Lebanon defeated Butler to qualify for the WPIAL team
championship.

"So, we're out," Beveridge said. "We always seem to finish third [in the
section]."

Shoot to win

"Rifle," Baumgardner said, "attracts smart kids."

Concentration, competition, combined with the attraction of boys and girls on an
equal playing field draws surprisingly high numbers. Almost all of the coaches
interviewed said they have a mix of band members and athletes from other sports,
and filling rosters has not been a problem.

"The numbers have gone up," said Dietz, who has coached the Blue Devils for nine
seasons. "My first year, there were maybe 15 or 16 kids and I'm carrying 32 on
my squad now."

"We probably have more band members than from any other area; there is a
correlation between reading the music and shooting and sighting, I think. But we
do get them from cross country, football, volleyball."

It's like playing music, said Kiselica, who is in the Bethel Park band. "You
come in and shoot well, and the next [day], you can be horrible."

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Rebecca Droke/Post-Gazette: Bethel Park's Tori Walter, front,
takes aim during a Black Hawks practice session during the regular season.
Although the number of WPIAL teams are dwindling, rosters show healthy numbers
at the remaining schools. \
PHOTO: Mt. Lebanon assistant rifle coach and rangemaster Dick Larry adjusts the
target sling for junior Melissa Ulloa prior to a practice.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              368 of 461 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                            March 7, 2007 Wednesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

GREENSPAN: 'ONE-THIRD PROBABILITY' OF RECESSION

BYLINE: Craig Torres, Bloomberg News

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. E-2

LENGTH: 262 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, D.C.


Former Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan said there was a "one-third
probability" of a U.S. recession this year and that the current expansion
wouldn't have the staying power of its decade-long predecessor.

"We are in the sixth year of a recovery; imbalances can emerge as a result," Mr.
Greenspan said in an interview at his office in Washington. "Ten-year recoveries
have been part of a much broader global phenomenon. The historically normal
business cycle is much shorter" and is likely to be this time, he added.

Mr. Greenspan's outlook contrasts with the prediction of his successor Ben S.
Bernanke, who told Congress last week that the economy might strengthen this
year. Mr. Bernanke's upbeat assessment helped steady stock markets on Feb. 28
after a plunge the day before that some traders attribute partly to Mr.
Greenspan's musing that a recession couldn't be ruled out.

Mr. Greenspan ran the Fed for 18 years until January 2006

Little more than a year after leaving the central bank, Mr. Greenspan is
returning to economic forecasting, a role he enjoyed before entering government
service in 1974, during the administration of President Gerald R. Ford. He isn't
trying to predict a number for gross domestic product or inflation: He's trying
to capture the trend and when it might be about to change.

Private-sector economists and policymakers are expecting the expansion to
continue. The Fed expects the economy to grow between 2.5 percent and 3 percent
this year, and 2.75 percent and 3 percent next year, according to forecasts
presented to Congress last month.

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              369 of 461 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                              March 9, 2007 Friday
                                 SOONER EDITION

HAZLETON CASE TO TEST LOCAL LAWS AGAINST ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: MILAN SIMONICH, PITTSBURGH POST-GAZETTE

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. A-1

LENGTH: 889 words


Hazleton, an Eastern Pennsylvania city built by blue-collar Slavs and Italians,
will go on trial Monday for trying to impose laws to evict illegal immigrants.

Some 60 U.S. cities have conceived or approved their own immigration ordinances,
but Hazleton, in Luzerne County, will be the first one to have the
constitutionality of its laws tested in federal court.

The Hazleton ordinances, enacted but not yet enforced, would punish landlords
who rent to illegal immigrants and business owners who hire them.

The trial is expected to last two weeks and will be held in Scranton before U.S.
District Judge James M. Munley. His ruling in the Hazleton case could
essentially end local attempts to influence immigration policy or open the way
for more cities to try to force newcomers to register at city hall, so their
backgrounds could be checked by the locals.

Opponents of Hazleton's ordinances include groups as diverse as the American
Civil Liberties Union and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce.

The ACLU says immigration law is complex, and Hazleton's government lacks the
expertise and resources to determine who is in the country legally.

The chamber says immigration must be handled by the federal government to
prevent a messy patchwork of laws that differ from one town to the next. Chamber
members also say the Hazleton ordinances are written so badly that businesses
suspected of hiring illegal workers could be stripped of their licenses without
any hearing.

Hazleton Mayor Louis Barletta, a Republican, pushed through the immigration
laws. He complained that the federal government had done little to stem the tide
of illegal immigrants in his city, which is about 80 miles northeast of
Harrisburg.

The need for local laws, Mr. Barletta said, was demonstrated by the murder of a
Hazleton man last May. Both suspects are illegal immigrants from the Dominican
Republic.

In a news conference yesterday, opponents of the Hazleton immigration laws said
Mr. Barletta had exaggerated the problems caused by illegal immigrants and hurt
innocent people with his crusade.

Vic Walczak, legal director of the ACLU of Pennsylvania, said those challenging
Hazleton's laws would call Mr. Barletta as a hostile witness in hopes of pinning
him down on various crime statistics. Mr. Walczak said the trial will prove that
almost all serious crimes in Hazleton have been committed by U.S. citizens.

In an interview yesterday, Mr. Barletta said he looks forward to taking the
stand and shedding light on how life in Hazleton, population 22,000, has
deteriorated because of illegal immigrants.

"I'm more than happy to testify first, in the middle of the trial and last," Mr.
Barletta said. "Illegal is illegal. That doesn't change."

The mayor, though, said he fears his city is entering the case "with one hand
tied behind our back."

Some of the individuals challenging Hazleton's law are illegal immigrants, yet
their identities might be concealed at trial. Judge Munley is still weighing
whether these witnesses should be compelled to appear in court or whether their
anonymous testimony in depositions can simply be entered into the trial record.

"I thought in America you had the right to know who your accusers are," Mr.
Barletta said.

Legal immigrants also will be part of the case against Hazleton.

Rudy Espinal, president of the Hazleton Hispanic Business Association, said the
immigration ordinances have hurt the city's economy, even though an injunction
by Judge Munley stopped them from being enforced at least until the trial
concludes.

Mr. Espinal is a native of the Dominican Republic and his wife is from Colombia.
He said the mayor has created a climate of fear among Latinos, even those in the
country legally.

"In Hazleton, many Hispanic and immigrant businesses operate along and adjacent
to Wyoming Street, a major commercial street. Compared to the bustle that
existed before Hazleton started passing ordinances targeting immigrants, often
it feels like a ghost town," Mr. Espinal said.

Mr. Walczak said two legal immigrants from the Dominican Republic will testify
that police stood watch over their market and restaurant after the immigration
laws were approved by the city council. The couple's base of customers soon
dried up, so they moved their businesses to Arkansas, Mr. Walczak said.

Mr. Barletta, who is running for a third term as mayor, said he plans to attend
every day of the trial. National organizations, such as the Federation for
American Immigration Reform, are helping him defend Hazleton's laws.

Still, Mr. Barletta remains the public face of Hazleton's campaign. His
notoriety has soared since the first of the laws was approved in July. Flaws in
the ordinances forced the city to rewrite them in September and again in
December, but Mr. Barletta nonetheless went from small-town mayor to national
figure.

The immigration issue turned him into a fixture on the cable talk show circuit,
and the CBS news program "60 Minutes" featured Mr. Barletta in a segment called
"Welcome to Hazleton."

Mr. Barletta said he is pessimistic about the trial being fair, given the
possibility that illegal immigrants could be shielded from cross-examination.
But, he said, he will keep fighting to implement the Hazleton laws, even if he
has to appeal.

"I believe what we're doing is right," he said. "All I want is a level playing
field to prove it."

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Milan Simonich can be reached at msimonich@post-gazette.com or
412-263-1956.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              374 of 461 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                            March 21, 2007 Wednesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

BYLINE: Compiled by Rick Nowlin

SECTION: HEALTH SCIENCE MEDICINE AND TECHNOLOGY; FITNESS CALENDAR; Pg. D-2

LENGTH: 1211 words


SPECIAL EVENTS

* Passavant Hospital Foundation's Bridge to Hope group will host a viewing of
the first part of the HBO documentary, "Addiction," for the community today at
6:30 p.m. in the hospital's Assembly Hall. A seminar will follow, featuring Dr.
Neil Capretto, medical director for Gateway Rehabilitation, and a panel of
family members who participated in the film. Call 412-367-6643 to preregister
for the free seminar.

The Bridge to Hope group, for families affected by addition, meets every
Wednesday from 7 to 8:30 p.m. in the hospital's Donor Hall.

* The Midwife Center is sponsoring a BirthHouse Blend Bash, a silver jubilee
celebration, from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. March 24 at the Center for Creative Play,
1400 S. Braddock Ave., Swissvale. Families are encouraged to share their
stories. Gourmet coffee is being offered. Children may play at the center for $5
per child, free for center members. Call 412-760-4626.

* Children's Hospital of Pittsburgh is sponsoring "Kid-a-Palooza" from 10 a.m.
to 7 p.m. March 24 at the David L. Lawrence Convention Center. Available are
health and wellness booths, indoor rides, a toddler play area, a sports zone, a
safety corral and more. The cost is $9, $6 for children ages 3 to 11 and free
for children 2 and younger. Call 412-920-9400.

* The band Life in Balance is sponsoring "Electronic Meditation" from 7 to 8:30
p.m. March 24 at Yoga on Centre, 6016 Penn Circle South, East Liberty. Call
412-363-9642.

* Carnegie Museum of Natural History is hosting a program, "Global Warming in
the Polar Regions: Is the Canary Singing?" at 7:30 p.m. March 26. Featured
speaker is Thomas Homer-Dixon, author and professor of political science at the
University of Toronto. The cost is $10, $5 for students, senior and museum
members. Call 412-622-3131.

* Citizens for Pennsylvania's Future, in conjunction with the Pennsylvania
Interfaith Climate Change Campaign, is holding a conference, "Global Warming:
It's Time for Action," from 9:30 a.m. to 2:30 p.m. March 31 in the Sister
Ferdinand Clark Auditorium at Mercy Hospital of Pittsburgh. Preregistration is
required and space is limited. Call 1-800-321-7775 in Pennsylvania only or
717-214-7920.

* The American Liver Foundation is sponsoring a seminar, "Living Well with Liver
Disease," from 8:30 a.m. to 1 p.m. April 14 at the Courtyard Marriott, 7792
Peach St., Erie. The cost is $10, and scholarships are available. The deadline
to register is March 30. Call 1-866-434-7044.

CHARITY EVENTS

* "Amy's Army" is sponsoring the following events to benefit leukemia patient
Amy Katz. Call 1-877-243-4269.

-- Blues concert, 4 to 11 p.m. March 25, Hard Rock Cafe, Station Square.
Donation: $10.

-- Bone marrow drive, 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. March 27, Wintergarden, PPG, Stanwix
Street at Fourth Avenue.

* Lucy Shoes, 510 Allegheny River Blvd., Oakmont, is sponsoring a special sale
from 6 to 9 p.m. March 28. Twenty percent of sales during that time are being
donated to the Southwestern Pennsylvania chapter of American Red Cross. Call
412-820-2410.

BLOOD DRIVES

* To find a blood drive near you call:

The Central Blood Bank, 412-209-7000 or 1-800-310-9551.

The American Red Cross, 1-800-448-3543. For bloodmobile locations, check
http://www.redcrosslife.org.

SEMINARS/LECTURES

* Excela Health is sponsoring the following programs. Call 1-877-771-1234 except
where indicated.

-- Colorectal cancer, 8:30 to 9:30 a.m. March 22, food court, Westmoreland Mall,
Lincoln Highway, Hempfield. Call 724-836-5025 or 724-542-1959.

-- "Sleep: My Heart, My Brain, My Health," 6 to 8 p.m. March 22, Memorial
Conference Center, Westmoreland Hospital.

-- "Maintain Your Brain: How to Live a Brain-Healthy Lifestyle," 6 to 8 p.m.
March 27, Memorial Conference Center, Westmoreland Hospital; and April 17,
Latrobe Hospital. Sponsored in conjunction with the Alzheimer's Association.

* UPMC Passavant is sponsoring the following seminars.

-- Voices and Faces of Recovery, on substance abuse, 6:30 tonight. Call
412-367-6643.

-- Pancreatic cancer, 6 to 7:30 p.m. March 22. Refreshments served. To register,
call 1-800-533-8762 option 1.

* Children's Hospital of Pittsburgh is sponsoring "The Happiest Baby on the
Block," a class for new parents, from 7 to 8:30 p.m. March 26 at its Bethel Park
satellite center. The cost is $40 per couple. Call 412-692-7105.

CLASSES/WORKSHOPS

* St. Clair Hospital is sponsoring the following classes. Call 412-942-5895.

-- Sibling class, for older children of expectant mothers, 6 p.m. March 24.
Cost: $24 per family, registration required.

-- Mothers and Daughters: Teenage Sexuality, 6:30 p.m. March 29. Cost: $35 per
child, registration required.

* Excela Health is sponsoring the following workshops. Call 1-877-771-1234.

-- Avoiding falls, 2 p.m. March 27, Latrobe Hospital. Also call 724-537-1178.
Part of the "Helping Hearts" education series.

-- "Relax through Drumming," 7 to 8 p.m. March 30, Seton Hill University's
Center for Faimly Therapy, 41 W. Otterman St., Greensburg.

* Medical Rescue Team South Authority is sponsoring the following safety classes
at 6:30 p.m. Call 412-343-5111.

-- Heartsaver first aid, March 22. Cost: $45.

-- CPR for the health care provider, March 26 and 27. Cost: $50.

* ParentWISE is offering "The Dad's Group" from 7 to 8:30 p.m. Wednesdays from
March 28 through April 23 at its offices, Suite 2, 409 Coulter Ave., South
Greensburg. Call 724-837-5410.

RESEARCH

* The Claude D. Pepper Center at the University of Pittsburgh seeks men and
women 60 or older within a 50-mile drive of the Oakland section of Pittsburgh to
join a registry for future balance and mobility research studies. Call
1-800-872-3653.

SUPPORT GROUPS

* Self Help Group Network, a service of HelpLine, provides a database of support
groups. Call 412-255-1155.

* St. Clair Hospital is offering "Hugs for Healing Hearts," a pregnancy loss
support group, at 7 p.m. March 26. Call 412-942-5895.

* Presbyterian SeniorCare is sponsoring its monthly Alzheimer's support group
from 7 to 9 p.m. March 27 at its Westminster Place campus, 1215 Hulton Road,
Oakmont. Call 412-826-6505.

* Excela Health is offering a Helping Hearts cardiac support group from 7 to
8:30 p.m. March 27 at Latrobe Hospital. Call 1-877-771-1234.

* UPMC is sponsoring the following programs on March 27 in recognition of
Diabetes Alert Day. Call 412-692-4295.

-- Blood pressure screenings, 11 a.m. to 2 p.m., UPMC South Side. Includes
self-management program.

-- Blood glucose screenings, 8 to 10 a.m., Crawford Classroom, UPMC McKeesport.

SPECIAL OPPORTUNITIES

* The Women's Auxiliary of Canonsburg General Hospital is sponsoring the
following sales in the main lobby. Proceeds benefit the hospital. Call
724-873-5835.

-- Books, 8:30 a.m. to 3 p.m. today and March 22.

-- Baked goods, 7 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. March 28.

* The Board of Auxiliaries of UPMC Passavant is sponsoring a jewelry sale from 7
a.m. to 4 p.m. March 26 and 27. Bath and body products also are available. Call
412-367-5228.

* The Pittsburgh affiliate of the Susan G. Komen for the Cure, in conjunction
with local McDonald's restaurants, is sponsoring a "Kids for the Cure" art
contest. Children in grades K through 6 are to use the pink ribbon logo in a
unique piece of artwork to be showcased at the Race for the Cure on May 13.
Entries must be postmarked by April 8. Call 412-342-0504.

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              402 of 461 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                            July 18, 2007 Wednesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

SOME CITIES LOSE ANTI-TERROR AID

SECTION: NATIONAL; NATIONAL BRIEFS; Pg. A-6

LENGTH: 671 words


WASHINGTON -- A new round of federal anti-terror grants to cities shows big
gains this year for some, such as San Diego, Phoenix, and Denver, and cuts for
others, including Miami, Milwaukee, and Sacramento.

The anti-terror aid, expected to be announced today by the Department of
Homeland Security, is an annual exercise that often leads to complaints from
those cities that come up millions of dollars short, compared to the previous
year.

According to the list given to lawmakers, Orlando stands to lose more than $3
million of the $9 million it received last year, and Miami will lose a quarter
of the $16 million it received in 2006. Milwaukee lost almost half its funding,
a cut of nearly $4 million.

On the winning side: Phoenix more than tripled its take, rising to nearly $12
million, Houston saw a 50 percent increase to $25 million, and the Twin Cities
area of Minnesota almost doubled its share to $8.5 million.

Deportations Hurt Families

WASHINGTON -- An estimated 1.6 million children and spouses have been separated
from family members forced to leave the country under toughened 1996 immigration
laws, a human rights group said today.

The separations have taken a toll on families who have sold homes, lost jobs,
lost businesses or been thrown into financial turmoil, Human Rights Watch said
in a new report.

In 1996, Congress toughened immigration laws.

Since this law was passed, 672,593 immigrants have been deported for crimes,
according to statistics cited in the report from Citizenship and Immigration
Services, a division of the Homeland Security Department.

A Call For Action

WASHINGTON -- Chief executives of many of the country's largest corporations
joined the growing chorus yesterday calling for action to reduce the risks of
global warming.

The Business Roundtable, which represents 160 chief executives of leading U.S.
companies, said that "collective actions" should be taken now to begin reducing
heat-trapping "greenhouse" gases that scientists believe are warming the earth.

The group said that its members have varying views on how to achieve the
emission reductions and that not all of the executives support mandatory carbon
dioxide limits. But the group said its members agree that reducing the amount of
carbon dioxide going into the atmosphere should be a top priority.

The Business Roundtable is an association of CEOs of major corporations,
representing a combined work force of more than 10 million employees and $4.5
trillion in annual revenues.

Its members include major energy companies including Exxon Mobil Corp., Peabody
Energy Co., the country's largest coal producer, and Southern Co., the
Atlanta-based electric utility that is among the largest coal users.

Fire Threatens Neverland

LOS OLIVOS, Calif. -- Residents of several hundred homes, including Michael
Jackson's Neverland Ranch, were asked to evacuate as a wildfire in the mountains
of Santa Barbara's wine country threatened to shift in the wind, a fire official
said yesterday.

The 43-square-mile blaze in the Los Padres National Forest had come within about
two miles of some homes when more than 1,000 residents living in and around Los
Olivos were advised to leave Monday night, said Santa Barbara County Fire Capt.
Eli Iskow.

The notice covered a swath of land where Jackson's ranch sits. The pop star has
not been living at the ranch and it was unknown whether residents or staff
members had heeded the voluntary evacuation. before being escorted out,
officials said. He also carried a 6-inch hunting knife, police said.

Clinton donors help Vilsack

WASHINGTON -- Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton's campaign donors, many of them her
top fundraisers, have directed nearly $90,000 to former Iowa Gov. Tom Vilsack to
help retire the debt he incurred before dropping out of the presidential race.

Mr. Vilsack withdrew in February, citing an inability to raise the money
necessary to compete, and endorsed Mrs. Clinton a month later. At the time, the
Clinton campaign said it would help Vilsack whittle down a campaign debt of more
than $400,000.

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              418 of 461 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                           October 10, 2007 Wednesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

CLINTON PROPOSES RETIREMENT PLAN

SECTION: NATIONAL; NATIONAL BRIEFS; Pg. A-6

LENGTH: 557 words


WEBSTER CITY, Iowa -- Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton, D-N.Y., yesterday proposed a
new multibillion-dollar retirement plan -- billed as a universal 401(k) plan
with federal matching funds -- to supplement Social Security for middle-class
workers.

Such "American Retirement Accounts" would cost the Treasury $20 billion to $25
billion a year, making this the second-most-expensive initiative of the many
pricey proposals Mrs. Clinton has rolled out recently in her campaign for the
Democratic presidential nomination. The most expensive, her plan for universal
health care, would cost more than $100 billion a year.

Her plan would allow all workers to open portable retirement accounts and put up
to $5,000 a year in them on a tax-deferred basis.

Obama's energy plan

Just months after being chastised by environmentalists for backing a
controversial coal technology, Sen. Barack Obama has put forward a wide-ranging
proposal on energy and climate change with calls for sharply reduced carbon
dioxide emissions, higher vehicle mileage standards and greatly increased energy
efficiency.

In a speech in Portsmouth, N.H., Mr. Obama framed energy policy as an area in
which the Washington establishment has failed the country.

Mr. Obama's plan calls for a cap-and-trade system for reducing greenhouse gases
that aims to slash carbon emissions to 80 percent below 1990 levels by 2050, a
target that has also been endorsed by his rivals. Mr. Obama's plan would auction
off emissions permits, unlike other cap-and-trade proposals in Congress that
give out permits at no cost.

Honoring citizen-heroes

WASHINGTON -- Recipients of the Medal of Honor, the U.S. military's highest
award for valor, are seeking examples of Americans who have demonstrated similar
courage in their day-to-day lives.

During a ceremony yesterday at the Lincoln Memorial, members of the
Congressional Medal of Honor Society announced a search for citizen-heroes who
may be worthy of a new award -- the "Above & Beyond Citizen Honors."

Potential recipients can be nominated via the Internet. One finalist will be
selected from each state. Three of the finalists will be chosen by the society
to receive the honors, which will be awarded during a two-hour television
special broadcast on March 25, Medal of Honor Day.

Pot-pie plant shutdown

OMAHA, Neb. -- ConAgra Foods Inc. voluntarily stopped production yesterday at
the Missouri plant that makes its Banquet pot pies after health officials said
the pies may be linked to 139 cases of salmonella in 30 states.

ConAgra officials believe the company's pies are safe if they're cooked
properly, but the Omaha-based company told consumers yesterday not to eat its
pot pies until the government and company investigations are complete.

The federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has been tracking reports
of the salmonella cases since last Wednesday. A CDC spokeswoman said the largest
numbers of salmonella cases had been reported in Wisconsin, Pennsylvania and
Missouri.

Crib death investigated

PINEVILLE, Mo. -- Federal consumer safety officials are investigating a
Simplicity Inc. crib design after local authorities blamed the death of a
4-month-old girl in southwest Missouri on one of the company's bassinets.

The model in the probe, a "Simplicity 4-in-1," was not part of a recall last
month of 1 million other baby beds from the company.

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              421 of 461 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                           October 17, 2007 Wednesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

CONGRESS, FOLLOW AL GORE'S LEAD BY TAKING STRONG ACTION ON ENERGY

BYLINE: PETER J. WRAY Churchill

SECTION: EDITORIAL; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR; Pg. B-6

LENGTH: 139 words


The awarding of the 2007 Peace Prize to Al Gore and the Intergovernmental Panel
on Climate Change ("Gore Shares Peace Prize," Oct. 13) was justly deserved. Mr.
Gore's early recognition of the threat of global warming and his persistent call
for government action has indeed been courageous.

However, while Mr. Gore's push for action is being heard by states and
communities across the country, action by Congress is uncertain. Members of
Congress such as Reps. Jason Altmire, Mike Doyle and John Murtha need to make
clear to the Democratic leadership that they will support passage of a strong
energy bill before the end of the 2007 session. Otherwise, the distraction of
the presidential election will delay congressional action on global warming
until well into 2009. That is a delay that Al Gore is unlikely to believe we can
afford.

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: The writer is co-chair of the conservation committee, Allegheny Group of
the Sierra Club.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING: Nobel laureate Gore

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              435 of 461 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                          November 21, 2007 Wednesday
                                  WEST EDITION

SECTION: METRO; MUNICIPAL NEWS; Pg. W-6

LENGTH: 1340 words


Ambridge

The borough has been designated as a Preserve America Community.

Council President Gerald "Duke" McCoy received a letter Nov. 13 about the award.
The borough will receive a certificate of designation signed by first lady Laura
Bush, honorary chairwoman of the Preserve America initiative.

In a prepared statement, Mrs. Bush said, "Preserve America Communities
demonstrate that they are committed to preserving America's heritage while
ensuring a future filled with opportunities for learning and enjoyment."

Ambridge will receive national recognition and the Preserve America emblem will
appear on signs and promotional materials. The borough will be eligible for
Preserve America Grants, and it will be listed in state tourism materials and in
a Web-based directory that showcases preservation efforts and heritage tourism
destinations.

Preserve America Communities also are featured in National Register Travel
Itineraries and in "Teaching With Historic Places" curricular materials created
by the National Park Service.

Beaver Falls

The $2.7 million newly constructed and relocated section of Route 18 has opened
between 28th Street/Ninth Avenue and 32nd Street. Motorists should be alert for
minor work and restrictions that will continue through the end of the month.

The prime contractor for the project is Lindy Paving Inc., of New Castle.

Bridgeville

Solicitor Richard Ferris reported that safety issues at the Station Street
railroad crossing that were the topic of a recent Public Utility Commission
hearing have been resolved.

Several residents had questioned the safety of the base of the automatic
crossing gates that are embedded in the sidewalk, as well as an electronic
control box in the middle of Triangle Park.

An independent study commissioned by the borough found the work done by the
Pittsburgh and Ohio Central Railroad was in compliance with all federal safety
standards. PennDOT also studied the crossing and determined it was in
compliance.

Carnegie

The Carnegie Community Development Corp. is offering a Facade Improvement
Program to encourage business facade and sign improvements on Main Street from
Chestnut Street to Jefferson Street.

The program will provide matching grants of up to $10,000 to eligible building
and business owners.

"We are excited to provide this funding opportunity to local business owners. We
view this program as one part of an overall strategy for the Carnegie business
district," said Leigh White, CCDC executive director.

Besides making visual improvements and encouraging historical preservation, CCDC
hopes the facade program will increase the commercial properties' market value
and stimulate economic growth. If the program generates strong results, CCDC
will seek additional funding to expand the program.

Business owners interested in the program may learn more details, including
application procedures and design guidelines, by visiting www.carnegiepa.info,
or by calling 412-279-5456.

* An Office Depot store is in the works for the eastern sector of the business
district.

Developers Pat Felix and Craig Cozza plan to build the store on Main Street,
near the site of the old Main Hotel. Borough council Nov. 12 approved vacating
part of Hays Street between Lydia and William streets and gave conditional-use
approval for the plan.

The developers indicated the actions will enable them to finalize their lease
with Office Depot. The building is expected to be completed in the summer.

* Council approved an ordinance creating a two-hour parking limit between 8 a.m.
and 5 p.m. Monday through Friday at these locations: the east side of Bell
Avenue between Rosslyn Road and Justus Avenue; both sides of Justus Avenue
between Bell Avenue and Steele Place; and Fifth Street between West Main Street
and the dead end.

The parking restrictions do not apply to residents.

Council also approved for advertising an ordinance amendment dealing with cable
franchise fees and agreements in preparation for entering an agreement with
Verizon.

* Council authorized the police chief to draft a participation letter for "A
Child Is Missing," a national nonprofit program that provides free telephone
alerts to surrounding communities whenever law enforcement reports a missing
child or elderly person. The organization, based in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., is 11
years old and is credited with making more than 300 recoveries.

Collier

The proposed 2008 budget isn't final and some numbers are likely to change, but
the document is available for public inspection at the municipal building.

Also, it can be viewed on the Web. at colliertownship.net.

Manager Jeanne Creese said last week that the preliminary budget totals
$6,201,798 and holds the property tax rate at 3.5 mills. The budget is expected
to be adopted Dec. 11.

* At the recommendation of the planning commission, George Macino, of Summit
Ridge, has been appointed to the planning commission. His term will expire Dec.
31, 2010.

* Commissioner Kay Downey-Clarke announced that the parks and recreation study
group would start interviewing consultant finalists next Wednesday to help with
the development of a comprehensive parks plan. She added that the parks and
recreation study group is looking for new members because of resignations. The
group meets at 6:30 p.m. the fourth Wednesday each month.

* The township has purchased 10 aluminum signs for $352.50 from G & S Signs,
Great Southern Shopping Center, to alert walkers when they are leaving the
border of public woodlands near the Panhandle Trail and are about to enter
private property.

Commissioners were split over the purchase of two indoor bulletin boards worth
$1,200 for the municipal building from Target Office Products.

"I don't think indoor boards should cost this much," said Mrs. Downey-Clarke,
who said she would rather put the money toward outdoor boards or signs. She and
Commissioner Jackie Burkhart voted no, but the measure passed 3-2.

Moon

The police department received the AAA Safety Gold Award for its Child Safety
Seat Program.

Police Chief Leo McCarthy said his department sees about 25 families each week
who want to have child safety seats installed at no cost.

He said Moon has eight federally certified technicians who can install child
safety seats around the clock. Appointments are necessary. The program also is
open to nonresidents.

Chief McCarthy said that the Moon police department receives drug forfeiture
money distributed by the Allegheny County District Attorney's office to purchase
the seats, which are required for children age 3 and younger. Children ages 4 to
8 years old must be in booster seats. The fine for failing to have a child under
4 years old in a safety seat is $100.

North Fayette

Wood Waste Recycling, of Burgettstown, plans to expand into North Fayette next
year with a wholesale landscaping service center on 34 acres on Kelso Road, near
Route 22.

Supervisors approved development plans Nov. 13.

Company owner Eric Vaccarello said the project would include an outdoor
composting operation to turn stumps, logs and brush into mulch, which would be
sold to retail stores.

Mr. Vaccarello plans to convert a 10,000-square-foot former church into offices.
He expects to add five to 10 employees over the next several years.

For a fee, the business will accept organic wood debris from individuals or
companies.

Stowe

The Fleming Park fire station has a new engine rescue truck, completing a round
of four acquisitions for the department.

Fire Chief David Gallagher said last month that the new equipment replaces
apparatus that had put in 20-plus years of service at the township's two
stations.

"The residents and commissioners of Stowe Township were part of a major support
system which allowed these types of acquisitions to occur.

"Without the fund-raising and community support, this replacement process
wouldn't have been possible."

The first new vehicle was a midsize fire engine acquired in 2005 by the West
Park station. Next came a Fleming Park rescue squad truck, a West Park aerial
ladder pumper and finally, the Fleming Park engine/rescue vehicle.

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              447 of 461 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                            December 31, 2007 Monday
                                 SOONER EDITION

CORKS POP IN RECORD NUMBER;
CHAMPAGNE SALES ARE SOARING, BUT SOON, SO WILL PRICES

BYLINE: Beppi Crosariol, Toronto Globe and Mail

SECTION: LIFESTYLE; Pg. C-2

LENGTH: 899 words


This year more than ever, champagne producers will have special reason to pop
open bottles of their own product tonight: Sales are on a tear.

India, Russia and China are partying like Britney, Paris and Lindsay,
apparently, posting annual champagne-consumption increases well above 30
percent, smitten by the drink's iconic status as the celebratory sip of Western
sophisticates.

But the boom is hardly confined to emerging-thirst countries. Coasting on a
global obsession with all things bling, France's most famous sparkling wine is
enjoying its largest gains in absolute terms from big, bubble-belting markets
such as Britain, the United States, Germany, Belgium, Italy, Switzerland and
Spain. Even Canada, a laggard among developing countries at just 1 percent of
export consumption (roughly equivalent to one good sip per person annually),
posted an admirable 11 percent gain last year.

Since the early 1990s, global sales have swelled almost 50 percent to 320
million bottles, up from 220 million. And they're accelerating. Worldwide
exports last year expanded 9 percent in volume over the previous year.

By far the biggest segment of growth has been roses, the glamour-imbued pink
style that has more than quadrupled in popularity over the past decade.

But for consumers, an ominous statistic is emerging from the otherwise bullish
numbers. As of 2008, champagne will face an official shortage, with even higher
price increases than usual on the way and stricter rationing of key brands.

The problem is that Champagne, a region of undulating hills and chalky soils
about 90 minutes east of Paris, measures only about 81,510 acres. Based on a
maximum output of 4,050 bottles per acre (in a good year), the annual production
ceiling is 330 million bottles or so. A lot of wine, yes, but as of this year,
demand exceeded that maximum supply.

"This year we're going to be at the maximum," said Bertrand Deltour, market
director in Canada for Moet Hennessy, the wine and spirits division of LVMH Moet
Hennessy Louis Vuitton, which owns top-selling champagne brands Moet & Chandon,
Veuve Clicquot, Dom Perignon, Krug and Ruinart. "The shortage is real."

In fact, shortages of some limited-production cuvees have already begun. In
Canada, Moet Hennessey this year was forced to ration its excellent, and trendy,
$77 Veuve Clicquot Rose, limiting distribution to just one province, Ontario.
"We don't have enough to sell in other provinces," Deltour said.

The supply crisis (if you can call champagne rationing a crisis situation) is
expected to be so strong that France's agency in charge of wine-growing
appellations announced last month it was proposing the unusual step of
significantly expanding the region's borders.

The move, which would take many years and require European Union approval, would
be a big economic windfall for the outlying farmers. Land within Champagne can
sell for 100 times or more as land just over the Champagne border, which
surrounds the cities of Reims and Epernay east of Paris.

But the hallowed region's success may eventually have an even bigger and more
fruitful impact on the rest of the French wine industry than just the
gerrymandering of its own borders. It is already being closely watched by
long-suffering producers in regions such as Bordeaux and the Languedoc, hundreds
of whom are teetering on the brink of bankruptcy because of declining domestic
consumption and global competition from the generally more easy-drinking wines
of California, Australia and Chile.

The moral: Champagne excels at two things the French wine industry is not -- to
make a sweeping generalization -- known for: slick marketing and consistent
quality.

Champagne, although governed by the same convoluted appellation laws that
supposedly guarantee wine quality throughout France, has always played by its
own, far more consumer-friendly rules.

Sure, the wine's complex flavors and crisp acidity are direct products of the
region's famous white-chalk soils and bracing northern climate -- two variables
that French wine aficionados collectively refer to as terroir. But few people
except for those aficionados care. One thing the general public has grown to
appreciate most about champagne, particularly the so-called non-vintage variety
that makes up the bulk of sales and has been experiencing virtually all the
growth, is the consistent quality of its brands year after year. No other French
wine region comes close.

The reason? Blending. Non-vintage champagnes are a marriage of wines spanning
several years and wide swaths of vineyard land. These super-blends are otherwise
considered anathema in the world of fine French wine, whose appellation system
is designed to stress the unique charm of specific vineyards and vintages. But
it means juice from a good year and a good vineyard can be used to hide the
defects of a lesser wine, enabling the winemaker to craft a consistent house
style that is more a signature of the brand than a particular place in time.

The other big attraction of champagne for most people, of course, is its
symbolism. As a good-life icon, it's up there with Gucci and Mercedes. Deltour
calls it a wine that operates in a "totally different category" from all others.
"Champagne has been able to create a trademark, a brand name. The name champagne
today stands as a luxury brand."

And, from a wine-marketing standpoint, it stands as a triumph of brand over
land.

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Alastair Miller/Bloomberg News: In the new year, champagne
drinkers will face a shortage of the bubbly and higher price increases.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              450 of 461 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                            February 11, 2007 Sunday
                                 NORTH EDITION

Lights, camera, rescue!;
Teens' DVD aims to save amphibians, reptiles

BYLINE: Doug Oster, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: METRO; Pg. N-1

LENGTH: 580 words


It's easy to see where Alex Petridis' passions lie.

He's sitting at his family's dining room table with a small, Colombian red-tail
boa constrictor wrapped around his hand, a typical sight in his home. Behind him
is a picture of his hero, the late Steve Irwin, holding a crocodile, and in the
living room, an iguana named Iggy sunbathes in warm artificial light.

Iggy is one of many reptiles the 18-year-old senior at Slippery Rock Area High
School has adopted as part of Tasow, an acronym that stands for The Awesome
Spirit of Wildlife, a nonprofit organization he founded in 2003. He also has
toads, snakes, turtles and lizards living in the refuge that occupies the family
room in his home in Worth.

Tasow, which has five members, mostly students from Slippery Rock Area High
School, has three functions.

It offers reptile rescue and rehabilitation, with members of the group taking in
discarded reptiles or animals injured in the wild. In some cases, they care for
the animals and release them back into the wild. In other cases, they find homes
for them.

The group also offers interactive education, in which members travel to schools
and functions, reptiles in tow.

To reach a larger audience, Tasow also produces wildlife movies. Its first DVD
explores the Wolf Creek Narrows, an 125-acre wildlife area near Slippery Rock.

In the movie, Alex leads viewers through the streams and trails of the area and
showcases some of the interesting creatures that live there.

He chose Wolf Creek for a couple of reasons.

"It's the one natural area around here that people don't think of too much," he
said.

With Slippery Rock Creek, Lake Arthur and Moraine State Park just a stone's
throw away, Wolf Creek can be overlooked.

But its size is another reason to focus on the diminutive park, Alex said.

"The small things tell you everything you need to know about the big things," he
said. That rings true in the movie, when the crew discovers a tiny spring
salamander. The amphibian is referred to as an indicator species, meaning its
presence ensures the water is clean. In the movie, Alex is shown discovering one
of the salamanders at the top of a spring. Obviously thrilled to see the pink
creature, he gently picks it and declares it "one of the most important
treasures in the Northeast."

The next DVD project takes the team to Cooperstown, N.Y., where they will film
in the Susquehanna River Basin, hoping to show the largest salamander in the
United States, called the hellbender, which can grow to more than 2 feet.

Each of the members chip in to fund Tasow projects.

Alex has been interested in reptiles and amphibians since he was a child, and he
hopes his movies will bring an awareness to these animals to promote
conservation.

"We've seen a decline in the species we've studied. Due to global warming and
viruses, one of the major problems is loss of habitat," he said.

He knows the answer to protecting the animals will come from the children he
visits at schools and camps. "We felt like we had to educate the youth because
they're the future heirs of the planet," he said.

"We have a team of reptiles that let the children interact with them. The
animals do the educating, we're there to speak for the animals," he said.

He summarized the message he wants to send to children from the creatures: "If
you see me in the wild, you don't have to kill me or pick me up or take me home.
Just leave me alone. You can watch me."

For more information about Tasow, go to www.tasowfilms.com/index.php.

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Doug Oster can be reached at or doster@post-gazette.com or 724-772-9177.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Post-Gazette: Queen Latifah, one of three American toads owned
by Alex Petridis, dines on a live cricket. Alex and four friends founded Tasow
to rescue such creatures and produced a DVD to promote the effort. View a
two-minute excerpt from a Tasow film at www.post-gazette.com/north \
PHOTO: Post-Gazette: Iggy, an iguana, spends time with Alex Petridis, who runs a
reptile rescue from his Butler County home as part of a wildlife group he
founded. Iggy is one of the reptiles Alex has saved. \
PHOTO: Post-Gazette: This Sudanese plated lizard, a discarded pet, is one of
Alex Petridis' saves. Alex founded the nonprofit Tasow, which stands for the
awesome spirit of wildlife.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              451 of 461 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                            February 18, 2007 Sunday
                               FIVE STAR EDITION

SENSITIVITY CAN BEA BOON FOR BOSSES

BYLINE: Teresa M. McAleavy, The Record (Hackensack N.J.)

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. J-1

LENGTH: 686 words


If you want your business to succeed, stop being a jerk. Really.

Most of the time, people switch jobs because they have a bad relationship with
their boss.

And with 76 million baby boomers readying to retire in the next decade or
shortly thereafter, keeping good workers will be more pressing than ever for
employers because labor shortages are widely predicted.

But learning to be more civil to employees doesn't mean managers have to
transform themselves into some warm, fuzzy types. In fact, most workers would
rather maintain an air of professionalism in the workplace and leave the more
light-hearted moments for their personal lives.

"Employees are not looking for a boss who is a fun-loving, back-slapping buddy,"
said author Terry Bacon, chief executive officer of the global human-resources
consulting group Lore International Institute, based in Durango, Colo. "What
they want is a professional, respectful manager who is honest, fair and has a
strong work ethic."

Mr. Bacon knows this because his company queried more than 500 workers in
various industry sectors to help business folks better manage their professional
relationships. What the West Point graduate and Army veteran found is offered up
in "What People Want: A Manager's Guide to Building Relationships That Work."

It's a book Lisa Clifford says "jumped out" at her among the stacks of others on
her desk. As the leadership-education specialist for Mercedes-Benz USA in
Montvale, N.J., Ms. Clifford says she's always looking for practical information
she can use to help train employees, especially those who manage others.

"It just grabbed me because it's very realistic," said Ms. Clifford, who has
worked for Mercedes-Benz for 19 years. "It's not suggesting people have to
change their personality."

Ms. Clifford also says she likes the way Mr. Bacon acknowledges how experts in a
field wind up getting promoted to management positions without having an iota of
training.

"It's no longer just managing projects and deadlines," she said. "You have got
to work through and with people."

That may not come naturally if your forte is designing engines, crunching
numbers or filling pipettes.

More than anything, Mr. Bacon's research found that employees wanted to feel
trusted.

"That means you can't micromanage people," he said. "You've got to delegate
responsibility because if you don't trust them to do the work, you've got the
wrong people."

Workers also want to feel challenged, involved, excited and appreciated.

"What they don't want is friendship or companionship with a manager," Mr. Bacon
said. "They don't want caring and emotional support either. What they want is
respect and honesty."

Mr. Bacon, who has done consulting work for more than 25 years, says he wrote
the book after more than one struggling manager asked him "how to be a people
person."

"It's unlikely you'll change your personality at this point, but you can behave
more like a people person," Mr. Bacon recalls telling the managers he was
coaching.

To improve employee relations, he recommends "treating people like human beings,
not human resources." In the book he gives practical examples that plenty of
bosses forget to use, such as calling people by their names and learning a
tidbit or two about their lives. And, he says, if a worker says something as
simple as, "I liked working with you on that project," respond with a specific
question about why.

"It's about going a little bit deeper to build the relationship," he said. "It
really is common sense."

For those who call it hooey (and Mr. Bacon says plenty do), he offers some data
on why treating people well is good for business.

A Gallup Management Journal report, for example, found that 15 percent of the
work force is "actively disengaged" on the job.

"These are the people who are the malcontents, the cynics with high absentee
rates who actually work against the company," Mr. Bacon said. He noted that
Gallup estimated the loss to American businesses at $300 billion in lost
productivity each year.

"I think a lot of this is because the relationship between the manager and
employee is not what it should be," he said.

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING: Anita Dufalla/Post-Gazette:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 P.G. Publishing Co.
