
                               1 of 426 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                             April 22, 2012 Sunday
                                TWO STAR EDITION

GLOBAL WARMING ISSUE HARD TO QUELL EARTH DAY

BYLINE: Don Hopey, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: HEALTH, SCIENCE, MEDICINE & TECHNOLOGY; EARTH DAY; Pg. A-1

LENGTH: 1375 words


With all due respect to teams still skating in the Stanley Cup playoffs, the
world's most important "hockey stick" on this 43rd Earth Day is wielded by
Michael E. Mann and other climate scientists.

Mr. Mann, a Pennsylvania State University professor and director of the school's
Earth Systems Science Center, produced a graph in 1998, later dubbed the "hockey
stick," that showed global temperatures were level or declining for almost 1,000
years -- the long shaft of the stick -- before spiking sharply upward over the
past century.

That upward-turned hockey stick "blade" tracked climbing global temperatures
that coincided with the world's growing combustion of fossil fuels and the
billowing atmospheric concentration of carbon dioxide, a so-called "greenhouse
gas," that has climbed from 280 parts per million in pre-industrial times to 392
parts per million today.

"That buildup of carbon dioxide is not natural and no matter how you cut it, the
globe is warming and the climate is changing," said Mr. Mann, in an interview
earlier this month at the University of Pittsburgh.

"The hockey stick graph showed that recent warming is without precedent in the
past 1,000 years, and allowed the public to accept in good faith the reality of
climate change."

But the hockey stick has become a lightning rod for the doubters and deniers of
climate change science, who say claims from "global-warming alarmists" are
either exaggerated or fabricated.

Mr. Mann, author of the new book, "The Hockey Stick and the Climate Wars," said
doubts sown by climate change critics are more a product of free-market
philosophy than legitimate scientific skepticism.

And he said those voices are part of a campaign, financed by fossil fuel
interests, that has paralyzed U.S. policymakers and delayed efforts to reduce
carbon emissions even as evidence and public awareness mounts.

*

Recent scientific studies, global temperature data and extreme weather events
all point to growing evidence of the impact of global climate change, Mr. Mann
said. For example:

* The oceans are 30 percent more acidic than in pre-industrial times due in part
to higher carbon dioxide levels, and studies predict that by the end of this
century all coral reefs may be dead.

* A 2010 study reported in the journal Nature blames global warming for a 40
percent decline in phytoplankton since 1950 in the world's oceans. The
microscopic plankton form the foundation of the marine food web, ingest harmful
carbon dioxide and produce half the world's oxygen.

* The thawing of the East Siberian permafrost under the Arctic Shelf and the
leakage of large amounts of methane have been linked to global warming.
According to research published in the journal Science in March 2010, the
permafrost, long considered an impermeable frozen barrier, is perforated. If
even a fraction of the 1.5 trillion tons of frozen carbon vents into the
atmosphere it could trigger abrupt climate warming.

*

It has been 20 years since President George H.W. Bush signed on to the United
Nations' first climate change document and challenged world leaders to act to
protect the planet.

The expectation was that science would determine at what level greenhouse gas
concentrations could be and should be stabilized to prevent dangerous manmade
interference with the world's climate systems, the world would listen and then
the world would act.

But that hasn't happened.

"The skeptics have made a remarkably successful effort to say the climate change
is not happening, and failing that, they say it is not manmade," said M. Granger
Morgan, the Lord Chair professor in engineering and head of Carnegie Mellon
University's Engineering and Public Policy Department. "They have done that
despite the fact that virtually all serious climate scientists would not agree
with that view."

Naomi Oreskes, a professor of history and science studies at the University of
California, San Diego, said climate change doubters have been successful because
they've been both consistent and persistent in delivering the message that the
science is still uncertain.

"This message has proved effective: Polls show that many Americans, perhaps as
many as 50 percent or so, believe that the science is still uncertain, that
scientists are still arguing about it, and that climate change might just be
natural variability," Ms. Oreskes said.

But the debates about the science of climate change aren't really about the
science, she said, just as debates about leaded gasoline, secondhand smoke, the
"ozone hole," mercury emissions and DDT, weren't about the science that resulted
in governmental action to control those problems.

"Those debates were about governance, or more specifically about the role of
regulation in governance," Ms. Oreskes said.

J. Scott Armstrong, a professor at the University of Pennsylvania's Wharton
School of Management, is one of those who has raised questions about the need
for government regulations to control emissions.

Mr. Armstrong, a Pittsburgh native and a forecasting expert, said almost none of
the climate change modeling work on which the dire global warming predictions
are based meets scientific standards.

"The climate modeling doesn't make sense to me scientifically" said Mr.
Armstrong, who is listed as a climate expert by the Heartland Institute, a
Chicago-based libertarian, pro-free market, think tank with a history of
questioning climate change science. "My assessment of their methodology says
there is nothing to worry about."

*

Gallop polls measuring public awareness of climate change have found the
percentage of Americans who say they're worried about global warming has
declined from a high of 66 percent in 2008 to 51 percent last year, but a higher
percentage, 80 percent, say they're more aware of the issue.

A poll released last week by the Yale Project on Climate Change Communication
found a large majority of Americans believe several high-profile weather events
in 2011 were made worse by global warming, including the unusually warm winter,
record high summer temperatures, the drought in Texas and Oklahoma, the
Mississippi River floods and Hurricane Irene.

Mr. Mann said policymakers cannot wait until all the scientific questions are
answered before they act because then it will be too late to have much of an
effect. Already, scientists project that greenhouse gases must be reduced by 80
percent below current emissions levels to avoid catastrophic impacts.

And the Carnegie Mellon University's Climate Decision Making Center Webpage
states flatly: "If policymakers are to do anything about global warming, they
will have to make decisions now."

Myron Ebell, director of the Competitive Enterprise Institute's Center for
Energy and Environment, which has opposed any attempt to regulate greenhouse gas
emissions, said even if there is global warming, Americans and the world will
still need coal, gas and other fossil fuels to run the technology, including air
conditioning, to deal with it.

And he said proposals to reduce use of coal and fossil fuels will make it
impossible to survive any warming that occurs.

Mr. Ebell said scientists, including Mr. Mann, who have gone public with
climate-change concerns, are "not trustworthy," calling them "con men," and "bad
apples." He says those who warn about global warming are engaged in a conspiracy
of false science.

Ms. Oreskes said the focus now should be on solutions.

"We know that climate change is being driven almost entirely by two things:
deforestation and greenhouse gas emissions. Some really good steps have already
been taken to reduce deforestation; these steps need to be supported and
strengthened.

"But the elephant in the room is greenhouse gases. We need an immediate program,
on the scale of the Apollo program, to convert our energy economy from fossils
fuels to renewables. And we know it can be done. Our energy basis was
transformed before, and it can be transformed again."

Bottom line, according to Mr. Mann, is that the science of climate change is
settled but the specifics of how, and how much of, those changes will play out
remains unknown.

"We're still trying to understand things," Mr. Mann said. "The science is
difficult and we don't have definite answers.

"But nature has already decided, and we may not like her decisions."

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Don Hopey: dhopey@post-gazette.com or 412-263-1983. /

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Robin Rombach/Post-Gazette: Climate-change expert Michael Mann
says policymakers can't wait until questions are answered before they act on
global warming.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              11 of 426 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            September 7, 2012 Friday
                            PITTSBURGH PRESS EDITION

FRAUD QUESTION LOOMS IN GLOBAL WARMING RESEARCH

BYLINE: JACK KELLY

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A-7

LENGTH: 669 words


We're likely to learn much more about what may be the biggest scam in history
because a blustering bully has had his bluff called.

Michael Mann, a professor at Penn State University, created the famous "hockey
stick" graph, which claims to show global temperatures soared in the 20th
century after900 years of stability. According to it, the Medieval Warm Period
(about A.D. 800 to 1300) and the Little Ice Age (about A.D. 1400 to 1850) never
existed.

The methods Mr. Mann used to create his graph would generate a "hockey stick" no
matter what data were fed into it, charged Canadians Steve McIntyre and Ross
McKitrick in a 2005 paper. Two congressional committees asked scientists to look
into the controversy.

"Mann's assessments that the decade of the 1990s was the hottest decade of the
millennium and that 1998 was the hottest year of the millennium cannot be
supported by his analysis," concluded the report of a committee headed by Edward
Wegman, a statistics professor at George Mason University. A panel formed by the
National Academy of Sciences also had little confidence in those assertions.

Actual measurements of global temperatures weren't made before about 1850, so
scientists use proxies to estimate temperatures in earlier times. Mr. Mann used
data from bristlecone pine trees in California.

His study of tree rings from the Yamal region in Siberia corroborated Mr. Mann's
findings, said Keith Briffa of the University of East Anglia in Britain. Then a
scandal forced him to disclose he'd used data from just 12 of the 252 trees in
the Yamal data set. It was clear Mr. Briffa had cherry-picked the data to get
the results he wanted.

Mr. Briffa's shenanigans -- and much more -- were exposed when in 2009 someone
posted on the Web 1,079 emails exchanged by scientists who promote the
anthropogenic global warming theory, or AGW. In one, Mr. Briffa's boss wrote:
"I've just completed Mike's Nature trick of adding in the real temps to each
series for the last 20 years (ie from 1981 onwards) amd [sic] from 1961 for
Keith's to hide the decline."

"Mike" is Mr. Mann. "Keith" is Mr. Briffa. "Nature trick" refers to an article
Mr. Mann wrote for Nature magazine in which he mixed real temperature data with
proxy data to produce the hockey stick. Without this "trick," his graph would
have shown temperatures declining.

"It was that attempt to 'hide the decline' through the manipulation of data that
helped bring down the global warming house of cards," said Investor's Business
Daily.

By the time the emails were published, it was clear computer models had greatly
exaggerated warming. Global temperatures peaked in 1998, according to real world
measurements.

Recent research has confirmed the Medieval Warm Period existed worldwide and
that temperatures were warmer than today. It may have been even hotter during
the Roman Warm Period (250 B.C. to A.D. 400).

"Michael Mann was the man behind the fraudulent climate-change 'hockey-stick'
graph, the very ringmaster of the tree-ring circus," Mark Steyn wrote in
National Review Online July 15.

If National Review doesn't apologize for describing the hockey stick graph as
"fraudulent," he'd sue, Mr. Mann threatened. That's a tactic he's used often
before to stifle criticism.

This time it didn't work. National Review would welcome a lawsuit, because
through the process of discovery it could obtain information Mr. Mann has
strived to keep secret, said editor Rich Lowry.

"He's going to go to great trouble and expense to embark on a losing cause that
will expose more of his methods and maneuverings to the world," Mr. Lowry said.

Around five times the amount spent on the Manhattan Project ($22 billion in 2008
dollars) has been spent on man-made global warming, mostly by Western
governments, British journalist James Delingpole said last year.

In an editorial, the editors of Investor's Business Daily praised Mr. Lowry for
his defiance.

Global warming has been "the greatest fraud of all time, and Michael Mann has
been at the heart of it," the IBD editors said.

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Jack Kelly is a columnist for The Press and The Blade of Toledo, Ohio.
jkelly@post-gazette.com, 412 263-1476./

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              19 of 426 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                              July 27, 2012 Friday
                                 SOONER EDITION

STRONG STORMS THREATEN OZONE LAYER, STUDY SAYS;
INCLEMENT SUMMER WEATHER POSES NEW CONCERNS

BYLINE: Henry Fountain, The New York Times

SECTION: HEALTH, SCIENCE, MEDICINE AND TECHNOLOGY; Pg. A-2

LENGTH: 683 words


Strong summer storms that pump water high into the upper atmosphere pose a
threat to the protective ozone layer over the United States, researchers said
Thursday, adding that the risk of damage may increase as the climate warms.

In a study published online by the journal Science, Harvard University
scientists reported that some storms send water vapor well into the stratosphere
-- which is normally drier than a desert -- and showed how such events could
rapidly set off ozone-destroying reactions with chemicals that remain in the
atmosphere from CFCs, the now-banned refrigerant gases.

Ozone helps shield people, animals and crops from damaging ultraviolet rays from
the sun. Much of the concern about the ozone layer has focused on Antarctica,
where a seasonal hole, or thinning, has been seen for two decades, and the
Arctic, where a hole was observed last year. But those regions have almost no
population.

A thinning of the ozone layer over the United States during summers could mean
an increase in ultraviolet exposure for millions of people and a rise in the
incidence of skin cancer, the researchers said.

"This problem now is of deep concern to me," said James Anderson, an atmospheric
scientist and the lead author of the study. "I never would have suspected this."

The findings were based on sound science, he and other experts said, but direct
measurements of the impact of water vapor on ozone chemistry are lacking, and
much more research is needed.

While there is conclusive evidence that strong storms have sent water vapor as
high as 12 miles -- through a process called convective injection -- and while
climate scientists say one effect of global warming is an increase in the
intensity and frequency of storms, it is not yet clear if the number of such
injection events will rise.

"Nobody understands why this convection can penetrate as deeply as it does,"
said Mr. Anderson, who has studied the atmosphere for four decades.

"It's the union between ozone loss and climate change that is really at the
heart of this," he said, adding that for years he and other scientists had
always been careful to keep the two concepts separate. "Now, they're intimately
connected."

Mario Molina, a co-recipient of a Nobel Prize for research in the 1970s that
uncovered the link between CFCs and damage to the ozone layer, said the study
added "one more worry to the changes that society's making to the chemical
composition of the atmosphere." Mr. Molina, who was not involved in the work,
said the concern was "significant ozone depletion at latitudes where there is a
lot of population, in contrast to over the poles."

The study, which was financed by the NASA, focused on the United States because
that is where the data were collected. But the researchers pointed out that
similar conditions could exist at other mid-latitude regions.

Ralph J. Cicerone, an atmospheric scientist and the president of the National
Academy of Sciences, who reviewed the study for Science, also called for more
research.

Large thunderstorms of the type that occur from the Rockies to the East Coast
and over the Atlantic Ocean produce updrafts, as warm moist air accelerates
upward and condenses, releasing more heat. In most cases, the updrafts stop at a
boundary layer between the lower atmosphere and the stratosphere called the
tropopause, often producing flat-topped clouds that resemble anvils. But if
there is enough energy in a storm, the updraft can continue on its own momentum,
punching through the tropopause and entering the stratosphere, said Kerry
Emanuel, an atmospheric scientist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.

CFCs, or chlorofluorocarbons, were banned in the mid-1980s by the international
treaty called the Montreal Protocol, but it will take decades for them to be
cleansed fully from the atmosphere. It is chlorine from the CFCs that ultimately
destroys ozone, upsetting what is normally a balanced system of ozone creation
and decay. The chlorine has to undergo a chemical shift in the presence of
sunlight that makes it more reactive, and this shift is sensitive to
temperature.

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              20 of 426 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                           January 26, 2012 Thursday
                                 SOONER EDITION

DIG THIS: GARDENERS, FARMERS GET NEW GUIDES

BYLINE: DON HOPEY, PITTSBURGH POST-GAZETTE

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. A-1

LENGTH: 888 words


Chambersburg's famous peaches could now grow in Clearfield and other points
north because Pennsylvania's coldest days aren't as cold as they once were.

That warming trend, generally extending across the United States, is detailed in
the U.S. Department of Agriculture's new "plant hardiness map," a rainbow-banded
depiction of growing zones often found on the back of hardware store seed
packets and used by farmers and gardeners to determine which fruits, vegetables
and ornamental trees and shrubbery can grow in which regions.

The map, released by the USDA on Wednesday, charts the average lowest winter
temperature for a location, a crucial factor in determining if certain plants
will survive or freeze and die.

"The map is useful to home gardeners and provides one of the ways people figure
out what plants will grow in their front or back yards or gardens and which will
survive the winter," said Nina Bassuk, professor of horticulture at Cornell
University.

William Miller, a Cornell professor of horticulture, said the new map "won't
change what will grow but will give gardeners more confidence that they are
planting plants that will survive."

It is the first update of the plant hardiness map since 1990 and reflects
shifting and warming climate patterns across the U.S.

The new map is based on weather station data gathered during the 30-year period
1976-2005 and for the first time incorporates mapping techniques that factor in
elevation change, proximity to large bodies of water, valley bottoms and ridge
tops. It moves most of Ohio, Nebraska and Texas to warmer zones. Each zone spans
a 10-degree Fahrenheit range.

In Pennsylvania, the growing zones have been adjusted to reflect average lowest
temperature data that is about 5-degrees Fahrenheit warmer. The shift moves
two-thirds of the state out of Zone 5 into Zones 6A or 6B.

Sean Barry, a spokesman for the Arbor Day Foundation, which published its own
plant hardiness map in 2006, said the USDA's old map had outlived its usefulness
long ago.

"People were ordering trees from us based on that old map and telling us that it
wasn't right," Mr. Barry said, citing the southern magnolia, white flowering
dogwood, certain cherry and peach trees as examples of trees recommended for
Zone 6 and above but not Zone 5.

"We have peach trees recommended for planting in Zones 5 through 8, but Zone 5
is right on the edge," he said. "The old map put parts of Pennsylvania on the
colder side of Zone 5. Now it's mostly a Zone 6, giving a truer indication that
peach trees would probably do fine now."

Dave Abler, a professor of agricultural economics at Penn State University, said
the warming trend will not cause major changes in agricultural practices in the
short term but could lead to longer-term reductions in the acreage planted for
cooler crops such as potatoes and apples and increased planting of warmer
weather crops such as sweet corn.

Wineries in Erie County may replace native American varieties of grapes that
like cooler weather with European varieties, Mr. Abler said, and garden nursery
plant stocks will likely need to change, too.

For agriculture, the overall effect of warmer temperatures will be "mixed," he
said, with warmer temperatures causing more heat stress on crops and livestock,
but likely increases in precipitation will reduce droughts. The longer growing
season will allow for greater diversity of crops and longer pasture times for
livestock but will also allow for more insect pests and non-native weed growth.

"If you take all the changes together, Pennsylvania might be better off," Mr.
Abler said, "but that would not necessarily be true for states to our south."

According to the USDA, the nation's 80 million gardeners and nurseries that
grow, breed and sell plants are the primary users of the plant hardiness maps.
But it also provides researchers with another indicator that the climate is
generally warming in Pennsylvania and across the United States.

USDA officials stopped short of linking the new map to climate change, but David
Wolfe, professor of plant and soil ecology at Cornell, said he "wouldn't be so
cautious."

"In isolation one map doesn't prove climate change, but taken with other
evidence where it charts milder temperatures over a number of years it
corroborates that evidence that there is climate change occurring," Mr. Wolfe
said.

He said farm crops respond to climate signals just like backyard garden and
ornamental plantings do.

"Peaches, grapes, apples, as well as weed and insect pests are all impacted by
changing climate, and their survival is affected by how cold it gets," Mr. Wolfe
said. "So this map and the changes it shows have implications beyond the
backyard gardener."

Art DeGaetano, a climatologist and professor of earth and atmospheric sciences
at Cornell and director of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration's
Northeast Regional Climate Center, said the map is another tool for researchers.

"It's not the Holy Grail for identifying climate change," he said. "However, the
changes it identifies are additional information that together with changes in
species range and snow cover and insect appearances all support the fact that
the climate has been changing."

The new USDA plant hardiness zone map and the Pennsylvania map can be accessed
at http://planthardiness.ars.usda.gov/PHZMWeb/

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Don Hopey: dhopey@post-gazette.com or 412-263-1983./

GRAPHIC: MAP: U.S. Department of Agriculture; Associated Press: New planting
zones\
MAP: James Hilston/Post-Gazette: Pennsylvania extreme minimum temperatures: new
and 1960

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              22 of 426 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            March 29, 2012 Thursday
                                 SOONER EDITION

REPORTS LINK HEAT WAVES, DELUGES TO CLIMATE CHANGE

BYLINE: JULIET EILPERIN AND BRIAN VASTAG, THE WASHINGTON POST

SECTION: HEALTH, SCIENCE, MEDICINE AND TECHNOLOGY; Pg. A-2

LENGTH: 371 words


WASHINGTON -- Scientists are increasingly confident that the uptick in heat
waves and heavier rainfall is linked to human-caused greenhouse gas emissions,
posing a heightened risk to the world's population, according to two reports
issued in the past week.

On Wednesday, the U.N. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change released a
594-page study suggesting that when it comes to weather observations since 1950
there has been a "change in some extremes," which stem in part from global
warming.

The report -- the product of a collaboration of 220 authors from 62 countries --
makes distinctions among different phenomena. It shows there is "limited to
medium evidence" that climate change has contributed to changes in flooding, for
example, and there is "low confidence" that long-term hurricane trends over the
past 40 years have been driven by the world's growing carbon output.

But the IPCC team projects that there is a 90 percent-to-100 percent probability
that sea level rise "will contribute to upward trends in extreme coastal
high-water levels in the future."

Chris Field, who co-chairs the IPCC's Working Group II and serves as the
director of the Carnegie Institution's Department of Global Ecology at Stanford
University, said in an interview that although many uncertainties still exist
when it comes to extreme weather, "We also know the risk people face is changing
as a result of climate change."

Asking whether a particular extreme weather event can be blamed on human-caused
global warming is the wrong question to ask, said Dim Coumou, a climate
scientist at the Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research in Germany.
There's no way to determine whether a single event was triggered by climate
change, he said.

Instead, a new analysis from Mr. Coumou and a colleague, published in the
journal Nature Climate Change, examines patterns of extreme weather since 2000
and asks whether the likelihood of these events was heightened by human-driven
climate change.

For extreme heat waves and unusual downpours, the answer, Mr. Coumou and his
colleagues found, is yes. "The evidence is solid," he said: Extra heat in the
atmosphere from human-caused greenhouse gases has made these two types of events
much more likely.

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              33 of 426 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                             August 10, 2012 Friday
                            PITTSBURGH PRESS EDITION

WELCOME TO THE WORLD'S FAIR;
LOOKING FOR A GLOBAL SHOWCASE FOR INNOVATION? OLYMPICS ARE MODERN EQUIVALENT OF
THE OLD EXPOS

BYLINE: Ted Anthony, Associated Press

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. A-10

LENGTH: 1301 words


LONDON --

It rose in England's capital with the promise of showcasing humanity's best:
supreme accomplishments, fresh technologies, people from far-flung lands and
their cultural traditions. It was both trumpeted as a global achievement and
dismissed as overly commercialized "trumpery."

It was not the Olympics.

Just a few miles up the road from the teeming venues of today's Summer Games,
Victorian London famously convened a gathering called "The Great Exhibition." It
was 1851's version of a global event, and it was designed to tell mankind's
story -- albeit from the vantage point of a potent colonial power.

It came to be called a "World's Fair," and it inaugurated an era of them. Paris
and St. Louis, Rome and Vienna, Osaka and dozens more, each with epic
storylines: "Festival of Empire." "Century of Progress." And "The World of
Tomorrow," the 1939 World's Fair in New York, where, for the first time,
television entered the popular consciousness.

Once, World's Fairs were the primary chroniclers of human progress. Not so much
anymore. But to wander the grounds of the 2012 London Olympics this past
fortnight is to see that in the 21st century, the value and relevance of such
events still endures.

What World's Fairs once were, the Olympics have become: a chance to get along on
a global level while holding onto national pride. Humanity gathering for what it
hopes are larger, nobler, more lucrative purposes. The Olympics are a place
where the cutting edge is showcased. And in a civilization where so many are
connected in such disconnected ways, they are that rare opportunity for an
amplified, collective voice to say, or try to say: This, right now, is the story
of who we are.

"It's the shopfront to show what we can achieve," says Pryderi Baskerville, a
Welshman who helped produce the opening ceremony.

That message -- both achievement and shopfront -- is on display everywhere in
Olympic Park, courtesy of the IOC and its corporate sponsors and partners. Nivea
invites you to "say hello to the world." At one Olympic Park entrance, a huge
sign speaks of "a whole world brought together" -- accompanied by some familiar
brand logos. Many nations have set up guest houses around London -- not unlike
EPCOT Center pavilions -- where visitors can go to party in the style of the
nation that's inviting them inside.

Officials, too, are saying the same thing. "The greatest show on Earth," London
organizing committee chief Sebastian Coe calls the Olympics. IOC President
Jacques Rogge says they "set an example for us all."

"The Olympic Games have a unique ability to touch people's lives and to change
the way they think about themselves and their futures," Prime Minister David
Cameron writes in the official Olympics program.

Jonathan Freedland, writing in The Guardian the day the Olympics began, spoke of
the "hundreds of thousands, and hundreds of millions more via television, drawn
by that perennial human compulsion to see what our species is capable of at its
best: to see how strong, how fast, how beautiful we can be."

Sure, some of that is simply organizational enthusiasm -- or, just as likely,
mere marketing. But is something more significant afoot? Beyond the layers upon
layers of sponsor-friendly calibration, is there a message that we humans still
need to tell each other, even in this conversation-saturated age?

"It has to do with human understanding, exchange, peace and so forth. Those
global international gatherings are always about that," says Paul Greenhalgh,
author of "Fair World: A History of World's Fairs and Expositions from London to
Shanghai, 1851-2010." Three of the earliest Olympics, he notes, took place at
World's Fairs.

Both World's Fairs and Olympics, he says, have offered nationalism, politics and
an "ethos of progress." But while World's Fairs have drifted off center stage in
the past generation, the Olympics seem to gain both cultural currency and
opportunities to showcase progress in the form of corporate presence.

Even with today's Olympics, Greenhalgh says, "These are almost Victorian ideals
-- a growing moral sense that we owe it to ourselves to improve the whole of
society, and the underlying notion of progress."

Progress has often been showcased in technological ways -- consider the
"Futurama" exhibit in the 1939 New York fair -- but a futurist from that era of
streamlining would be overwhelmed by what the London Olympics have to offer.

There are contactless payment systems (from sponsor Visa), freshly minted mini
tablet-phones with easy videochat functions (from sponsor Samsung) and even, in
the cycling arena, innovative battery-operated hot pants to keep competitors'
thighs warm. Environmentally friendly speedsuits fashioned from plastic water
bottles. Bendable barbells for weightlifters. The list goes on. When it comes to
fresh tech, this is precisely the "World of Tomorrow" that our forebears were
dreaming of.

"Twenty years ago, we were in Barcelona looking at the first HD signals on a TV
set," says Ed Hula, the editor of Around the Rings, a publication that covers
the Olympics.

"That's where this sort of stuff had its proving ground is in the Olympic
theater," Hula says. "The Olympics provide that first step for new technology.
It behooves the Samsungs and BMWs and others to make the most of this
opportunity and have something to show people."

They take full advantage on all platforms. Does Usain Bolt look great on the
track? Then let's put him in a larger-than-life Visa ad, striding forward into
the future holding a credit card in his hand as mall-walking Olympic visitors
surge beneath him. Particularly useful that the passers-by are people of many
colors, chatting in languages from Mandarin to Arabic to Portuguese. Like the
World's Fairs, everyone plays a part in the show.

"You've got global theater going on," says John J. Bodinger de Uriarte, an
anthropologist at Susquehanna University in Selinsgrove, Pa. He sees it as an
effort to promote globalism -- but a globalism that acknowledges, through
resources expended and medals won, who the real powers are.

"One way to look at the Olympics is an affirmation of the world order. We're
competing equally -- but wait a minute, we're also not," Bodinger says. But
either way, "By having these heroic feats by people in many countries, you say,
'Oh, well, this is possible.'"

How the human story is told is one thing. But looking at the latest Olympics,
what is the human story that's being told, exactly?

It is one of amiable multiculturalism -- in pursuit of athletic excellence, yes,
but also in the service of creating that many more potential consumers of
products. It is a story in which the notion of corporate benevolence plays a key
role, in which the hopefulness of the "Olympic truce" winks at politics without
letting it consume the entire event.

More than everything else, it is the can't-we-all-just-get-along aesthetic of a
post-Benetton society, superimposed upon the most elegant iteration of the
global shopping mall.

World's Fairs do still exist. There is an organization in Paris called the
Bureau of International Expositions that promotes them, including a reasonably
successful one in Shanghai in 2010 and one set for Milan in 2015. But they are
not the attention-getting global events they once were. Meanwhile, the Olympics
seem more popular than ever.

Why is that? Could it be that a society stitched together by airplanes and
multipurpose data bytes no longer feels the need to gather explicitly to refresh
its own story? Is that too top-down for the social-media era? Baskerville, the
Welshman from the opening ceremony production team, thinks that's what a modern
Olympics now offers.

"We don't get many times to show what we're capable of," he says. "We're capable
of horrible things as humans. And maybe this is something that unites us."

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Charlie Riedel/Associated Press: Two women dance to music on
loudspeakers under the Orbit attraction at Olympic Park during the 2012 Summer
Olympics in London. \
\ PHOTO: Emilio Morenatti/Associated Press: (For Two Photos) The Olympics have
the power to draw people from all over the globe to one city. In this case,
visitors leave the Aquatic Center at the Olympic Park during the 2012 Summer
Olympics in London, above, while others watch a large screen and cheer on the
men's 100-meter final at the Puma Field in London, below.\

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              42 of 426 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                           December 6, 2012 Thursday
                                 SOONER EDITION

RECORD-SETTING YEAR FOR ARCTIC MELTING EFFECT OF STORED HEAT WORRIES SCIENTISTS

BYLINE: Kenneth R. Weiss, Los Angeles Times

SECTION: HEALTH, SCIENCE, MEDICINE AND TECHNOLOGY; Pg. A-2

LENGTH: 457 words


A fast-changing Arctic broke new records for loss of sea ice and spring snow
cover this year, as well as the extent of the summertime melt of the Greenland
ice sheet, federal scientists reported Wednesday.

The latest report about the melting Arctic comes as frustrations flared in Doha,
Qatar, over the slow progress at U.N. climate talks to reach a global agreement
on reducing emissions of greenhouse gases. The buildup of these gases is
elevating average global temperatures, with the most pronounced changes in the
northernmost latitudes.

"The Arctic is an extremely sensitive part of the world," said Jane Lubchenco,
administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. As it
warms, she said, "we see the results with less snow and sea ice, greater ice
sheet melt and changing vegetation."

Speaking at the fall meeting of American Geophysical Union in San Francisco, Ms.
Lubchenco and other scientists unveiled the annual update of the Arctic Report
Card, a collaboration of more than 140 scientists that summarizes ways the
Arctic continues to grow warmer and greener.

The Arctic sea ice retreated to reach a record minimum since scientists began to
measure it with satellites in 1979. The ice sheet is about half of what it was
in 2000. The loss of sea ice is important to the survival of ring seals,
walruses, polar bears and other animals.

The Greenland ice sheet experienced the most widespread melt on record, covering
about 97 percent of the ice sheet on a single day in July. The accelerating melt
of this vast frozen repository of fresh water is the wild card in scientific
projections of how much and how fast sea levels will rise in coming decades.

A new record low for snow cover in the Northern Hemisphere was set in June. Much
of the high-latitude landscape has snow covering it for nine months of the year.
Although some years are snowier than others, its overall retreat is altering
spring river runoff, growing seasons and the behavior of wildlife.

With longer growing seasons, the tundra is getting greener and the underlying
permafrost is thawing. Shrubs are spreading, as is the frequency of tundra
wildfires.

The retreat of snow and ice has come even though Arctic air temperatures were
not unusually high this year compared with the last decade, the scientists
reported.

This shows the self-perpetuating momentum of warming, they said. As the Arctic
loses more highly reflective snow and ice, the warming rays of the sun get
absorbed by the darker ground or exposed ocean waters.

"This increases the capacity to store heat within the Arctic system, which
enables more melting -- a self-reinforcing cycle," said Martin Jeffries,
co-editor of the report card and a science adviser to the Office of Naval
Research.

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              56 of 426 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                              March 9, 2012 Friday
                            PITTSBURGH PRESS EDITION

SACRIFICING THE DESERT FOR THE EARTH

BYLINE: Julie Cart, Los Angeles Times

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. A-2

LENGTH: 1238 words


IVANPAH VALLEY, Calif. --

Construction cranes rise like storks 40 stories above the Mojave Desert. In
their midst, the "power tower" emerges, wrapped in scaffolding and looking like
a multistage rocket.

Clustered nearby are hangar-sized assembly buildings, looming berms of sand and
a chain mail of fencing that will enclose more than 3,500 acres of public land.
Moorings for 173,500 mirrors -- each the size of a garage door -- are spiked
into the desert floor. Before the end of the year, they will become six square
miles of gleaming reflectors, sweeping from Interstate 15 to the Clark Mountains
along California's eastern border.

BrightSource Energy's Ivanpah solar power project will soon be a humming city
with 24-hour lighting, a wastewater processing facility and a gas-fired power
plant. To make room, BrightSource has mowed down a swath of desert plants,
displaced dozens of animal species and relocated scores of imperiled desert
tortoises, a move that some experts say could kill up to a third of them.

Despite its behemoth footprint, the Ivanpah project has slipped easily into
place, unencumbered by lasting legal opposition or public outcry from
California's boisterous environmental community.

The public got its chance to comment at scores of open houses, but the real
political horse trading took place in meetings involving solar developers,
federal regulators and leaders of some of the nation's top environmental
organizations.

Away from public scrutiny, they crafted a united front in favor of utility-scale
solar development, often making difficult compromises.

"I have spent my entire career thinking of myself as an advocate on behalf of
public lands and acting for their protection," said Johanna Wald, a veteran
environmental attorney with the Natural Resources Defense Council. "I am now
helping facilitate an activity on public lands that will have very significant
environmental impacts. We are doing it because of the threat of climate change.
It's not an accommodation; it's a change I had to make to respond to climate."

That unusual collaboration -- along with generous federal subsidies and
allotments of public land -- has sparked a wholesale remodeling of the American
desert.

Industrial-scale solar development is well underway in California, Nevada,
Arizona, New Mexico, Colorado and Utah. The federal government has furnished
more public property to this cause than it has for oil and gas exploration over
the last decade.

Even if only a few of the proposed projects are built, hundreds of square miles
of wild land will be scraped clear. Several thousand miles of power transmission
corridors will be created.

The desert will be scarred well beyond a human life span, and no amount of
mitigation will repair it, according to scores of federal and state
environmental reviews.

"The scale of impacts that we are facing, collectively across the desert, is
phenomenal," said Dennis Schramm, former superintendent at neighboring Mojave
National Preserve. "The reality of the Ivanpah project is that what it will look
like on the ground is worse than any of the analyses predicted."

In the fight against climate change, the Mojave Desert is about to take one for
the team.

------

Larry LaPre, the Bureau of Land Management's wildlife biologist for much of the
Mojave, said some aspects of the project have been carefully considered and
painstakingly done. Other approaches, however, are "complete nonsense," among
them BrightSource's experimental approach of shearing the tops of desert plants
so they fit under elevated solar mirrors. The company calls it "gentle mowing."

"To get another barrel cactus, even a small one, takes 100 years," he said,
driving around the Ivanpah construction site.

"The birds are already gone. They're outta there," he said. The site "will have
plants, short plants, and it will have mice and kangaroo rats and some lizards.
That's it. Maybe some more common birds. The insects are an unknown, because you
could have massive losses of pollinators because you have all these insects
getting burned in the mirrors."

Jeffrey Lovich studies desert tortoises for the U.S. Geological Survey. In
preparing a recent paper, he and a colleague scoured published research
analyzing impacts from large solar farms on wildlife. They found one paper.
Essentially, Mr. Lovich said, no one knows what will happen to wildlife in the
Mojave.

"This is an experiment on a grand scale," Mr. Lovich said. "Science is racing to
catch up."

Mainstream environmental groups, including the Sierra Club, the Wilderness
Society, Defenders of Wildlife and the Natural Resources Defense Council, have
been largely mute, having traded the picket line for a seat at the table when
development plans were drawn.

The Center for Biological Diversity, one of the nation's most aggressively
litigious environmental groups, has not challenged the Ivanpah project. It
signed a confidential agreement not to oppose the project in exchange for
concessions for the desert tortoise -- mandating that BrightSource buy land
elsewhere for conservation.

Some 24 environmental groups signed statements largely supporting the aims of
solar developers. National environmental groups joined BrightSource and other
solar companies in a letter sent Dec. 14 to the White House, asking the
president to continue a federal renewable-energy subsidy.

The national office of the Sierra Club has had to quash local chapters'
opposition to some solar projects, sending out a 42-page directive making it
clear that the club's national policy goals superseded the objections of a local
group. Animosity bubbled over after a local Southern California chapter was told
to refrain from opposing solar projects.

Federal officials, solar companies and environmental groups argue that the
urgency brought on by climate change has forced difficult trade-offs.

"We did the best we could," Interior Secretary Ken Salazar said in an interview.
The goal, he added, has been to make sure the projects are "the least
environmentally intrusive."

In the case of the Ivanpah project, for example, environmental groups were able
to convince BrightSource to reduce the project's overall footprint and preserve
a sensitive area near the foothills of the Clark Mountains.

"We didn't make them perfect," Wald, of the Natural Resources Defense Council,
said of the solar projects. "We didn't eliminate their environmental impact
because you can't eliminate the environmental impact. But we made them better."

Opposition instead has come from the federal government.

The National Park Service has voiced the strongest complaints about the scale
and siting of solar projects. California's desert parks -- Joshua Tree, Death
Valley and the Mojave National Preserve -- have the most acreage affected by the
development.

The Department of Defense also has raised questions. The Pentagon has the China
Lake weapons testing facility, Fort Irwin, Edwards Air Force Base, Twentynine
Palms Marine base and the Chocolate Mountain Naval Aerial Gunnery Range.

The military, whose pilots often trace the contours of the desert floor from 200
feet, is concerned about maneuvering around 460-foot solar towers. The Marines
have asked the companies for more information about the glare produced by a vast
carpet of solar reflectors.

The Federal Aviation Administration has voiced concerns about the heat plume
rising from the Ivanpah towers and about the installation's possible radar
interference.

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mark Boster/Los Angeles Times: Larry LaPre, a biologist with the
California Bureau of Land Management, keeps his distance from an older male
desert tortoise that is being monitored by biologists with a tracking device.\
PHOTO: Mark Boster/Los Angeles Times: Eileen Anderson, a biologist with the
Center For Biological Diversity, walks past a desert tortoise burrow in
California's Ivanpah Valley. The effort to conserve the tortoise has become the
single biggest obstacle to building an industrial-scale solar development in the
Mojave Desert.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              81 of 426 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            December 4, 2012 Tuesday
                            PITTSBURGH PRESS EDITION

SECTION: WORLD; WORLD/NATION; Pg. A-3

LENGTH: 780 words


WORLD

Protests continue in Egypt

CAIRO -- Tens of thousands of Egyptians massed in Cairo today for a march to the
presidential palace to protest the assumption by the nation's Islamist president
of nearly unrestricted powers and a draft constitution hurriedly adopted by his
allies.

In the coastal city of Alexandria, some 10,000 opponents of President Mohammed
Morsi gathered in the center of the country's second largest metropolis. They
chanted slogans against the Egyptian leader and his Muslim Brotherhood.

The marches come amid rising anger over the draft charter and decrees issued by
Mr. Morsi giving himself sweeping powers. Mr. Morsi called for a nationwide
referendum on the draft constitution on Dec. 15.

Hundreds of black-clad riot police deployed around the Itihadiya palace in
Cairo's district of Heliopolis. Barbed wire was also placed outside the complex,
and side roads leading to it were blocked to traffic.

Today, at least eight influential daily newspapers, a mix of opposition party
mouthpieces and independent publications, suspended publication for a day to
protest against what many journalists see as the restrictions on freedom of
expression in the draft constitution.

The country's privately owned TV networks planned their own protest Wednesday,
when they will blacken their screens all day.

Iran claims capture of US drone

TEHRAN, Iran -- Iran claimed today it had captured a U.S. drone after it entered
Iranian airspace over the Persian Gulf -- even showing an image of a purportedly
downed craft on state TV -- but the U.S. Navy said all its unmanned aircraft in
the region were "fully accounted for."

The conflicting accounts still leave the possibility that the drone claimed by
Iran, a Boeing-designed ScanEagle, could have been plucked from the sea in the
past and unveiled for maximum effect following escalating tensions over U.S.
surveillance missions in the Gulf.

Cmdr. Jason Salata, a spokesman for the U.S. Navy's 5th Fleet in Bahrain, said
ScanEagles operated by the Navy "have been lost into the water" over the years,
but there is no "record of that occurring most recently."

The Iranian announcement did not give details on the time or location of the
claimed drone capture.

Global warming action urged

DOHA, Qatar -- U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon today urged governments to
speed up talks to forge a joint response to global warming, describing it as an
"existential challenge for the whole human race."

Mr. Ban addressed the opening of the high-level segment of annual U.N. climate
talks, involving environment ministers and climate officials from nearly 200
countries. They're discussing future emissions reductions and climate aid to
poor countries.

Pointing to the destruction caused by Hurricane Sandy in North America and the
Caribbean in late October, along with other weather disasters this year, Mr. Ban
said "abnormal" has become the new normal as the world warms, presenting a
"crisis, a threat to us all, our economies, our security and the well-being of
our children."

Climate scientists say it's difficult to link a single weather event to global
warming, but some say the damage caused by Sandy was made worse by the rise of
sea level.

Factory fire kills 14 in China

BEIJING -- A fire in a clothing factory apparently caused by arson killed 14
people in southern China today, state media reported.

The official Xinhua News Agency said one other person was injured in the fire,
which broke out at 3:30 p.m. in Shantou city in Guangdong province and was put
out in half an hour.

The Southern Metropolis Daily said in an online report that the victims were all
women aged 18-20.

NATION

Fort Hood shooting judge removed for showing bias

FORT WORTH, Texas -- A military judge has been thrown off the Fort Hood deadly
shooting case after an appeals court found that his treatment of the suspect,
including an order to have the man forcibly shaved, indicated a lack of
impartiality.

It was not immediately clear what impact the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Armed
Forces ruling Monday would have on the long-delayed military trial of Maj. Nidal
Hasan. The Army psychiatrist is charged with 13 counts of murder in the 2009
shooting rampage.

Maj. Hasan appealed after Col. Gregory Gross ordered that he must be
clean-shaven or forcibly shaved before his military trial, which was supposed to
begin three months ago. It has been on hold pending the appeals. Maj. Hasan has
argued that his beard is a requirement of his Muslim faith. Facial hair violates
Army regulations.

An Army appeals court upheld the shaving requirement in October, but on Monday
the appeals court said the command, not the judge, is responsible for enforcing
grooming standards.

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Eraldo Peres/Associated Press: SEEKING PARDON/Brazilian farmers
hold up oxen skulls, representing animals killed by the drought, outside the
presidential palace where security agents stand guard in Brasilia today. Farmers
affected by the drought are asking the president to pardon their government bank
debts.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              116 of 426 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            December 31, 2012 Monday
                                 SOONER EDITION

PROSPECTS FOR THE NEW GENERATION\;
FOR A BETTER TOMORROW, THE TIME TO ACT IS NOW, FUTURIST SAYS

BYLINE: David Templeton, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: HEALTH, SCIENCE, MEDICINE & TECHNOLOGY; Pg. C-1

LENGTH: 1454 words


Human nature thrills at the prospects facing the newborn -- a new life fat with
opportunity, technological breakthroughs, cures for deadly diseases, longer
lifespan, advancements in civilization and steps toward world peace.

But, oh, how reality can undercut hopes and dreams. Futurists also cast a pall
over optimism, with discomforting predictions that past mistakes will extend and
compound themselves into a darkened future full of tug-of-war politics; bad
public policy; international, cultural and religious clashes; war; epidemics;
and a growing population that heightens the competition for dwindling resources.

As Mark Twain wrote in his novel "Pudd'nhead Wilson," "Why is it that we rejoice
at a birth and grieve at a funeral? It is because we are not the person
involved."

The big question is, what challenges will the 4 million babies expected to be
born in 2013 encounter?

The Institute for Alternative Futures, an Alexandria, Va., think tank that
focuses on health and health care issues, foresees advances in health, but it
does not anticipate any major breakthrough treatments for major diseases.
Medical advances will continue creeping rather than leaping forward, sometimes
taking decades before they are developed fully and proven effective. Worries
include surging obesity and diabetes reversing potential steps forward.

The U.S. Census Bureau says the world population of 7 billion will top 9 billion
in 2044, when next year's newborns turn 32. That alone will heighten demand for
food, water, energy and health resources, with added uncertainties about the
impact of climate change.

Fewer people are marrying and at older ages, and more couples are divorcing.
Will such trends affect newborns, darkening their outlook and making it more
difficult to deal with stress, change and challenges?

In this day and age, it sounds crazy, but census data reveal that life
expectancy declined in 1,000 U.S. counties -- nearly a third of the nation's
3,033 counties -- with the 2010 U.S. Census expected to reveal a drop in life
expectancy for African-Americans and a widening gap when compared with whites.

In 2008, life expectancy for white Americans was 4.1 years longer than
African-Americans -- 78.4 vs. 74.3 years -- with white males having a five-year
advantage over African-American males. Early results from the 2010 census show
that life expectancy will drop for African-Americans by a half year and about
seven months for black males. That means life expectancy for white males likely
will be 6.3 years longer than African-American males.

Where resources go

Public policy devotes a large portion of tax dollars to the elderly rather than
the young, especially regarding children living in poverty.

"Health status is going to be determined more by ZIP code than genetic code,"
said Jonathan Peck, IAF president and senior futurist. "There are more
minorities today, and it's equally important to think about the growth of the
number of children in poverty rather than [more affluent] 'yuppie puppies.' "

Rewind history to 1968, Mr. Peck said, when society devoted the large balance of
resources to children with antipoverty programs, Women and Infant Children and
Headstart, causing a struggle for the elderly.

"There's been a shift in public dollars to support the elderly and a decline in
the dollars for the younger part of the demographic," he said. The funding
imbalance promises to grow with 10,000 baby boomers turning 65 each day.

The WIC program has shown a drop in constant dollars for children. Many programs
have either been cut or eligible families and children are not receiving the
services. Other programs don't have sufficient funding.

"More children are facing poverty and millions are facing deep poverty,"
according to the Children's Health Fund. Children living in poverty are more
likely to be uninsured, have fragmented health care access, do poorly in school,
experience food insecurity and are more likely to experience poverty as an
adult.

Declines in health care, healthy food and a safe environment for children,
especially those in poverty, increase the odds they will develop health problems
earlier in life. Unchecked, those ailments can turn chronic and reduce the
person's life span.

For now, American health care focuses on late-stage treatment rather than
prevention, making medical costs "unaffordable," soon to become "desperately
unaffordable," Mr. Peck said. "What if we improved health for children? They
would do better in school. They would earn higher lifetime incomes. Sick kids
are in trouble and disadvantaged at school."

The United States Centers for Disease Control and Prevention says, "Type 2
diabetes in children and adolescents already appears to be a sizable and growing
problem among U.S. children and adolescents." Other health problems on the rise
include asthma, which affects 10 percent of children in the U.S., with the
greatest rise in black children that have experienced a 50 percent increase in
prevalence from 2001-09, the CDC reports.

Children face huge obstacles in education and employment, leading to notable
disadvantages in health and income. Those lacking education will compete for
fewer jobs as technology, particularly robots, perform more routine, repetitive
and laborious tasks.

In the meantime, educational costs continue to skyrocket. The cost of room,
board and tuition has risen since 2000 by an annual average of $566 a year for
four-year institutions. If the rate continues, the cost of a four-year college
degree would climb from the current average of $83,000 to $129,000 in 2034, when
the 2013 crop of newborns graduates. That would represent a 55 percent increase
in the cost of a college education, based on data from the National Center for
Education Statistics.

Cure vs. control

There's persistent hope for a cancer cure and treatments to reverse or eliminate
cardiovascular disease.

"Rather than think of cancer being cured, it's more likely that it will be
controlled more effectively," Mr. Peck said, noting that the likely scenario
will follow advancements in treating HIV with drug cocktails.

Better health policies and campaigns could do a better job at reducing obesity,
smoking and diet-induced diseases, Mr. Peck said. The result would be lower
health costs and longer lives. But are people and government willing to tackle
such issues to reverse current trends?

Government, for example, could encourage vegetable and fruit crops rather than
sugar, corn and soybeans that result in products laden with empty calories and
fat. "There is not a single grocery store in urban Detroit," Mr. Peck said.
"Kids there are growing up without ever having seen a fresh fruit or vegetable.
It's now a food desert."

How will climate change affect food production, hunger, availability of potable
water, poverty, epidemics, jobs, income, and population shifts worldwide? And
how will pollution continue to affect health?

"Most of the world's population will be subject to degraded air quality by 2050
if human-made emissions continue as usual," the World Health Organization said
based on a European Geosciences Union study. "Air pollution is a major health
risk that may worsen with increasing industrial activity. At present, urban
outdoor air pollution causes 1.3 million estimated deaths per year worldwide."

Is pandemic ahead?

Mr. Peck, citing various studies including the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation,
said the world and nation likely will face a major viral or bacterial pandemic
in coming years, similar to the 1918 Spanish Flu epidemic that claimed 50
million lives, or 2.5 percent of the world's population at the time of 2 billion
people. Only then will governments devote sufficient resources and develop
better plans to address pandemics.

"We may have to learn the hard way by going through a pandemic that takes out a
larger portion of the population," he said. "We will get smarter, but we are
slow on the learning curve here."

But he said he's optimistic that people can live healthier lives and fulfill
their potential if people and government adopt better strategies. It remains
controversial, but the Affordable Care Act -- so-called Obamacare -- does
attempt to shift the focus from treatment to prevention.

"We can screw it up -- and we have with obesity, smoking and lung cancer being
higher than they should be," he said. "But we have reversed some of that."

So we still can have optimism, hope and high expectations for babies born in
2013, as long as they are tempered a bit by the realities of a complex world
faced with enormous problems. Problems can be solved. Diseases can be treated.
Lives can improve.

The big question, as Mr. Peck notes, is whether our actions will boost or reduce
the prospects for the new generation.

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: David Templeton: dtempleton@post-gazette.com or 412-263-1578./

GRAPHIC: INFORMATIONAL GRAPHIC: James Hilston/Post-Gazette
PHOTO: Danny Johnston/Associated Press: The government should encourage
vegetable and fruit crops rather than corn, above, sugar and soybeans that
result in products laden with empty calories and fat, leading to increased
health problems, says futurist Jonathan Peck.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              121 of 426 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                          September 12, 2012 Wednesday
                            PITTSBURGH PRESS EDITION

ROMNEY MYOPIC ABOUT ENERGY CHALLENGES

BYLINE: PHILIP WARBURG

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A-7

LENGTH: 633 words


With Hurricane Isaac flooding Louisiana and Mississippi coastal communities, the
Republican Convention was an odd time for Mitt Romney to deride President Barack
Obama's concern about rising oceans.

"President Obama promised to begin to slow the rise of oceans and to heal the
planet," he scoffed. "My promise is to help you and your family."

As governor of Massachusetts, Mr. Romney authored an ambitious Climate
Protection Plan for the state, setting clear targets for curbing greenhouse-gas
emissions. He acknowledged at the time that the measures outlined in his plan
would "help our economy, our quality of life and the quality of our
environment." Now he says we Americans shouldn't waste our time worrying about
global warming.

Mr. Romney's current energy plan calls for "North American energy independence."
Key features include mining more coal, fast-tracking mineral leases for oil and
gas wells, quick approval of Keystone XL and other cross-border pipelines, and
speeding up permits for new nuclear-power plants. Climate change is never
mentioned, and instead of honing America's competitive edge in the fast-growing
global market for renewable energy, he mocks Mr. Obama's "imaginary world where
government-subsidized windmills and solar panels could power the economy."

The Republican presidential nominee takes no issue with the billions of dollars
in federal revenues lost each year to tax breaks for oil and gas producers. Yet
he readily dismisses the estimated 37,000 jobs that the wind industry would lose
if Congress lets the federal production tax credit for new wind projects lapse
at the end of this year. He asserts that wind and solar should compete on their
own, without government support. Why shouldn't fossil fuels do the same?

The National Renewable Energy Laboratory estimates that we could be drawing 80
percent of our total electricity needs from renewable resources by 2050. The sun
and the wind alone could fuel nearly half of our total power needs by
mid-century, the lab says, using equipment that is commercially available today.

Energy independence is a worthy aspiration, but we should pursue it in a manner
that doesn't ride roughshod over other important values.

Coherent governance of federal lands is one of those threatened values. Mr.
Romney wants to back the federal government out of the mineral leasing business,
boasting that states can do a much quicker job of opening up public lands to
energy exploitation. He proudly points to South Dakota, where he says permitting
for new oil and gas wells takes only 10 days. Do we really want hasty and
haphazard environmental review to become the new national standard for mineral
extraction on nearly a billion acres of land now governed by federal law?

Mr. Romney's "drill, baby, drill" ambitions extend beyond America's shores. His
platform calls for "aggressively" opening up our U.S. ocean waters to oil and
natural-gas exploration, starting with federal waters off Virginia and the
Carolinas.

Is this the same man who, as Massachusetts governor, opposed the Cape Wind
offshore wind farm because of its visual impacts when seen from the state's
shoreline, five miles from the nearest turbine? Presidential candidate Romney
seems to see thousands of giant drilling platforms off our Atlantic and Pacific
shores very differently, as proud emblems of American energy prowess. Given the
risk of catastrophic spills, proven all too real by the BP Horizon disaster, we
need to proceed with caution, not aggression, as we weigh the pros and cons of
expanded offshore drilling.

The next four years present an energy opportunity that America can ill afford to
squander. We need a president who will elevate our ambitions, not bury them in
policies that deepen our costly reliance on outmoded, non-renewable fuel
sources.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Philip Warburg of the Providence Journal is the author of "Harvest the
Wind: America's Journey to Jobs, Energy Independence and Climate Stability."/

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              122 of 426 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            December 3, 2012 Monday
                                 SOONER EDITION

GLOBAL EMISSIONS SET RECORD;
GOAL ON LIMITING GREENHOUSE GASES MAY NOT BE ATTAINABLE, ACCORDING TO
RESEARCHERS

BYLINE: Justin Gillis and John Broder, The New York Times

SECTION: HEALTH, SCIENCE, MEDICINE & TECHNOLOGY; Pg. A-1

LENGTH: 737 words


Global emissions of carbon dioxide were at a record high in 2011 and are likely
to take a similar jump in 2012, scientists reported Sunday -- the latest
indication that efforts to limit such emissions are failing.

Emissions continue to grow so rapidly that an international goal of limiting the
ultimate warming of the planet to 3.6 degrees Fahrenheit, established three
years ago, is on the verge of becoming unattainable, said researchers affiliated
with the Global Carbon Project.

Josep Canadell, a scientist in Australia who leads that tracking program, said
Sunday in a statement that salvaging the goal, if it can be done at all,
"requires an immediate, large and sustained global mitigation effort."

Yet nations around the world, despite a formal treaty pledging to limit warming
-- and 20 years of negotiations aimed at putting it into effect -- have shown
little appetite for the kinds of controls required to accomplish those stated
aims.

Delegates from nearly 200 nations are meeting in Doha, Qatar, for the latest
round of talks under the treaty, the U.N. Framework Convention on Climate
Change. Their agenda is modest this year, with no new emissions targets and
little progress expected on a protocol that is supposed to be concluded in 2015
and take effect in 2020.

Christiana Figueres, the executive secretary of the climate convention, said the
global negotiations were necessary but were not sufficient to tackle the
problem.

"We won't get an international agreement until enough domestic legislation and
action are in place to begin to have an effect," she said in an interview.
"Governments have to find ways in which action on the ground can be accelerated
and taken to a higher level, because that is absolutely needed."

The new figures show that emissions are falling, slowly, in some of the most
advanced countries, including the United States. That apparently reflects a
combination of economic weakness, the transfer of some manufacturing to
developing countries and conscious efforts to limit emissions, like the
renewable power targets that many American states have set. The boom in the
natural gas supply from hydraulic fracturing is also a factor, since natural gas
is supplanting coal at many power stations, leading to lower emissions.

But the decline of emissions in the developed countries is more than matched by
continued growth in developing countries like China and India, the new figures
show. Coal, the dirtiest and most carbon-intensive fossil fuel, is growing the
fastest, with coal-related emissions leaping more than 5 percent in 2011,
compared with the previous year.

"If we're going to run the world on coal, we're in deep trouble," said Gregg
Marland, a scientist at Appalachian State University who has tracked emissions
for decades.

Overall, global emissions jumped 3 percent in 2011 and are expected to jump
another 2.6 percent in 2012, researchers reported in two papers released by
scientific journals Sunday. It has become routine to set new emissions records
each year, although the global economic crisis led to a brief decline in 2009.

The level of carbon dioxide, the most important heat-trapping gas in the
atmosphere, has increased about 41 percent since the beginning of the Industrial
Revolution, and scientists fear it could double or triple before emissions are
brought under control. The temperature of the planet has already increased about
1.5 degrees since 1850.

Further increases in carbon dioxide are likely to have a profound effect on
climate, scientists say, leading to higher seas and greater coastal flooding;
more intense weather disasters like droughts and heat waves; and an extreme
acidification of the ocean. The earliest effects are already being seen, many
experts believe, but they are projected to worsen.

TOP 10 POLLUTERS

The 2011 figures for the biggest polluters as calculated by the Global Carbon
Project, a joint venture of the Energy Department and the Norwegian Research
Council:

1. China, up 10 percent to 10 billion tons

2. United States, down 2 percent to 5.9 billion tons

3. India, up 7 percent to 2.5 billion tons

4. Russia, up 3 percent to 1.8 billion tons

5. Japan, up 0.4 percent to 1.3 billion tons

6. Germany, down 4 percent to 0.8 billion tons

7. Iran, up 2 percent to 0.7 billion tons

8. South Korea, up 4 percent to 0.6 billion tons

9. Canada, up 2 percent to 0.6 billion tons

10. South Africa, up 2 percent to 0.6 billion tons

-- Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              138 of 426 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            February 5, 2012 Sunday
                               FIVE STAR EDITION

CALIFORNIA FUELS RULE SPARKS CONTROVERSY

BYLINE: Juliet Eilperin, The Washington Post

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. A-5

LENGTH: 708 words


Just as it pioneered curbs on greenhouse gas emissions from cars and light
trucks a decade ago, California is championing standards that could transform
the fuel that goes into their tanks.

But its new rule, which requires lowering the amount of carbon in fuel sold in
the state, has become embroiled in a fierce public battle and has been barred
from being enforced. In light of tight state budgets, litigation over
California's program and a strong lobbying campaign against them, the question
is whether the ambitious climate policy will get off the ground.

"To us, it's the most credible and powerful mechanism we can put in place," said
Dan Sperling, a member of California's Air Resources Board and director of the
Institute of Transportation Studies at University of California-Davis. "It's an
incentive to invest in other things besides oil."

Many oil industry officials in the United States and overseas say the standards
are too complex, will drive up gas prices and cannot be met given the current
supply of petroleum alternatives.

Charles Drevna, president of the American Fuel and Petrochemical Manufacturers,
said the policy "sounds really good at the 30,000-foot level" but added, "When
you get down to terra firma, it's a giant energy tax and a fuel rationing
scheme."

The premise of California's rule -- as well as its European counterpart, the
"E.U. Fuel Quality Directive" -- is that goals for cutting greenhouse gases can
only be met if the transportation sector begins to move away from fossil fuels.

The new standards assign carbon intensity values to roughly 250 types of crude
(higher carbon) along with other fuels -- including ethanol, electricity and
hydrogen, all lower carbon -- that power cars and trucks.

They call for reducing the overall carbon content of fuel sold in the state by
10 percent by 2020. Refiners will either have to mix low-carbon fuels into what
they sell over time in order to make the required cuts or buy credits to offset
the amount by which the fuel they sell exceeds the standards.

The state projects that the standard would reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 23
metric tons in 2020, according to Simon Mui, a scientist at the advocacy group
Natural Resources Defense Council.

Lawmakers in at least 18 other states, as well as in Washington, started looking
at adopting similar clean-air standards over the past few years as a way of
cutting greenhouse gas emissions both regionally and nationwide. But now several
have either dropped or suspended their plans.

Pennsylvania and New Jersey have opted out of a program developed by Northeast
States for Coordinated Air Use Management. Maine announced late last month it
will withdraw, and New Hampshire's legislature is considering legislation that
would bar the state from spending money on the initiative. Low-carbon fuel
standards in Washington state and Oregon are also on hold.

The Midwestern Governors Association abandoned its proposal after its membership
flipped last year from seven Democrats and three Republicans to three Democrats
and seven Republicans.

"There are a number of states still looking at it, but looking at it carefully
to see how to change it to make it both legally and politically feasible," said
Vicki Arroyo, executive director of the Georgetown Climate Center.

Mr. Sperling and another UC-Davis researcher, Sonia Yeh, did an analysis that
showed that a national low-carbon fuel standard would translate into an extra 16
to 19 cents per gallon at the pump. The Consumer Energy Alliance, a broad
coalition of oil and gas companies, as well as trucking, business and farm
groups, commissioned its own study saying that a national standard would raise
the cost of transportation fuels for consumers by between 90 percent and 170
percent.

Last month, a federal district judge ruled that California's low-carbon fuel
standard was unconstitutional, on the grounds that it discriminated against
out-of-state ethanol producers by ascribing a higher carbon content to their
fuels. The state has appealed the ruling, as well as the court injunction that
bars it from enforcing the rule. Last Monday, U.S. District Judge Lawrence
O'Neill granted California an expedited review of the case but denied its
request to move ahead with the rule.

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              140 of 426 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                           October 3, 2012 Wednesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

AFRICAN PENGUINS

BYLINE: the National Aviary Education Team

SECTION: LIFESTYLE; LET'S TALK ABOUT BIRDS; Pg. C-5

LENGTH: 502 words


On a cool crisp fall afternoon in Pittsburgh, a crowd gathers to peek at Sidney
and the rest of the penguins. It's not an unofficial NHL-lockout workout at
Southpointe, but feeding time at the National Aviary. Sidney, Stanley, Elvis and
13 other African Penguins jostle to be first in line.

At just shorter than 2 feet and weighing between 6-10 pounds, African penguins
are quite different from the recognizable Emperor penguin, seen in movies such
as "Happy Feet" and "March of the Penguins." Emperor penguins live in a frozen
Antarctic climate, but African penguins do not. They live in large flocks,
called rookeries, on the temperate beaches along the southern tip of Africa and
its surrounding islands. Here, the flightless birds dine on a variety of cold
water fish such as anchovies and sardines. A penguin can eat 15 percent of its
own body weight in fish, every day. That's the equivalent of a 100-pound human
eating 60 quarter-pound hamburgers.

An African penguin may hunt up to 16-18 hours in the water. Using their
paddle-like wings, they can "fly" underwater at speeds of 15-20 mph. Webbed feet
act like rudders on a boat to steer them toward their next meal.

Despite the beachfront property and daily all-you-can-eat seafood buffets,
African penguins, like all penguins, are seeing their numbers decrease in the
wild. In 1920, there were more than 1 million African penguins in the wild.
Today, there are fewer than 40,000 -- a 96 percent drop. Habitat loss, oil
spills, climate change and over-fishing are dramatically affecting the African
penguin population. This past month, the South African Foundation for the
Conservation of Coastal Birds, a nonprofit organization dedicated to the
conservation of seabirds and other sea life, has been working to save 219 oiled
African penguins and 33 chicks whose parents were caught in the SELI 1 oil slick
off Robben Island in Africa.

But all is not lost. Zoos such as the National Aviary are working to save the
species.

Through a Species Survival Plan, the National Aviary partners with other zoos
across the country to breed and raise a genetically diverse population of
penguins. In February, the Aviary welcomed the first penguins to hatch in its
60-year history. Two new rookie prospects joined our team: Sid's kids, Tribby
and Kaden.

We all can work together to support African penguins. Join the National Aviary's
"Share the Care" program to help us feed, nurture and support the African
penguins in our care. And visit the National Aviary as we host African Penguin
Awareness Day on Oct. 13. A special fun-filled day of penguin-related events is
planned: daily feedings, Penguin Connections, Family Penguin Paintings and more.
You can learn more about the South African foundation's oil spill
rehabilitation, chick rearing and education efforts and how you can help African
penguins in the wild.

Even if there isn't hockey this winter, the penguins will always be in season at
the National Aviary. For more information, visit our website at www.aviary.org.

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: MY GENERATION: For Kids, About Kids, By Kids / This is one of a series
presented by the National Aviary, which works to inspire respect for nature
through an appreciation of birds.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: African penguin

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              162 of 426 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                           October 31, 2012 Wednesday
                            PITTSBURGH PRESS EDITION

SANDY THE SOOTHSAYER

BYLINE: FRANK BRUNI

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A-7

LENGTH: 646 words


If you've watched whole sections of your home sail away, been stranded in a
shelter or can't make contact with a loved one whose safety isn't certain, it's
probably unsettling at best -- and galling at worst -- to hear Sandy referred to
as an "October surprise," on a par with a bimbo eruption or corruption scandal,
wreaking havoc on the presidential race above all else.

But there's no solipsism like political solipsism, and this election has addled
people like few I've witnessed, with even the most peripheral developments and
random polls scrutinized to smithereens for their outcome-auguring significance.
Why should weather be exempt from such hyperventilation?

This week will be remembered as one when meteorology and punditry became strange
bedfellows and a measure of perspective was gone with the wind.

I've read that Sandy will diminish the impact of homestretch advertising,
because people whose electricity is out cannot watch TV.

I've also read that Sandy will intensify the impact of homestretch advertising,
because people whose electricity is not out are raptly monitoring local
stations, where such advertising is concentrated.

It has been opined that Sandy could hurt President Barack Obama, disrupting
early voting and depressing turnout. It has been opined that Sandy could help
Obama, affording him the opportunity to look presidential as he marshals federal
resources and directs the emergency aid effort.

Someone somewhere has no doubt produced a chart that breaks down storm
categories and their electoral consequences.

Blizzards: pro-Mitt Romney. Snow evokes winter. Mr. Romney rescued the Winter
Olympics. And one of his nicknames -- Mittens -- is an icy, slushy, flaky one.

Tsunamis: also pro-Romney. They affect coastlines, where cosmopolitan types
cluster, and thus divert liberals' attention from the contest at hand, granting
more power to the folks living in the flyover.

Tornados: pro-Obama. They distract the folks in the flyover, and are also known
as twisters, which remind voters everywhere of Mr. Romney's pretzel of disparate
positions over the course of his political career or, for that matter, the last
five minutes.

And hurricanes?

From the Mother Jones website I learned that "all other things being equal, the
incumbent party does less well when it's too wet or too dry," as opposed to when
it's just right. This was the assessment of Larry Bartels, a professor of
political science at Vanderbilt University who has apparently made a study of
this.

But how does the incumbent party do when the moon is in the seventh house and
Jupiter aligns with Mars? Who, pray tell, is making a study of that?

Mr. Obama suspended campaigning in order to man command central in Washington.
This meant that a rally in Orlando, Fla., that he was supposed to do with Bill
Clinton had to be headlined by Mr. Clinton alone. The former president, needless
to say, was devastated.

As Sandy churned, so did the political panic. Would the storm down enough phone
lines to impede daily tracking polls? A column in The Huffington Post
articulated this dark fear, which I'd characterize instead as a delightful
reprieve.

Would the surge of tides end the surge of Mitt, his momentum washed away by the
storm's domination of the news?

Reality checks were imperative. The state whose cancellation of early voting was
most often cited was Maryland. Mr. Obama doesn't need early voting to win
Maryland. He almost doesn't need a pulse.

And climate change was brought up. "It's as if Mother Nature is sending yet
another message to American voters: Ignore me no longer," wrote Heather
Taylor-Miesle, director of the Natural Resources Defense Council Action Fund, in
a blog post.

Of course Mr. Obama and Mr. Romney themselves ignored climate change in their
debates. So maybe Mother Nature isn't so much putting her thumb on the scale as
showing both candidates the back of her hand.

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: New York Times News Service/

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              185 of 426 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                           February 4, 2012 Saturday
                                 SOONER EDITION

BIG CAMPAIGN SPENDERS HAVE FEDERAL STAKES

BYLINE: Stephen Braun, Jack Gillum and Richard Lardner, Associated Press

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. A-5

LENGTH: 729 words


WASHINGTON -- The millionaires, billionaires and companies giving big sums to
political committees supporting former Massachusetts Gov. Mitt Romney, former
House Speaker Newt Gingrich and President Barack Obama have important business
with the next president.

Some are already in trouble with the government. Some are pressing for new laws
or regulations that would benefit their interests in energy, mining and high
finance.

The Associated Press reviewed financial reports, regulatory filings, court
records, public statements and more to identify favors that the biggest donors
so far in the presidential campaign might want in return for their contributions
worth $100,000 or more. In some cases, these donors have given $1 million or
more to help Mr. Obama or his challengers.

An exhaustive review of their motives is nearly impossible, since new federal
rules governing such contributions allow donors to effectively remain anonymous
if they funnel cash into the campaign through corporate partnerships or other
mechanisms that can frustrate investigation.

The presidential campaigns all have said they do not trade political favors for
election money.

Among AP's findings:

* An energy firm run by William Koch, a $1 million donor to the pro-Romney
political committee, paid to lobby Congress about mining and safety issues and
also a proposed federal land swap that would enlarge the donor's Colorado ranch.

* The casino company run by billionaire Sheldon Adelson, whose family has given
$11 million to a political committee that supports Mr. Gingrich, has
acknowledged that it's under federal investigation by the Justice Department and
a civil probe by the Securities and Exchange Commission for possible violations
of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Mr. Adelson's family has provided nearly
all the money the pro-Gingrich group has received so far.

* A hedge fund run by New York investor Paul Singer, who gave the pro-Romney
group $1 million, has pushed for federal laws that would give official U.S.
backing to the firm's legal efforts to profit from the debt of distressed and
Third World nations.

* A board member and former chairman of a prestigious Los Angeles hospital, John
C. Law with the Cedars-Sinai Medical Center, has given the pro-Obama committee
$100,000 as the hospital has lobbied Mr. Obama's administration over Medicare
and Medicaid funding for teaching hospitals and electronic medical records, the
National Institutes of Health and Army research programs.

* Coal producer Consol Energy Inc., which donated $150,000 to the pro-Romney
group, paid a $5.5 million fine last year for violations of the Clean Water Act
at six of its mines. It is lobbying to prohibit the federal government from
regulating greenhouse gas emissions.

Weeks after the company gave money to support Mr. Romney, who previously had
agreed that humans are contributing to climate change, the candidate appeared to
back off that position and said he would oppose spending high amounts of federal
money to reduce carbon dioxide emissions, such as those from coal plants.

The high-dollar contributions have flowed into the presidential campaign through
so-called super-PACs, which can support a specific candidate but cannot lawfully
coordinate their spending with a candidate's campaign. The groups, given a green
light by the Supreme Court in 2010, when it stripped limits on corporate and
labor union spending in elections, have already proved to be strategically
successful for candidates.

The pro-Romney group, Restore Our Future, spent $8.8 million on ads in Florida
alone -- more than Mr. Romney's own campaign -- and has already booked TV spots
in Arizona, Michigan and Minnesota.

Mr. Obama so far has fewer big-money donors. He is able to marshal the resources
of the Democratic National Committee, and it is typically easier for incumbents
to raise money closer to the November election.

Public-interest groups have warned since the Supreme Court ruling that wealthy
individuals, corporations, unions and other interests would seek favors in
return for unlimited campaign contributions.

"The size of these donations counts for a lot, and the candidates will naturally
be grateful to these organizations and their donors," said Sheila Krumholz,
executive director of the nonpartisan Center for Responsive Politics in
Washington. "And with greater support comes increased gratefulness."

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              187 of 426 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            February 7, 2012 Tuesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

NOBEL DYNAMITE THE COMMITTEE MUST DEFEND ITS PEACE HONOREES

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. B-6

LENGTH: 292 words


All he is saying is give peace a chance. No, not John Lennon -- Fredrik
Heffermehl, a Norwegian jurist and critic of the Nobel Peace Prize selection
process. It could mean trouble for the committee, which faces a formal
investigation into its selections.

"[Alfred] Nobel called it a prize for the champions of peace," Mr. Heffermehl
said, "and it's indisputable that he had in mind the peace movement, ... a new
global order where nations safely can drop national armaments."

Mr. Heffermehl's beef is that the Nobel Peace Prize committee has broadened the
category and awarded the prize for work in environmental, humanitarian and other
fields.

In 2007, former Vice President Al Gore and a United Nations panel won it for
alerting the world to global warming. In 2009, President Barack Obama won for
his efforts on behalf of international diplomacy, although he appears to have
been chosen because he wasn't George W. Bush.

It's up to the Stockholm County Administrative Body to judge if the will of
Alfred Nobel, the inventor of dynamite, is being followed. But the guidelines
for the prize are more idealistic than helpful, seeking to honor "the best work
for fraternity between nations, the abolition or reduction of standing armies
and for the holding and promotion of peace congresses."

We favor an expansive reading of the awards criterion. It would be a shame if
voices of conscience could not be honored, such as Chinese dissident Liu Xiaobo
in 2010 and Soviet human rights activist Andrei Sakharov in 1975. They may not
have held and promoted peace congresses but they were a witness to humanity.
Even work on climate change shouldn't disqualify anybody.

Give peace a chance, for sure. But give reasonableness a chance to recognize
kindred humanitarians.

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              193 of 426 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                             May 24, 2012 Thursday
                            PITTSBURGH PRESS EDITION

BRIDGING THE POLITICAL GAP BETWEEN US, CUBA;
SCIENTISTS SAY ENVIRONMENTAL COLLABORATION NECESSARY TO ENSURE SUCCESS FOR BOTH
NATIONS

BYLINE: Franco Ordonez, McClatchy Washington Bureau

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. A-10

LENGTH: 924 words


VINALES, Cuba --

Cuban and American scientists have joined forces in an effort to protect baby
sea turtles and endangered sharks. They're studying Caribbean weather patterns
that fuel the hurricanes that have devastated the Southeastern United States.

In the process, they're chipping away at a half-century of government feuding,
helping to bring the nations together for talks on vital matters, such as what
to do in case of an oil spill.

The two countries are so geographically close, and the environmental concerns so
similar, that scientists say it's crucial to combine forces.

"If we're going to have any hope of protecting our environment in the future,
from climate change to our shared resources in the Gulf of Mexico, we have to
collaborate," said Dan Whittle, the Cuba program director at the Environmental
Defense Fund.

Under the Obama administration, cooperation between scientific organizations has
increased, scientists say. Visas are being granted more regularly to Cuban
scientists and it's easier for Americans to get the U.S. government licenses
needed to do research on the island.

Peter Agre, a Nobel laureate in chemistry and the head of the Johns Hopkins
Malaria Research Institute, led 18 U.S. scientists associated with the American
Association for the Advancement of Science on a trip to Cuba in December to meet
with counterparts about potential cooperation in marine and atmospheric
sciences, and sustainable fisheries.

For some American scientists, going to Cuba is like tasting a piece of forbidden
fruit. The scientific landscape has been largely untouched for decades.

The U.S. trade embargo, which has been in place for 50 years, has in many ways
been a gift to Cuba's forests, fish populations and coral reefs. It helped
insulate Cuba's ecosystem from the type of tourist development that's wracked
other nations.

Sea turtles that feed in Florida journey back each year to nest in Cuba. Many
grunts and snapper fish that live off the North Carolina coast also spawn in
Cuba. The oceanic whitetip shark has almost disappeared from U.S. waters, but
preliminary studies show the predators in abundance around the island.

Cuban scientists see the collaboration with Americans as an honest exchange of
work, as opposed to a plea for funding or resources.

They complain that they don't get enough credit for their science, and they
boast that Cuba represents 2 percent of the Latin American population but has 11
percent of the scientists in the region. There are thousands of Cuban doctors
and health professionals on medical missions abroad.

The country includes more than 84 protected areas, making up almost 14 percent
of the island. In Western Cuba at the 37,500-acre Vinales National Park,
environmentalists study ways to protect the vast mountains that are home to an
array of native plants and animals, including the renown "painted snails."
Legend has it that the sun painted their vibrant orange and yellow swirled
shells.

"Of maximum importance is the need to protect and conserve the environment,"
said Yamira Valdez, a Cuban environmental specialist at the park. "Our countries
can share experiences, criteria. They can see what works here. And we can apply
their experience to the work we do."

Scientists and scholars have helped break through political barriers before. An
environmental agreement reached with the Soviet Union in the 1970s is often
credited with easing Cold War tensions.

"So later when things began to loosen up and relations warmed, there was a
network of people who knew each other quite well who had actually had dinners
together and been to each other's homes," said William Reilly, the head of the
Environmental Protection Agency under President George H.W. Bush. "That is
enormously constructive."

Oil is a key area of cooperative interest.

Last year, the U.S. Treasury Department granted a group of environmentalists and
drilling experts, led by the Environmental Defense Fund, permission to travel to
Cuban to meet with top officials at the Ministry of Basic Industry, which
regulates the energy sector, as well as the state-run petroleum company. The
group included Mr. Reilly, the co-chair of a bipartisan commission that
investigated the 2010 BP spill. He said his goal was to share the commission's
findings with Cuban officials, who had no experience regulating offshore oil and
gas, in hopes that they wouldn't make the same mistakes that led to the BP
disaster.

When he returned to the United States, Mr. Reilly briefed the Bureau of Ocean
Energy Management, Regulation and Enforcement and other administration agencies,
whose officials, Mr. Reilly said, were very interested to learn that the Cubans
were reading the Interior Department's regulatory reports and planned to adhere
to American standards.

"That was not known," he said.

There are still considerable obstacles to be overcome. In addition to needing
visas to travel to the United States, Cuban scientists work with fewer
resources. The Internet also is not easily accessible.

In February, Fabian Pina, a scientist with Cuba's Center for Coastal Ecosystems
Research in Cayo Coco, Cuba, was awarded a $150,000 Pew Fellowship in Marine
Conservation to study goliath grouper populations in Cuba, the first time a
Cuban researcher has received the prestigious grant, a kin, in the marine
science world, to winning a MacArthur "genius grant."

But Mr. Pina was supposed to be in the 2011 class. It took months to get proper
approvals from U.S. officials, who were concerned the grant money would be taken
or taxed by the Cuban government.

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Kevin G. Hall/McClatchy Newspapers Wilfredo Garcia, 46, heads a
local effort in Vinales, Cuba, to promote environmentally friendly sustainable
agriculture.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              197 of 426 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            July 18, 2012 Wednesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

GREENLAND GLACIER'S ICE SPLIT IS TWICE THE SIZE OF MANHATTAN

BYLINE: Juliet Eilperin, The Washington Post

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. A-5

LENGTH: 369 words


A chunk of ice twice the size of Manhattan has parted from Greenland's Petermann
glacier, a break that University of Delaware and Canadian Ice Service
researchers attributed to warmer ocean temperatures.

The separation along Greenland's northwest coast, which happened Monday,
represents the second major calving event for the glacier in the past three
years. In August 2010, the Petermann glacier lost an area of roughly 97 square
miles, compared with the 46 square miles that just split off this week.

Andreas Muenchow, a University of Delaware associate professor of physical ocean
science and engineering, said the glacier's end point is now at "a location
where it has not been for at least 150 years."

"The Greenland ice sheet is changing rapidly before our eyes," Mr. Muenchow said
in an interview, adding that while "no individual glacier will be the canary in
the coal mine," recent warming has transformed the overall ice sheet. "The
Greenland ice sheet is being reduced not just in size, but in volume," he said.
"The big and broader climate change story is what's happening all around
Greenland."

Ted Scambos, lead scientist for the University of Colorado's National Snow and
Ice Data Center, said scientists will now be monitoring whether the glacier's
flow rate will accelerate "because of its loss of this chunk of ice at the front
of it." He added, "It's going to take awhile to understand how significant a
loss this is."

The Petermann glacier's flow accelerated between 10 percent and 20 percent after
the 2010 calving event, Mr. Muenchow said, adding that researchers were still
waiting to see if that was a short-term increase or would persist over time.

Ohio State University polar researcher Jason Box noted that the 2010 calving was
"the largest in the observational record for Greenland." He correctly predicted
last summer that the piece that just broke off, about half the size, was on the
brink.

Air temperatures in the region have warmed more than 4.5 degrees Fahrenheit, or
2.5 degrees Celsius, since 1987 -- a rate five times that of the rest of the
world. But Mr. Muenchow cautioned against directly linking air temperatures to
the glacier's behavior, noting that it has a floating ice shelf.

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              205 of 426 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            October 2, 2012 Tuesday
                            PITTSBURGH PRESS EDITION

STALLING SCIENCE THREATENS EVERY DOMAIN OF MODERN LIFE

BYLINE: ALAN I. LESHNER AND KENT KRESA

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A-7

LENGTH: 797 words


The looming "sequestration," across-the-board budget cuts that were never really
meant to happen, could cripple key areas of science by slashing federal
investment in research and development by an estimated 8.4 percent between now
and 2017. That is not good for science, but it is also bad for an economy whose
growth is driven by advances in science and technology.

At a time when federal R&D funding has declined 10 percent in real dollars since
2010, indiscriminate spending cuts would further stall essential studies, with
potential impacts on medical research, food safety, energy independence,
national security and efforts to come to grips with climate change. There are
few aspects of modern life not touched by science, and the federal role in
promoting innovative research across diverse fields must not be compromised.

Consider some of the benefits to date: NASA's many spinoff technologies have
included a robotic arm that helps surgeons perform less-invasive surgeries, a
device that stabilizes heart-transplant patients until a donor can be found and
sensors for detecting chemical warfare agents. Other federally funded research
has given rise to the Google search engine, liquid-crystal displays, magnetic
storage drives and global positioning systems. The Human Genome Project, which
cost the federal government $3.8 billion between 1990 and 2003, or $5.6 billion
in 2010 dollars, has generated an economic payoff of $796 billion, according to
a study by Battelle Memorial Institute. Advances resulting from the project have
encompassed human health, agriculture, forensics, veterinary medicine and more.

If broad-axe budget cuts happen, few research fields will remain unscathed.
Vital projects related to cancer, cyber security, weather monitoring, and other
national concerns would be endangered as federal agencies scramble to reduce or
terminate programs, cut overhead costs and slash capital spending. States that
receive federal R&D money would feel the pain. California could lose $7.3
billion in reduced R&D funding from the Defense Department alone over the next
five years and $11.3 billion overall. Texas could lose $2.8 billion overall,
Florida $1.6 billion and Washington $1.7 billion.

Slowing scientific progress seems a particularly bad idea for the United States
at the same time that other countries are rapidly increasing their R&D
investments. Since 1999, China's support for science, for example, has grown 10
times faster, as a percentage of its economy, or gross domestic product,
compared with the U.S.

The pending sequestration, mandating nearly $1 trillion in indiscriminate
spending cuts over the next decade, would cut defense R&D by 9.1 percent and
nondefense R&D by 7.4 percent over the first five years, assuming budget
reductions are distributed equally. This slash-and-burn approach to trimming the
federal deficit was originally intended only as a worst-case or default
position. While many Republican and Democrats fear the "fiscal cliff" that
looms, continuing political inaction will make it a reality.

The Budget Control Act, signed into law in August 2011, set forth a two-step
process for trimming the nation's $1.1 trillion annual deficit. A
supercommittee's failure to agree on a deficit-reduction plan launched the
countdown to a second, emergency stop-gap measure: automatic sequestration.
Sweeping budget cuts will go into effect in January unless Congress takes action
during the upcoming lame-duck session.

A new analysis by the American Association for the Advancement of Science looked
at two possible sequestration scenarios being discussed on Capitol Hill: Cuts to
nondefense research areas only or cuts affecting science programs in both
defense and nondefense agencies. If the cuts are unbalanced, with lawmakers
declining trims to defense spending and shifting them to nondefense programs,
some civilian agencies could lose up to up to 17.5% of their R&D funding by
2017, the analysis found. The National Institutes of Health, for example, would
lose $26.1 billion over five years rather than $11.3 billion under an
equal-distribution scenario.

Of great concern is the likelihood that drastic cuts to science, particularly
over a 10-year period, would further discourage a group of potential young
innovators who already face profound challenges. Tight budgets mean longer
intervals between graduate school and the first research grant (generally viewed
as the measure of when a scientist's career starts). The graying of grantees for
the National Institutes of Health already is well under way. In 1980,
researchers got a first NIH grant at an average age of 36. By 2008, the average
age was 42, according to a study published last year.

Yes, budget cuts seem necessary and unavoidable. But deficit reduction must be
wise.

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Alan Leshner is the chief executive officer of the American Association
for the Advancement of Science and executive publisher of the journal Science.
Kent Kresa is chairman emeritus of Northrop Grumman Corporation and chairman of
the Board of Trustees of the California Institute of Technology. /

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              206 of 426 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            October 4, 2012 Thursday
                            PITTSBURGH PRESS EDITION

SCOTT BROWN'S SENATE PROBLEM

BYLINE: SCOT LEHIGH

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A-7

LENGTH: 721 words


It's a vote Scott Brown hasn't yet taken.

The ideology is one he sometimes doesn't share.

If his fellow Republican senators were more like him, it might not even be an
issue.

And yet, it may become the single largest hurdle to his re-election in
Massachusetts.

That matter?

This simple reality: His re-election could put the GOP in control of the U.S.
Senate.

If so, his victory would make Mitch McConnell the next majority leader. Mr.
McConnell, now minority leader, has dedicated himself to using the filibuster to
obstruct President Barack Obama in the hopes of defeating him.

It's an argument Democrats will be hitting hard between now and Election Day.

"I don't think any of us are willing to see President Obama raise his right hand
to be inaugurated in January just so that inside the Capitol, a majority leader,
McConnell, can raise his right hand to stop everything that he has pledged and
wants to do," Sen. John Kerry said as he stood beside Democratic candidate
Elizabeth Warren at a Monday news conference.

Building on an argument Ms. Warren herself has started to make, Mr. Kerry
stressed that giving the Republican Party control of the Senate will mean giving
Jim Inhofe of Oklahoma, a climate-change denier, control over the Environment
and Public Works Committee. It would put an anti-abortion-rights senator in
control of the Judiciary Committee, which plays a crucial role in confirming
federal judges, he said, and hand the Finance Committee to a party determined to
repeal Obamacare and make the Bush tax cuts for upper earners permanent.

It would also put the Commerce Committee under the control of Jim DeMint, a Tea
Party partisan from South Carolina; and give the banking panel gavel to someone
opposed to the Dodd-Frank financial-reform law. Further, he noted, the Senate
would be run by a party whose members, including Mr. Brown, have taken Grover
Norquist's No New Taxes pledge, which precludes a balanced approach to deficit
reduction.

Mr. Kerry understands the potency of this issue. In 1996, it helped him turn
back Bill Weld. Although popular, accomplished, and well-financed, Mr. Weld was
knocked off-balance by the question of whether, as a Republican senator, he
would be a vote for reconfirming Jesse Helms, then an arch-conservative GOP
senator from North Carolina, as chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations
Committee. Queried on that in the final campaign debate, Mr. Weld hemmed and
hawed, saying he would "have to wait and see."

"Massachusetts . . . decided Bill Weld was a great guy, but ?one whose first
vote in the United States Senate would do very bad things for Massachusetts,"
Mr. Kerry recalled. "Because that's the vote that chooses a majority leader, and
it creates the chairmen whose work hurts or helps every single thing that we
care about in our state."

That's a hard argument to handle, though Mr. Brown's team is trying.

"It sounds like the race professor Warren has isn't the one she wants," said
spokeswoman Alleigh Marre. "She's running against Scott Brown, who is the
second-most bipartisan senator."

That's true. Yet the determined obstructionism of Mr. Brown's fellow Republicans
in the Senate makes this about more than his individual inclination toward
bipartisanship.

"There is some power to the argument that you will be part of the glue in the
center, but the strategy Mitch McConnell has pursued is a strategy of
filibustering anything and everything," said Norm Ornstein, congressional
scholar at the American Enterprise Institute. "Unless you are willing to
denounce that strategy and say you will not join in that kind of filibuster,
then the argument that you are not tied to the Republican brand just loses its
strength."

Although Mr. Brown has occasionally voted to end GOP filibusters, he has shown
little interest in leading, or even joining, an effort to curtail filibuster
abuse. Nor has he taken the simple move of announcing that he himself will
routinely vote against filibusters and in favor of bringing issues to the Senate
floor for debate on the merits.

Now he's left fighting the same political current that undercut Mr. Weld's
Senate hopes in 1996 and washed Rhode Island's Lincoln Chafee, another popular
New England Republican, out of the Senate a decade later.

And in this pivotal race, in these polarized times, that current could well
become a rip-tide.

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Scot Lehigh writes for The Boston Globe./

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              207 of 426 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                             October 8, 2012 Monday
                                 SOONER EDITION

FINANCIAL CATCH-22 AMID FLAMES;
PREVENTION SERVICES' MONEY SPENT TO PUT OUT UNPRECEDENTED WILDFIRES

BYLINE: Darryl Fears, The Washington Post

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. A-7

LENGTH: 520 words


WASHINGTON -- In the worst wildfire season on record, the U.S. Department of
Agriculture Forest Service ran out of money to pay for firefighters, fire trucks
and aircraft that dump retardant on monstrous flames.

So officials did about the only thing they could: take money from other
forest-management programs. But many of the programs were aimed at preventing
giant fires in the first place, and raiding their budgets meant putting off the
removal of dried brush and dead wood over vast stretches of land -- the things
that fuel eye-popping blazes, threatening property and lives.

Recently, Congress stepped in and reimbursed the Forest Service and the Interior
Department, which plays a far lesser role in fighting fires, with $400 million
from the 2013 continuing resolution, allowing fire-prevention work to continue.
Forestry experts at state agencies and environmental groups greeted it as good
news.

But they also faulted Congress for providing at the start of the fiscal year
only about half of the $1 billion it actually cost to fight this year's fires.
They argued that the traditional method that members of an appropriations
conference committee use to fund wildfire suppression -- averaging the cost of
fighting wildfires over the previous 10 years -- is inadequate at a time when
climate change is causing longer periods of dryness and drought, giving fires
more fuel to burn and resulting in longer wildfire seasons.

Once running from June to September, the season has expanded over the past 10
years to include May and October. It was once rare to see 5 million cumulative
acres burn, agriculture officials said. But some recent seasons have recorded
millions more than that.

This year's wildfire burn was nearly 8 million acres at the end of August, about
the time that the budget allocated to fight them ran dry.

"They knew they were running out of money early on, in May," said Chris Topik,
director of North American Forest Restoration for the Nature Conservancy. "They
were telling people in May, 'Be careful, don't spend too much [on prevention].'
"

Over seven years starting in 2002, $2.2 billion was transferred from other
accounts for fire suppression when the budget came up short, according to
records provided by the Forest Service. Congress at times reimbursed a fraction
of those funds.

"We did have to transfer the money," said Jim Hubbard, deputy chief of state and
private forestry for the Forest Service. "It disrupts work during the field
season. It was not a major impact this season, but would have been if Congress
didn't restore it."

A spokeswoman for the House Appropriations Committee said its chairman, Rep.
Harold Rogers, R-Ky., and members "believe that providing adequate funding for
wildfire suppression is of the utmost importance. This is why they fought for
hundreds of millions in funding in recent ... legislation," as well as in
appropriations bills.

Staff members on the committee acknowledged that using the 10-year average cost
of wildfire suppression to determine the budget is not ideal. The spokeswoman,
Jennifer Hing, said the committee will continue to operate as it has.

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              216 of 426 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            November 4, 2012 Sunday
                                TWO STAR EDITION

THE HOOK-AND-BULLET CROWD IS BULLY FOR CONSERVATION;
AND THEY WANT TO KNOW HOW CANDIDATES PLAN TO PROTECT AMERICA'S GREAT OUTDOORS

BYLINE: LARRY SCHWEIGER

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. B-1

LENGTH: 805 words


It's been exactly 100 years since reformers, frustrated by the government's
allegiance to special interests and a Cabinet filled with corporate lawyers by
President William Howard Taft, formed the Bull Moose Party. The party was named
for the celebrated sportsman and former president, Theodore Roosevelt, who felt
Taft had turned his back on the Roosevelt legacy of conservation.

A century later, today's sportsmen could be excused for wondering whether
history is repeating itself. Out on the campaign trail, it's been anything but
open season for debate on the top conservation issues of the day.

But a new poll shows that beyond the Beltway, protecting America's conservation
heritage remains a top priority for sportsmen. America's hunters and anglers
expect our political leaders to lay out their plans for protecting our air,
water, wildlife and public lands.

While I was head of the Western Pennsylvania Conservancy, I worked with
countless Pennsylvanians who felt passionately about the outdoor legacy of
Penn's Woods. Candidates at all levels should answer this simple question,
"What's your plan for protecting our outdoor heritage for our children's
future?"

People who love the outdoors inherently understand the importance of a healthy
environment. Regrettably, the day is nigh when we can no longer fish for
smallmouth bass in the middle Susquehanna River due to repeated fish kills
caused mainly by high water temperatures. And when we can engage the natural
world, who among us wants to risk eating a mercury-laden fish, or venison
exposed to a pollutant that moves up the food chain from power plant emissions?

"The nation's fishermen and hunters are on the front line of our field
naturalists. Doing what they love best, they see firsthand the impact of climate
change on natural systems and our wildlife. Their conclusions are based on
observations made over years spent in the out of doors," says sportsman and
conservationist Theodore Roosevelt IV. "As this new poll shows, by substantial
margins fishermen and hunters believe we have a moral responsibility to act as
stewards to pass on to our children's children our magnificent public lands and
waters."

The Chesapeake Beach Consulting poll conducted for the National Wildlife
Federation reports that while hunters and anglers tend to be conservative
politically, many are split-ticket and independent voters who care deeply about
conservation and believe confronting global warming isn't a matter of left or
right, but a matter of right or wrong. The poll found that:

* A supermajority of sportsmen (79 percent) wants to restore Clean Water Act
protections to wetlands and waterways, including smaller creeks and streams, to
protect our health and important fish and wildlife habitat.

* Given a choice between protecting America's public lands and prioritizing the
production of oil, gas and coal, 49 percent want to protect public lands and
just 35 percent choose fossil fuel production.

* Two of three sportsmen polled (66 percent) believe we have a moral
responsibility to confront global warming to protect our children's future.
Additionally, 69 percent agree the United States should reduce carbon emissions
that contribute to global warming and threaten fish and wildlife habitat.

* Sportsmen strongly believe British Petroleum should be held accountable and
fined the maximum amount for the 2010 Gulf oil disaster (81 percent) and that
those funds should be used exclusively to restore the fish and wildlife habitat
of the Gulf of Mexico and its fishing and hunting heritage, and not for
unrelated infrastructure projects (87 percent).

* Finally -- and this may surprise many -- conservation is just as important as
gun rights according to nearly half of sportsmen polled (47 percent). Another 13
percent believe conservation issues are even more important than gun rights.

The hook-and-bullet crowd cares about conservation, from oil disasters to carbon
pollution to helping our children build a connection with America's great
outdoors. Even with the elections upon us, there's still time for candidates to
stop dodging conservation and talk about what these real Americans really care
about.

For America's hunters and anglers, conservation is literally a kitchen-table
issue. And, yes, it's about jobs here in Pennsylvania: Fishing, hunting and
outdoor recreation are big business in the Keystone State, supporting more than
150,000 jobs and generating $4.3 billion in economic activity.

Protecting our wildlife, natural resources and public health has a long,
bipartisan tradition in this country and our democracy thrives when we work
together toward a common goal. We expect our political leaders to outline their
plans for protecting our air, water, wildlife and public lands. America's
sportsmen and women are voters, too, and they're pointing the way.

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Larry Schweiger is president and CEO of the National Wildlife Federation.
He served for eight years as president and CEO of the Western Pennsylvania
Conservancy and was executive secretary of the Joint House/Senate Conservation
Committee for the Pennsylvania General Assembly. /

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              234 of 426 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            September 9, 2012 Sunday
                               FIVE STAR EDITION

TO ADD JOBS, MANY IN CALIF. LOOK TO ALTER GREEN LAW

BYLINE: Ian Lovett, The New York Times

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. A-7

LENGTH: 1166 words


LOS ANGELES --

Environmentalists in this greenest of places call the California Environmental
Quality Act the state's most powerful environmental protection, a model for the
nation credited with preserving lush wetlands and keeping condominiums off the
slopes of the Sierra Nevada.

But increasingly, the landmark law passed in 1970 has also been abused, opening
the door to lawsuits -- sometimes brought by business competitors or for reasons
unrelated to the environment -- which, regardless of their merit, can delay even
green development projects for years or sometimes kill them completely.

With California still mired in what many consider its worst economic crisis
since the Great Depression, this law -- once a source of pride to many
Californians and environmentalists across the country -- has turned into an
agonizing test in the struggle to balance environmental concerns against the
need for jobs and economic growth.

"Something is broken," said Leron Gubler, president of the Hollywood Chamber of
Commerce. "A lot of jobs could have been saved if not for these lawsuits, as
well as new jobs once these projects were completed."

Mr. Gubler said lawsuits and the threat of litigation had delayed at least seven
recent projects in Hollywood, costing the area more than 6,000 jobs.

In one of those Hollywood projects, the developers of a mixed-use retail and
residential project won a lawsuit against its building plans, but the owners
declared bankruptcy and sold before the ruling. Work has finally begun under new
ownership, but another lawsuit has been filed.

In San Francisco, the city's plan to paint bicycle lanes, one of the main goals
of environmentalists, was delayed for four years by a lawsuit filed by a local
resident who claimed the lanes could cause pollution.

And it is not only big projects that are litigation targets. In San Jose, a gas
station has been indefinitely prevented from adding another pump because of a
lawsuit filed by the owner of a competing gas station across the street.

Republicans and business advocates have sought for years to weaken the law,
describing it as one of the most egregious examples of an overregulated economic
climate that has driven so much business from the state.

But in the 42 years since Gov. Ronald Reagan signed the Environmental Quality
Act into law, attacks against the measure have largely failed, a testament to
the power of the environmental lobby and to the importance of environmental
issues to voters here.

Still, with unemployment in the state still above 10 percent, sentiment may be
turning against the law, with Democrats increasingly joining Republicans in
trying to change it.

Gov. Jerry Brown declared that reforming the law was "the Lord's work," and in
just the past several weeks, some of the state's highest-ranking Democrats have
lined up in support of fundamental changes to the act, including the leaders of
both houses of the state Legislature.

Last month, Michael J. Rubio, a Democrat in the state Senate, introduced a bill
that would have overhauled enforcement of the law. Although the bill was killed
within 24 hours, he said he would try again next year.

"This is a very important law that we have to protect, but we have to strip away
the possibility" of the law "being abused," Mr. Rubio said. "These kinds are
lawsuits are not living up to the intent of the law."

This shift in attitude is pitting California Democrats, who have often been at
the forefront of environmental policy, against the environmental lobby, one of
their usual allies.

Currently, the Environmental Quality Act requires developers to go through a
public process, in which potential impacts on the environment are studied and
plans to mitigate them detailed. Almost anyone can challenge those plans in
court.

Mr. Rubio's bill would have limited these suits in some circumstances, if the
project met all other environmental standards. But environmental groups asserted
that a kind of amendment limiting lawsuits against development plans would have
effectively curtailed the law's enforcement mechanism.

"It wasn't reform: It was gutting the law," said David Pettit, a lawyer with the
National Resources Defense Council. "The California Environmental Quality Act as
we've known it for many years protecting the environment would go away in favor
of a checklist approach."

Mr. Pettit acknowledged that the law has led to some abusive litigation, but he
insisted that those cases were rare. Less than 1 percent of all projects in the
state face lawsuits under the environmental act, according to a 2005 study by
the Public Policy Institute of California.

"But this issue is going to come back," Mr. Pettit said. "The development
community has never liked it, and they're playing the jobs card now."

Developers have said that they spend millions to strengthen their projects'
defenses against potential lawsuits. That drives up cost, they said, even when
they do not get sued.

The Environmental Quality Act, they complain, has given rise to a cottage
industry of people who make money suing or threatening to sue, a practice known
as greenmailing, projects in their neighborhoods. It is usually cheaper,
developers said, to settle out of court and pay "go-away money," rather than
risk a protracted legal battle.

Raphael Bostic, a professor at the University of Southern California's Sol Price
School of Public Policy, said that the Environmental Quality Act had achieved
its original purpose. But its overall effects have become more complicated over
time.

"There is now consideration of environmental issues before development rather
than after, which was one of the overarching goals," he said. "But now, it's
used much more regularly as a tool to stop development and make development more
costly."

Editorial pages up and down the state have endorsed reforming the law. And in
July, three former governors -- George Deukmejian and Pete Wilson, both
Republicans, and Gray Davis, a Democrat -- wrote an op-ed for the San Diego
Union-Tribune advocating for "modernization" of the Environmental Quality Act.

In an interview, Mr. Davis said that while the original intent of the law should
remain intact, the high unemployment rate made some kind of overhaul imperative.

Thus far, state lawmakers have managed only relatively minor changes to the law.
Last year, Mr. Brown signed legislation to fast track a proposed football
stadium in downtown Los Angeles. Another bill, which would exempt striping
bicycle lanes from the Environmental Quality Act, now awaits his signature.

Despite significant bipartisan support, any major reform of the law remains a
tall order in Sacramento.

Brian Nestande, a Republican assemblyman, was part of the bipartisan coalition
that supported Mr. Rubio's short-lived bill.

"There is no doubt that was a missed opportunity -- it's going to be tough to do
it next session," Mr. Nestande said. "Striping bike lanes on a road can't even
be done without an environmental analysis. That's the level of insanity this has
gotten to."

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Justin Sullivan/Getty Images:A protester wears face paint during
a demonstration against fracking outside of the California Environmental
Protection Agency headquarters in Sacramento, Calif.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              235 of 426 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                           September 24, 2012 Monday
                                 SOONER EDITION

RUNNING GAME FAILS TO MAKE AN IMPACT

BYLINE: Ray Fittipaldo, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: SPORTS; STEELERS NOTEBOOK; Pg. D-4

LENGTH: 938 words


OAKLAND, Calif. -- The 2012 season is three games old and the Steelers are still
in search of their first 100-yard rushing game by a running back. Actually, the
Steelers are still searching for their first 50-yard game by a back.

The passing game soared in a 34-31 loss to the Raiders Sunday at O.co Coliseum,
but the running game sputtered yet again.

The leading rusher for the Steelers was Isaac Redman, but he could only manage
27 yards on nine carries. As a team, the Steelers rushed for 54 yards on 20
carries.

The rushing statistics have decreased with each game. They had 75 yards against
the Denver Broncos and 66 yards a week ago against the New York Jets.

The highest total for a back in any of the first three games is Jonathan Dwyer,
who had 43 yards on nine carries against the Broncos.

"I thought it was spotty at times, but I thought when we had a chance we were
efficient," guard Willie Colon said. "We have to be cleaner. The more we run the
ball the better we'll get."

The Steelers attempted 20 rushes against the Raiders. They had 26 against Denver
and 28 against New York.

The lone bright spot for the running game came when the Steelers went for it on
fourth-and-1 from their 29 on their final drive. Redman burst through the line
for a 5-yard gain.

"I intended to go for it all along," coach Mike Tomlin said. "I wasn't going to
punt the football to them. We hadn't stopped them enough in the second half to
do that. I was inside of 1 [yard], and if you can't get inside of 1 [yard], you
deserve to lose the game. I won't hesitate to do that."

b> HEYWARD-BEY HOSPITALIZED

/b>

Raiders receiver Darius Heyward-Bey was knocked unconscious and was attended to
on the field for 20 minutes before being carted off early in the fourth quarter.
Heyward-Bey was struck by safety Ryan Mundy as he attempted to make a catch in
the end zone. He appeared to be knocked unconscious before he hit the turf. He
was taken to Eden Medical Center with a neck injury and was listed in stable
condition Sunday night. He was to stay in the hospitalized overnight.

"I just went in to try to make a play," Mundy said. "It's a split-second thing.
You never want to see anyone on a stretcher like that. You never try to
intentionally hurt anyone. But if I don't hit him there, it's a touchdown.

"I thought I went in low with my shoulder. But then he ducked down ... I hope
he's not hurt bad. I definitely will reach out to him."

On the possibility of being fined, Mundy acknowledged it's a possibility in the
NFL climate and said, "We'll see what happens."

b> CLARK GETS PICK

/b>

Ryan Clark was able to intercept Carson Palmer's first pass of the game with
help from second base. At least near where the Oakland Athletics second baseman
lines up when they play baseball at O.co Coliseum.

Targeted receiver Denarius Moore slipped on the only dirt baseball infield left
in the NFL. The ball sailed right into Clark's hands, the only interception in
three games for the Steelers and one of only three turnovers in three games.
That interception led to the first touchdown of the game.

b> ALLEN LIGHTS TORCH

/b>

Marcus Allen lit a torch high atop O.co Coliseum before the game in honor of Al
Davis, the former owner of the Raiders who died last year.

Allen's appearance in Oakland ended a long-standing feud between Allen and the
Davis family. Mark Davis, Al's son, reached out to Allen to make it happen.
Allen played for the Raiders for 11 seasons when the Raiders played in Los
Angeles, but he ended his career with Kansas City because of a falling out with
Al Davis over a contract dispute.

b> OFFICIAL FOLLIES

/b>

Replacement referee David White failed to identify either Steelers player who
was penalized on Antonio Brown's 72-yard punt return that was nullified by a
holding penalty. There also was an illegal block in the back on the play.

When the Steelers were penalized again in the second quarter, for a facemask on
another punt return, White again failed to identify which Steelers player was
flagged.

b> LINEUP CHANGES

/b>

The Raiders moved Michael Huff from starting free safety to starting left
cornerback, one of three lineup changes on defense because of injuries.

Matt Giordano replaced Huff at free safety. Patt Lee replaced Pitt and Woodland
Hills High School's Shawntae Spencer at right cornerback and on offense started
Willie Smith for injured Khalif Barnes.

The Steelers held steady with their lineup changes: Isaac Redman started at
halfback for Rashard Mendenhall, Chris Carter for James Harrison at outside
linebacker and Ryan Mundy for Troy Polamalu at free safety. Rookie tackle Mike
Adams, though, did not suit up for the game because of a back injury. Rookie
tackle-guard Kelvin Beachum replaced him as one of the two backups at offensive
line today.

b> QUICK HITS

/b>

* Mike Wallace recorded his 13th 100-yard receiving game. He has scored a
touchdown in each of the first three games of the season for the first time in
his career and it's the second time in his career that he recorded touchdown
catches in any three consecutive games.

* Tight end Heath Miller also has touchdown catches in each of the first three
games, the first time he has done that in his career. Miller surpassed his
touchdown total from last year when he caught two.

* In all three games, the Steelers have scored on their final drive of the first
half and the first drive of the second half.

b> INACTIVES

/b>

Besides Mendenhall, Adams, Polamalu and Harrison, the Steelers deactivated QB
Charlie Batch, LB Stevenson Sylvester and DL Alameda Ta'amu.

The Raiders also deactivated QB Terrelle Pryor, OT Joe Barksdale, OL Lucas Nix,
WR Juron Criner and DL Christo Bilukidi.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: NFL XTRA/ Ray Fittipaldo: rfittipaldo@post-gazette.com and Twitter
@rayfitt1. Ron Cook and Ed Bouchette contributed to this report./

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Peter Diana/Post-Gazette: Raiders linebacker Philip Wheeler
attempts to rip the ball away from Steelers tight end Heath Miller.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              236 of 426 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                          September 27, 2012 Thursday
                            PITTSBURGH PRESS EDITION

SECTION: LOCAL; BRIEFLY; Pg. A-5

LENGTH: 860 words


CITY SETTLES G-20 LAWSUIT

One of the lawsuits filed against the City of Pittsburgh stemming from the G-20
Summit of world leaders has been settled for $143,000, the city's top attorney
said today.

The lawsuit by the Seeds of Peace Collective and Three Rivers Climate
Convergence, filed days before the September 2009 summit, said the city was
systematically harassing members to stifle their efforts to protest the summit
and to facilitate other protesters. The Seeds of Peace bus aimed to feed
protesters, while Three Rivers Climate Convergence sought to use Point State
Park to stage an event.

Represented by the American Civil Liberties Union and law firm Healey & Hornack,
the groups alleged retaliation, illegal search and seizure and free speech
violations.

The city denied any wrongdoing, but agreed with its insurance carrier to settle
the case to avoid the expense of a continued defense, said city Solicitor Dan
Regan. He said the city did not agree to any policy changes or other actions in
the settlement.

The settlement leaves two remaining lawsuits against the city stemming from the
summit.

MOST OF DJ'S MUSIC STOLEN

An optometrist who moonlights as disc jockey says someone stole a significant
chunk of his music collection during an event over the weekend.

John Guzzetti was working as the emcee for an event Saturday at a Beaver County
performing arts center when someone stole more than 1,000 compact discs from his
car. All that's left of the alphabetized collection are artists S through Z.

Mr. Guzzetti said the collection is worth between $15,000 and $20,000. And he
said he didn't keep the collection backed up on a computer.

Fortunately, Mr. Guzzetti said other members of the local deejay community are
offering their help.

CITY SCHOOL DIRECTORS TO HAVE RECORDS CHECKED

In an unusual move, the Pittsburgh Public Schools board Wednesday night voted to
require its members to file the same criminal and child abuse clearances as
employees do.

School solicitor Ira Weiss said he knows of no other district boards that
require this.

"This is clearly a strong statement by the board," he said.

The Pittsburgh board voted 8-0 in favor of a motion made by board member Mark
Brentley Sr. Member Sharene Shealey, who was present for most of the meeting,
was absent for the vote.

Mr. Brentley said he had made a similar proposal five years ago but had been
unsuccessful.

The new proposal came a week after the board accepted the resignation of school
police officer Robert Lellock, who was charged with nearly two dozen counts of
sex crimes stemming from former students' accusations that he sexually assaulted
them at school.

ADDISON TERRACE DEMOLITION SPED UP

The Pittsburgh Housing Authority board voted today to speed up the demolition
and reconstruction of Addison Terrace in the Hill District.

Rather than rely on federal tax credits and space the project out over as many
as eight years, the authority will work with the state to issue bonds and borrow
the funds needed to build 400 new apartments by 2017. They will replace 734
dilapidated units.

"What we are doing now is recreating community," said board Chairman Ricky
Burgess, a city councilman. "Building a few houses at a time is not fair to low-
and moderate-income communities."

The board also voted to appoint authority Chief Operating Officer Castor Binion
as interim executive director. The current executive director, A. Fulton Meachem
Jr., quit last month to take a job in North Carolina. A search firm is seeking a
permanent replacement.

PNC STILL HAS SOME ONLINE DELAYS

PNC Bank customers continued to report problems today logging into their online
accounts as the Pittsburgh-based institution apparently became the latest victim
in a wave of cyber attacks on major U.S. banks.

"Some customers are experiencing problems logging into PNC.com on the first
attempt but the issues are intermittent," spokesman Fred Solomon said this
morning.

"If a customer can't reach the website or log-in on the first attempt, the
customer should merely return to the site a little later," Mr. Solomon said.

He said some people also were having problems accessing mobile banking.

A number of big banks have been hit in recent days by a series of so-called
denial of service attacks, which flood websites with communications requests.

Experts say this type of attack is an inconvenience but not a threat to
customers' bank accounts.

VICTIM 1 IN SANDUSKY TRIAL HAS BOOK DEAL

NEW YORK -- A key witness -- Victim 1 -- against former Penn State assistant
football coach Jerry Sandusky has a book deal and will soon reveal his identity.

Ballantine Bantam Dell announced today that "Silent No More: Victim #1's Fight
for Justice Against Jerry Sandusky," is coming out Oct. 23. The memoir will be
co-written by the victim's mother and psychologist.

Financial terms were not disclosed, but Ballantine plans a donation to a charity
for victims of child abuse.

Victim 1 first alerted authorities in 2008 that he had been abused and helped
launch the investigation leading to Mr. Sandusky's conviction in June on 45
counts of child sexual abuse. Now 18, Victim 1 will reveal his identity on the
day of the book's release in a TV interview.

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              246 of 426 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                           December 25, 2012 Tuesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

POLAR BEAR HUNTING, TRADE SPARK CONTROVERSY

BYLINE: Juliet Eilperin, The Washington Post

SECTION: HEALTH, SCIENCE, MEDICINE AND TECHNOLOGY; Pg. A-2

LENGTH: 917 words


WASHINGTON -- The polar bear was a mile away and began running toward the dog
sled, quickly closing the distance on the frozen Arctic waters of Canada's
Resolute Bay. One of Mark Beeler's Inuit guides released two dogs to distract it
while Mr. Beeler, a skilled bow hunter, quickly shot three arrows, piercing the
animal's heart and lungs.

"You're thinking, I can't believe I paid this much money to be this close to a
dangerous bear," said Mr. Beeler, who was fewer than 15 yards from the nearly
10-foot-tall adult male when it came down.

The guides skinned the bear on site, quartered the meat to bring back to their
village and gave the bear's fat and intestines to the dogs as a reward. Mr.
Beeler remembers the experience as if it were yesterday. But it was 41/2 years
ago, and his polar bear trophy is stuck in Canada, blocked from import into the
United States because a month after Mr. Beeler's hunt, the Interior Department
listed the polar bear as "threatened" under the Endangered Species Act.

While Mr. Beeler had filed immediately for an import permit, the bear he shot --
its wet-tanned hide, bleached skull, claws and penis bone -- remains in cold
storage at an exporter in Calgary, at the cost of about $200 a year. It is one
of 41 pelts taken by American hunters in the spring of 2008 and still stored in
Canada. Both U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service officials and many lawmakers support
letting them in, though legislation allowing their one-time import is stalled in
the Senate.

At the same time, U.S. officials are pressing for a ban on the global commercial
trade in polar bear parts. The proposal -- which will come up for a vote in
March, when the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild
Fauna and Flora, or CITES, convenes in Bangkok -- has divided polar bear
advocates and pits the United States against Canada.

There are between 20,000 to 25,000 polar bears living in the wild in Canada, the
United States, Russia, Denmark and Norway, according to the most recent
analysis, conducted in the early 1990s. Scientists predict that these numbers
will drop sharply within a few decades as summer sea ice shrinks. Of those
nations, only Canada allows sport hunting. About 800 bears are killed each year
in subsistence hunting: Roughly 400 to 500 of them are exported annually for
sale, most of them from Canada.

Polar bears currently can be traded as long as the exporting country certifies
that the existing harvest is sustainable; the United States is trying for the
second time to prohibit the commercial trade altogether.

"Can you have a sustainable harvest of a population when the best available
science says that they will suffer a 66 percent decline by the middle of the
century?" Fish and Wildlife Service director Daniel Ashe said in an interview.
He said protecting the reproducing adults will help buffer against future
climate impacts. "What we're trying to do is to get ahead of the curve in this
case, rather than waiting until the polar bear is on the verge of extinction
before addressing these other factors."

But some environmentalists, such as Sybille Klenzendorf, who directs the species
conservation program for the World Wildlife Fund in the United States, said
international policymakers can help the bears more by focusing on curbing
climate change and offshore drilling in the Arctic. "We really want to address
the threats that are most urgent to save the species," she said. "The ban on
international trade is not at the top of that list."

Still, there is no question that the global trade of polar bears is increasing,
fueled by demand from China and Russia. The number of polar hides offered at
auction has risen from 60 in 2010 to 225 in 2012, according to the advocacy
group Natural Resources Defense Council, or NRDC, while the average sales price
rose from $2,186 to $5,211 during that period. This rise in demand is spurring
poaching in Russia, though authorities lack precise numbers.

University of Alberta biological sciences professor Andrew Derocher, a polar
bear expert, said the question of whether to ban the polar bear commercial trade
is challenging.

Hunting quotas in Canada are set by territorial and provincial officials rather
than federal ones, and licenses are reserved for aboriginal Canadians, though
they can sell the licenses and bear parts to others. Hunting quotas have risen
recently: The Nunavut territory's decision to increase the Western Hudson Bay
take from eight bears in the 2009-10 season to 21 bears in 2011-12 and 24 bears
in the current season alarmed many researchers.

"At a time when we should be getting more conservative with our harvest
policies, instead we seem to be dealing with the status quo -- that everything's
fine, everything's wonderful," Mr. Derocher said. "That doesn't fit with what
the serious polar bear scientists are saying across Canada."

Steven Amstrup, chief scientist for the advocacy group Polar Bears
International, said he and his colleagues "are struggling with this, what's the
best thing to do. ... If Canada is barred from exporting polar bears, it's not
entirely clear that it will result in harvest reductions."

Several indigenous Canadian officials said their hunts provide income as well as
meat for their communities. Selling a hunting license to a foreigner provides "a
source of income that's not available anywhere else in that community," said
Gabriel Nirlungayuk, who directs the wildlife and environment department for
Nunavut Tunngavik Inc., a tribal corporation.

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Sean Kilpatrick/The Canadian Press/Associated Press: A male
polar bear walks along the shore of Hudson Bay near Churchill, Manitoba, in
August 2010.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              253 of 426 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                          February 15, 2012 Wednesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

GETTING TO KNOW YOU: OBAMA ROLLS OUT RED CARPET FOR XI

BYLINE: Ben Feller, Associated Press

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. A-6

LENGTH: 471 words


WASHINGTON -- The man destined to be China's next leader won an extraordinary
welcome Tuesday across Washington, a finely scripted opening to one of the
world's most important relationships. Trading kind words of cooperation,
President Barack Obama and Xi Jinping also spoke directly about human rights and
worsening foreign crises.

Everything about the day reflected just how much China and the United States
need each other, no matter what their differences, given their economic and
military might and global influence. Mr. Xi got a lengthy Oval Office audience
with Mr. Obama, an elaborate reception at the State Department, full military
honors at the Pentagon, a gathering with chief business executives and an
invitation for dinner at Vice President Joe Biden's house.

At the center of it was a president seeking four more years and the man expected
to lead China for the next decade. Mr. Xi, whose full name is pronounced shee
jeen-ping, currently is vice president and is expected to succeed Hu Jintao as
head of China's Communist Party late this year and become president in 2013.

"I'm sure the American people welcome you," Mr. Obama said.

The president and vice president, though, both sent stern messages to China
about showing more responsibility economically, a sign of simmering frustration
over currency and trade policies. Mr. Obama said China must play by "the same
rules of the road" as the world, and Mr. Biden warned Mr. Xi that cooperation
"can only be mutually beneficial if the game is fair."

All the symbolism and protocol were intended to pay dividends in the coming
decade and to reciprocate for Mr. Biden's warm stay in China last year.

There were no obvious breakthroughs -- Mr. Xi is not empowered yet anyway -- but
the stature he is set to assume was enough to draw rare attention.

Never before, for example, has the Pentagon heralded a visiting vice president
the way Mr. Xi was. Defense Secretary Leon Panetta greeted Mr. Xi on the steps
of the Pentagon. He got a 19-gun salute.

The relationship between the nations is complex. It is strengthened by their
joint need for international stability and economic growth, yet tested by
currency disputes, China's limits on basic human freedoms, trade imbalances and
growing military tensions.

This week is essentially one big get-to-know-you tour, from the halls of power
to the farmland of Iowa, which he visited as a lower-ranking government official
in 1985. He will have access to many power brokers, including Cabinet
secretaries, leading lawmakers and, most of all, Mr. Biden.

"We are not always going to see eye to eye," Mr. Biden said as the day began
with talks in the White House Roosevelt Room. "We are not always going to see
things exactly the same, but we have very important economic and political
concerns that warrant that we work together."

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Susan Walsh/Associated Press: President Barack Obama meets
Tuesday with China's Vice President Xi Jinping in the Oval Office.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              258 of 426 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                             April 15, 2012 Sunday
                                TWO STAR EDITION

LAND BRIDGE CAUSED WILD TEMPERATURE SWINGS

BYLINE: Sid Perkins, ScienceNOW

SECTION: HEALTH, SCIENCE, MEDICINE AND TECHNOLOGY; Pg. A-3

LENGTH: 706 words


Much of the last ice age was characterized by violent climate swings. At
seemingly random times beginning about 80,000 years ago, average temperatures in
and around the North Atlantic rose or fell by 50 degrees (Fahrenheit) or more in
the course of a decade or two -- a pattern that lasted for 70,000 years.
Researchers have debated whether the climate swings were driven by sharp
variations in solar activity or simply by unstable climatic processes, but a new
study also points to a more earthbound culprit: the presence of a land bridge
connecting Asia to North America.

Earth's climate has been relatively stable since the end of the last ice age,
says Aixue Hu, a climate scientist at the National Center for Atmospheric
Research in Boulder, Colo. And temperatures were fairly stable, too, after the
ice age began in earnest about 100,000 years ago. But some 20,000 years later,
things became unhinged. Around this time, Mr. Hu notes, something else happened:
As the ice sheets that covered North America and northern Eurasia snatched up
more and more of Earth's water, global sea level dropped to about 165 feet lower
than it is today. That exposed a broad strip of land that connected what is
today Alaska and Siberia.

Ancient animals used the land bridge, which measured as much as 930 miles wide
in spots, to roam back and forth between Asia and North America, and many
researchers have proposed that early humans used the dry land as a route to the
New World. But according to a new study by Mr. Hu and colleagues, there were
also huge consequences for Earth's climate.

His team ran two sets of climate simulations: one in which the Bering Strait was
open, as it is today, and one in which it was blocked, separating the North
Pacific from the Arctic Ocean. In each set of simulations, the researchers
gradually added large amounts of fresh water to the North Atlantic between the
latitudes of 20 degrees and 50 degrees. At the time, the researchers propose,
this swath, which spans the latitudes from southern Cuba to southern England,
would have received large amounts of meltwater from Northern Hemisphere ice
sheets during warm spells that occasionally punctuated the ice age.

Today, the surface waters in this swath affect the temperature and salinity of
water even farther north in the Atlantic, a region where surface waters cool,
sink to the seafloor, and then flow southward -- a critical link of the
worldwide conveyor belt of ocean circulation. If waters of the far North
Atlantic don't sink, says Mr. Hu, much of the large-scale ocean circulation
worldwide temporarily collapses. One result: the Gulf Stream, which brings
climate-warming waters from the equator to the North Atlantic, comes to a halt.

In both sets of simulations, surface waters became so fresh that they never got
denser than the underlying salty water, and therefore never sank, shutting down
ocean circulation and plunging areas around the North Atlantic, including
Greenland, into a cold spell. However, the researchers noted a critical
difference between the sets of simulations: When the Bering Strait was closed,
it took as many as 1,400 years for ocean circulation to recover; when the strait
was open, the circulation rarely took more than 400 years to recuperate -- a
sign that ocean circulation is stable when the strait is open, the team reported
last week in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences.

Whenever the ocean circulation shut down in the simulations, temperatures in
Greenland suddenly dropped by about 54 degrees -- a decrease similar in
magnitude to many abrupt cold snaps chronicled in the Greenland ice core
records. But in the future, such shifts are unlikely to occur, because now --
and in the future, as sea levels are predicted to rise from current levels --
the Bering Strait will remain open.

The team's results "are a really important contribution," adds Lloyd Keigwin, a
paleoceanographer at Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution (WHOI) in
Massachusetts. In 2007, Mr. Keigwin and Mea Cook, a geoscientist then at WHOI,
proposed that ocean circulation through the Bering Strait helps stabilize
climate in the North Atlantic. "This is good supporting evidence for the model
we proposed a few years ago," he says.

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: ScienceNOW is the online daily news service of the journal Science./

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              266 of 426 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                             July 28, 2012 Saturday
                                 SOONER EDITION

PHILADELPHIA'S BOATHOUSE SPORTS OUTFITTING OLYMPIC ROWERS

BYLINE: Bob Fernandez, The Philadelphia Inquirer

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. A-7

LENGTH: 439 words


Though U.S. athletes wore chic China-made Ralph Lauren duds during the Olympics'
opening ceremony Friday, a 225-employee company in North Philadelphia is taking
special pride that one team -- the rowers -- will be wearing made-in-the-U.S.A.
racing unisuits and practice gear in London.

The story of that company, Boathouse Sports Inc., is one of a small American
apparel manufacturer in a rusted-out industrial city beating the odds in an era
of global trade flows and multibillion-dollar, big-brand conglomerates.

"We compete because a) we are custom and b) we are fast," the company's founder,
John Strotbeck, himself a former Olympic rower, said. "You should never turn
your back on your core."

He was talking about Boathouse's rowing niche, but he also could have been
talking about Philadelphia, having spurned offers in the late 1990s to relocate
to cheaper-labor Southern states.

Bitten with the rowing bug at Marietta College in Ohio, Mr. Strotbeck "sweep
rowed" in a double -- a two-person boat -- at the 1984 Olympics in Los Angeles,
then sculled in a quad -- a four-man boat -- at the '88 games in Seoul, South
Korea.

In 1989, he launched Boathouse Sports in a factory in Northern Liberties. Within
a few years, Boathouse had expanded into an almost-exclusive outerwear company
that sold parkas, award jackets and warm-ups to athletes for Division I football
teams, the National Football League, and other sports.

Times were good in the 1990s. But then Nike and Adidas crashed the party by
paying multimillion-dollar sponsorships to outfit Division I teams for the
national TV exposure, wiping out part of Boathouse's business.

Seeking new revenue, Mr. Strotbeck, 55, recast Boathouse to supply full lines of
apparel, uniforms and accessories for other sports that "flew under the radar,"
he said.

The company processes about 45,000 orders a year and has annual revenues of
about $20 million. It pitches its products to coaches and athletic directors
with the simple message that Boathouse will manufacture custom uniforms and
deliver them within 20 days of an order -- a difficult timetable for a Chinese
factory.

"We do everything from design, graphics, inventory of raw materials, cutting and
sewing, screening and sublimation, to putting it in a box," Mr. Strotbeck said.

When he was an Olympic athlete in 1984, the official clothing sponsor was
Levi's. Four years later, the clothing sponsor was Adidas.

"This is not anything new," he said of the made-in-China Ralph Lauren clothing
for the Olympics, "but given the changes in the economy, there's a realization
that we can make stuff in the U.S., and should make things in the U.S."

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Sharon Gekoski-Kimmel/Philadelphia Inquirer: Philadelphia-made
uniforms for the 2012 Olympics are designed and manufactured at Boathouse
Sports. The company employs about 225 local workers. Here, founder John
Strotbeck stands on the sewing floor.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              278 of 426 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                           November 7, 2012 Wednesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

INDIA SLOW TO REVEAL EXTENT OF DENGUE EPIDEMIC

BYLINE: GARDINER HARRIS, THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. A-12

LENGTH: 451 words


NEW DELHI -- An epidemic of dengue fever in India is fostering a growing sense
of alarm, even as government officials have publicly refused to acknowledge the
scope of a problem that experts say is threatening hundreds of millions of
people -- not just in India, but around the world.

India has become the focal point for a mosquito-borne plague sweeping the globe.
Reported in just a handful of countries in the 1950s, dengue is now endemic in
half the world's nations.

"The global dengue problem is far worse than most people know, and it keeps
getting worse," said Raman Velayudhan, the World Health Organization's lead
dengue coordinator.

The tropical disease, though life-threatening for a tiny fraction of those
infected, can be extremely painful for many who catch it. Growing numbers of
Western tourists are returning from warm-weather vacations with the disease, and
it has pierced the shores of the United States and Europe. Last month, health
officials in Miami announced a case of locally acquired dengue infection.

In India's capital, hospitals are overrun, and feverish patients are sharing
beds and languishing in hallways.

Officials say 30,002 people in India had been sickened with dengue fever through
October, a 59 percent jump from the 18,860 recorded for all of 2011. But the
real number of Indians who get dengue fever annually is in the millions, several
experts said.

"I'd conservatively estimate that there are 37 million dengue infections
occurring every year in India, and maybe 227,500 hospitalizations," said Scott
Halstead, a tropical disease expert who has focused on dengue research.

A senior Indian government health official, who agreed to speak about the matter
only on condition of anonymity, acknowledged that official figures represent a
mere sliver of dengue's actual toll. The government only counts cases of dengue
that come from public hospitals and that have been confirmed by laboratories,
the official said. Such a census, "which was deliberated at the highest levels,"
is a small subset that is nonetheless informative and comparable from one year
to the next, he said.

"There is no denying that the actual number of cases would be much, much
higher," the official said. "Our interest has not been to arrive at an exact
figure."

The problem with that policy, said Manish Kakkar, a specialist at the Public
Health Foundation of India, is that India's "massive underreporting of cases"
has contributed to the disease's spread. Experts from around the world said
India's failure to construct an adequate dengue surveillance system has impeded
awareness of the illness' vast reach, discouraged efforts to clean up the
sources of the disease and slowed the search for a vaccine.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              279 of 426 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                           November 15, 2012 Thursday
                            PITTSBURGH PRESS EDITION

SPECIAL ALASKAN 'ICE' TESTED AS POSSIBLE NEW ENERGY SOURCE

BYLINE: Dan Joling, Associated Press

SECTION: HEALTH, SCIENCE, MEDICINE & TECHNOLOGY; Pg. A-10

LENGTH: 673 words


ANCHORAGE, Alaska -- A half mile below the ground at Prudhoe Bay, above the vast
oil field that helped trigger construction of the trans-Alaska pipeline, a drill
rig has tapped what might one day be the next big energy source.

The U.S. Department of Energy and industry partners over two winters drilled
into a reservoir of methane hydrate, which looks like ice but burns like a
candle if a match warms its molecules. There is little need now for methane, the
main ingredient of natural gas. With the boom in production from hydraulic
fracturing, the United States is awash in natural gas for the near future and is
considering exporting it, but the DOE wants to be ready with methane if there's
a need.

"If you wait until you need it, and then you have 20 years of research to do,
that's not a good plan," said Ray Boswell, technology manager for methane
hydrates within the DOE's National Energy Technology Laboratory.

The nearly $29 million science experiment on the North Slope produced 1 million
cubic feet of methane. Researchers have begun the complex task of analyzing how
the reservoir responded to extraction.

Much is unknown but interest has accelerated over the last decade, said Tim
Collett, a research geologist for the U.S. Geological Survey in Denver.

U.S. operators in Alaska, he said, may want to harvest methane so they can
re-inject it into the ground. Crude oil is more lucrative than natural gas,
which is routinely injected into North Slope fields to maintain underground
pressure to aid in oil extraction. Japan, Korea, India and China, however, want
to cut down on natural gas imports by burning methane. Japan is setting up for a
production test on a gas hydrate accumulation in the Nankai Trough south of
Honshu, its main island.

"That will be the first marine gas hydrate test anywhere in the world," Mr.
Collett said.

The U.S. Energy Department describes methane hydrate as a lattice of ice that
traps methane molecules but does not bind them chemically. They are released
when warmed or depressurized.

Methane comes from buried organic matter after it's ingested by bacteria or
heated and cooked. The gas migrates upward, under high pressure and low
temperature, and can combine with water to form methane hydrate.

Most deposits are below the sea floor off the continental shelf or under
permafrost. Shallow pockets of methane hydrate release the potent greenhouse gas
into the atmosphere and that process is exacerbated by climate warming.

Brendan Cummings of the Center for Biological Diversity said research money
should be poured into renewable resources, not more fossil fuel sources. Methane
is 20 times more effective at trapping heat in the atmosphere than CO2, though
not as long-lived.

"Any exploration activities designed to extract methane hydrates run the risk of
unintended consequences, of unleashing the monster," he said. Even if methane is
extracted safely, burning it will add to climate warming, he said.

The world has a lot of methane hydrate. A Minerals Management Service study in
2008 estimated methane hydrate resources in the northern Gulf of Mexico at
21,000 trillion cubic feet, or 100 times current U.S. reserves of natural gas.
The combined energy content of methane hydrate may exceed all other known fossil
fuels, according to the DOE.

Not all is accessible, but high concentrations in permeable rock where there's
existing drilling infrastructure would be among early candidates for
development. The USGS in 2008 estimated 85 trillion cubic feet of undiscovered,
technically recoverable gas within methane hydrate deposits on Alaska's North
Slope.

It will not be simply dug out of the ground, Boswell said.

"One of the basic messages is, we're not mining," he said. "It's using existing
drilling techniques."

Methane could be extracted by lowering pressure or increasing temperature in an
underground reservoir.

"One of the issues with that, though, is that you are melting the ice, and
adding a lot of gas and water to the reservoir, which can compromise the
reservoir's strength," Boswell said.

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              291 of 426 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            March 21, 2012 Wednesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

FEDERAL BUDGET RUNNING DRY FOR LOCKS REPAIR;
$170M A YEAR SPENT TOWARD $8B BACKLOG

BYLINE: Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. A-1

LENGTH: 1854 words


WASHINGTON -- Each year, the deteriorating locks and dams used to transport
about 550 million tons of coal, grain and other products on the nation's rivers
increase the pressure to fix what the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and industry
officials agree is a broken system for maintaining the nation's aging river
infrastructure.

Unfortunately, the federal budget process -- and the budget itself -- is just as
broken.

That makes it difficult for those who maintain and use more than 200 locks along
27 U.S. rivers to imagine the government doing much more than it does now:
funding an $8 billion backlog in repair and replacement projects at the glacial
pace of $170 million per year.

At this rate, it will take 47 years -- about as long as a new lock or dam is
expected to last -- to build projects authorized by Congress as far back as
1988.

In the meantime, the Corps has resorted to a triage system for maintaining
fixtures long past their 50-year life expectancy. Those include the 105-year-old
locks and dam at Elizabeth on the Monongahela River and a Depression-era lock
upriver at Charleroi.

Under the current funding scheme, both facilities would be replaced in 2024 --
at the earliest. And if either fails before then, it could close the Mon to
river traffic. A one-year closure could force consumers to pay as much as $1
billion in added electricity costs, a consultant told the Corps last year.

The river industry is clamoring to pay more to build modern, efficient locks and
dams at a faster pace. Two years ago, barge operators offered to pay as much as
45 percent more in fuel taxes to provide more funding for projects.

But higher revenue from the fuel tax would require Congress to provide matching
funding.

And Congress is dead set against tax increases and is not likely to have a
change of heart in an election year.

"The sad reality down here is that nobody wants to pay for anything," said U.S.
Rep. Mike Doyle, D-Forest Hills, whose district includes Elizabeth.

Barge industry officials heard that message loud and clear last month, when they
descended on Capitol Hill for their annual political action day. The message
came loudest and clearest from the freshman lawmakers elected in 2010, when
Republicans took control of the U.S. House.

"They firmly stated they weren't elected to spend more money," said Michael J.
Toohey, president and CEO of the Waterways Council, the industry group that
organized the Congressional visits.

Industry officials and economists who measure the contributions that
infrastructure makes to the economy say the money must be spent. The $8 billion
for locks and dams is only one component of the nation's transportation
framework. The American Society of Civil Engineers put a five-year price tag of
$2.2 trillion on required infrastructure spending in 2009.

Governments have a hard enough time finding money to repair aging roads and
failing bridges, projects that are easier to justify to taxpayers. But taxpayers
do not drive on rivers.

"That pothole in the highway is more important to people than a lock failing,"
said Dale Roth, of the Carpenters' District Council of Greater St. Louis, whose
members work on lock and dam construction projects.

Two years ago, a task force of more than 40 Corps and industry officials
highlighted a major cause of the cost overruns that have pushed lock and dam
projects decades into the future: the piecemeal funding provided by Congress
each year.

They said when the Corps gets funding for projects upfront, as was the case with
the $14.6 billion restoration of New Orleans following Hurricane Katrina, it can
do the job right.

"The Corps can build on time and on budget," said Martin T. Hettel, the American
Electric Power manager responsible for moving coal on AEP barges to the
Columbus, Ohio, utility's power plants.

In recent years, only about $170 million has been available to replace or make
major repairs on locks and dams. Most of that has been going to the Corps' No. 1
priority: a $3.1 billion project at Olmsted, Ill., that also has been hurt by
piecemeal funding.

Half of the $170 million available each year comes from U.S. taxpayers.

The other half comes from a trust fund financed through the 20-cents-per-gallon
tax barge operators pay on the diesel fuel they use.

Industry: Raise our taxes

The Corps-industry task force recommended increasing annual spending on lock and
dam projects from $170 million to $380 million. The group estimated that would
be enough to complete 25 major projects over the next 20 years, compared to six
under the current funding scheme.

But getting to the higher number proved complicated.

The task force's proposal started by backing an increase for the diesel fuel tax
for the first time since 1995, probably to 26 or 29 cents per gallon. Unless the
50-50 cost-sharing formula were changed, Congress would have to come up with
funds to match the additional tax revenue.

Even at that new level, the tax would not bring in the $190 million needed to
trigger matching funds to meet the $380 million target. That would require the
tax to jump to 50 cents per gallon, and Corps and industry officials concluded
that was not feasible.

So they recommended using revenue from the tax only to build new locks and for
lock repairs costing $100 million or more. They also proposed limiting how much
of the diesel tax revenue could be used to cover cost overruns.

Under the task force proposal, the federal government would contribute more to
reach the $380 million target. It would be responsible for lock repair projects
under $100 million and for all dam projects.

Corps and industry officials concluded using taxpayer money for all dam projects
made sense because barge operators are not the only group that benefits from
those facilities. Municipal water companies, hydroelectric companies,
recreational boaters and industries that use river water also benefit from dams.

So far, Congress has not taken up the issue of raising the diesel tax and the
White House has balked at other recommendations of the task force.

In a December 2010 letter to congressional leaders, Assistant Secretary of the
Army Jo-Ellen Darcy wrote that the recommendations "could shift to the general
taxpayer billions of dollars in costs that are currently, and appropriately, the
responsibility of those who use these waterways."

Democrat President Barack Obama's proposed budget for the next fiscal year calls
for raising $1.1 billion over 10 years by imposing fees on barges as they pass
through locks. Industry officials believe Congress will not back those fees
because they would fall heavily on areas where there are multiple locks. That
includes Pittsburgh, which has 33 of the more than 200 locks operated and
maintained by the Corps.

Meanwhile, U.S. Rep. Ed Whitfield, R-Ky., intends to introduce legislation that
would adopt measures recommended by the Corps-industry task force. Industry
officials would support such a bill, but they have their doubts about whether a
majority in Congress will join them.

"We've got some folks who don't want to raise taxes no matter what people are
willing to pay," said Stephen D. Little, co-chairman of the task force and
president of Crounse Corp., a Paducah, Ky., barge operator.

"We do have a compelling story, and we're willing to pay more," he said.

The need to reform the funding system was reinforced this month by the revised
$3.1 billion estimate for the Olmsted project. That figure is $1 billion higher
than it was when Mr. Obama submitted his proposed budget last year.

The project was authorized by Congress in 1988 at an estimated cost of $775
million and was expected to be completed in 2000. The Corps now says it won't be
finished until 2024.

"I personally have no confidence that number's going to stay at $3 billion,"
said Peter Stephaich, chairman of Campbell Transportation, a Houston, Pa.,
company that operates a fleet of 500 barges and moves about 20 million tons of
coal and other commodities annually.

"We're trying to get them to change the way they do business in exchange for
giving them more money," Mr. Stephaich said.

Industry officials are quick to point out that the Corps is not responsible for
escalating costs caused by the way the projects are funded by the government.

Rather than paying for projects in full up front, Congress relies on annual
appropriations. Instead of buying all the steel and other supplies it needs at
one time, the Corps purchases limited amounts of materials. Depending on how
much Congress provides each year and what weather allows contractors to do,
construction workers and equipment are mobilized or demobilized.

"The projects need to be funded in whole and built nonstop. If they're built
faster, they're less expensive," said Stan Lampe, president of Kentuckians for
Better Transportation, a coalition of industry and government groups.

Dwindling trust fund

Politics also have something to do with the inefficient funding, one former
Corps officer said. Retired Major Gen. Don Riley said there is "an inherent
tension" between providing money for multiple projects to build support for the
overall program and giving a limited number of projects enough money to complete
them in a cost-efficient manner.

Those pressures were evident in 2002, when the balance in the trust fund
financed by the 20-cents-per-gallon tax peaked at $412.6 million.

Congress approved a wave of new projects, focusing on "getting projects started,
with less concern devoted to their future funding," according to the 2010 task
force report.

Ten years later, the trust fund has a balance of $45.3 million.

"We need new ways of doing things here because the old ways aren't working
well," said Carnegie Mellon University engineering professor David Dzombak, who
heads a National Research Council committee examining the way the Corps does
business.

Any hopes of addressing the funding problem rest on Mr. Whitfield's bill, which
has yet to be introduced. Members of the Western Pennsylvania delegation said
they would consider backing the measure.

"The choice is getting something done or running a huge risk of safety and
commerce problems," said U.S. Rep. Tim Murphy, R-Upper St. Clair.

U.S. Rep. Jason Altmire, D-McCandless, said Mr. Whitfield's proposal would
require Congress to provide additional funding based on increased revenue from
the diesel tax.

"In the current political climate, what's the reality of moving something like
that?" he asked.

The harsh budget reality is also on the mind of U.S. Sen. Bob Casey, D-Pa.

"We've got to be thoughtful when you have the kind of fiscal situation that
confronts the country," he said. "We've got to be smart about how we invest."

Mr. Doyle said given the decaying projects on the Mon in his district, "I'll
support any proposal that will address that and get [the work] done."

"It's not something, unfortunately, that we're going to pass in this session of
Congress," he said.

And if not, the costs and risks triggered by a lack of funding will likely
continue.

"That's something the Corps can't do anything about. It's up to the country to
decide," Mr. Dzombak said.

"It's really up to the nation to decide what we want to do."

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Len Boselovic: lboselovic@post-gazette.com or 412-263-1941. / This is the
last in a series by Post-Gazette Staff Writer Len Boselovic on the nation's
deteriorating locks and dams. {SERIES} LOCKED AND DAMMED

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Michael Henninger: Charles Weight, a lock master with the Army
Corps of Engineers, walks atop the Elizabeth Lock and Dam No. 3, a 105-year-old
facility on the Monongahela River.
INFORMATIONAL GRAPHIC: U.S. Army Corps of Engineers; James Hilston/Post-Gazette:
(Going, going gone?)
INFORMATIONAL GRAPHIC: final report of the Inland Marine Transportation Systems
Capital INvest,ent Stragety Team (April 2010); Post-Gazette: (River Rescue)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              296 of 426 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            April 19, 2012 Thursday
                                 SOONER EDITION

EPA UPDATES GAS, OIL POLLUTION RULES;
NEW STANDARDS TARGET UNHEALTHY MARCELLUS SHALE WELL EMISSIONS

BYLINE: Don Hopey, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. A-1

LENGTH: 875 words


A new federal rule requires Marcellus Shale wells, pipelines and compressor
stations in Pennsylvania, and oil and gas operations nationwide to reduce
unhealthy air pollution emissions.

The rule announced Wednesday by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
requires the oil and gas industry to capture air pollutants from well completion
work, including hydraulic fracturing or "fracking," pipelines, storage tanks and
compressor stations.

It is the first comprehensive update of oil and gas industry air pollution
regulations in decades, and EPA administrator Lisa Jackson said the rule is "an
important step toward tapping future energy supplies without exposing American
families and children to dangerous health threats in the air they breathe."

But the Obama administration, which has supported development of natural gas
shale reserves, made a significant change in the draft rule it proposed last
year, extending the deadline for compliance with the new emissions-capture
regulation by more than two years until Jan. 1, 2015, and exempting low pressure
wells that produce less emissions.

The rule takes effect in 60 days. From then until January 2015, new fracked
wells must, at a minimum, flare or burn off the volatile organic compounds they
produce instead of releasing them into the atmosphere.

The compliance delay is a practical matter, because the so-called "green
completion" equipment required by the rule isn't widely or readily available,
said Gina McCarthy, assistant administrator for the EPA's Office of Air and
Radiation.

"Without the delay, the new source performance standards would have taken effect
immediately, so there is a legitimate, practical reason for that exception,"
said Colin Harris, an oil and gas industry attorney with Bryan Cave HRO in
Boulder, Colorado.

Exempting low-pressure wells is also a practical matter, Mr. Harris said,
because the green well completion equipment can't operate on wells where the
pressure is insufficient to push wet gases up through the well bore hole to the
surface.

Ms. McCarthy said the flaring requirement will cut emissions of smog-forming
volatile organic compounds by up to 290,000 tons a year or 95 percent from the
13,000 wells that are fracked annually, and reduce emissions of benzene, a human
carcinogen, by up to 20,000 tons a year.

When emissions-capturing technology is fully implemented in 2015, it will reduce
methane emissions by up to 1.7 million tons a year, offsetting equipment costs
and resulting in cost savings of more than $9 million a year.

"These standards are practical, affordable and achievable," said Ms. McCarthy,
who, in remarks at a phone-in news conference Wednesday, repeatedly emphasized
the public health benefits of the rule.

Almost 50 percent of fracked wells nationwide already use equipment to capture
emissions during well completion, she said, including all wells in Colorado and
Wyoming, states that require its use, as well as urban areas in Texas.

The EPA held heavily attended public hearings on the draft air pollution rule in
September in Pittsburgh, Denver and Arlington, Texas, and received more than
156,000 comments from industry, environmental groups, states and the public.

Ms. McCarthy said that as a result of those comments, the EPA made changes in
the draft rule to extend the compliance time, streamline record keeping and
reporting requirements and increase regulatory transparency.

A court order required the EPA to finalize the rules Tuesday.

Kathryn Klaber, president of the Marcellus Shale Coalition, a gas industry
advocacy and lobbying organization, termed the EPA regulation a "mostly workable
rule."

A six-pack of environmental groups led by Earthjustice and the Sierra Club
praised the new rule as a "major step forward" but questioned the 21/2-year
delay, saying the industry could meet the new capture standard much sooner. And
the Natural Resources Defense Council issued a statement supporting the new rule
but urging extension of its emissions controls to existing wells, pipelines and
compressor stations as well.

The administration "needs to do more to protect people living near oil and gas
production facilities," said Meleah Geertsma, an NRDC attorney in its climate
and clean air program.

Although short-term air quality tests conducted by the state Department of
Environmental Protection near Marcellus Shale wells found no "air related health
issues," air pollution in other states has been linked to oil and gas
development operations.

In a statement released by DEP Wednesday night, Secretary Mike Krancer said:
"DEP is currently reviewing EPA's final rule concerning emissions related to
natural gas exploration and development."

He said DEP is in the midst of a public comment period on proposed revisions to
the state's natural gas operations regulations.

"We look forward to analyzing the comments we receive along with the EPA's rule
and finalizing our general permit that will allow for the continued responsible
development of natural gas," he said.

In 2009, Wyoming, citing emissions from oil and gas development in the Green
River Basin, asked the EPA to designate the region as not meeting federal ozone
standards. Elevated levels of benzene have been detected at well drilling sites
in Texas and Colorado.

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Don Hopey: dhopey@post-gazette.com or 412-263-1983. / {SERIES} THE
MARCELLUS BOOM / EXPLORING THE IMPACT

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              305 of 426 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                             August 31, 2012 Friday
                                 SOONER EDITION

FIVE NEW DAYTIME TALK SHOWS TO DEBUT

BYLINE: Rob Owen

SECTION: ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT; TUNED IN; Pg. C-1

LENGTH: 1563 words


BEVERLY HILLS, Calif. -- The Oprah Winfrey era of daytime TV ended when "The
Oprah Winfrey Show" wrapped up its 25-year run in 2011, and since then no
program has risen up to take its place. This fall no fewer than five
personality-driven daytime talk shows will premiere and vie for the opportunity
to be dubbed "the new Oprah."

Sight unseen, "Katie" (3 p.m. weekdays on WTAE), hosted by Katie Couric of
"Today" and "CBS Evening News" fame, may have the best chance to rise above the
pack. Or it could go the way of "The Jane Pauley Show," which lasted just one
season in 2004-05.

At the Television Critics Association summer press tour last month, Ms. Couric
said her new show will vary from single-topic to multi-topic.

"I'm going to be able to flex all my muscles," she said. "You know, I've been in
television news, I'm sorry to say, 33 years at this point. ... And so I pride
myself on being able to use the right tone and the right approach and to be able
to calibrate that approach depending on who I'm interviewing or the topic that
I'm dealing with on any given day. So I hope that people expect me to have the
ability to tackle a lot of different subjects well, from the very, very serious
to much more lighthearted, feature-type stories."

Topics may include the impact of technology on relationships and the best way to
care for an aging parent.

"You'll see recurring franchises on the show," Ms. Couric said. "We're going to
be doing something called 'Women Who Should Be Famous,' where we'll be able to
spotlight some of these remarkable women who are doing extraordinary things and
not getting much attention for those things."

Another regular feature will be "YOLO," which stands for "You Only Live Once," a
new take on the "bucket list" that will include participation by Ms. Couric and
viewers.

Ms. Couric said "Katie" will primarily target women because, well, that's the
audience available during the day. ("I think it's 20 percent men, I'm told," Ms.
Couric said.)

"I hope the way I connect to them is that I've experienced a lot of the things
in my own life that I think we'll be talking about," she said. "Having gone
through losing a spouse at an early age and having to learn all about cancer,
having to navigate dating in your 40s and 50s. Right now, I'm caring for my
mother, who's 89, after my dad passed away last summer."

"Katie" will have a theme song written and performed by Sheryl Crow, and
although the new talk show takes over the 3 p.m. weekday slot, it won't bump
"General Hospital" off the air. "General Hospital" will move to 2 p.m. on Sept.
10 when "Katie" premieres.

Also new to WTAE

"Steve Harvey" (1:05 a.m. weekdays, Sept. 4), another new talk show, will
feature the former sitcom star covering assorted topics, including marriage,
dating, finance, parenting, workplace issues, etc. Mr. Harvey also will continue
as host of "Family Feud."

On weekends, WTAE will air reruns of "Castle" (midnight and 1 a.m. Sundays,
beginning Sept. 30) and "Private Practice" (midnight and 1 a.m. Mondays, Sept.
16).

Other new weekend syndicated shows are "Black Enterprise Report" (4 a.m.
Sundays, Sept. 9) and "Cars.TV" (2:38 a.m. Saturdays, Sept. 22).

KDKA

The only change for KDKA-TV's roster of syndicated shows will be the return of
"CSI: Miami" reruns (12:05 a.m. Sundays, Sept. 9). The show also will air on
WPCW at 7 p.m. Saturdays.

WPCW

Channel 19 will add "The Ricki Lake Show" (4 p.m. weekdays, Sept. 10), and, no,
these are not reruns of her 1990s-era talk show. It's a new talk show with the
same host and title.

At a TCA press conference last month, Ms. Lake said she's unconcerned about the
competition from other newcomers.

"These shows are all personality driven. So this show that Katie Couric is going
to do, or Steve Harvey is going to do, is not the show that we are going to do,"
Ms. Lake said. "It is a climate that there's a lot of competition right now, but
I think we are just focused on doing the best show that we can for the audience
that grew up watching me and then some."

WPCW also will air reruns of "Rules of Engagement" (11 p.m. weekdays, Sept. 10)
and "Leverage" (8 p.m. Saturdays, Sept. 15).

WPGH

Channel 53's most notable change is the addition of the new court show "Justice
for All With Cristina Perez" (9:30 a.m. weekdays, Sept. 17).

WPMY

Channel 22 adds several new programs, including "The Jeff Probst Show" (4 p.m.
weekdays, Sept. 10), starring the host of CBS's "Survivor." Mr. Probst offered a
clear idea of what his show will not be at a press conference last month.

"If you're looking for Jerry [Springer] or Maury [Povich], this is not your
show," Mr. Probst said. "I'm not interested in people fighting onstage. I'm not
interested in paternity tests."

What exactly his show will be remains a bit unclear, but Mr. Probst said his
biggest influences are Oprah Winfrey and Phil Donahue.

"Phil was the first that really broke it open and said, 'I'm going to take this
microphone, and I'm going to ask you what you think,' " Mr. Probst said. "And
then, to be completely candid, the interviewing style of Howard Stern is so
underappreciated. He keeps topics moving so quickly. He knows just when to
interrupt, and while he may go a different route than you would go in daytime,
his ability as an interviewer is something I've studied for years, and I think
he's one of the best that's ever done it."

"The Jeff Probst Show" will have a party room attached to the studio where the
audience can relax, get a massage and enjoy refreshments before a taping begins.

"We want the audience to feel welcome, and we also want them to spread the word,
that if you are looking for something fun to do in L.A., check out 'The Jeff
Probst Show,' " Mr. Probst said. "From a show point of view, we use that party
room for lots of different things that you'll see on the show. So it's a place
for me to say, 'Why don't you two go back in that party room?' And we've got
point of view cameras back there. It's been fairly well thought out. It was our
biggest and most unique idea."

And "Survivor" fans, fear not, he'll still host the prime-time reality
competition series, too. The next two seasons of "Survivor" were filmed
back-to-back early this summer to allow Mr. Probst time to return to the U.S. to
begin work on his talk show.

Other new series on WPMY include:

"Trisha Goddard" (11 a.m. weekdays, Sept. 17): British TV personality and
"conflict-resolution expert" Trisha Goddard gets an American talk show where she
will use "honesty and common sense to teach people how to move forward and push
through life's obstacles," according to the show's promotional materials.

"Dish Nation" (5:30 p.m. weekdays, Sept. 10): This one's an unusual hybrid: It's
a nightly entertainment news show featuring clips from major market radio shows
across the country as the radio hosts banter about what's going on in the world
of entertainment.

WPMY will air GSN's Jerry Springer-hosted dating show "Baggage" (11 p.m.
weekdays, Sept. 17). In addition, "TMZ" moves to a new time slot, 5 p.m.
weekdays, on Sept. 10.

WPXI

Channel 11's daytime schedule will remain intact with no significant additions
or deletions.

Farewell to 'Jersey Shore'

The party is winding down at "Jersey Shore." MTV announced Thursday that this
coming season 6, which premieres Oct. 4 at 10 p.m., will be its last.

MTV will commemorate the end of the show with a host of farewell programming,
beginning Thursday, with a one-hour retrospective, "Gym, Tan, Look Back."

That special premieres at 6 p.m. in the lead-up to the "2012 MTV Video Music
Awards," airing live from the Staples Center in Los Angeles at 8 p.m. It will
recap some of the most memorable moments from "Shore" and feature interviews
with the cast and give a first sneak peek at the upcoming final season.

"Gym, Tan, Look Back" will cap a full day of "Jersey Shore" nostalgia beginning
at 11 a.m. that day with an awards-themed marathon of "Shore" episodes.

'ESPN Goal Line'

Comcast's broadcast of "ESPN Goal Line" will launch this weekend for the opening
of the college football season. Cut-ins to scoring drives and highlights will be
available on Saturdays throughout the fall.

"ESPN Goal Line" airs on Channel 261 on traditional systems, 170 on former
Adelphia systems.

MDA Telethon

Last year the "MDA Telethon" telecast switched to a new Sunday night-only
format, and that returns this year with the telecast airing 8-11 p.m. Sunday on
WPXI.

This will mark the telethon's 42nd year on Channel 11, and broadcasting veteran
Bill Cardille will be back to host local portions of the telecast from the WPXI
studios with an assist from anchors David Johnson, Peggy Finnegan and Jennifer
Abney.

Local portions of the telethon will introduce viewers to 11-year-old
Pittsburgher Billy Ellsworth, who is one of only 12 American boys with a
specific muscular dystrophy who are participating in a gene therapy clinical
trial in Columbus, Ohio.

The national telecast is expected to include appearances by Paula Abdul,
All-American Rejects, Gavin DeGraw, Hot Chelle Rae, Khloe Kardashian Odom and
One Republic. Carrie Underwood, Pitbull and Will.i.am will share hosting duties
on the telethon, now titled "MDA Show of Strength."

Tuned In online

TV Q&A and the Tuned In podcast are on vacation this week. This week's Tuned In
Journal blog includes posts on "The Office," "Dexter," "Homeland" and "Doc
Martin." Read online-only TV content at post-gazette.com/tv.

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: TV writer Rob Owen: rowen@post-gazette.com or 412-263-2582. Follow
RobOwenTV on Twitter or Facebook for breaking TV news./

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Andrew Eccles/Disney ABC: Katie Couric begins the next stage of
her career with "Katie," rolling out Sept. 10.
PHOTO: British TV personality and "conflict-resolution expert" Trisha Goddard's
show premieres Sept. 17.
PHOTO: "Survivor" host Jeff Probst will helm "The Jeff Probst Show," premiering
Sept. 10

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              315 of 426 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            October 29, 2012 Monday
                            PITTSBURGH PRESS EDITION

CHILE'S ALMA PROBES FOR ORIGINS OF UNIVERSE

BYLINE: Luis Andres Henao, Associated Press

SECTION: HEALTH, SCIENCE, MEDICINE & TECHNOLOGY; Pg. A-10

LENGTH: 1268 words


LLANO DE CHAJNANTOR, Chile --

Earth's largest radio telescope is growing more powerful by the day on this
remote plateau high above Chile's Atacama desert, where visitors often feel like
they're planting the first human footprints on the red crust of Mars.

The 16,400-foot (5,000-meter) altitude, thin air and mercurial climate here can
be unbearable. Visitors must breathe oxygen from a tank just to keep from
fainting. Winds reach 62 mph (100 km) and temperatures drop to 10 below zero
(minus 25 Celsius).

But for astronomers, it's paradise.

The lack of humidity, low interference from other radio signals and closeness to
the upper atmosphere make this the perfect spot for the Atacama Large
Millimeter/submillimeter Array, or ALMA, which is on track to be completed in
March.

So far, 43 of the 66 radio antennas have been set up and point skyward like
100-ton white mushrooms. Linked as a single giant telescope, they pick up
wavelengths of light longer than anything visible to the human eye, and combine
the signals in a process called interferometry, which gives ALMA a diameter of
9.9 miles (16 kilometers). The result is unprecedented resolution and
sensitivity -- fully assembled, its vision will be up to ten times sharper than
NASA's Hubble Space Telescope.

"What surprises me is what is being observed. Until now, we haven't had such a
capable observatory. We've never been able to observe with such resolution, such
accuracy," says David Rabanus, ALMA's instrument group manager.

More than 900 teams of astronomers competed last year to be among the first to
use the array, and scientists from around the world are already taking turns at
the joysticks.

They're looking for clues about the dawn of the cosmos -- from the coldest gases
and dust where galaxies are formed and stars are born, to the energy produced by
the Big Bang. So-called birthing clouds of cold gases and debris can look like
ink stains with other telescopes, but ALMA can show their detailed structures.

ALMA also reaches farther beyond Earth's nitrogen-blue skies than any other
radio telescope and has already captured images different from anything seen
before by visible-light and infrared telescopes. After a 2003 groundbreaking,
scientific operations began last year with a quarter of ALMA's final capacity.

Seeing in three dimensions made possible the recent discovery of a spiral
structure surrounding R Sculptoris, providing new insights about how dying red
giant stars implode and send off raw material that will later form into other
stars. Those results were published in the scientific journal Nature. ALMA has
even been able to detect sugar molecules in the gas surrounding a star about 400
light years away, proving the existence of life's building blocks there.

Jointly funded and managed by the United States, Canada, the European Union,
Japan and Taiwan, the $1.5 billion project is an engineering triumph that
launches Chile, already home to some of the world's largest optical telescopes,
to the forefront of ground-based space exploration.

"We're talking about the United Nations of astronomy joined for a billion dollar
adventure. Scientists are like kids playing with very expensive toys and these
ones are technological developments that could change the world," said Jose
Maza, a University of Chile astronomy professor.

But this space race isn't over: Australia and South Africa are competing to
build The Square Kilometer Array, combining thousands of small dishes to create
a radio telescope 50 times more sensitive than ALMA once completed in 2024.

ALMA's parts are shipped from all over the world and assembled at a warehouse
9,514 feet (2,900 meters) above sea level. The precision is micrometric. The
telescope employs reflecting panels that must be aligned and glued so accurately
to withstand each winter's subzero temperatures and bounce radio waves within a
hundredth of a millimeter's precision.

The dishes are hauled up to their final destination by two custom-made 28-wheel
transporters that roar along snaky roads, lined with oversized cactuses and
grazing vicunas below the snow-peaked Licancabur volcano. The trip is only 22
miles (35 kilometers), but it takes five hours for the huge platforms to reach
the plateau.

Each antenna is perched on a rotating steel pedestal with precisely installed
copper lining to protect from lightning. Each dish has a sensitive receiver made
of carbon fiber to avoid thermal expansion. The structures, 40 feet (12-meter)
tall, lean closer together or farther apart as astronomers zoom in or get wider
views. The ALMA correlator, which at more than 20 quadrillion operations per
second, is the fastest computer ever used at an astronomical site. It compiles
the data into a single large view.

"We came from the caves and we're here now just because of curiosity," said
Rieks Jager, system integration manager at ALMA, as he stepped out of the
control room near the "silent area" military-style barracks where astronomers
sleep during the day. "It's not always clear what we study, or whether it's
useful for society, but overall it's absolutely essential for humankind."

It's a quantum leap forward since Italian astronomer Galileo Galilei invented
one of the first telescopes in the 17th century, discovering sunspots and
valleys on the surface of the moon.

"Astronomy has been with us forever and we still have so much more to go," said
Mr. Maza, the astronomy professor. "If we hadn't asked ourselves so many
questions by looking at the stars we would still be ... hunting buffalos. At the
end, all of man's development comes from the act of leaving the stones aside and
looking upward at the twinkling stars and asking, 'Why?' "

ALMA reminds Juan Rodrigo Cortes, one of the observatory's astronomers, of a
phrase from Antoine De Saint Exupery's book "The Little Prince" -- "What is
essential is invisible to the eyes."

"What's essential here is the material that creates stars, galaxies, clouds,
that doesn't emit light visible to our eyes, but goes way beyond the infrared at
much longer wavelengths, and that's why our eyes can't see it," Mr. Cortes said.
"ALMA gives us eyes."

Scientists and researchers are willing to go to extremes to catch a glimpse of
the universe through those eyes.

As many as 500 people at a time live at 9,500 feet above sea level in shipping
containers modified as trailers. Alcohol is banned due to the sensitivity of the
equipment, and those caught drinking after trips to the nearby city of San Pedro
the Atacama must sleep at the security checkpoint while they dry out. Their
shifts can last 12 hours daily for eight straight days.

Even the weather is unpredictable. Although the clearest of skies are the norm,
this year, scientists have had to deal with mudslides, floods and thunderstorms.
But most of the time, they seem to be far removed from the rest of the world.

Inside ALMA's control room, German astronomer Rainer Mauersberger had no idea he
had put his orange sweater on backward. He was thinking about the formation of
galaxies, hoping perhaps to spot a black hole.

"This project has to do with the origin of our life and our future," Mr.
Mauersberger explained as he sat near a long table full of Halloween masks, used
by the scientists to share a light moment or a laugh to break up the long days
and nights of stargazing.

"It's about how can we predict our future climates, the evolution of the earth,
the sun, our species," he said. "We know more about our universe, our culture,
than we ever dreamt of 100 years ago. Our prediction is that the real surprises
here will come with things that we can't even begin to imagine."

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jorge Saenz/Associated Press : Painter Iver Osandor works on an
antenna at the European assembly site at the Atacama Large
Millimeter/submillimeter Array (ALMA) in northern Chile.\
\ PHOTO: Jorge Saenz/Associated Press: Radio antennas face the sky as part of
one of the worlds largest astronomy projects, the Atacama Large
Millimeter/submillimeter Array (ALMA) in Chajnator in the Atacama desert in
northern Chile. Linked as a single giant telescope, the radio antennas pick up
wavelengths of light longer than anything visible to the human eye and colder
than infrared telescopes, which are good at capturing images of distant suns but
miss planets and clouds of gases from which stars are formed. \
\ PHOTO: Jorge Saenz/Associated Press: Astronomer Bill Dent, left, engineer
Rodrigo Amestica, center, and array operator Patricio Alvarez work at the
Operations Support Facility.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              324 of 426 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            December 7, 2012 Friday
                            PITTSBURGH PRESS EDITION

CROWDS GREET HAMAS CHIEF ON HIS FIRST VISIT TO GAZA STRIP

BYLINE: Ibrahim Barzak and Mohammed Daraghmeh, Associated Press

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. A-1

LENGTH: 341 words


RAFAH, Gaza Strip --

The exiled Hamas chief broke into tears today as he arrived in the Gaza Strip
for his first-ever visit, a landmark trip reflecting his militant group's
growing international acceptance and its defiance of Israel.

Khaled Mashaal, who left the West Bank as a child and now leads the Islamic
group from Qatar, crossed the Egyptian border and once on Gazan soil, prostrated
himself in a gesture of thanksgiving, recited a traditional Islamic prayer and
kissed the ground.

He was greeted by a crowd of Hamas officials and representatives of Hamas' rival
Fatah party.

Mr. Mashaal, 56, was also welcomed by a group of Palestinian children of Gaza
militants killed by Israel in recent years, wearing military-style uniforms.
Thousands of Hamas supporters lined the streets as Mr. Mashaal and Gaza Prime
Minister Ismail Haniyeh drove by, waving and flashing victory signs.

That the visit took place at all is a window on the changing climate of the
Middle East and the balance of power among the factions and nations.

Hamas has received a boost from the rise of its parent movement, the
fundamentalist Muslim Brotherhood, following Arab Spring revolts -- especially
in Egypt. Deposed Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak barely tolerated Hamas,
cooperating with Israel on a blockade of Gaza after Hamas overran it in 2007.

"I have been dreaming of this historic moment my entire life, to come to Gaza,"
Mr. Mashaal told reporters.

He appeared before the charred car of Hamas militant chief Ahmad Jabari,
assassinated by Israel at the beginning of last month's round of violence. The
eight-day conflict was the bloodiest round of Israel-Gaza fighting in four
years. Militants launched hundreds of rockets on Israel and Israeli warplanes
targeted an equal number of Hamas targets.

Fifteen years ago, Mr. Mashaal was nearly assassinated in Jordan by Israeli
agents who squirted a deadly poison in his ear, narrowly escaping after the U.S.
forced Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, then serving his first term as
premier, to provide the antidote.

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              325 of 426 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            December 14, 2012 Friday
                            PITTSBURGH PRESS EDITION

OBAMA WILL STRUGGLE TO AVOID THE SECOND-TERM CURSE

BYLINE: DICK POLMAN

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A-7

LENGTH: 469 words


F. Scott Fitzgerald famously said that "there are no second acts in American
lives." But re-elected presidents are required to try anyway. What's striking is
how often the second acts fail to fulfill the promise of the first.

Let that be a warning to President Obama.

Over the last century, the so-called second-term curse has bedeviled every
long-serving leader. Richard M. Nixon was forced from office by the Watergate
scandal, whose seeds were sown during Act One. Ronald Reagan was whacked by the
arms-for-hostages scandal, which showed that he was asleep at the switch. Bill
Clinton was impeached for the Lewinsky scandal, which exposed his wayward
attention.

Second-term White House teams are often weary and sometimes sloppy. But all too
often, the curse endures because the guy in charge foolishly interprets his
re-election as a mandate for sweeping change.

Back in 1936, Franklin D. Roosevelt decided that his landslide re-election gave
him license to expand the Supreme Court and pack it with ideological allies; he
was thwarted by reinvigorated Republicans in Congress, and his party was
thrashed in the '38 midterm elections.

Most recently, we have the example of George W. Bush. After he won re-election
by 3 million votes, he boasted: "The people made it clear what they wanted. I
earned capital in the campaign, political capital, and I intend to spend it."

He decided to spend it on a mission to privatize Social Security. But as 2005
wore on, the more he talked up privatization on the stump, the less the public
liked it. He lost his mojo forever in the aftermath of Katrina and the
continuing folly of Iraq.

Mr. Obama says he's hip to all this history; a couple of weeks ago, he said he
was "more than familiar with all the literature about presidential overreach."
But at least in the short term, he's clearly been strengthened by his November
victory. The trick is to leverage the result without falling prey to hubris.

Mr. Obama won re-election by (at last count) 4.67 million votes, a far larger
margin than the one Mr. Bush interpreted as a mandate in '04. Moreover,
Democratic Senate candidates drew 10 million more votes nationwide than their
Republican opponents, and Democratic House candidates garnered 1 million more
votes than GOP candidates as a whole.

Mr. Obama clearly has short-term capital to spend in his budget battle with the
GOP. He campaigned and won on the proposition that the rich should pay their
fair share of taxes. The exit polls showed strong support for an increase in tax
rates for households making more than $250,000 a year, and subsequent polls
confirm the sentiment.

Mr. Obama could beat the traditional curse by scoring breakthroughs on climate
change, job creation, education, and infrastructure repair, but that's akin to
saying that a frog could defy gravity by flying.

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Dick Polman is a columnist for the Philadelphia Inquirer. Distributed by
MCT Information Services./

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              329 of 426 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                           January 4, 2012 Wednesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

THE YEAR AHEAD;
AT HOME AND ABROAD, THE UNITED STATES FACES BIG CHALLENGES

BYLINE: Dan Simpson

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. B-7

LENGTH: 1014 words


A decision not to write about the Iowa caucuses this week was based on the
practical reason that my column has to be in before the results of that shell
game are known. The other reason is that by the time the slow news period
between Christmas and New Year's was over I had concluded that the Kim Jong Il
funeral was more interesting to follow than the caucuses' ups and downs. Will
Pennsylvania's reject senator float to the top of the punch bowl? Does
Callista-the-Choirgirl's blond virtue redeem Newt's shiftiness?

The real subject is what to expect in the year ahead in terms of movement in
different parts of the world that matter to Americans. These developments should
guide priorities in America's foreign and domestic policy in 2012. Whether they
do, or whether, instead, Washington decision-making is driven by campaign
considerations and contributions may be a decent test of the survivability of
the American republic over the long haul. I am still vaguely attracted by the
threatened secession of Texas and South Carolina, although my enthusiasm has
dampened as no such threats have come from Iowa.

In any case, buckle in: here, according to me, is what to watch for in 2012 when
it comes to potential 3 a.m. phone calls, waking President Barack Obama from his
normal calm torpor.

* Natural disasters. It is likely, based on U.S. and world experience in 2011,
that there will be a lot more of these in 2012. It is unlikely that even a
record year would drive America's heartland troglodytes to agree to any
meaningful U.S. action on climate change as a possible cause of the additional
natural cataclysms, particularly in an election year.

* More fracking trouble. I accept freely that Youngstown, Ohio's earthquakes,
the most recent on Christmas Eve at the 4.0 level, its 11th at a fracking site,
might be idiosyncratic, given that town's perhaps uniquely blighted post-steel
status. Unfortunately, given how rich the gas company operators are becoming,
along with some lucky souls who sit on well sites, it is also the case that
there have been earthquakes in other areas where fracking is occurring,
including Arkansas, British Columbia, Oklahoma and Texas. Nothing in Harrisburg
yet.

* The United Kingdom. There, in 2012, will come to pass a confluence of events
that may add up to big trouble. Since it came to power in 2010, the Conservative
Party-led coalition government of Prime Minister David W. D. Cameron has piece
by piece been putting into effect a budget-cutting program that America's own
flat-earthers might envy. Predictably, the British, who have since World War II
become increasingly accustomed to lavish cradle-to-grave entitlements, have
squealed loudly and taken to the streets as the bonbons have been plucked from
their mouths. They can become quite destructive in full cry.

In 2012 will come two big expenses for the British state: Queen Elizabeth II's
Diamond Jubilee and the Summer Olympics. The Cameron government's argument will
be that both will eventually bring millions of tourists to the United Kingdom
who will spend millions of dollars, euros, yen and yuan there. The bad part for
the Cameron government is that it will have to "front" the costs of these two
galas to get the eventual, hopeful returns. All of this will come as most of the
rest of the European Union, with which 40 percent of U.K. trade is conducted,
wrestles with the awesome debt problems that the preservation intact of the
eurozone will present in 2012.

The Cameron government is one potential casualty. The British monarchy is a
second, depending on how rough it gets.

* Israel. This Middle Eastern nation of 7.8 million faces a potentially
difficult 2012 on three scores.

First, the region is beset by considerable ferment. The Arab Spring has already
transformed its previously most benign neighbor, Egypt, with more radicalization
there likely to come. Jordan and its king, Abdullah II, have been pulled back
into the regional contest by the pressure exerted by the Palestinians and by the
vacuum in the Middle East peace process left by the Obama administration's
craven approach to the problem.

Israel's second problem comes from within, from two militant groups, the
settlers and the ultraorthodox. The former recently even mounted a defiant armed
attack on the Israel Defense Forces who protect them in their exposed outposts
in the occupied West Bank. The ultraorthodox, a minority but growing in number,
present another threat to Israeli society, particularly in their discriminatory
approach to women, reminiscent of the Jim Crow South or radical Islam, in an
increasingly gender-neutral world.

The third problem Israel may face in 2012 is a loosening of the commitment of
America, its essential ally, to back it no matter what it does. Israel's prime
minister, Benjamin Netanyahu, has done it no favors by tying its support in the
United States to the fortunes of the Republican Party, stiff-arming a Democratic
president up for reelection. That is the kind of risky bet that can pay off big,
but it is also a high wager in a game that Israel does not control. The American
elections are not for sale to foreigners.

* Iran. As Americans come to realize increasingly in 2012 that Iran's enfeebled
nuclear program presents no threat to the United States, and that the only
result of rattling its cage with words and sanctions is to run up the price of
oil and risk another long war in the Middle East, replacing the one in Iraq,
developments in Iran will become of less interest to the United States. The
Republican candidates' arrhythmic beating of that war drum in their debates
demonstrated clearly that Iran is not an easy issue to master, nor to campaign
on.

* China. It is likely in 2012 that the trends and problems that marked
developments there in 2011 will persist. One is development-dampening inflation.
A second is discontent by China's own 99 percent with the unjust advantages
enjoyed by its 1 percent elite. Anger and unrest are already showing in rural
areas. There also remain its restive minority groups, the Buddhist Tibetans and
Muslim Uighurs.

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Dan Simpson, a former U.S. ambassador, is a Post-Gazette associate editor
(dsimpson@post-gazette.com, 412 263-1976)./

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              337 of 426 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                           February 11, 2012 Saturday
                                 SOONER EDITION

GREECE DESCENDS INTO TURMOIL AS IT FACES AUSTERITY MEASURES;
CABINET DEFECTIONS, VIOLENT PROTESTS ROCK DEBT-LADEN NATION AMID FEARS OF CUTS

BYLINE: Niki Kitsantonis and Rachel Donadio, The New York Times

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. A-4

LENGTH: 729 words


ATHENS, Greece -- Greece's place in Europe once again hung in the balance
Friday, as the fragile interim coalition of Prime Minister Lucas Papademos was
plunged into turmoil and European leaders expressed doubts about the country's
commitment to remaking its economy and achieving solvency.

Following a wave of defections from his Cabinet, and as street protests turned
violent in Athens amid a general strike, Mr. Papademos told lawmakers that they
must approve the measures -- including a 22 percent cut in the benchmark minimum
wage and public-sector layoffs -- or the country would suffer a disorderly
default with social dislocation and an eventual exit from the single currency.

In a televised speech to his Cabinet, Mr. Papademos also threatened to eject
from his fragile interim coalition government any ministers who objected to the
deal. Rejecting the measures "is not an option that we can allow, as the country
will pay a high price for the consequences," he said. "Any other option would be
catastrophic."

The prime minister's comments kicked off what is expected to be a long and
chaotic weekend of brinkmanship, with Greek politicians fighting for their
survival in the face of politically unpopular austerity measures, and European
leaders demanding more concessions in a climate of growing urgency -- and
mistrust -- between Greece and its foreign lenders.

Greece's troika of foreign lenders -- the European Commission, European Central
Bank and International Monetary Fund -- have demanded sweeping austerity
measures in exchange for $170 billion in bailout money Greece needs to avert
default. The troika has also made passage of the measures a condition for
sealing a deal in which private creditors will take voluntary losses of as much
as 70 percent of Greek debt.

But nearly two years after Greece's first bailout, Athens and its lenders are at
a dangerous impasse. Europe has lost confidence that the Greek government has
the will or capacity to follow through on its commitments to structural changes.
Greeks, whose standard of living is dropping precipitously, have lost confidence
that the bailout money will actually save the country from default.

For now, both Europe and Greece appear to lack a viable Plan B. Behind closed
doors in Brussels at a meeting of finance ministers Thursday, the lack of trust
was evident -- and may have put the entire bailout at risk.

The ministers had been expected to bless with little fuss the recently
negotiated agreement among Greek politicians on austerity measures. Instead, the
European ministers made clear that they did not believe the figures Greece
provided. They jolted Athens by insisting that it find an additional $428
million in savings -- to fill a budget hole created by political leaders'
refusal to slash supplemental pensions -- before their next meeting, expected
Wednesday.

In one of several tough exchanges, Greek Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos
was taken to task by German Finance Minister Wolfgang Schauble for having failed
to begin required negotiations with labor unions over the minimum-wage
reduction.

There are also tensions within the troika. Because of Greece's failure to meet
budget targets amid a recession aggravated by the troika's austerity regimen,
its lenders no longer believe the $170 billion bailout will be sufficient. But
the IMF does not want to pay for the extra funding, because its analysts do not
believe that Greece's debt load is sustainable.

European leaders have been reluctant to come up with more money, but they are
expected to do so in the end -- but not before pushing Greece to the edge,
people familiar with the talks say.

Adding to the anxiety surrounding the negotiations, the leader of the smallest
of three parties in the governing coalition said Friday that he would vote
against the austerity package Greek lawmakers agreed to Thursday after marathon
negotiations. "The creditors are asking for 40 years of submission," said
Georgios Karatzaferis, who heads the right-wing party Popular Orthodox Rally.
"Greece will not give itself up."

But Mr. Karatzaferis' party controls only 16 seats in Parliament, not enough to
scuttle the deal if most of the other coalition members, the Socialists and New
Democracy, support it. It would take a huge back-bench rebellion for the vote to
fail, as the two largest parties still have 236 seats in the 300-member house.

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Louisa Gouliamaki/Agence France-Presse/Getty Images: Riot police
detain a man during a 48-hour general strike Friday in Athens, Greece. Greek
protesters threw stones and firebombs at emergency personnel, who responded with
tear gas as clashes erupted on the sidelines of a protest against new austerity
cuts.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              338 of 426 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                          February 15, 2012 Wednesday
                            PITTSBURGH PRESS EDITION

VILSACK MAKES AGRICULTURE A HIGH-GROWTH AREA

BYLINE: Albert R. Hunt

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A-7

LENGTH: 704 words


The most avid political junkies probably couldn't name five U.S. agriculture
secretaries; Tom Vilsack, the current occupant of the post, may be about to join
that short list.

The farm sector is one of the few bright spots in a rough U.S. economy. Mr.
Vilsack, the popular former governor of Iowa, who has an appreciation of policy
and politics, is one of the success stories of the Obama administration.

Usually, the Agriculture Department, started under Abraham Lincoln and
celebrating its 150th birthday this year, is a backwater that serves to pacify
disgruntled farmers. The most memorable secretaries owe their prominence to
controversy. Henry Wallace, a creative force in President Franklin Roosevelt's
administration before he became FDR's vice president, later became a left-wing
challenger to President Harry Truman during the Cold War; Earl Butz, who was
secretary under Richard Nixon and Gerald Ford, was forced out after uttering
racist and anti- Catholic jokes.

Mr. Vilsack, 61, has been in office three years, and is emerging as one of the
most effective and respected agriculture chiefs.

"He's doing a very good job," Republican Sen. Charles Grassley says of his
fellow Iowan. The veteran lawmaker gives Mr. Vilsack high grades for settling
civil rights issues concerning black farmers, helping family farmers get more
information and compete better, and boosting agricultural exports. "I've heard
nothing negative about him," Mr. Grassley says.

There isn't much negative to say about agriculture these days. Farm income
reached an estimated $100 billion for the first time last year. Real family
income, down for most Americans, has risen 5 percent for family farmers under
the Obama/Vilsack tenure. The value of farm lands is at a record high and farm
debt fell almost 2 percent last year.

That positive trend emerges across the board. The number of farmers' markets has
climbed to more than 7,000, up 54 percent from 2008. Agriculture-dependent
companies such as Deere and Monsanto are posting record profit.

Agricultural exports soared to $136.3 billion last year, producing a net trade
surplus of $42 billion; this surplus was $5 billion five years ago. The largest
market is China; it's no coincidence that when Chinese Vice President Xi Jinping
visits the U.S. this week, he'll stop by Muscatine, Iowa.

Mr. Vilsack says his department has successfully targeted 15-20 countries to
boost exports. One of those is Vietnam, which he visited last year.

The secretary estimates that his focus on exports and other issues such as food
safety and climate change means up to 40 percent of his time is spent on global
matters.

"You can't name a critical issue today where we don't have an impact," he says;
that includes work in places such as Afghanistan, where the U.S. is promoting
crops to replace opium poppies.

Mr. Vilsack has shown resiliency all his life. Abandoned only days after birth,
he was adopted from an orphanage. He later went on to get a law degree, got into
politics, and in 1998, became the first Democrat elected governor of Iowa in 30
years.

Five years ago, he briefly entertained the idea of running for president; he
dropped out of the race and embraced the candidacy of Hillary Clinton. As a
successful two-term Iowa governor with deep expertise in agricultural issues, he
was a natural choice for Mr. Obama to tap as the 30th agriculture secretary.

Nonetheless, the appointment was greeted with skepticism by sustainable food
advocates and environmentalists, who worried he would be too pro-farmer.
Business groups, meanwhile, were concerned he would be too pro-regulation. He
has walked these delicate lines adroitly and wins praise from diverse groups.

Mr. Vilsack acknowledges a traditional Republican bent among farmers but says
the president will hold his own in the November election in battleground farm
states such as Iowa. "I like our prospects in rural areas."

That prompts mention of a much-discussed Super Bowl commercial for Chrysler in
which the actor Clint Eastwood declared it to be halftime in America and says
the auto industry is on the way back.

Mr. Eastwood, he says, could make the same ad for American agriculture with one
difference: "It's the fourth quarter, and we're winning."

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Albert R. Hunt is the executive editor for Washington at Bloomberg News./

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              345 of 426 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                             March 20, 2012 Tuesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

IN THEIR OWN WORDS\ COMPANIES SHARE THEIR STORIES OF GLOBALIZATION

BYLINE: Timothy Drake, Director of Market Development, Aspex Corp., an FEI
company; Abreu, President and CEO of Bayer Business and Technology Services LLC;
Les Dutka, CEO, Echo International

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. E-29

LENGTH: 943 words


Aspex Corp.

A leading provider of integrated microanalysis solutions, Aspex Corp. was
founded in 1992 as a response to the limitations and costs associated with
traditional scanning electron microscopy. Soon after, it was the first to
introduce the personalized scanning electron microscopy. The two-in-one product
not only positioned Aspex as a force in the microscopy community, but also gave
the company a platform for global expansion.

Today, Aspex Corp.'s systems rapidly and automatically detect, identify and
document contaminants in process materials and defects in a product, enabling
the user to understand and control the purity of the process. Aspex can support
factory floor quality control applications in a wide range of industries such
as: metals, aerospace, automotive, forensics, industrial automation, defense and
pharmaceutical.

The company currently supports companies like Nucor Steel, the number one
recycling steel company in the United States, and Mercedes Benz, a luxury
automotive maker in Germany, as well as providing similar solutions to
industrial companies in countries such as Canada, Brazil, India, China, Germany,
Russia and Japan.

Aspex has grown 60 percent over the last two years through global expansion. The
company has not only created over 35 new jobs locally, but has experienced a
sustainable 25 percent increase in overall revenue for the last five years,
despite the tumultuous economic climate.

In January 2012, Aspex expanded its global reach further after negotiating an
acquisition by FEI, the world leader in the production and distribution of
electron microscopes. Specifically attracted to Aspex's innovative work in the
natural resources market, FEI will be using the company's industrial solutions
in North America, Europe, and Asia in more than 50 countries around the world.

Timothy Drake

Director of Market Development, Aspex Corp., an FEI company

Bayer

For me, Pittsburgh International Airport is truly my international hub. It is my
gateway to the world of Bayer, the family I have belonged to for 22 years. While
many people take a bus or taxi to travel from meeting to meeting, I find myself
catching another flight to Germany, the home to Bayer's global headquarters.
There have been times in my career when I did this every other week, which
translates into a lot of interaction with my German colleagues.

Recently, I was at the airport waiting at my gate for an international flight.
Most often, I am one of the first to board the plane, as I try to beat the
crowd.

As I waited, the carrier announced that families with babies should board first
(I can appreciate this, as I am a parent of three). I didn't really pay
attention to this announcement, since there generally aren't too many families
and babies on these business flights.

Then suddenly, I saw a grinning face of a younger gentleman. He was with his
wife and newborn child. This smiling face belonged to a Bayer colleague of mine
who worked within my organization and is on assignment in Pittsburgh. While I
was traveling on business that day, they were heading to visit family, so
Pittsburgh International Airport was their gateway to home.

I grinned back at him, and in that moment, he and I both realized that life in
this world -- and at Bayer -- is full of possibility and opportunity.

Claudio Abreu

President and CEO of Bayer Business and

Technology Services LLC

Echo International

Since 1984, Echo International has helped companies in Pittsburgh and throughout
the world communicate in the language and cultural context of their global
customers. These companies are now localizing websites and software in addition
to documents, translating materials into a growing number of languages, and
increasingly recognizing the benefit of having their communications translated
and managed centrally instead of by various overseas offices.

We also see more mid-sized and emerging companies globalizing -- aided by the
Internet and a relatively weak dollar, and driven by twin needs to reduce costs
and find new markets.

To support these changes, our business is changing, too. In the past year, we
have launched two significant initiatives.

The first is our new intercultural training division, Echo Insight. Echo
International has long provided one-on-one and classroom-based intercultural
training. With increased demand for training on navigating business
relationships in other cultures, we needed a scalable solution for our clients,
available whenever and wherever they need it. Echo Insight provides high-quality
cultural training in an easy, engaging Web-based format. The division just
launched its first course, Intercultural Awareness: China, which prepares
individuals and organizations to successfully do business with their Chinese
counterparts.

The second initiative, our content development service, grew from companies'
need to get products to global markets faster -- ideally, simultaneously. That
means faster or simultaneous multi-language translation of accompanying
product/marketing materials.

The most efficient way to translate one product message into many languages is
to start with so-called "world-ready" original source language, free of jargon
and ambiguities that take extra time to translate. Because not all clients have
expertise writing world-ready or simplified English, we now offer
pre-translation services, writing or editing our clients' globally focused
materials in preparation for efficient multi-language translation.

A leading translation firm, Echo International is headquartered in Downtown
Pittsburgh.

Les Dutka

CEO, Echo International

CONTINUE THE CONVERSATION BY SHARING YOUR STORY AT WWW.POST-GAZETTE.COM.

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: TOP 50 IN BUSINESS/ GLOBAL PITTSBURGH/ An Examination of Our Connection
to the World

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              346 of 426 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                             March 23, 2012 Friday
                                 SOONER EDITION

U.S. ENERGY PRODUCTION RISES WHILE USE DECLINES

BYLINE: Clifford Krauss and Eric Lipton, The New York Times

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. A-1

LENGTH: 1349 words


MIDLAND, Texas -- The desolate stretch of West Texas desert known as the Permian
Basin is still the domain of scurrying roadrunners by day and howling coyotes by
night. But the roar of new oil rigs and distinctive acrid fumes of drilling
equipment are unmistakable signs that crude is gushing again.

And not just here. Across the nation, the oil and gas industry is vastly
increasing production, reversing two decades of decline. Using new technology
and spurred by rising oil prices since the mid-2000s, the industry is extracting
millions of barrels more a week, from the deepest waters of the Gulf of Mexico
to the prairies of North Dakota.

At the same time, Americans are pumping much less gasoline. While that's partly
a result of the recession and higher gas prices, people are also driving fewer
miles and replacing older vehicles with more fuel-efficient ones at a faster
clip, federal data show.

Taken together, the increasing production and declining consumption have
unexpectedly brought the United States markedly closer to a goal that has
tantalized presidents since Richard Nixon: independence from foreign energy
sources, a milestone that could reconfigure U.S. foreign policy, the economy and
more. In 2011, the nation imported just 45 percent of the liquid fuels it used,
down from a record high of 60 percent in 2005.

How the country made this turnabout is a story of industry-friendly policies
started by President George W. Bush and largely continued by President Barack
Obama -- many over environmental advocates' objections -- as well as advances
that have allowed extraction of oil and gas once considered too difficult and
expensive to reach. But mainly it is a story of the complex economics of energy,
which sometimes seems to operate by its own rules of supply and demand.

Simple economics suggests that if the nation is producing more energy, prices
should fall. But crude oil, and gasoline and diesel made from it, are
commodities whose prices are affected by factors around the globe.

Yet the domestic trends are unmistakable. Not only has the United States reduced
oil imports from members of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting
Countries by more than 20 percent in the past three years, but it also has
become a net exporter of refined petroleum products such as gasoline for the
first time since the Truman presidency.

The natural gas industry, which less than a decade ago feared running out of
domestic gas, is suddenly dealing with a glut so vast that import facilities are
applying for licenses to export gas to Europe and Asia.

This surge is hardly without consequences. Some areas of intense drilling
activity, including northeastern Utah and central Wyoming, have experienced
air-quality problems. The drilling technique called hydraulic fracturing, or
fracking --which uses highly pressurized water, sand and chemical lubricants
that help force more oil and gas from rock formations -- has also been blamed
for wastewater woes. Wildlife experts warn that expanded drilling threatens rare
or endangered species' habitats.

Increased fossil-fuel production is far from energy plans Mr. Obama articulated
as a candidate in 2008. Then, he touted policies to help combat global warming,
including renewable-energy investments and a carbon emissions cap-and-trade
system to discourage fossil fuel use.

More recently, with gasoline prices rising and another election looming, he has
struck a different chord. He has opened new federal lands and waters to
drilling, trumpeted oil and gas production increases and de-emphasized
climate-change challenges. On Thursday, he endorsed faster construction of the
southern portion of the proposed Keystone XL oil pipeline from Canada.

In 2003, West Texas oilman Jim Henry tried a bold experiment. Borrowing an idea
from a fellow engineer, his Henry Petroleum team drilled deep into a hard
limestone formation, using a refinement of fracking. By blasting in millions of
gallons of water, they created tiny fissures that let oil break free, a
technique previously successful in extracting gas from shale.

The test produced 150 barrels of oil a day, three times normal. "We knew we had
the biggest discovery in over 50 years in the Permian Basin," Mr. Henry said.

There was one problem: At $30 a barrel, the price of oil was about half what was
needed to make drilling that deep profitable.

But Texas drillers had important allies in Washington. Mr. Bush grew up in
Midland and spent 11 years as a West Texas oilman before entering politics. Vice
President Dick Cheney had been chief executive of the oil field contractor
Halliburton. The Bush administration worked from the start to find ways to
unlock U.S. energy reserves, with Mr. Cheney leading a White House energy task
force.

The task force's work helped produce the Energy Policy Act of 2005. It barred
the Environmental Protection Agency from regulating fracking under the Safe
Drinking Water Act, voiding a potential impediment to the technique's wide use.
The legislation also offered the industry billions of dollars in new tax breaks.

Separately, the Interior Department won power to issue drilling permits on
millions of acres of federal lands without extensive environmental impact
studies. The Bush administration also opened large Gulf of Mexico swaths and
Alaskan waters to exploration.

These measures primed the pump for the drilling burst that began once oil prices
started rising sharply in 2005 and '06. With the world economy humming -- and
China, India and other developing nations posting astonishing growth -- oil
demand was outpacing easily accessible supplies. Oil reserves once too expensive
to extract, including Mr. Henry's limestone fields, had become more attractive.

Oil fracking took longer to develop than natural-gas fracking. But it eventually
opened new fields in Colorado, Kansas, North Dakota, south Texas, Wyoming and,
most recently, Ohio. Meanwhile, technological advances were making deeper oil
drilling possible in the Gulf of Mexico.

As industry confidence and profits grew, so did criticism. Amid global warming
concerns and gas prices averaging a record $4.11 a gallon in July 2008 ($4.30 in
today's dollars), Mr. Obama campaigned on a pledge to shift toward renewable
energy and away from fossil fuels.

His administration initially canceled some Bush-awarded federal land oil and gas
leases and required more environmental review. But in a world where crucial oil
suppliers such as Venezuela and Libya were unstable, and high energy prices
could be a drag on a weak economy, he soon acted to promote more drilling.
Despite a drilling hiatus after the 2010 Deepwater Horizon spill, he has
proposed expanded oil production on land and offshore.

"Our dependence on foreign oil is down because of policies put in place by our
administration, but also our predecessor's administration," Mr. Obama said at a
campaign appearance this month, weeks after opening 38 million more Gulf acres
to oil and gas exploration. "And whoever succeeds me is going to have to keep it
up."

Just since 2007, U.S. consumption of all liquid fuels, including diesel, jet
fuel and heating oil, has dropped about 9 percent, the Energy Department says.
Gasoline use fell 6-12 percent, estimated Oil Price Information Service chief
oil analyst Tom Kloza.

The gas price surge nationwide has contributed to a shift toward more
fuel-efficient cars. But a bigger factor is rising federal fuel-economy
standards. After a long freeze, the miles-per-gallon mandate in recent years has
been raised several times, with the Obama administration now pushing automakers
to hit 54.5 mpg by 2025.

As Americans replace older cars (they bought an average of 1.25 million new cars
and light trucks a month this year) new technologies mean they usually get a
more efficient vehicle.

Longer-term social and economic factors are also reducing miles driven, such as
more Internet shopping and telecommuting and baby boomers' tendency to drive
less as they age. The recession has contributed: Job losses mean fewer daily
commutes, and falling home prices have let some people move closer to work.

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              347 of 426 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                             March 25, 2012 Sunday
                                   TV EDITION

'FINDING YOUR ROOTS'

BYLINE: ROB OWEN

SECTION: ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT; TUNED IN TV PREVIEW; Pg. TV-1

LENGTH: 673 words


PASADENA, Calif. -- In 2006, four years before the debut of NBC's "Who Do You
Think You Are?," PBS and Harvard University professor Henry Louis Gates Jr.
debuted a prime-time show about genealogy, "African-American Lives."

The latest iteration of that show, "Finding Your Roots," premieres tonight on
WQED with back-to-back episodes. Each of the series' 10, one-hour episodes
features two celebrities tracing their genealogy.

In tonight's episode at 8, it's musicians Harry Connick Jr. and Branford
Marsalis; at 9 p.m. it's two political figures: Newark mayor Cory Booker and
U.S. Rep. John Lewis. Other public figures featured in upcoming episodes include
Kyra Sedgwick, Kevin Bacon, Condoleezza Rice, Pastor Rick Warren, Samuel L.
Jackson, Dr. Sanjay Gupta, Robert Downey Jr., Martha Stewart and Wanda Sykes.

"We found some amazing things," Mr. Gates said in January during a PBS press
conference. "Robert Downey, Jr., we traced his ancestry back to his 18th
great-grandfather ... who was born in 1397 in Switzerland. And Barbara Walters,
we found her original name. She had no idea her genealogy had been done. It was
full of mistakes. She thought her name was Abramovich, and it turns out her
original name is Waremwasser."

Mr. Gates said his interest in genealogy began on July 3, 1960, when his family
gathered to bury his grandfather, who had light-colored skin.

"He was so white, we called him 'Casper' behind his back," Mr. Gates said. "So
you can imagine how white he looked dead. I was standing there at his open
casket, holding my father's hand, and looking at my grandfather, and I was
captivated by how white he was and where that whiteness came from. And the next
day, I bought a composition book, and I went home, and I interviewed my parents
about their family trees. And I have been obsessed with genealogy since that
day."

His interest in genealogy re-emerged with the debut of the landmark miniseries
"Roots" in 1977. His ability to trace peoples' family histories became easier
with advances in DNA analysis after 2000.

"I want everybody to have their family tree done through this series so
Americans can realize how united we are as a people," Mr. Gates said, noting he
hopes the series can serve as a salve on the current, polarized political
climate. He begins tonight's first episode on the ancestries of Mr. Connick and
Mr. Marsalis by noting their ancestors were divided by war but they forged a
friendship with their shared love of music. "One of the things that I want the
series to do, my subtext, is to show that, deep down, we are all Americans.
We've been sleeping together from the very beginning of the country."

Mr. Gates said he has watched NBC's show, which was based on a British series
that pre-dates Mr. Gates' programs, but he said the structure of the shows is
different. "Who Do You Think You Are?" has no host or narrator, and the
celebrity whose genealogy is being traced travels the country in the course of
the episode.

"Nobody who's ever been on my series would ever have agreed to that," he said,
smiling. "You know, it's hard enough to get them to agree. Usually, we have to
lie to them and say that the whole reveal is going to take an hour because we're
dealing with their handler. Can you imagine Barbara Walters or Oprah giving
somebody three hours for an interview? They just don't do that, right?"

Mr. Gates said no one who has agreed to be on his genealogy shows has quit the
series once filming began. But he has had a few folks change their minds in
advance.

"At 7:22 one Sunday night, Colin Powell emailed me and said, 'I'm in the
series,'" Mr. Gates recalled. "At 7:26 I got another email saying, 'I've changed
my mind. I have too many cousins already.'"

Mr. Gates laughed as he retold that story but it's clear his passion for
genealogy is real.

"For me, being able to introduce people to their ancestors is one of the
greatest gifts that my career has given me," he said, "and it's full of
surprises."

'Finding Your Roots'

When: 8 and 9 tonight, PBS.

Host: Henry Louis Gates Jr., pictured.

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Rob Owen writes this Sunday TV column for Scripps Howard News Service.
Contact him at: rowen@post-gazette.com or 412-263-2582. Read the Tuned In
Journal blog at post-gazette.com/tv. Follow RobOwenTV on Twitter or Facebook./

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Henry Louis Gates Jr., pictured\
PHOTO: (For two photos) Musicians Branford Marsalis and Harry Connick Jr. are
featured.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              355 of 426 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            April 21, 2012 Saturday
                                 SOONER EDITION

FDA FOR SECURITIES COULD AVERT CRISES

BYLINE: Eric Posner & Glen Weyl

SECTION: BUSINESS; BUSINESS FORUM\; Pg. A-7

LENGTH: 716 words


In February, Mary Schapiro, chairwoman of the Securities and Exchange
Commission, said the agency is looking for ways to rein in high-frequency
traders. That is, the people who use computer algorithms to buy and sell
derivatives at lightning speed to make instantaneous profits.

High-speed trading can waste resources and cause market disruptions. So the
commission is right to look into high-speed trading. But it must realize that
this is only one issue at the edge of a vaster problem that requires significant
government intervention.

The larger challenge is that much of the U.S. financial system is devoted to
useless trading that advances no important economic interest but, at the same
time, creates a dangerous risk of economic crisis. The way to control this
wasteful speculation is to require government approval of all new financial
products, subjecting them to the same sort of examination and regulation that
the Food and Drug Administration applies to new medicines.

Before there was an FDA, quacks peddled useless and sometimes dangerous tonics
like radium water. Yet for all the harm such concoctions caused, they may never
have matched the risk and waste of some financial derivatives -- what Warren
Buffett has called "financial weapons of mass destruction."

A credit-default swap, a financial product that pays off if a bond defaults,
might seem sensible. If you own a Greek sovereign bond and a CDS, when the bond
defaults, the credit-default swap pays you back.

But if all you are trying to do is make money with low risk, you could buy U.S.
Treasuries rather than Greek bonds. Normally, the buyer of a CDS on a Greek bond
doesn't buy the bond itself (making it a "naked" purchase). Such a transaction
cannot reduce risk in the financial system as neither party is hedging a risk
they already face. Instead, they are seeking to evade capital-adequacy
regulations that aim to limit institutions' risk exposures or to gamble more
cheaply than would be possible if they had to take an explicit short position on
the bond.

In the years leading up to the 2008 crisis, traders commonly used credit-default
swaps to gamble on default by a country, corporation or package of mortgages and
to evade financial regulations associated with such bets.

From 2000 to 2007, the notional size of the market ballooned from zero to $62
trillion. Little, if any, of this activity served legitimate hedging purposes;
almost all of it was tax and regulatory arbitrage or speculation. When the
financial crisis hit, we all paid a steep price for the risks that this
speculation had concentrated in a few institutions.

Not all financial innovations are this bad. Retail index mutual funds, created
in the 1970s, have helped businesses obtain financing and have enabled people to
diversify their investments. And most mutual funds are useless for speculation
because they are designed to be less volatile than the underlying stocks or
bonds.

Creative economists have recently invented other derivatives that enable
homeowners to protect themselves from a decline in housing prices.

So the federal government should address the risk posed by derivatives not by
taxing or banning them uniformly, but by regulating them selectively, as it does
with beneficial but risky medical drugs. Before pharmaceutical companies can
sell their drugs to the public, they have to prove the products are safe.

Likewise, the SEC, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission or a whole new
federal agency could require financial innovators to prove the safety and
efficacy of new derivatives. Their analysis could be done far faster and more
cheaply than a typical drug review, because they could base it on existing
economic data.

The Federal Trade Commission and the Justice Department use similar procedures
to project the likely effects of proposed mergers.

If our proposal seems radical, that is only because the deregulatory fervor of
the past 20 years has created an atmosphere of lawlessness.

Before Congress lifted restraints on the derivatives market in 2000, many new
financial products were subject to review by the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission, in the understanding that speculative financial trading produces
limited benefits and subjects the economy to great risks. That is a bit of
wisdom we must now rediscover.

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Eric Posner, a professor at the University of Chicago Law School, is a
co-author of "The Executive Unbound: After the Madison Republic" and "Climate
Change Justice." / Glen Weyl is an assistant professor of economics at the
University of Chicago./

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              359 of 426 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                               May 6, 2012 Sunday
                                TWO STAR EDITION

CITIES: ENGINES OF GROWTH;
THE ONLY PROBLEM IS THAT MANY OF THEM ARE TOO EXPENSIVE TO LIVE IN

BYLINE: EZRA KLEIN

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. B-4

LENGTH: 861 words


The basic driver of remarkable economic growth in China -- and India, Vietnam,
Thailand, Brazil and pretty much every other developing country -- is pretty
simple: migration of people from rural areas, where they're not very productive,
to dense cities, where they are very productive. This is a tried-and-true
strategy for making people and countries richer. But it's not just for
developing countries.

Over the past year, three terrific books have come out on the importance of
cities in America's economy. In "Triumph of the City," Harvard economist Ed
Glaeser details how cities all over the world have supercharged human
development and ingenuity. In "The Gated City," Ryan Avent focuses more narrowly
on the role cities play in making Americans better off. And in "The Rent Is Too
Damn High," Matt Yglesias focuses on, well, why the rent is so damn high.

The three make similar arguments: First, cities make us smarter, richer and more
productive. Mr. Avent sums up some of the (voluminous) evidence: "Economist
Masayuki Morikawa finds that productivity rises between 10 and 20 percent when
density doubles. Morris Davis, Jonas Fisher and Toni Whited estimate that a
doubling of density may increase productivity by between 17 and 28 percent.
Their work suggests that more than 30 percent of real wage growth over the past
35 years is attributable to changes in density."

Cities, Mr. Glaeser says, are "our greatest invention." People make each other
smarter, richer and more productive. They give each other ideas, buy services
from one another, teach each other skills and engage in healthy competition. And
cities put a lot of people next to one another.

Mr. Glaeser cites the example of Silicon Valley: "The computer industry, more
than any other sector, is the place where one might expect remote communication
to replace person-to-person meetings; computer companies have the best
teleconferencing tools, the best Internet applications, the best means of
connecting far-flung collaborators. Yet despite their ability to work at long
distances, this industry has become the most famous example of the benefits of
geographic concentration."

Second, we have choked off access to these remarkable growth machines for too
many Americans. We haven't done it on purpose, necessarily. But we've done it,
mostly through regulations that make it either prohibitively expensive or
downright impossible to buy or rent a home in the country's most productive
cities.

Mr. Avent notes the disparity between the San Francisco Bay area, with its
"natural beauty, urban amenities, fantastic climate, cultural riches and
outstanding economic prospects," and Phoenix, where "temperatures above 100
degrees are commonplace" and the income earned by the typical household "is only
about 60 percent of that of the typical Silicon Valley household." And yet,
between 2000 and 2009, the San Francisco metropolitan area lost almost 350,000
residents, while Phoenix gained nearly half a million.

The reason isn't that Phoenix is more desirable. It's that San Francisco is
prohibitively expensive. That's in part because demand to live there is high.
But it's also because regulations make it almost impossible to increase the
supply of housing stock.

"Land is a scarce resource, so some increase in the price of housing is bound to
happen as the economy grows," Mr. Yglesias wrote. "But architects know how to
design multifloor buildings and engineers can build elevators. Public policy
that restricts their ability to do so -- not construction costs or the limited
supply of land -- is the main cause of high rents in America."

The authors focus on different ills. Mr. Yglesias' pulse is quickened by height
restrictions, like the ones in Washington. Mr. Avent takes aim at the local
coalitions that band together to fight new real estate development for all
manner of parochial reasons. Mr. Glaeser is particularly eloquent about the way
ordinary buildings get designated "historical" in order to impede new
development.

But all make basically the same point: Because we don't fully appreciate how
important cities are in stoking economic development, we dismiss the economic
costs of regulations that make them prohibitively expensive to live in.

Which gets to their solutions. They're not arguing for pro-density policies. All
three are careful to say that Americans should live where they want. What
they're arguing against are anti-density policies that make it effectively
impossible for Americans to live where they want.

The means should thrill the right, as the agenda effectively boils down to
deregulation. The ends should engage the left, because the people who are priced
out of the cities -- and thus their benefits -- are the poor and the middle
class, not the wealthy.

And Americans of both parties should embrace the basic logic of the enterprise.
It's bad news indeed to realize that we have, for decades, ignored one of the
most important dimensions of economic growth: place.

The good news, of course, is that in this age of diminished economic
expectations, there are still big ideas we can try to increase growth,
innovation and productivity. Don't believe me? Just ask China.

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Ezra Klein is a columnist for The Washington Post./

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              362 of 426 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                             May 17, 2012 Thursday
                                 SOONER EDITION

HAVE A PLAN FOR YOUR MARKET VISITS

BYLINE: Monica Eng, Chicago Tribune

SECTION: FOOD; Pg. E-7

LENGTH: 613 words


It's farmers market time again, a time of rebirth and renewal for local
agriculture but also resolutions for smarter shopping and cooking.

No more aspirational farmers market shopping sprees that leave us with a kitchen
full of wilted arugula, moldy berries and severe guilt by week's end. No, this
year we resolve to plan ahead, shop smart and embrace the realities of our busy
schedules, while still making spectacular meals from local produce, of course.

And just how will we pull this off? With the help of authors and farmers-market
veterans who offer expert advice on how to make the most of fresh-produce
shopping. They are:

Laura C. Martin ("The Green Market Baking Book"), Janine MacLachlan ("Farmers
Markets of the Heartland") and Anna Blessing ("Locally Grown: Portraits of
Artisanal Farmers in America's Heartland").

b> Strategic marketing:

/b>

Some advice may seem contradictory (such as make a list versus be inspired by
the offerings) but you'll know which tips to follow based on your market
priorities.

* When you arrive at the market, take a leisurely trip around to survey the
offerings before you start buying.

* Be flexible. Instead of making a shopping list, wait and buy what looks the
best and freshest.

* Make a plan and think realistically about how much time you will have to cook
in the coming week.

* Take your recipes (or cookbook) with you so as things catch your eye, you can
determine how best to use them.

* Talk to the farmers about produce to learn how to store it, which parts are
edible and how long it will stay fresh.

* Don't overbuy. It's easy to get carried away when you're surrounded by such
wonderful produce but only buy what you think you'll be able to use.

* Arrive early for the best selection and freshest products. Or arrive late for
last-minute deals on the produce farmers want to move before heading home.

* Ask to see the "seconds," or imperfect, bruised produce. These less than
perfect items are great for saving money and using in pies, sauces or jams.

* Once home, have yourself a produce prepping party. You're much more likely to
use the produce if it's prepped to eat and cook.

* Avoid waste (and sometimes fees) by bringing your own bags; don't forget
insulated bags for meat and dairy. Tote your reusable plastic take-out or yogurt
containers to protect berries and other delicate produce in your bag.

* Scope out which farmers take checks and credit cards before you spend all of
your cash.

* Bring small bills and correct change for easier transactions.

* Don't dismiss a farmer for not having an organic certification. Some follow
organic practices but opt to avoid the paperwork involved. Others -- such as
some tree fruit farmers -- deal with certain climate and bug issues that make
pesticide-free farming extremely difficult. If this is an issue of concern, talk
to the farmers about it. If they don't want to talk about it, it's not a good
sign.

* Attend chef demos that many markets host or ask friendly chefs on site for
produce cooking tips.

* If you are buying meat or dairy, ask the vendor to hold it for you until you
are ready to go so it can stay cool for as long as possible.

* Each week explore a new area of produce to see which varieties you like best.
Put together a sampling of melons, tomatoes, peppers, squashes etc., then come
back for your favorite.

* If a certain item is just at the beginning or tail end of its season, it will
be more expensive. Those on a budget are best off buying it when it's at its
peak and prices come down.

* If you have more than one farmers market in your area, consider visiting a few
each season. Selection and prices can vary from town to town and even
neighborhood to neighborhood.

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Tony Tye/Post-Gazette: Rick Westerfield of Mt. Lebanon has a
coffee stall at Farmers@Firehouse, an organic farmers market in the 2200 block
of Penn Avenue in the Strip District. He used to own Aldo Coffee in Mt. Lebanon.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              384 of 426 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                           September 6, 2012 Thursday
                                 SOONER EDITION

GO FIGURE: A YEAR WHEN 9 + 12 = 600

BYLINE: Gene Collier

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. C-4

LENGTH: 800 words


What you keep hearing around the NFL at this time of year is that it's a numbers
game, at least from the people who aren't always telling you it's a game of
inches when it's really more a game of yards, and they would include Steelers
coach Mike Tomlin, who once said, "Football is a game of pad level."

Pad level?

What happened to inches?

So-called experts like me have to pretend to actually know what any or all this
stuff means, but the general audience needn't concern itself with such
platitudes.

So I'll just put it like this: If the NFL really is a numbers game, the best way
to understand the season that begins this week might be to take randomly
selected NFL-related numbers and try to align them with our various
expectations.

Yes, seriously.

Take 600, for example, one very important number for your Pittsburgh Steelers in
2012, the year in which they could become the first AFC team to win 600 games.
This is the franchise's 80th season, and the 40th since Franco Harris turned its
sorry fortunes inside-out with the Immaculate Reception, so another big iconic
number divisible by 10 would constitute a kind of numerological holy trinity.

Or something.

The problem is, to get to 600, the Steelers need nine wins. They're 591-538-21
as the season begins, and if you think nine wins ought to be easy you probably
haven't been paying a lot of attention to what's gone on since this team slunk
from the playoffs on the first play of overtime in January against Denver.

A leadership vacuum, a Rubik's Cube of an offensive line, key defensive
injuries, a disgruntled, then only partially gruntled Pro Bowl wideout, an
unstable special-teams climate, no Steelers presence among the top 25 active NFL
rushers or receivers ... hey, I could go on, but this is about numbers.

If 600 is a number you want to see this year, then here's a number you don't:
300. Especially in conjunction with this number: 64. And here's why.

Peyton Manning -- you might have heard of him -- has 63 career 300-yard passing
games. He needs one more to become the record-holder by eclipsing the record of
Dan Marino. If that happens Sunday in Denver, it'll be very hard for the
Steelers to take the next step toward 600.

Manning also needs four touchdown passes Sunday night to tie Brett Favre for the
most games with four touchdown passes in NFL history, 23. If that happens Sunday
night in Denver, well, I think you're with me.

As it happens, there are plenty of additional historical numbers that you do not
want to see, particularly on the date(s) that history might well be made.

Baltimore's Ray Rice can join Marshall Faulk as the only players in NFL history
to gain 1,000 rushing yards and 700 receiving yards in a season three times. The
Steelers and Ravens tangle twice inside of 15 days late in the season, so the
chance you'll avoid seeing Ray Rice make statistical history aren't promising.

You have a better chance of avoiding Ray Lewis' record-breaking performance,
because he needs only 28 interception return yards to set the all-time NFL
record for a linebacker with 531. He might be able to pull that off before the
first Steelers meeting Nov. 18, but he's not the ball-hawk he used to be, so if
Ray delays history until mid-November, prepare yourself for that celebration,
because Ray's not going to aw-shucks that one.

Or any one.

The news is slightly more palatable when it comes to Ed Reed, the great Ravens
safety who spent at least part of the offseason wondering whether he had better
things to do than chase the Lombardi Trophy and various interception records.

Reed's relevant number is 21, which is all the interception return yards he
needs to surpass former Steeler Rod Woodson for the most all time, so if you're
an eyewitness to that Nov. 18 at Heinz Field, it probably means Reed is going to
be too late to break Everson Walls's record for the most seasons leading the NFL
in interceptions (3).

Finally, now that Steelers special teams coach Al Everest has left the building
for reasons still unexplained, it would appear the Steelers might again be
vulnerable to the superb return talents of Cleveland's Joshua Cribbs, who makes
history every time he takes a kickoff to the house, whatever that means.

The NFL has pointed out helpfully that Cribbs needs two kickoff returns for
touchdowns to be the first player in league history with 10 of those. Fact is,
he needs one to be the only player with nine of those, because he is the only
player with eight of those.

The Steelers don't play the Browns until Thanksgiving weekend, but that doesn't
help. By that time, you might get to see Cribbs become the first NFL player with
11 or 12 of those.

With all that potential history between here and late December, nine wins seems
like a bit of a slog. I think the Steelers will get to nine. Ten is a different
story.

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: STEELERS 2012 & NFL PREVIEW: Season of Change/ Gene Collier:
gcollier@post-gazette.com/

GRAPHIC: PHOTO ILLUSTRATION: Peyton Manning provides the first challenge of the
2012 season.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              389 of 426 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                          September 13, 2012 Thursday
                            PITTSBURGH PRESS EDITION

THE MAGIC IS GONE

BYLINE: ROSS DOUTHAT

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A-7

LENGTH: 816 words


The Obama era in American politics began almost exactly eight years ago in
Boston, when a youthful Senate candidate's soaring speech to the Democratic
National Convention stole the show from the actual Democratic nominee.

It ended, to all intents and purposes, last Thursday night in Charlotte, N.C.,
when a weary-seeming incumbent delivered perhaps the fourth-best major address
at his own convention -- a plodding, hectoring speech that tacitly acknowledged
that this White House is out of ideas, out of options and no longer the master
of its fate.

The end of an era does not necessarily mean the end of a presidency. Barack
Obama is still beloved by his supporters and regarded sympathetically by many
swing voters. His Republican rival is a flawed candidate running an overcautious
campaign. The memories of the Bush presidency's failures are still fresh enough
to make even a stumbling Democratic administration seem as if it might be the
lesser of two evils.

But a re-elected Mr. Obama will be a permanently diminished Mr. Obama, with no
magic left in his public persona and no mandate save to stay the current
economic course. He may win the necessary electoral votes in November, but come
February he will already essentially be a lame duck.

This reality has been apparent for some time, but the proceedings in Charlotte
were highly clarifying. On Tuesday, Michelle Obama offered a moving apologia for
her husband's character and leadership. On Wednesday, Bill Clinton smoothly
defended Mr. Obama's domestic policy, and then sliced and diced the Republican
alternative. On Thursday, Joe Biden issued a stinging populist attack on Mitt
Romney, and a robust defense of his boss' decision-making chops.

All of these speeches appeared to set the president up to do more than just
defend his own record and define his opponent as extreme and out-of-touch. By
taking the fight to Mr. Romney, it seemed, they made it possible for Mr. Obama
himself to advance a more positive agenda. By looking backward, they made it
possible for him to look ahead.

But the president's actual speech did no such thing. The contrasts he drew with
the Republicans were effective enough, but his positive agenda was mostly just a
laundry list of easy targets -- hiring more teachers, increasing natural gas
production, modest short-term deficit reduction -- rather than anything remotely
transformative or new. By the time Mr. Obama was finished, Mr. Romney's
tissue-thin acceptance speech looked almost rigorous by comparison.

As the president promised, so is he likely to deliver. An Obama second term
could feature some sort of early deal on taxes and spending, because the
expiration of the Bush tax cuts will give him a temporarily strengthened hand to
play. But a comprehensive, Simpson-Bowles-style deficit deal seems even less
likely than before -- let alone a deal on Medicare reform, where the two parties
are now more polarized then ever. Likewise with liberal priorities like climate
change legislation and immigration reform, which would require Democratic gains
in Congress (and shifts in public opinion) that this campaign seems unlikely to
produce.

As for the unemployed, maybe time and Ben Bernanke can help them, but there were
no proposals of significance in the president's speech for how to speed up
short-term economic growth. Nothing new about housing, or the payroll tax, or
regulatory reform, or monetary policy -- nothing save an appeal for patience
along what the president, in an almost Carteresque non-flourish, called the
"harder" and "longer" road.

As The Washington Post's Ezra Klein noted after the speech, a vote for the
president's meager agenda is effectively a vote for a kind of "return to
normalcy" after the intense perturbations of the last four years. Mr. Clinton's
high-profile convention role was appropriate, in a sense, because in the
best-case scenario an Obama second term would return us to the legislative
landscape of the late 1990s -- an era of small ball and incrementalism and
modest forms of bipartisanship, in which politicians of both parties took credit
for positive developments that they didn't actually control.

But we are not in the late 1990s anymore. There is nothing remotely "normal"
about the unemployment rate we're enduring, or the long-term deficits we face,
or the fact that the American birthrate has dropped below replacement level over
the last five years. Or alternatively, if this is the new normal, then it's a
normalcy that both citizens and politicians should aspire to swiftly leave
behind.

So far, Mr. Romney has conspicuously failed to persuade voters that his party,
which helped lead us into this mess, has learned enough and changed enough to
lead us out of it.

But whatever happens in November, the president's own words have given us fair
warning: We face a continuing crisis, and the liberalism of Barack Obama is no
longer equal to the task.

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Ross Douthat is a columnist at The New York Times./

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              409 of 426 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                          November 14, 2012 Wednesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

MILLIONS IN UPDATES CALLED FOR TO REVIVE RETAIL DOWNTOWN

BYLINE: Mark Belko, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. A-1

LENGTH: 855 words


A task force is calling for millions of dollars in improvements, including new
bike lanes, facade renovations and better street lights and trees, as part of a
three-year plan to enhance the retail climate Downtown.

The Downtown Retail Task Force, convened by Mayor Luke Ravenstahl, also is
proposing strategies to attract and retain retailers as well as a marketing
campaign to tout the city and its center core.

While the task force's report does not target specific retailers by name, it
states that one goal is to support and encourage unique destination retail,
boutique districts and large-scale retail in the Golden Triangle.

In addition, it is recommending the creation of a Downtown retailer's
association, the development of a plan to entice local businesses and retailers
into the city, and the nurturing of amenities that enhance Downtown living.

The report, to be released at a news conference today, is the result of nearly a
year's work by a host of Downtown stakeholders, including retailers, business
and political leaders, and university officials.

It seeks to build on the transformation that has been taking place Downtown,
where dozens of new restaurants have opened, the office market is tightening,
and the number of apartments has doubled in the last five years. It also takes
into account the mayor's initiative to restore and reuse vacant storefronts and
to convert the upper floors into office or residential space.

"Every building is being looked at with a close and keen eye for its potential
promise," said CBRE executive vice president Herky Pollock, a task force member.

The task force is targeting Smithfield and Wood streets and Forbes Avenue -- all
in the heart of the Fifth and Forbes retail corridor -- for major improvements.
Despite the redevelopment already taking place Downtown, parts of all three
streets could use some work.

On Smithfield, the task force floated the idea of converting an existing bus
lane into a bicycle lane. It also is proposing new and expanded sidewalks, new
trees and light posts, facade improvements and other upgrades, including bike
racks on each block.

The task force also saw potential for converting part of the street to a bike
lane on the north side of Forbes, which it described as a major gateway to
Market Square. It also envisioned a "seat wall" on the south side of Forbes near
Grant Street that would separate the sidewalk from a long-standing parking lot.

Other Forbes improvements include banners, facade upgrades, new and expanded
sidewalks, and new trees and lighting. The task force said the proposed
relocation of Point Park University's Pittsburgh Playhouse from Oakland to lower
Forbes near Wood would help create a new gateway to Smithfield.

The task force saw Wood as a link to the Downtown retail center and the cultural
district.

It proposed upgrades like facade renovations, awning and window replacements,
outdoor seating, masonry repair, and new trees and lighting to "greatly improve
the overall aesthetic and sense of place" on the street, part of which will host
the new $400 million glass skyscraper being built by PNC Financial Services
Group.

Mr. Pollock said Grant Street and Fifth and Liberty avenues are considered by
some to be the main thoroughfares Downtown. One goal of the task force was to
"accentuate the positive attributes of some of the cross and parallel streets"
such as Smithfield, Forbes and Wood, he said.

Overall, the cost of the improvements could total as much as $18.5 million, with
public, private and civic sources sharing responsibility for funding.

Such improvements would supplement redevelopment already taking place in the
corridor.

Local developers Millcraft Industries and McKnight Realty Partners are proposing
to build 101 apartments, a parking garage and 20,000 square feet of retail space
on Smithfield.

Oxford Development Co. also will decide by the end of the year whether to build
a $238 million, 33-story skyscraper on Smithfield between Forbes and Fifth or
gut and renovate the existing seven-story office building there.

On Wood, the Pittsburgh History and Landmarks Foundation is overseeing the
restoration of cast iron facades on three buildings, two of which it owns, as
part of a plan to establish a women's fashion district in the section between
Fourth Avenue and Fifth.

Millcraft is developing the $81.8 million Gardens at Market Square office and
hotel project on Forbes near Wood.

The task force report also calls for a marketing initiative that would be built
around the slogan "Pittsburgh. Here + Now." It is intended to convey the idea
that "Our time has come. We've made it. Here. Now. And you need to be part of
it."

The campaign, designed by North Side's Wall-to-Wall Studios, is aimed at
highlighting city assets and showcasing "the wonderful progress that has been
made throughout the Pittsburgh region."

Mr. Pollock said the timing couldn't be better.

"The demand for space -- retail, office and multi-family -- has never approached
the levels that we're seeing today.

"It's safe to say that given all the changes we've experienced over the last
decade, Downtown has never been better," he said.

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Mark Belko: mbelko@post-gazette.com or 412-263-1262./

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 P.G. Publishing Co.
