
                               3 of 283 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                   September 30, 2003 Tuesday SOONER EDITION

RUSSIA PLAYS COY ON BACKING KYOTO CLIMATE PACT;
 PUTIN SOURING HOPES FOR RATIFICATION SOON

BYLINE: SUSAN B. GLASSER, THE WASHINGTON POST

SECTION: WORLD, Pg.A-5

LENGTH: 703 words

DATELINE: MOSCOW


President Vladimir Putin refused yesterday to commit Russia to ratification of
the Kyoto pact on global warming, brushing aside entreaties from the United
Nations and single-handedly holding up enactment of the landmark environmental
accord.

Since the Bush administration's refusal two years ago to endorse the
international agreement to curb greenhouse gas emissions, Russia has essentially
held the final veto on the agreement, which cannot come into effect until
ratified by enough countries to account for 55 percent of the world's emissions.
Many scientists believe the gases are causing harmful climate change.

But Putin yesterday gave little hope to the treaty's backers, who have long
anticipated approval from Russia, only to face bureaucratic delays and reported
demands for guarantees of the protocol's economic benefits for Russia. In a
speech opening a five-day conference on world climate change, Putin said his
government "is closely studying" ratification but warned that it is "part of a
complex of difficult and unclear problems."

In general terms, Putin expressed backing for the 1997 deal, saying that "Russia
actively stands for the quickest possible ratification of the Kyoto Protocol."
But he gave no indication of when Russia would decide, and did not spell out the
reasons for the lengthy delay, despite his prime minister's pledge a year ago to
ratify the deal soon.

After listening to critics at the conference, Putin gave an impromptu second
speech suggesting there might even be some benefits to his country in global
warming. "Here in Russia you can often hear people say -- sometimes jokingly,
sometimes seriously -- that Russia is a northern country, so if it warms up two
or three degrees it's not terrible," he said. "It might even be good -- we'd
spend less money on fur coats and other warm things."

In a message to the conference, U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan lobbied for
Putin's support, saying he "eagerly" awaited Russia's approval, "which will
bring the protocol into force and further galvanize global action."

Under the deal negotiated in Kyoto, Japan, emissions of greenhouse gases by
developed nations would be cut at least 5.2 percent below 1990 levels by 2012.

So far, 113 countries representing 44 percent of emissions have approved the
agreement. The United States, with its 36 percent share, has pulled out, leaving
Russia, with a 17 percent share of the emissions, as the final country that can
push the numbers past the required 55 percent.

Experts say Russia could stand to generate substantial revenue from
implementation of the Kyoto pact because of a quirk of timing. The pact sets the
goal of reducing greenhouse emissions from the level they were in 1990 -- when
the Soviet Union's factories were producing such gases at high levels.

Because Russia's emissions are now far below the limits stipulated in the pact,
it would be able to sell its excess pollution quota to other countries under
terms of the agreement. Canada, Japan, and the European Union states have
expressed interest in buying some, which would allow them to exceed their limits
but remain in compliance with the protocol.

Environmental groups and economists have pegged the economic benefits to Russia
of ratifying the treaty through quota sales and energy-related investment at as
much as $1 billion. In recent months, even large industrial polluters such as
the electricity monopoly Unified Energy Systems and natural gas giant Gazprom
have joined to lobby for ratification, believing they stand to benefit
financially.

But a Kremlin official, quoted anonymously by several European news outlets
before the conference, said that Russia wants firmer economic guarantees in
exchange for ratifying the treaty and that pledges of a minimum of $3 billion
would be a "starting point" for negotiations.

"We all expected the president would come and say something specific today about
ratification. He missed an opportunity," said Georgy Safonov, head of the Center
for Environmental and Natural Resource Economics. He argued that some factions
in Russia "are trying to play a game and say, 'Give us tens of billions of
dollars, then we will agree.' "

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2003 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              17 of 283 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                   September 22, 2003 Monday ONE STAR EDITION

CANADIAN ENVIRONMENTALIST TO SPEAK AT PITT

BYLINE: DON HOPEY, POST-GAZETTE STAFF WRITER

SECTION: SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY AND MEDICINE, Pg.A-0

LENGTH: 665 words


David T. Suzuki can't be reached on his cell phone. He doesn't have one.

But that doesn't mean the outspoken Canadian champion of sustainable ecology --
he's been called a "gladiatorial geneticist" -- has any trouble getting his
message out.

Contacted last week on a land line at his Vancouver, British Columbia, office as
he was running for a plane and another speaking engagement, Canada's preeminent
science broadcaster was quick to swing his mace at the question of whether
sustainability stands a chance in a capitalistic system focused on economic
growth.

It's a topic Suzuki will discuss at length Wednesday when he delivers the Heinz
Distinguished Lectureship at the University of Pittsburgh's third annual fall
science celebration, "Science2003: Improving the Human Condition."

"The problem we face is that we're caught up in a belief system that starts with
the economy as the source of everything that matters," Suzuki said. "There's a
feeling that if its not economically feasible, we can't afford to do things that
will protect the environment.

"Well I'm shocked that the economy is put before the environment -- an order
that is fundamentally destructive. The path we're on now is completely
unsustainable and ultimately suicidal."

The 67-year-old Suzuki is not your father's Oldsmobile. And he's got more
horsepower.

He chairs the David Suzuki Foundation and is professor emeritus at the
Sustainable Development Research Institute of the University of British
Columbia. Over the past 30 years he has hosted a series of popular Canadian
Broadcasting Corp. radio and television shows, including "Quirks and Quarks,"
"Science Magazine" and the popular "The Nature of Things." This month he hosts
the four-part PBS series "The Sacred Balance."

He has a worldwide reputation for popularizing science in a way that Carl Sagan
and Jacques Cousteau did, by explaining the complexities of nature in an way
easily understood by the public.

An award-winning scientist, environmentalist and civil rights activist, Suzuki
was interned in the British Columbia interior during World War II with other
Japanese-Canadians, an experience that not only fostered an appreciation of
nature but a social consciousness as sharp as his rhetoric.

"We are part of our environment, part of the Earth. To continue to put toxics
into our air, water and soil is crazy," he said. "If we don't start to act now
to clean them up, we're toast."

Suzuki railed against industry-funded science that has delayed action on
important environmental issues like global climate change and also against
journalists who ignore the funding source and thus perpetuate the myth that the
science on the subject remains in doubt.

"The lazy journalists allow the fossil fuel industry scientists to criticize
their colleagues who believe in climate change, so to the general public global
warming is still in controversy," he said. "Bullspit. The evidence has been in
for years."

Suzuki said the Bush administration energy policies ignore that evidence and
have already had "catastrophic" consequences.

"It's costing the United States hundreds of billions of dollars to extend its
energy hegemony in the Middle East and in the long run maybe more. And the idea
to open up ANWR [Arctic National Wildlife Refuge] and support every dirty fossil
fuel producer is insane when the obvious way to go is greater efficiency."

Such efficiency is a component of the sustainable practices that people and
governments must adopt to live within the planet's carrying capacity, he said.

"Right now we're conducting a huge experiment on the Earth and we don't know
what the outcome will be, but we see some of the consequences: massive forest
fires, pine beetles that don't die in the winter because it's not cold enough,
drought," Suzuki said. "The only things we can manage are human beings and if we
don't know the outcome of this experiment, it's prudent to pull back and lighten
our impact."

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Don Hopey can be reached at dhopey@post-gazette.com or 412-263-1983.

                       Copyright 2003 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              28 of 283 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                      May 31, 2003 Saturday SOONER EDITION

A DEPARTING TOEPLITZ FORESEES CHALLENGES

BYLINE: CAROLINE ABELS, POST-GAZETTE CULTURAL ARTS WRITER

SECTION: ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT, Pg.C-12

LENGTH: 956 words


Gideon Toeplitz arrived at the Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra in 1987, when Lorin
Maazel was about to take over as music director and times were better for
classical music in America. As managing director, Toeplitz lured Mariss Jansons
here in 1995 and hired Marvin Hamlisch as principal pops conductor. Toeplitz's
last day at the orchestra was yesterday.

QUESTION: How is the orchestra world different from when you arrived at the PSO?

ANSWER: In many ways it is not different. Priorities and issues haven't changed
a great deal and that's probably part of the problem. There has not been a focus
on the challenges that face us. There is a consensus in the industry now -- I
would say a total consensus -- that the bull market masked the problems. The
problems we have now were there in the ' 90s.

Q: But wasn't it your responsibility to see through the mask?

A: If I had seen through the mask, I would have been a unique person in the
world, not just in the industry. I wish I would have, but I would have been very
unique. Look how many businesses are faltering now because they didn't see
through that. It's always easy to fall into a comfort zone, and things were
comfortable and then we got hit.

Q: What were the problems that were masked by the boom years?

A: The problem is, in simple language, that in some ways an orchestra is an
outdated institution and we have not made any adjustments for 300 years, not
just 15 years. We still look the same on stage as we did 300 years ago, and
we're playing the same music more or less the same way, the same kind of
concerts. It's amazing we're still around. Most businesses, if they did that,
would not be around. But because of our public support and that we're not
dependent on normal economic equations, we are. We have not thought through --
and there may be excusable reasons for that -- what an orchestra should be in
the 21st century.

Q: Did you ever try to make changes that positioned the orchestra for the 21st
century?

A: I have made changes, but not wholesale changes like there should have been.
It's very difficult to do that in just one orchestra because one of the
weaknesses in our industry is that we're really a national market. Our musicians
work under national conditions. Their contract is like anyone else's contract
and the compensation has a relationship from one orchestra to another. So unless
the whole industry comes together, including the musicians, and says, 'Hey, we
have to rethink this whole thing,' it will be too difficult for one orchestra to
say, 'Let's do it differently.' My guess is, it will take a couple of years and
a lot of good brains to come up with a new model.

Q: You say orchestras have been bound by tradition for too long, but if they
veer from tradition, might they alienate the core music lovers who come again
and again?


A: One thing that should not be touched is the fact that we're about music and
the quality of the music we play. That has to be driving everything. But the
time has come to examine how we present the music. The question is, why don't
people come and what do you have to do to get them to attend? Perhaps a
different atmosphere or presentation, but keeping the music intact.


Q: A more casual atmosphere?

A: More casual, and more suitable to the current social climate. You cannot
recognize that the social climate has changed completely and then say, we're
here and you can cross the line back and forth. Look at the Duquesne Club. You
can go there now without wearing a tie. Four years ago, they said you didn't
have to and that was a big social change. Believe me, it didn't go over easy,
but it is social change, and here [the musicians] are still wearing tails. I
tried to eliminate tails but Mariss wouldn't let me. He's very conservative and
middle European. But for a newcomer to the orchestra, it just looks stupid. And
you know why they wear tails? Because 200 years ago, musicians were servants in
the court of Prince That or King That. And we haven't changed, although some
orchestras moved to tuxedos a long time ago.


Q: So it's not necessarily that people don't like classical music; they just
don't like the way it's presented?

A: They have to feel comfortable. When we started having [composer or performer]
talks before some performances, we got flak from everyone. But people got used
to it. We only opened the door a crack with that but there's an opportunity to
do much more and ease the atmosphere. I also snuck in the practice of having
musicians bow with their face to the audience. Between Maazel and Jansons I did
it because I felt it was so stupid that at the end of the concert, the audience
applauds and you give them the shoulder. That's a little thing, but you have to
start somewhere.


Q: What advice do you have for your successor?

A: I'm concerned that the industry is looking for executives who are primarily
fund-raisers and marketers. I'm concerned about that because the passion for
music and the knowledge of music is, at best, secondary, or may not be there at
all. What will that do to the industry in the long term? I hope whoever comes
here -- and maybe it will be someone who is a much better fund-raiser than I am
-- will pay attention to the quality of music, because if not, it becomes a
factory, not an artistic organization.


Q: What's your biggest accomplishment?

A: If I have contributed to the internationally acclaimed, high level of playing
of the PSO, that's my biggest accomplishment. That's why I came here and
everything else is at the service of that mission. The orchestra will be good no
matter what, for a long time to come, and if that's my legacy, then I'm happy
with that.




LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Caroline Abels can be reached at cabels@post-gazette.com or 412-263-2614.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gideon Toeplitz: "The question is, why don't people come?

                       Copyright 2003 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              30 of 283 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                    December 15, 2003 Monday SOONER EDITION

PENN STATE: PATENT FACTORY

SECTION: SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY AND MEDICINE, Pg.A-12 SCIENCE NOTEBOOK

LENGTH: 620 words


Patent activity has surged in the past five years at U.S. universities and
nowhere has the number of new patents climbed faster than at Penn State
University, according to an analysis by CHI Research published in this month's
issue of MIT Technology Review magazine.

Of the top 25 universities, 13 saw a 50 percent or greater increase in patents
from 1997 to 2002 and six had increases of 100 percent or more. The number of
patents awarded to Penn State went up by 175 percent.

Penn State's technological strength, based on the number of patents and their
relevance, ranked 14th among the top 25. The University of Pennsylvania ranked
18th and Carnegie Mellon University ranked 20th.

Preliminary figures from the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office show Penn State
received 50 patents in 2002, ranking ninth among U.S. universities. The
University of California ranked first with 431 patents.


CMU's McClelland honored

The American Psychological Society has awarded Carnegie Mellon University
psychologist Jay McClelland its William James Fellow Award, which honors members
for a lifetime of significant contributions to the basic science of psychology.

McClelland is a pioneer in creating computational models of neural processes
that can be used to develop and test theories of how the brain learns, how it
recognizes spoken language and how visual perception takes place. He is founding
co-director of the Center for the Neural Basis of Cognition, a joint project of
CMU and the University of Pittsburgh.

Lee D. Ross of Stanford University also is a co-recipient of this year's award.


Energy official visits Perry

William Magwood, director of the U.S. Department of Energy's Office of Nuclear
Energy, Science and Technology, visited Perry Traditional Academy last week to
kick off a student project on hydrogen energy and fuel cells.

Magwood left kits for building model cars powered by fuel cells. DOE is
promoting hydrogen-powered fuel cells as a potential means of reducing U.S.
dependence on fossil fuels and eliminating the noxious emissions associated with
the internal combustion engine and other devices that burn fossil fuels.


Canadian wins U.S. award

The National Academy of Sciences has named Maurice F. Strong, a Canadian
businessman and environmentalist, as this year's winner of its Public Welfare
Medal and its first foreign-born recipient.

The academy chose Strong because of his international leadership on
environmental concerns by linking scientific and technological resources. In
1972, he was chief organizer and secretary-general of the U.N. Conference on the
Environment in Stockholm, Sweden, and organized the 1992 Earth Summit in Rio de
Janeiro that led to international conventions on climate change and
biodiversity.


How our shield is breached

The magnetosphere that shields Earth from eruptions of charged particles from
the sun is "like a drafty old house" that lets in gusts of solar energy, causing
auroras and the occasional disruption of radio and satellite communications.

A study using a series of satellites monitoring the Earth's natural magnetic
field and published recently in the journal Nature has confirmed that the
magnetosphere develops cracks that may last for hours. This breach allows
charged electrons and ions from the sun, a force called the solar wind, to
stream into the Earth's upper atmosphere and dump massive loads of magnetic
energy.

"Our magnetic shield takes the brunt of space storms from the sun, but some
energy continually slips through its cracks, sometimes enough to cause problems
with satellites, radio communications and power systems," said Harald Frey of
the University of California, Berkeley.


LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2003 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              32 of 283 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                      August 8, 2003 Friday SOONER EDITION

NON-CANDIDATE GORE ATTACKS HOW BUSH SOLD THE WAR

BYLINE: RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD, THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: NATIONAL, Pg.A-1

LENGTH: 707 words


Former Vice President Al Gore waded back into presidential politics yesterday
with a speech accusing the Bush administration of promoting "false impressions"
about the need to go to war in Iraq and to cut taxes.

Gore, speaking at New York University before more than 500 people invited by a
political advocacy group and the campus chapter of the College Democrats, said
Bush had engaged in a pattern of distortion when it came to foreign, economic
and environmental policy.

"The president's mishandling of and selective use of the best evidence available
on the threat posed by Iraq is pretty much the same as the way he intentionally
distorted the best available evidence on climate change, and rejected the best
available evidence on the threat posed to America's economy by his tax and
budget proposals," Gore said.

The speech was Gore's first major policy address since he announced in December
that he would not run for president in 2004. Yesterday, he said again that he
would not enter the campaign, but the timing of the speech -- just as the
campaign season heats up -- raised eyebrows in Democratic circles.

Two weeks ago, Gore asked Moveon.org, an Internet-based advocacy group that
protested the war, to organize the event as a way for him to address the
direction of the country, his assistants and officials at Moveon.org said.

"He did make clear he was not going to run, but his feeling was there was
sentiment not being put in words in terms of patterns and practices of the Bush
administration and he felt he was in position to make that case," said Eli
Pariser, the international campaigns director of Moveon.org. "Some of the
candidates have to be more guarded."

An adviser to Gore said the former vice president was not seeking to "take
oxygen" from the candidates or criticize them but "to provide a road map and
direction on some issues he feels are appropriate."

Gore devoted two lines of praise for the candidates, none by name, toward the
end of his 40-minute speech.

"I am not going to join them," Gore said. "But later in the political cycle I
will endorse one of them."

For someone who is now a college lecturer and business consultant, the
appearance created a fair amount of political buzz -- former New York Gov. Mario
M. Cuomo told a radio show on Wednesday that Gore should get in the race -- and
it had all the trappings of a campaign event.

Nearly 100 members of the national and international news media registered to
cover it.

Gore seemed to relish the opportunity to step from the sidelines and critique
the opponent who defeated him in the bitterly contested 2000 election. And his
language was generally harsher than that used by the Democratic contenders.

"Too many of our soldiers are paying the highest price for the strategic
miscalculations, serious misjudgments and historic mistakes that have put them
and our nation in harm's way," Gore said, his remarks punctuated several times
with warm applause.

Gore credited Bush with removing Saddam Hussein from power but lamented the lack
of "honesty and integrity" in the public debate leading up to the war. He
pointed out as examples that despite Bush's warnings, no nuclear weapons had
been found and no direct link between Saddam and al-Qaida established.

He suggested a hidden motivation was securing access to Mideast oil.

After musing aloud if Bush's advisers had steered him wrong, Gore said, "I've
just about concluded that the real problem may be the president himself and that
next year we ought to fire him and get a new one."

He called on Bush to "rein in" Attorney General John Ashcroft and the "gross
civil rights abuses" he said were taking place under the USA Patriot Act. He
likened a proposed Defense Department surveillance program to George Orwell's
"1984."

A White House spokeswoman, addressing reporters near Bush's ranch in Crawford,
Texas, dismissed Gore's complaints. Americans, said the spokeswoman, Claire
Buchan, know "the president's commitment to security of the United States and to
winning the war on terror and to securing our economic security."

Christine Iverson, a spokeswoman for the Republican National Committee, said
Gore's record on terrorism was less than perfect.

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2003 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              41 of 283 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                    August 20, 2003 Wednesday SOUTH EDITION

SECTION: METRO, Pg.S-10

LENGTH: 1088 words



EDGAR J. HOLTZ, Bethel Park School District acting superintendent


What's the biggest challenge facing your district this year?

Selecting a new superintendent who has the skills and ability to move the Bethel
Park School District to a higher level of academic excellence.


What's the best thing your predecessor did?

Leaving the district with a top-notch administrative team, capable of leading
Bethel's excellent professional faculty and support staff.


Finish this sentence: "On my summer vacation, I did not get to..."

... play enough tennis


What's the district's best opportunity for change?

The tandem of union leadership, school board leadership and a new superintendent
working together with a united vision for the future, focused on children and
learning.


What are the implications of "No Child Left Behind" for your school?

We take the implications very seriously. They require all district personnel to
focus their efforts on the students who are not meeting state standards.


Finish this sentence, "This school's superintendent had better..."

... have the ability to work successfully with a very tight and no-frills school
budget.


What's your answer to: "But we've always done it that way?"

Why have we always done it that way?


What's your favorite cafeteria food item?

Pizza


What makes a good student?

Good parents


Finish this sentence: It will be a great school year if..."

... all children are learning in a pleasant, caring, positive school
environment.


JACQUELYN WEBB, Duquesne City School District acting superintendent


What's the biggest challenge facing your district this year?

Continuing to improve academically on the PSSA (Pennsylvania System of School
Assessment) and meeting the AYP (Adequate Yearly Progress) requirements.


What's the best thing your predecessor did?

Embraced the community, created a positive learning environment.


Finish this sentence: "On my summer vacation, I did not get to..."

... read as much for pleasure as I wanted to do.


What's the district's best opportunity for change?

The time is now; positive attitude, new programs, enthusiastic teachers, and
leaders.


What are the implications of "No Child Left Behind" for your school?

Focus on paraprofessionals; highly qualified teachers and meeting all the NCLB
requirements.


Finish this sentence, "This school's superintendent had better..."

... focus the staff, students and community to improve student performance.


What's your answer to: "But we've always done it that way?"

Probably [saying] I was not here and am removed from how it was done. Now we
need to work as a team and focus on priorities and high student performance.


What's your favorite cafeteria food item?

Tuna salad.


What makes a good student?

A well rested, well nourished student with a positive attitude and eager to
learn.


Finish this sentence: It will be a great school year if..."

... we work together as a team focused on the key goal of improving academic
achievement.




JAMES D. LOMBARDO, Upper St. Clair School District superintendent


What's the biggest challenge facing your district this year?

Learn about the schools and communities [and balance] the difficult fiscal
climate in our township and state with the desire to maintain the exceptional
quality and programs of our schools.

What's the best thing your predecessor did?

He clearly established a school district culture where the welfare and learning
of students was the primary consideration for all decisions.

Finish this sentence: "On my summer vacation, I did not get to ..."

What summer vacation? I left one position in Vermont and started a new one in
Pennsylvania three days later.

What's the district's best opportunity for change?

This district is incredible! I have never seen such a passionate commitment to
student performance in both academics and extra-curricular activities. ... That
commitment is the district's best hope in bringing about any change.

What are the implications of "No Child Left Behind" for your school?

NCLB has noble intentions wrapped in a blanket of poor legislation. NCLB and
Pennsylvania's AYP (Adequate Yearly Progress) system need enormous improvement
if they are to be a responsible vehicle for school improvement.

Finish this sentence: "This school's superintendent had better ..."

... call a snow day today.

What's your answer to: "But we've always done it that way?"

That's true, and the fact that we have stands in the way of us thinking hard
about ways that we might do a better job. Let's try to imagine we are
approaching this problem for the first time and craft the very best solution we
can.

What's your favorite cafeteria food item?

What else?  Pizza.

What makes a good student?

The best student has the work ethic to acquire the necessary skills to pursue
the student's true learning passion and the self-esteem to ignore the demands of
others to fit into a predetermined mold.

Finish this sentence: "It will be a great school year if..."

... the passion and commitment I have seen in our administrators, curriculum
leaders and teachers this summer result in improved learning performance for all
of our students."



MARGERY A. SABLE, Mt. Lebanon School District superintendent


1. What's the biggest challenge facing your district this year?

Continuous improvement in an already excellent district.


2. What's the best thing your predecessor did?

Helped me feel welcome in the district.


3. Finish this sentence: "On my summer vacation, I did not get to ..."

... take a summer vacation this year.


4. What's the district's best opportunity for change?

We're on the move in all areas from curriculum to the implementation of new
technology.


5. What are the implications of No Child Left Behind for your school?

I need to refocus on writing and special education results.


6. Finish this sentence: "This school's superintendent had better ..."

... respect the history of the community.


7. What's your answer to: "But we've always done it that way?"

Not anymore.


8. What's your favorite cafeteria food item?

I hear we have a great salad bar and lots of healthy selections.


9. What makes a good student?

Energized, questioning, always seeking to achieve a new personal best.


10. Finish this sentence: "It will be a great school year if..."

No 'if' about it.

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2003 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              42 of 283 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                           August 20, 2003 Wednesday
                                 SOUTH EDITION

QUIZZING THE 4 NEW SUPERINTENDENTS

SECTION: METRO; BACK TO SCHOOL; Pg. S-10

LENGTH: 1019 words


EDGAR J. HOLTZ, Bethel Park School District acting superintendent


What's the biggest challenge facing your district this year?

Selecting a new superintendent who has the skills and ability to move the Bethel
Park School District to a higher level of academic excellence.

What's the best thing your predecessor did?

Leaving the district with a top-notch administrative team, capable of leading
Bethel's excellent professional faculty and support staff.

Finish this sentence: "On my summer vacation, I did not get to..."

... play enough tennis

What's the district's best opportunity for change?

The tandem of union leadership, school board leadership and a new superintendent
working together with a united vision for the future, focused on children and
learning.

What are the implications of "No Child Left Behind" for your school?

We take the implications very seriously. They require all district personnel to
focus their efforts on the students who are not meeting state standards.

Finish this sentence, "This school's superintendent had better..."

... have the ability to work successfully with a very tight and no-frills school
budget.

What's your answer to: "But we've always done it that way?"

Why have we always done it that way?

What's your favorite cafeteria food item?

Pizza

What makes a good student?

Good parents

Finish this sentence: It will be a great school year if..."

... all children are learning in a pleasant, caring, positive school
environment.

JACQUELYN WEBB, Duquesne City School District acting superintendent

What's the biggest challenge facing your district this year?

Continuing to improve academically on the PSSA (Pennsylvania System of School
Assessment) and meeting the AYP (Adequate Yearly Progress) requirements.

What's the best thing your predecessor did?

Embraced the community, created a positive learning environment.

Finish this sentence: "On my summer vacation, I did not get to..."

... read as much for pleasure as I wanted to do.

What's the district's best opportunity for change?

The time is now; positive attitude, new programs, enthusiastic teachers, and
leaders.

What are the implications of "No Child Left Behind" for your school?

Focus on paraprofessionals; highly qualified teachers and meeting all the NCLB
requirements.

Finish this sentence, "This school's superintendent had better..."

... focus the staff, students and community to improve student performance.

What's your answer to: "But we've always done it that way?"

Probably [saying] I was not here and am removed from how it was done. Now we
need to work as a team and focus on priorities and high student performance.

What's your favorite cafeteria food item?

Tuna salad.

What makes a good student?

A well rested, well nourished student with a positive attitude and eager to
learn.

Finish this sentence: It will be a great school year if..."

... we work together as a team focused on the key goal of improving academic
achievement.

JAMES D. LOMBARDO, Upper St. Clair School District superintendent

What's the biggest challenge facing your district this year?

Learn about the schools and communities [and balance] the difficult fiscal
climate in our township and state with the desire to maintain the exceptional
quality and programs of our schools.

What's the best thing your predecessor did?

He clearly established a school district culture where the welfare and learning
of students was the primary consideration for all decisions.

Finish this sentence: "On my summer vacation, I did not get to ..."

What summer vacation? I left one position in Vermont and started a new one in
Pennsylvania three days later.

What's the district's best opportunity for change?

This district is incredible! I have never seen such a passionate commitment to
student performance in both academics and extra-curricular activities. ... That
commitment is the district's best hope in bringing about any change.

What are the implications of "No Child Left Behind" for your school?

NCLB has noble intentions wrapped in a blanket of poor legislation. NCLB and
Pennsylvania's AYP (Adequate Yearly Progress) system need enormous improvement
if they are to be a responsible vehicle for school improvement.

Finish this sentence: "This school's superintendent had better ..."

... call a snow day today.

What's your answer to: "But we've always done it that way?"

That's true, and the fact that we have stands in the way of us thinking hard
about ways that we might do a better job. Let's try to imagine we are
approaching this problem for the first time and craft the very best solution we
can.

What's your favorite cafeteria food item?

What else? Pizza.

What makes a good student?

The best student has the work ethic to acquire the necessary skills to pursue
the student's true learning passion and the self-esteem to ignore the demands of
others to fit into a predetermined mold.

Finish this sentence: "It will be a great school year if..."

... the passion and commitment I have seen in our administrators, curriculum
leaders and teachers this summer result in improved learning performance for all
of our students."

MARGERY A. SABLE, Mt. Lebanon School District superintendent

What's the biggest challenge facing your district this year?

Continuous improvement in an already excellent district.

What's the best thing your predecessor did?

Helped me feel welcome in the district.

Finish this sentence: "On my summer vacation, I did not get to ..."

... take a summer vacation this year.

What's the district's best opportunity for change?

We're on the move in all areas from curriculum to the implementation of new
technology.

What are the implications of No Child Left Behind for your school?

I need to refocus on writing and special education results.

Finish this sentence: "This school's superintendent had better ..."

... respect the history of the community.

What's your answer to: "But we've always done it that way?"

Not anymore.

What's your favorite cafeteria food item?

I hear we have a great salad bar and lots of healthy selections.

What makes a good student?

Energized, questioning, always seeking to achieve a new personal best.

Finish this sentence: "It will be a great school year if..."

No `if' about it.

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: EDGAR J. HOLTZ, Bethel Park School District acting
superintendent
PHOTO: JACQUELYN WEBB, Duquesne City School District acting superintendent
PHOTO: JAMES D. LOMBARDO, Upper St. Clair School District superintendent
PHOTO: MARGERY A. SABLE, Mt. Lebanon School District superintendent

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              50 of 283 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                   December 28, 2003 Sunday TWO STAR EDITION

WHAT BECOMES AN IMAGE MOST?;
 FOR A METRO AREA, IT'S EASIER TO ANSWER IN THE NEGATIVE: NOT MUNICIPAL
BANKRUPTCY, POLITICAL SQUABBLING, AIR SERVICE QUESTIONS, OVERALL JOB LOSSES AND
A WAVERING DOWNTOWN

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg.C-1

LENGTH: 2448 words


One would be hard-pressed to say "It was the best of times" for Greater
Pittsburgh this year. Though signs are emerging among many businesses that a
pickup has begun, the dominating news from this region in 2003 has left many
with a sense of uncertainty and concern.

Chief among the regional worries are the city of Pittsburgh's financial
problems.  Rising costs have surpassed revenue, prompting Mayor Tom Murphy to
seek distressed status.  The ensuing political struggle pitches the city's
political muscle against the suburban and state legislators, in an increasingly
ugly internecine conflict rife with name-calling and accusations of racism.
Making a resolution more difficult is that local political leadership is either
figuratively wounded, a la Murphy and lame-duck Allegheny County Executive Jim
Roddey, or at loggerheads.

Worries of the presence of reliable air travel for both businesses and consumers
have yet to be allayed as US Airways redoubles efforts to cut costs and stay
afloat in a troubled industry.  The airline says it would like to keep
Pittsburgh as a hub, but the viability of both that proposition and the airline
are open questions.  And while the loss of hub status might mean lower ticket
costs to consumers with the big "if" being whether other, low-cost carriers
would emerge to fill the void -- losing the hub would mean far fewer direct and
nonstop destinations and an increase in business and consumer travel time, as
Pittsburgh moved a bit farther off the beaten path.

With the exception of the notable bright spot of the new David L.  Lawrence
Convention Center, which opened last year and is lifting the hotel and
hospitality business, Downtown suffered through an aggravation of a trend that's
been gathering steam -- the deterioration of the corridor of Fifth and Forbes
avenues.  Empty storefronts accumulated, and two of the original linchpins of
Mayor Murphy's plans for that area -- Lord & Taylor and Lazarus -- may soon be
gone. Lord & Taylor expects to close in 2005, and now it will be much easier for
Lazarus to terminate its lease if sales, which have never reached expectations,
do not improve.

Finally this was the year of the Image Gap initiative, the result of a
broad-based group attempting to close the gap that exists between the perception
of Greater Pittsburgh elsewhere and the reality. The effort, with financial
support from the Heinz Endowments, created various branding themes that its
leaders claim have succeeded in seeding many attempts at changing the region's
image.  The campaign, however, was greeted with some skepticism and derision
from the public, which may have been expecting a catchy slogan or a campaign,
which has not received funding to date.

For the above reasons, the business staff of the Post-Gazette has chosen, as the
top local business story of the year, this region's continuing image problem.
You might quibble as to whether it's an image or a reality problem. In some
ways, it's both, but in Greater Pittsburgh, a place where mighty production in
the past obviated any need for marketing or image making, we're giving the nod
to the need for image work.  The ever-present anecdotal reaction of visitors to
this region is one of pleasant surprise, but efforts to change the region's
image, both internally and across the nation and world, have been painfully slow
to mobilize and remain a distance from their goal of matching the image of
Pittsburgh with its high quality of life.  And events of the past year have made
that task more difficult.

And the region's reputation hasn't been helped by its economy.  Job losses
continued in '03, marking the first time since Big Steel's collapse that
Pittsburgh-area businesses will have slashed payrolls for two straight years.
Once the final tally is in, it appears the six-county area will have shed some
9,000 workers the past year, on top of more than 12,000 in '02.

It's true other regions have suffered as much if not more than Pittsburgh during
the recession and what some are calling the "job-loss" recovery.  Most places in
the country have been hard-pressed to sport any job gains the past few years,
and some high-fliers of the '90s have been battered, including Seattle, San
Francisco and Portland, Ore.

But many of those same areas, particularly Sunbelt cities and West Coast tech
centers, saw job growth soar in the past decade, easing the sting of recent job
losses. By comparison, Pittsburgh's employment gains in the '90s came
grudgingly, averaging about 10,000 annually, or 1 percent, less than half the
national pace and well below its faster-growing metro competitors.

There is hope that we've turned the corner. Economists at PNC Financial Services
Group are forecasting meager local job gains next year, on the scale of almost
6,000, with biotechnology and high technology firms providing some of the fuel
for growth.

Of course, even those gains could be eviscerated if US Airways, which already
has shed nearly 4,000 area workers the past two years, pulls up stakes. The
forecast also would require manufacturing to stabilize somewhat again, as in did
in the mid-'90s before shedding workers in the rush to boost productivity and
save hemorrhaging steel mills.

Some image experts believe the region will emerge from its current travails with
its image in pretty good shape -- at least as far as the "outside world" is
concerned. That's the word from an official with New York based Development
Counsellors International, which has been in the business of helping over 300
cities, states and regions around the world market themselves for 43 years.

Other officials agree with the view that Pittsburgh's image will weather the
current flood of bad news. But all bets are off if, for example, US Airways
pulls its hub out of town. And they are also off if the efforts to solve the
city's fiscal troubles are allowed to fester and the region dissolves into a
city vs. suburbia tug of war. If that happens, it will become much more
difficult to draw businesses here to invest in the region, officials say. That's
because businesses are willing to overlook short-term problems if there's a
sense of long-term predictability, stability, viability and involvement by
citizens and leaders alike.  Infighting, squabbling and finger pointing don't
convey that image.  Before long, businesses making investment and location
decisions could paint the entire region with the same broad brush -- a
disjointed region on the decline.

"If you're a business that will be operating in a community, what's more
important to you is the long term, not short term problems," said Lynn Haskin,
vice president of New York-based Development Counsellors International. "They
look at resources such as infrastructure, workforce, colleges and universities,
and the involvement of business leadership in the civic progress." Fortunately,
she added, "I think Pittsburgh has all those things."

Officials with the Pittsburgh Regional Alliance and the Joint Venture, the
region's primary economic marketing arms, said that the number of "deals" in the
pipeline between the PRA and businesses considering investing in the region have
jumped by 20 percent in the last year. And officials with the Greater Pittsburgh
Convention and Visitors Bureau say that the David L. Lawrence Convention Center
continues to be a big draw for booking new meetings here.

One indirect factor that helps Pittsburgh right now is that so many other cities
and regions also have financial problems, Haskin said. Her firm exclusively
markets over 300 regions, states, cities and countries all over the world.

"It's hard for me to name a community that doesn't have challenges, whether they
are financial, budget, businesses outsourcing works overseas, decline in
manufacturing, whatever," she said.  "If Pittsburgh has those problems, 90
percent of other communities have them too."

She also suggested that Pittsburgh already has a pretty positive image in the
business circles she travels in, and thus, there's a willingness to "accentuate
the positive" things happening here instead of the problems.

"I have to be honest with you.  Through the '80s and mid-'90s, as an outsider I
can tell you that Pittsburgh was viewed just splendidly. As a community which
one had a kind of gritty image, you guys were at the top of the charts," she
said.

Even today, she said, she's brought reporters and other visitors to Pittsburgh
to show the city and region off.  "We've seen people doing the robotics stuff,
we've seen Homestead and what's happening there (with the Waterfront
development) and the nice town homes on Washington's Island. Pittsburgh has a
feeling like things are happening.  Are there blocks of your Downtown that need
to be revitalized?  Sure.  But that's also true in 90 percent of the other
communities in our country."

She said PRA had done a particularly good job in "keeping its pulse on things,"
She said she was confident that no matter what the challenges that could arise
may be, PRA would be able to handle it.

"They've done a very good job of staying in touch with key decision makers, and
managing things that affect the region's image.  In fact, the folks out there
are among the most effective national economic development agencies I've worked,
with.  Their Web site is terrific and can be used as a model for other
communities, and I often offer PRA up to others as a group that's doing it
right."

Meanwhile, Ronnie Bryant, PRA president, said the agency has had considerable
success over the last year despite the flow of negative events here.

"We've had a record number of projects, with which we are involved," he said.
"We have over 100 active deals currently in our portfolio.  For the last two and
a half years, we've set out aggressively to change the image that so many
decision makers have about Southwestern Pennsylvania."

Among the efforts they've had under way to burnish the region's image are an
international media relations program, to get more positive stories placed in
the media about the region around the world, convincing executives and others to
actually come to Pittsburgh to visit for familiarization tours, and connection
with relocation consultants to provide them with the latest current information
about the region.

As for how the various crises affected their efforts, Bryant said, "We really
don't know for sure right now. The reality is that up until the city's debt
ratings were cut, there was little coverage outside the region in terms of
economic development marketing.  It wasn't a question that anybody was asking.
It wasn't on the radar screen."

Will the problems make it tough to market the region down the road? "We really
won't know for sure until next year," Bryant said.

"If the city of Pittsburgh is accepted by the state as a ... distressed
community will that change the level of discussion?  What happens if by chance
the city goes bankrupt?  We don't know.  There are a lot of unknowns here."

Like Haskin, he said that Pittsburgh was only "one of a number of core cities
across the United States that are struggling financially.  I'm not sure the
awareness has gone beyond that or whether its known that many others are also in
bad shape and some even worse off than we are."

But the one thing that almost surely will make promotion difficult here would be
a closing of US Airways' hub here.

Bill Flanagan, chief communications officer for the Joint Venture, said that the
"US Airways issue has been a much bigger issue for us from the marketing
standpoint" than the city's financial problems.

"The uncertainty over US Airways has been a real cloud.  In the last quarter,
there was the report that General Dynamics chose to build an office and light
manufacturing office with 400 jobs in Charlotte (N.C.) instead of Pittsburgh,"
Flanagan said. "They did it because, in their minds, there was a greater
certainty about the level of air service in Charlotte than here. They were sure
that the Charlotte hub was secure and the Pittsburgh hub looked less sure."

As for the future, Flanagan said, "Our biggest concern is if down the road, the
city goes into a very serious financial problem.  That is why the Allegheny
Conference on Community Development is being so aggressive now with helping to
find solutions to the problem.  Our idea is that if the city does go bankrupt,
that would become a black eye that would hurt everybody in the region. People
outside here don't know the difference between Pittsburgh and Greensburg, or
Pittsburgh and Butler, for instance.  We don't want things to come to that and
get in the way of telling the region's story.  You want to be able to assure
businesses about what the future holds -- the tax climate, the business climate.
People don't like uncertainty."

Those who may respond worst to any continuing financial crisis may be those
looking to the region as a possible place to meet, and those considering
traveling here for recreation. Both are highly image conscious, and few meeting
planners want to have to grapple with an image problem.  And that goes double
for families who are worried about the impact of financial problems on public
safety and public cleanliness issues.

"Just the other day we had a question from an organization that was looking at
us for a 2006 convention in a very clear and simple way.  They said, 'We read
about the dilemmas your city is having. Please tell us about what adverse
effects this would have on the people coming to Pittsburgh in 2006.' Our
response was to try to put a positive spin on it. We're saying that the mayor
has said all along that fire and safety factors would not be affected by layoffs
and that's the company line we use," said Bob Imperata, executive vice president
of the Greater Pittsburgh Convention & Visitors Bureau.

As it turned out, the group decided to meet here anyway. But Imperata said he
still expects questions to pop up. "Truly, the word is out there.  We were at a
trade show last week for meeting planners and we had several people there ask
about the dilemma," he said.  As for families, he added, "On the leisure and
tourism side, there's more potential for damage. We try do everything we can to
dispel any negative ideas, but it's something that works on peoples' minds.

"We haven't put any timelines on anything, but quite frankly, as far as we're
concerned, the longer it drags on, the more likelihood there will be that more
people will learn about it, there will be more written and more talked about,
and more national exposure on it.  It all just has to be solved sooner, rather
than later," Imperata said.

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
NO. 1 LOCAL BUSINESS STORY OF THE YEAR

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Darrell Sapp/Post-Gazette: A host of troubles -- from the city's
financial problems to US Airways to some deterioration Downtown -- combined with
a regional image that's been slow to improve to make the number one local
business story of the year.
 PHOTO: Darrell Sapp/Post-Gazette: Though the Golden Triangle still glitters, as
seen in this photo from the Carnegie Science Center, current problems could
tarnish it and the region if political leadership allows them to fester.

                       Copyright 2003 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              52 of 283 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                     August 29, 2003 Friday SOONER EDITION

UPBEAT ECONOMIC DATA GIVE WALL STREET BOOST

BYLINE: AMY BALDWIN, THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg.B-15

LENGTH: 560 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


Wall Street plodded through another quiet pre-holiday session yesterday,
finishing with moderate gains after a last-hour surge of buying.

Despite two upbeat economic reports, prices fluctuated in a narrow range for
most of the session. Analysts attributed the market's tentativeness to concerns
that an improving business climate had already been factored into Wall Street's
higher prices.

"The market is the greatest forecasting tool out there. Stocks have been
forecasting these [economic] results," said Gary Kaltbaum, market technician for
Investors' Edge Partner, a money management firm in Orlando, Fla.

Trading was again affected by low volume, the result of many traders and
investors being away on vacation.

"This week [before Labor Day] usually is just dismally slow. Trying to make
something exciting about this week is tough," said Thomas F. Lydon Jr.,
president of Global Trends Investments in Newport Beach, Calif.

Yesterday's biggest winner was the Nasdaq composite index, which closed up
18.05, or 1 percent, at 1,800.18.

The Dow Jones industrial average advanced 40.42, to 9,374.21. The Standard &
Poor's 500 index rose 6.05 to 1,002.84.

Despite a slow week and erratic trading, yesterday's gains were the third in a
row for the Nasdaq and S&P, something that analysts found encouraging --
especially where the Nasdaq is concerned. When traders return from vacation,
analysts said the market could have greater momentum.

"The Nasdaq keeps prodding along, and that is one thing that is going to be on
the radar screens of most investors. As they come back from a long weekend and
get re-engaged with their portfolios, they will realize the Nasdaq is at
16-month highs," Lydon said.

The Nasdaq has trended higher while the Dow has lagged by comparison as
investors have moved assets into riskier, growth-oriented sectors and out of
safer havens.

The Commerce Department reported that the economy grew at a 3.1 percent annual
rate in the second quarter, stronger than previous estimates. The revised
reading on gross domestic product showed the economy picking up at a higher
speed than the 2.4 percent growth rate the department projected a month ago.

The reading was stronger than the 2.9 percent growth rate economists were
expecting, and marked the economy's best performance since the third quarter of
2002.

In a second report, the Labor Department said new claims for jobless benefits
rose by a seasonally adjusted 3,000 to 394,000 last week. The fact that claims
remained below 400,000, a level associated with a weak job market, offered hope
that the pace of layoffs is stabilizing.

Better-than-expected earnings and brokerage house upgrades contributed to
yesterday's gains.

Dollar General rose $1.60 to $22.52 after reporting second-quarter earnings that
beat analysts' expectations by 4 cents a share.

Kirkland's climbed $1.40 to $18.55 after US Bancorp Piper Jaffray raised its
rating on the home decor retailer to "strong buy" from "outperform."

In technology, Broadcom rose to $1.50 to $27.45, and Intel advanced 28 cents to
$28.30.

Advancing issues outnumbered decliners slightly more than 9 to 5 on the New York
Stock Exchange. Consolidated volume totaled 1.49 billion shares, up from 1.36
billion Wednesday. The Russell 2000 index rose 4.89 to 495.81.

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2003 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              53 of 283 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                   September 28, 2003 Sunday TWO STAR EDITION

DAVIS' BRUSQUE PERSONALITY HELPED BRING ON TROUBLES

BYLINE: DAVID S. BRODER, THE WASHINGTON POST

SECTION: NATIONAL, Pg.A-14

LENGTH: 1251 words

DATELINE: SACRAMENTO, Calif.


While Democrats, union leaders and many key Democratic donors have joined to
help Gov. Gray Davis defeat the Oct. 7 recall, it is striking how many of these
allies blame Davis' personality traits and management style for creating the
situation in which he finds himself.

Those poisoned personal relations make it hard for Davis to run on his record --
even though that record includes a list of policy breakthroughs as long as your
arm. The governor's office has issued a three-page, single-spaced list of 80
separate programs in which it says California leads the nation.

Even a sampling indicates the variety of areas where Davis and his activist
liberal legislature have taken the initiative. In education, the list includes
the two largest school construction bond issues in history, the first statewide
school rating program and high school exit exam, and new peaks in education
funding.

The record highlights the toughest gun safety laws in the nation, including a
ban on "Saturday night specials" and a requirement of childproof safety locks.
California has the nation's strongest patients' bill of rights and a state
department to enforce it. It is also the first state with paid family leave for
caregivers.

The governor's office notes that it has invested $6.8 billion in transportation
projects and says that the 650 underway is the largest number in history. It has
received "A" grades from the National Safety Council and other groups for
enforcing seat belt and child-seat laws.

The environmental record includes three record-breaking bond measures; tougher
laws on beaches, air, water and greenhouse gases; and the strongest energy
efficiency standards in the nation. The record on housing, veterans, consumer
protection and civil rights is equally extensive. In this predominantly
Democratic state, that alone would normally serve as a political insurance
policy.

Many of the achievements, including those in education, which Davis made his top
priority on becoming governor in 1999, reflect his own initiatives. Many more
began as projects in the Democratic-controlled legislature, whose leaders and
members are generally more liberal than Davis. On many occasions, the governor
served as a brake on those liberal impulses -- requiring changes before he would
sign a measure or vetoing a bill and forcing the legislature to come back a year
or two later.

The resulting tension helps explain why so many of his fellow Democrats and
their interest-group allies are reluctant to credit Davis for the positive
achievements of his tenure. "We've hated him for everything he's given us," one
lobbyist for a liberal group said.

Garry South, the governor's campaign strategist and an important
behind-the-scenes influence on his work in office, says that those ideological
differences with people on his left set the stage for his current difficulties.

"Gray is basically a centrist," South said. "But after 16 years of Republican
control of the governor's office, the expectations of Democratic interest groups
were enormous -- almost unmanageable. He had run in 1998 as the candidate of
continuity -- a moderate centrist like [outgoing Republican Gov.] Pete Wilson,
while Dan Lungren [his Republican opponent] was taking some radical-right
positions. But a lot of Democrats thought the election was a green light for
their whole agenda.

"Gray made it clear to labor and the liberal interest groups, right from the
start, that progress would have to be incremental. But he has paid a heavy,
heavy price for frustrating some of their ambitions."

Even if one accepts much of South's argument, the degree of personal venom
toward Davis -- the number and range of the alleged slights and grievances cited
by Democratic politicians even more than by Republicans -- is stunning.

"He is the most selfish politician in the world," a major California Democrat
said. "He takes from everybody and gives nothing to anyone, whether it is
credit, or money or thanks. It's always all about Gray Davis."

The frayed relationship with fellow Democrats is a major problem, because Davis'
strategy for beating the recall relies almost entirely on mobilizing core
Democratic constituencies.

Democratic consultant Bill Carrick points to Davis' struggle to solidify the
Latino vote as an example. A year ago, Davis vetoed a Democratic bill to allow
illegal immigrants to obtain drivers' licenses. A few weeks ago, he signed a
similar bill -- but one lacking some of the security safeguards included in the
original measure. "For over a year, he was being beat up in Spanish-language
media," Carrick said, "and now he's trying to repair the damage in a few weeks."

For the broad electorate, these factional and personal battles probably weigh
less than Davis' role in the energy blackouts and electricity rate increases of
2001, and his responsibility for the gaping budget deficit the state has faced.
Those issues dominate the reasons voters give in focus groups and polls for
viewing him as a failed leader -- dropping his job approval rating to a low of
22 percent a few months ago.

Davis says -- and neutral observers agree -- that external forces played a large
role in both the energy and budgetary problems, and that anyone in the
governor's corner office would have faced severe difficulties in dealing with
them. Energy problems were triggered by a deregulation plan signed into law by
his Republican predecessor, and evidence suggests that some energy firms
manipulated supplies to push up prices.

The budget gap came about as a result of ambitious spending pushed by the
legislature and an economic slump, led by the collapse of the Silicon Valley
high-tech bubble and spreading to other sectors.

Critics charge -- and longtime Sacramento players agree -- that, in both
instances, Davis compounded the problems with his characteristic tendency to
delay confronting a difficulty and to attempt to reconcile the irreconcilable.

When San Diego suffered a power shortage, it should have been a signal to
prepare for statewide energy problems, the critics say. The delay in signing
long-term contracts cost the state billions of dollars. When high-tech firms saw
their markets dry up, state spending should have been ratcheted down gradually,
they say, rather than having to cut and borrow to close a $38 billion budget gap
in one year.

Many voters are telling pollsters they believe Davis was not just tardy but
duplicitous in not telling them how severe the problems were.

These criticisms have not weakened the support of organized labor, African
American leaders or the gay community. But some political insiders believe that
growing up as the oldest child of an alcoholic father had scarred Davis'
personality in ways that have been politically costly. They say that the
emotional coldness, distrust of others, avoidance of conflict and relentless
self-discipline displayed by Davis are characteristic of adult children of
alcoholics.

In this, presumably his final campaign, Davis has found himself listening to
allies in an effort to minimize the quirks of his character.

At a rally in San Francisco last week, where Davis stood with arms held stiffly
at his side, House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., told the union crowd:
"Gray is not fuzzy. I don't want a fuzzy governor. I want a clear-thinking
governor, and that's what we've got."

"I'm not fuzzy. So be it," Davis responded.

He has to hope the voters will accept that.

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2003 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              56 of 283 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                    October 19, 2003 Sunday TWO STAR EDITION

BEWARE OF BUG YOU MIGHT CATCH IN DESERT

BYLINE: ALFRED BORCOVER, CHICAGO TRIBUNE

SECTION: TRAVEL, Pg.F-2

LENGTH: 1115 words


What can be worse than coming home from a lovely vacation, becoming seriously
ill and not knowing what you have?

That's what happened to a Chicago resident (who shall go nameless), after
returning from a spa vacation in Arizona last October. By Dec. 1, she had a
104-degree fever and a bad cough. Her physician diagnosed the illness as
pneumonia, which she had suffered in the past, and put her on antibiotics. Her
condition worsened, so she went to a hospital emergency room for help. A few
days later, she was admitted to the hospital. It wasn't until doctors performed
a lung scope that they found the cause of her sickness -- Valley Fever, a fungal
disease that can present itself as pneumonia.

Valley Fever -- officially coccidioidomycosis, usually shorted to cocci
(pronounced kok-see) -- is endemic in the hot desert regions of southern
Arizona, especially in the Phoenix-Tucson areas; the San Joaquin and Central
Valleys of California, around Bakersfield; southern Utah and Nevada; west Texas
and the Sonoran Desert region in Mexico. The National Center for Infectious
Diseases lists parts of Argentina, Brazil, Colombia, Guatemala, Honduras,
Nicaragua, Paraguay and Venezuela as cocci zones as well. Health officials
estimate that there are about 100,000 cocci cases in the southwestern U.S. each
year, most of which resolve on their own.

In Arizona, where the disease seems to be most prevalent, cases of Valley Fever,
primarily a lung disease, must be reported to the Arizona Department of Health
Services. Ken Komatsu, ADHS epidemiology program manager, said the number of
Valley Fever cases has risen steadily -- 1,917 in 2000, 2,301 in 2001, 3,133 in
2002, and this year, 765 cases through July 8. Valley Fever ranks fourth as the
most common infectious disease reported to ADHS, following gonorrhea, chlamydia
and chronic hepatitis C.

"Many factors are causing the increase," said Komatsu, an epidemiologist. "But
we don't know which one is contributing the most -- increased physician
awareness, a growing population of susceptible individuals (over 60 years of
age, although all age groups can get it), changing climate patterns that may
promote the growth of the fungus and building in pristine desert areas where the
fungus is usually found."

What is so frustrating about Valley Fever is that it is incredibly random. It
takes only one airborne fungal spore, kicked up from the soil by a dirt-biker,
construction worker or the wind, to do you in -- or not. Between 60 percent and
66 percent of individuals who are infected don't even know it and therefore are
not troubled by the disease, which often presents flu-like symptoms. It takes
from 7 to 21 days for the spore to incubate. Once infected, you have lifetime
immunity.

"It's a matter of when you take a breath," said Dr. John N. Galgiani, director
of the University of Arizona's Valley Fever Center of Excellence in Tucson. "The
percentages are relatively low so it's not like everybody who shows up here gets
sick. If you live here for years, [the risk] starts to add up."

The Valley Fever Center was established in 1995 to promote cocci education,
research and patient care.

Galgiani, who helped found the center and described Arizona's growing incidence
of Valley Fever as "an epidemic," said he's had the disease, "but I didn't know
when, much to my chagrin. I was going to study myself, but the disease went
through and I had no idea when." He learned of his infection through a skin
test.

The peak periods for being exposed to Valley Fever, Galgiani said, are May,
June, July, until the rains hopefully come, and October, November, December,
until the winter rains start.

The individuals who are most at risk to become seriously ill from Valley Fever
are African-Americans, Asians, pregnant women during the third trimester and
people whose immune systems are compromised -- those with AIDS or chemotherapy
patients, according to the Centers for Disease Control in Atlanta. But, as
Galgiani reminded, anyone can get cocci.

The really important thing to know, Galgiani said, is that the disease does
exist and that the incubation period is 7-21 days. "When individuals get home
and get sick with pneumonia-like symptoms, they should tell their doctor they
were in the Southwest and consider the possibility that it's cocci. Without that
travel history, it's pretty hard to think of cocci."





Galgiani said the disease can be diagnosed through a blood test or by a sputum
culture.

"The most difficult thing about Valley Fever is prevention, especially when you
are exposed to things that are actually endemic in the area and in the soil,"
said Dr. Rana Hajjeh, a CDC infectious disease/epidemiologist who has written
about the disease. "In an area like Arizona, or other parts of that desert area,
they have frequent dust storms that carry the spores."

Like Galgiani, Hajjeh stressed the need for awareness. "Snowbirds go to (cocci
regions) in the wintertime for a few months and some return home with a
respiratory illness and they have no idea what they got. They go through a bunch
of tests, medications, antibiotics. Just awareness sometimes is quite helpful to
minimize the hassle, the expenses," she said, noting that about 40 percent of
exposed individuals develop symptoms.

While guest ranch and resort operators are aware of Valley Fever, most of their
guests are not. "It's a strange illness," said Bob Cote, owner and general
manager of Tanque Verde Ranch, a popular getaway east of Tucson. "Everybody in
Tucson has probably had it. I've probably had it, but had no reaction to it,"
said Cote, who's been there since 1968. "We don't have anything posted about the
disease and I don't know of anybody who makes mention of it. To my knowledge, we
had two wranglers, twin brothers from Montana, come down with it. But of my
guests, I don't know of anyone who's had it."

As Hajjeh pointed out, people most affected by the disease can run up
substantial medical bills if they and their physicians don't know what the
disease is. Primary health-care insurance will cover most costs. Individuals who
purchased travel insurance will have secondary coverage.

"Our policy will pay for medical expenses within one year from the date of the
first treatment during the trip," explained Dan McGinnity, spokesman for Travel
Guard International, Stevens Point, Wis. "In the case of something like Valley
Fever, and it falls outside the language of the policy, it would be evaluated on
a case-by-case basis."

For most people who travel to Valley Fever regions, the key thing to know is
that cocci exists. That will help your doctor if you develop symptoms.

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2003 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              64 of 283 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                     June 28, 2003 Saturday SOONER EDITION

CONSUMER SPENDING UP IN MAY

BYLINE: JEANNINE AVERSA, THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg.A-7

LENGTH: 467 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Consumers didn't exactly shop until they dropped but they did boost spending in
May, a fresh sign that they are still doing their part to keep the economy
going.

The Commerce Department said yesterday that consumer spending nudged up 0.1
percent last month. That matched April's increase, which turned out to be an
improvement from the government's first estimate of a 0.1 percent decline.

Americans' incomes, including wages, interest and government benefits, rose by a
modest 0.3 percent in May, up from a 0.2 percent advance in April. That's
encouraging news because income growth is a main force behind future spending by
consumers, economists say.

The income and spending figures are not adjusted for price changes.

Consumer spending accounts for two-thirds of economic activity in the United
States. Because of that, the behavior of shoppers is a major force in shaping
the economy's recovery.

"Given how wet the weather was in May in many parts of the country, it was
surprising that anyone had any interest in visiting the malls," said Joel
Naroff, president of Naroff Economic Advisors. "This report tells us that we can
still count on consumers to hold up the economy."

One factor supporting consumer spending is a refinancing boom, stoked by low
mortgage rates. Extra cash from refinancing combined with solid home-value
appreciation help make consumers feel better about their finances even amid the
muddled economic climate.

Those positive forces are helping to offset the negative forces of a sluggish
job market, where unemployment is at a nine-year high of 6.1 percent.

Still, consumers kept a close watch on their purse strings in May, resisting
temptations to splurge.

Consumers trimmed spending on durable goods, such as cars and appliances, by 0.7
percent in May, a reversal from a 2.7 percent rise in April. For nondurable
goods, such as clothes and food, spending dipped by 0.1 percent in May, an
improvement from April's 1.3 percent decline. Consumers increased spending on
services by 0.5 percent in May, up from a 0.3 percent rise.

Economists said consumers showed more inclination to spend in both April and May
than the 0.1 percent increases registered for each month suggest because those
numbers don't take into account falling prices and discounts for some goods and
services.

When adjusted for price changes, spending rose a modest 0.3 percent in both
April and May.

Americans' disposable income, or what's left after taxes, rose by 0.3 percent in
May, following a 0.2 percent April increase. Those figures also aren't adjusted
for price changes.

Because income growth outpaced spending, the nation's personal savings rate, or
savings as a percentage of after-tax incomes, edged up to 3.5 percent in May,
from 3.4 percent in April.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2003 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              70 of 283 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                     June 22, 2003 Sunday TWO STAR EDITION

BLAME A HIGH IN GREENLAND FOR THE RAIN

BYLINE: GARETH COOK AND KATHY LUTZ, BOSTON GLOBE

SECTION: SCIENCE, MEDICINE, TECHNOLOGY, Pg.A-3

LENGTH: 366 words


As people in the Northeast endure another weekend of lugging umbrellas and
putting off that first trip to the beach, meteorologists offer two explanations
for the uncanny string of bad weather: Blame Greenland, and blame ourselves.

For weeks, a large and powerful high pressure system has loomed over Greenland,
locking in a weather pattern for thousands of miles to the west. Storm systems
approaching the icy island are stalling as they bump against the ridge of high
pressure there. These storms then draw energy from the relatively warm water in
the North Atlantic's Gulf Stream, growing in size and throwing rain down on the
eastern coast of the United States.

This same "Greenland block," as meteorologists call it, has trapped a massive
high pressure system over the country's mid-section, causing severe droughts and
the dramatic Arizona wildfires, fueled by tinder dry juniper and pinyon pine.

"What is happening over Greenland has global implications," said Jim Kosek, a
senior meteorologist with AccuWeather in State College, Pa. "It is like a
traffic jam."

The pattern is poised to change, though. Kosek said that it looks like the ridge
over Greenland is starting to weaken on its western flank, as storm after storm
pounds into it

And computer models predict the high pressure ridge could fall apart, allowing a
more fluid weather pattern to take hold, where weather moves easily from west to
east.

"It will start to crumble big time over the next few days," Kosek said.

That weather traffic jam seems to be at its worst on weekends. And scientists
say the wet weekends may be more than bad luck: Human pollution may actually be
contributing to it.

In 1998, the journal Nature published a report in which Arizona State University
scientist Randall Cerveny showed that the East Coast has about 20 percent more
rainfall, on average, on weekends.

Cerveny's study noted that pollution from factories and commuting cars builds up
during the week, peaking on the weekend, and then slowly drifts away. The
pollution, Cerveny said, may be absorbing heat from the sun, causing updrafts of
warm air that add fuel to storms coming through on Saturdays and Sundays.

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2003 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              71 of 283 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                     August 17, 2003 Sunday SOONER EDITION

THE EPA NOMINEE;
 FOR THE ENVIRONMENT, IT'S BUSINESS AS USUAL FOR BUSH

SECTION: EDITORIAL, Pg.B-6

LENGTH: 447 words


President Bush last week selected Republican Mike Leavitt, governor of Utah, as
his nominee to head the Environmental Protection Agency. If he passes Senate
confirmation hearings in September, Mr. Leavitt will succeed Christine Whitman,
who resigned her post in May. Reaction to the nomination fell along familiar
lines.

"Giving the job to Mike Leavitt is like putting John Ashcroft in charge of the
ACLU," according to Philip Clapp, president of the National Environmental Trust.
He and other environmentalists cite Mr. Leavitt's attempt (blocked in federal
court) to run a highway through a nature preserve near the Great Salt Lake as
evidence of his poor record on the environment. He opposes mandatory regulations
and favors the interests of Western industry, opponents argue.

On the other hand, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce welcomed Mr. Leavitt's
nomination. His supporters describe him as a consensus builder who deserves
credit for improving air quality in the Grand Canyon. In announcing his
nomination, the president lauded Mr. Leavitt's states' rights approach to
environmental regulation. He "rejects the old ways of command and control from
above," Mr. Bush said.

Conservatives might hate to admit it, but protecting the environment is one act
of governance that requires strong command and control from above. If it were up
to Indiana, Michigan and Ohio to each decide an individual standard on air
pollution, for example, downwind here in Pennsylvania we would be very
concerned. Conversely, water pollution from Pittsburgh would be unwelcome in
several states downstream. Federal regulation protects the citizens of all
states and recognizes the obvious fact that pollution doesn't respect state
boundaries.

With all due respect to Mr. Leavitt, he's not the source of the Bush
administration's failure to protect the environment. The president has shied
away from meaningful environmental regulations -- the Kyoto Protocol, reducing
power plant emissions, tougher fuel efficiency standards -- on the grounds that
such rules would be too costly to business and hurt the struggling economy. Mr.
Bush has good reason to fret over the state of the economy, but the long-term
cost of abusing the environment will far outweigh the profit to business which
dominates this administration's environmental policy.

Democrats in the Senate and those running for president are using Mr. Leavitt's
nomination to take issue with Mr. Bush's environmental record. Sen. John Kerry
of Massachusetts, a leading presidential contender, said, "We aren't going to
have a real commitment to the environment until we have a new president."
Unfortunately, he may be right.

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2003 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              79 of 283 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                       July 4, 2003 Friday SOONER EDITION

AUDI A8 L A TOUR DE FORCE

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg.B-17 WHEELS

LENGTH: 816 words


Some things in life are just plain indescribable.

I just drove one of them. The 2004 Audi A8 L.

Technologically, it's way ahead of the curve. We are talking an adjustable air
suspension with four settings. World-class styling. Blistering acceleration. A
top-notch and easy-to-use navigation system. Interior lighting, storage and
amenities that should be the sedan benchmark for the industry.

And room? You can get lost in it. Again -- a yardstick for the industry, this
time in terms of packaging and effective use of interior space.

The base price of this car is $68,500. Add $1,900 for 19-inch wheels and summer
performance tires, a convenience package, cold- weather package and various
other sundries, and you're looking at $75,190 for the privilege of owning one.

Let me take you on a nighttime cruise in this baby. Night, after all, is the
best time to pilot a car that is so imbued with romance and sensuality that it
practically reeks of it.

As you open the door, you see a sumptuous interior bathed in soft lighting in
every spot imaginable. When you close the door, you notice soft, blue-white
indirect lighting over the two storage bins in each door, and various other
spots, all to glorious aesthetic effect.

Turn on the key, and from beneath that caramel-colored polished wood, the
navigation screen pops up, ready to go. It will disappear again beneath the wood
when the car is shut off. It's a kick just to watch the colorful neon-hued
ellipses on the screen change color with each function.

There are a number of buttons at the base of the seats, and their function can
be described in two words: pure pleasure.

The cushions move back and forth to provide the level of thigh and leg support
you want. The upper part of the seat flexes and moves according to your whim,
too. And that's just two of the functions.

If you have some friends to bring along, check out that seating in the back.

The back seat area is something to behold. There is almost unbelievable legroom
in the back -- enough for several of my 6-foot friends to stretch out. There are
two foldout bins in each back door for you to stash stuff that are beautifully
lit with indirect, bluish white lighting.

Overhead you will see one set of lighted mirrors for each passenger -- each
mirror tilts to just the right angle for checking your look.

You also have your separate heating and climate controls and overhead reading
lamps for each rear passenger, along with a huge plump headrest for each of them
and some of the most supportive and soft seating you will ever see.

And for more headroom, the Audi engineers designed recessed areas that are
higher than the rest of the ceiling to give you a few more extra inches. Let's
use the navigation system and pick out a route. It's easy.

A young friend of mine plopped himself down and had the thing programmed to do a
gazillion things in no time.

There's a handy knob in the center of the console that is your "mouse" for
picking all kinds of functions on the screen.

Just point to the right quadrant or feature, punch in the knob, and you're good
to go. Using this system, you can change the suspension setting of the car from
"comfort," "lift," "dynamic" to "automatic."

Dial in what you want, hit the main control button once, and you're set. The car
lowers or rises depending on what you've selected.

You notice instantly that this car wastes no time launching itself. It gathers
speed very quickly, and you're well advised to learn to modulate your footwork
on the pedals.

Cornering in the big Audi is like you're on tracks. It varies not a millimeter
from where you point it. And the suspension is so well designed that potholes
and ruts are barely noticed.

Flaws? The first is rearward visibility. Those huge, pillowy headrests in the
back, combined with a tiny amount of window visibility and a steeply sloping
roof, take their toll if you're trying to park or see behind you.

Fortunately, the car has parking assist, so you'll hear plenty of bells and
buzzers if you're about to come too close to anything on all sides of the car.

Another problem is the placement of some controls. Audi wisely gives you dual
sets of controls, both on the navigation system and on the car's dash and
console, to allow you to operate many functions easily.

The problem is that the climate control knobs are where I expect the radio to
be, and I mistakenly changed interior temperatures when I meant to turn up the
volume. Also, some of the graphics and symbols are hard to decipher if your
vision isn't the best.

But otherwise, the A8 L is nothing short of an automotive tour de force.


THE BOTTOM LINE

2003 Audi A8 L quattro.

Price: $75,190.

Fuel economy: 17 city, 24 highway.

Annual estimated fuel costs: $1,238.

Powertrain: 330-horsepower, 4.2-liter V-8 automatic transmission


LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: (No Caption)

                       Copyright 2003 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              86 of 283 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                    August 27, 2003 Wednesday SOUTH EDITION

MCKEESPORT CITY'S 'MAYOR-ELECT' ALREADY PLANNING TRANSITION

BYLINE: JONATHAN BARNES

SECTION: METRO, Pg.S-6

LENGTH: 288 words


McKeesport mayoral nominee James Brewster already is being referred to by his
constituents in this heavily Democratic town as mayor-elect, although he has not
yet been elected.

That's because having the Democratic nomination in the old mill town is
tantamount to having won the mayoral race.

Because of that forged-in-tradition political climate, Brewster already has
picked a team to help him make the transition from Mayor Wayne Kucich's
political opponent to heir to the city's problems.

And with the city's budget shortfall approaching $2 million, the group has its
work cut out for it.

Not surprisingly, the transition team includes some longtime political allies of
Brewster, the present council president, with varying areas of expertise.

Members include City Council attorney Jason Elash, District Justice Tom Brletic,
Dennis Pittman, Civil Service Commission Chairwoman Maryanne Popovich, Wade
Acarana and the Rev. Henry Billingsley, pastor of McKeesport's Zion Church.

Brewster assembled the group about two months ago.

It has met once and has another meeting scheduled for late this month, when
members will meet with city department heads, Brewster said.

The focus will be on getting an understanding of their problems with shortfalls,
staffing, equipment and any grant applications that are in the works.

"We have to try to prioritize these projects by department and across
departments," Brewster said.

That could lead, in turn, to replacing some of those employees with new hires.

Brewster agreed that some personnel changes are possible but said widespread
changes are unlikely. "However, the mayor has the prerogative to change
department heads, and the [mayor's] secretary."

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Jonathan Barnes is a freelance writer.

                       Copyright 2003 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              97 of 283 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                    March 23, 2003 Sunday FIVE STAR EDITION

AUDIENCES CONNECT WITH STROMAN'S INNOVATIVE CHOREOGRAPHY

BYLINE: CHRISTOPHER RAWSON, POST-GAZETTE DRAMA EDITOR

SECTION: ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT, Pg.G-3 STAGE PREVIEW

LENGTH: 1472 words


I love it when good things happen to good people, someone who's made you laugh,"
says Susan Stroman. She was reflecting on performers with whom she's worked, but
who on Broadway has recently made more people laugh than Stroman herself? She's
the hottest director-choreographer going.

That's especially due to the over-the-top success of "The Producers." Her
Broadway career really began with her funny, inventive choreography for "Crazy
for You" (1992), where she displayed her genius for enriching dance with
character and found objects. But it was the improbable success of "Contact"
(1999) that added director-conceiver to her roles.

"Of all the shows I've ever done," she says, "I get the most mail about
'Contact.' I think it'll always remain the most special experience. You can make
people cry, you can make them laugh, but to feel a show might change someone's
life ... that's what we all want theater to be."

Pittsburgh gets to meet the 2000 Tony-winning "Contact" when it arrives Tuesday
for a week. It's something new in musicals, a trio of one-act comedies told by
dance and minimal dialogue, with no songs. And the diverse music is recorded, as
it must be, since to play it live would require everything from a symphony
orchestra to a dance band, rock combo and bluegrass group.

The three stories are called "Swinging," which dramatizes an 18th-century
painting by Fragonard, "Did You Move?"; a fantasy in an Italian restaurant; and
"Contact," in which a suicidal young professional connects to life through
dance. Stroman and writer John Weidman collaborated on the "book."

"That 'Contact' has become what it's become is beyond dreams," Stroman says. "It
just started in the basement of Lincoln Center. And the story is quite personal.
It's a theme that crosses all borders, but it originally seemed very personal to
me and New York," based on a mysterious bar/swing dance club and a mesmerizing
woman in a yellow dress.

Stroman developed "Contact" at a Lincoln Center workshop in 1999. A production
in the small Newhouse Theater followed, then it moved upstairs to the large
Beaumont, where it ran for 2 1/2 years.

That created a problem for the tour, because both the Newhouse and Beaumont are
thrust stages, surrounded on three sides by audience. "Contact" had to be
completely re-staged for larger proscenium (picture-frame) theaters, as if you'd
moved a show from the O'Reilly Theater to the Benedum.

Stroman wasn't daunted. "There's something wonderful about getting the
opportunity to re-do a show, to deal with the actors as if it were new but with
all this knowledge to fall back on. That gives you freedom -- you don't have to
worry about every moment, because you know they're going to work.

"The choreography was going to have to change anyway, to be able to feed off the
[new] actors' talents. Many are as good as the Broadway cast, but their talents
can vary, whether it's ballet, acrobatics or tap. I was able to change the
choreography to feature them and make them shine.

"In fact, I love it in proscenium. I've since done it in proscenium in Japan and
in London. The story may be even clearer." In the thrust configuration, "you
looked through the choreography to the scene work [acting scenes]. But in
proscenium, I could move the scene work down front."

Stroman gave a full five weeks to rehearsing the new company. "It's very much
their version." A few of the tour performers came from the Broadway cast when it
ended with a live national TV broadcast last August. Chief among them is
Pittsburgh native Colleen Dunn, who plays The Girl in the Yellow Dress, the
electric figure in the title playlet.

Currently, Stroman is working with Jason Alexander and Martin Short in New York,
rehearsing them to take over the roles of Max Bialystock and Leo Bloom when the
national tour of "The Producers" arrives in Los Angeles for a lengthy stay. This
is the company that started in Pittsburgh last September. "That was my first
time in Pittsburgh," Stroman says of that launch. "I took it all in, the
restaurants, the museum."

When "The Producers" does set up in LA, its current Max and Leo, Lewis J.
Stadlen and Don Stephenson, will move into the roles on Broadway. "We love
them," Stroman says of Stadlen and Stephenson. But she loves Alexander and
Short, too: "They're making me laugh." And of course she still loves the
originators, Nathan Lane and Matthew Broderick, who've been invited to reprise
their great success when a London company is started in spring 2004.

"Contact" received mixed reviews in London, where the critics had a hard time
categorizing it and a recent influx of American stars had stirred some
anti-American backlash. Still, Stroman says it is now drawing well. But British
tastes will be more crucial for "The Producers." "Their humor is different from
ours. I hope they understand it." The new company will be British, except for
the possibility of Lane and Broderick.

But that's a year away. First, this summer Stroman will make the switch into
movies recently made by such stage directors as Sam Mendes, Steven Daldry,
Nicholas Hytner, Richard Eyre and Rob Marshall. The movie version of "Contact,"
to be produced by Focus Films, will deal with just the third story. Weidman has
written a screenplay. Stroman hopes to start this summer and expects
"absolutely" to use all the original dancers from the Broadway production, "and
hopefully most of those from the national tour: I need a club filled with
dancers."

Marshall's movie of "Chicago" is triply instructive. It was the directing debut
for a Broadway director/choreographer, like Stroman. Its success has created a
more optimistic climate for movie musicals. And in it, Marshall solved the
conceptual problem of characters breaking into song by setting the musical
numbers in a fantasy world. While this "Marshallification" may become a fad
strategy of choice for succeeding movie musicals, in "Contact," it's a natural,
because the dance numbers are already fantasies.

Stroman is very aware of "Chicago." "It's a masterpiece," she says. "It's not
only a special movie musical, it's a wonderful piece of cinema, and Rob did it
all."

She has no patience with the objection heard from some dance aficionados that
Marshall's quick cutting obscures his choreography. "You have to adapt the work
to a different medium. It's cut for a movie-goer's eye, not for a theater
person, [we who] love a good archive tape" (she laughs at this truth). "It's
certainly not cut as fast as 'Moulin Rouge,' which was a blur. In 'Chicago,' I
could see the choreography."

She has already had some movie experience, mainly in choreographing "Center
Stage" with director Nicholas Hytner, a movie she credits "with a cult following
for teenage girls pajama parties." She did not, however, have anything to do
with the recent TV version of "The Music Man" starring Matthew Broderick, though
it must have received impetus from her successful Broadway revival.

Then comes Stephen Sondheim's "The Frogs," which began long ago as a 45-minute,
one-act musical at a summer festival at Yale. Now it has a new book by Nathan
Lane. Stroman recently directed a reading of it at Lincoln Center that "went
extremely well," she reports. "Nathan's book is very funny." The plan is for her
to direct it at Lincoln Center late next fall.

Before that, in October, she's doing "Double Feature," an original ballet for
the entire New York City Ballet company of 40, using music by Irving Berlin and
a story she's created in collaboration with Glen Kelly. Stroman has done ballet
before, notably another original piece based on the music of Duke Ellington.

She has even more projects in the works, though she can't say anything about
them yet. Stroman knows how premature publicity can blast in the bud: She was
the choreographer for the original workshop production of "Kiss of the Spider
Woman" that was killed by a New York Times review.

Along the way, Stroman has had some flops, too, notably the 1996 "Big," 1996
"Steel Pier" and 2001 "Thou Shalt Not." But they haven't been flops for Stroman.
"I'm very lucky. With every show, I've learned something, finding the strength
to put my foot on that next stone and get across the creek."


Susan Stroman on Broadway

Choreography:

"And the World Goes 'Round" (off-Broadway), 19??

"Crazy for You," 1992

"Show Boat," 1994

"Big," 1996

"Steel Pier," 1997

"Oklahoma,!" London 19??; Broadway 2002

Direction and choreography:

"Contact," 1999

"The Music Man," 2000

"The Producers," 2001

"Thou Shalt Not," 2001


"Contact"

Where: PNC Broadway in Pittsburgh, Benedum Center, Downtown.

When: 8 p.m. Tuesday through Friday; 2 and 8 p.m. Saturday; 1 and 6:30 p.m. next
Sunday.

Tickets: $46.50 to $61.50; 412-456-6666.


LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Christopher Rawson can be reached at crawson@post-gazette.com or 412-263-1666.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Paul Kolnik: Colleen Dunn is the center of attention as
'"Contact's" Girl in the Yellow Dress.

                       Copyright 2003 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              98 of 283 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                      April 13, 2003 Sunday REGION EDITION

THE LONG WINTER

SECTION: METRO, Pg.W-3

LENGTH: 633 words


After such

a deep freeze,

warmth is very welcome

Spring sputtered into being at 8 p.m. March 20 -- warming to a middling 51
degrees and cloaked in a relatively cloudless sky. Warm weather worshippers had
something to cheer about at long last. There is no warmth like that at the end
of a long winter siege.

But lately, winter has refused to surrender to spring -- or its Western
Pennsylvania version -- blowing in cold and wet again. As residents like to say,
if you don't like the weather, stick around; it will change.

What rarely changes, however, is a willingness to talk temperature, wind and
rain, sunshine and cloudiness, especially when one season gives way to another.

Usually this space is reserved for current events and serious stuff, but today
Think Tank participants will wrap their minds around a simpler topic. As a
follow-up to this take-no-prisoners winter, a group of seniors tell how they
plan to celebrate the arrival of spring.

Participating are Elmo George of South Franklin, Sam Cushey of Peters, Bernie
Hoback of Canonsburg and Maya Patch and Bill Brna of Carroll.

To Patch, spring signals Easter and all that entails -- a special church service
and fancy outfit, an annual egg hunt she helps her daughter stage for children
and a picnic as soon as weather permits.

As much as some folks dislike cleaning, she welcomes the chance, thanks to
spring, to throw open the windows, clear the air and spruce up the house.

Then, too, there are outdoor band concerts in Cedar Creek Park to look forward
to at this time of year.

Concerts are wonderful free entertainment, said Patch, who, in spite of the
arrival of warm weather, prefers winter's chillier temperatures.

With the change in seasons, she finds it's also time to check out the craft
shows and ditch the heavy clothing in exchange for lighter summery attire.

Like anyone who thinks couch potato is synonymous with winter doldrums, Hoback's
spring solution is to get out more, whether it's to enjoy country dancing,
hiking or golfing. He and his wife look forward to touring craft shows, an
outlet for her jewelry creations.

Outdoorsman Cushey relishes fishing, hunting, golfing and baseball, to the last
of which Patch turns an enthusiastic thumbs-up.

"I always sound like I'm cheap, but I always think in terms of family. We love
that new baseball [Wild Things] team," Patch said of the Washington County
sports franchise that debuted last spring.

Cushey agreed it's entertainment that engages the whole family. "They keep
everybody involved, especially the kids. They have things going for them, the
whole game."

George looks forward to cooking on his outdoor grill, the company of friends and
just being outside. On a more serious note, he hopes to celebrate with the
nation an end to the war with Iraq and a welcome home to the troops.

All the seniors' interests show they are busy, which George cites as an
important ingredient for happiness.

"I'm looking forward to being able to walk, too," Patch said. "You don't have to
worry about staying in the house a lot."

Brna, who likes touring the national parks, sees himself traveling this spring.
The best time to do so in the United States is the last two weeks of May and the
first two weeks of September, because it's easier to get rooms without worrying
about reservations.

No matter what time of year it is, Brna finds much to celebrate about the
region's climate.

"This area -- southwestern Pennsylvania -- is probably the nicest area to live
in. We have very few tornadoes, virtually no hurricanes, no earthquakes. The
winters, with the exception of this past one, are not that severe and the
summers are not that hot."

Lynda Guydon Taylor can be reached at ltaylor@post-gazette.com or 724-746-8813.

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2003 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              101 of 283 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                      June 27, 2003 Friday SOONER EDITION

ON ITS LAST RUN, ACURA SEDAN STILL PROVIDES AN ELEGANT RIDE

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg.B-14 WHEELS

LENGTH: 495 words


If you have an appreciation for all things classic, the 2003 Acura TL Type-S is
the car for you.

Everything about this car says class, elegance and sophistication. The exterior
is a timeless, low-key simple design that isn't faddish or trendy. The interior
is equally elegant -- you won't find any unusual bends or swoops to the
dashboard or odd, inscrutable switch gear. Nor will you see trendy fabrics or
colors either.

But if you love classics, you better hurry. This particular generation of the TL
goes away sometime in the coming model year, which starts in September.

I have seen the prototype concept car for the next TL and it is dramatically
different -- a sea change in terms of appearance. Not only that, while the
current model emphasizes luxury over performance, the new one will have a
larger, faster engine.

Our silver TL Type-S had a base price of $33,480, and the only thing added to
that amount was a destination and handling charge, which brought the bottom line
to $33,960.

For that amount -- thousands less than you'd pay for most of the TL Type-S's
competitors -- you get full leather trim, automatic climate control, a Bose
audio system with CD changer, steering wheel audio controls, mirrors with a
memory system, heated front seats, home link system, side air bags, antilock
brakes and a bunch of other stuff. That's why I think this car is a bargain
lover's dream.

Driving the Acura brings one word to mind: balance. No, it isn't the most
exciting sedan you'll ever drive, but it strikes a dead-on perfect balance in a
number of ways. For instance, the TL Type-S is neither lightning-quick nor
unbearably slow -- it comes down somewhere in the pleasant middle of that
spectrum.

As for the ride, it's comfortable enough -- soft but not marshmallow-soft. It
still is quite controlled over bumps and rough spots in the road. You won't feel
any bouncing sensations as you head over those Pittsburgh potholes.

The TL Type-S had a few features I wasn't crazy about. First was the mixing of
climate control operations with the navigation system. I don't know what
possesses carmakers to believe that it's more convenient and safer to have to
resort to navigation screens for some climate control functions. It's a real
distraction to do this.

Another problem was the notchy shift gate for the transmission gearshift lever.
You have to do an awful lot of stirring to get the handle to move where you
want, and it becomes a particular problem when you are parked facing uphill.

But on the whole, I've driven tons of entry level luxury cars that strongly lean
toward either performance or luxury, and it's wonderful to drive a car like the
TL Type-S that is so highly balanced.


THE BOTTOM LINE

2003 Acura 3.2 TL 4-door sedan

Base price: $33,960

Fuel economy 19 city, 29 highway.

Estimated annual fuel cost: $1,077

Powertrain: 260-horsepower, 3.2-liter V-6, 5-speed automatic transmission


LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Donald I. Hammonds can be reached at dhammonds@post-gazette.com or 412-263-1538.

                       Copyright 2003 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              105 of 283 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                     March 1, 2003 Saturday SOONER EDITION

FESTIVAL REDESIGN JETTISONS PAVILIONS

BYLINE: MARY THOMAS, POST-GAZETTE ART CRITIC

SECTION: ARTS and ENTERTAINMENT, Pg.C-6

LENGTH: 772 words


The most obvious sign this summer of a changing Three Rivers Arts Festival will
be the absence of the bright yellow pavilions that have held the juried
two-dimensional art exhibition at TrizecHahn Gateway Plaza Four for two decades.

But not to worry. The changes -- including elimination of the juried exhibitions
as we've come to know them -- are for the better, and the pavilions may even
return in the future.

A re-examination of the use of the pavilions was long overdue. Not only are they
problematic in inclement weather when artworks have to be covered to keep them
from becoming damaged, but also in the years since the pavilions were purchased,
the form of art itself has changed. While they function well for small and
medium-sized two-dimensional works, the larger formats and variety of media
employed by many contemporary artists aren't compatible with the pavilions'
height, depth and background limitations.

Beyond that, they were getting shabby. And, executive director Elizabeth Reiss
says, several that had over the years been "cannibalized" to shore up others
were no longer serviceable. She plans to get a cost estimate to determine how
feasible refurbishing would be.

Concurrent with a discussion of the pavilions came a re-evaluation of the
traditional juried exhibitions: Two-Dimensional, Photography and Small Sculpture
and Crafts.

As a result, the shows have been consolidated into one exhibition for all media,
there will no longer be a juror per se (although applicant artists will be
screened) and participation will be limited to artists from a 13-county region
of Western Pennsylvania. Reiss says that the juried exhibitions were regional in
the 1960s and ' 70s, and only went national in the 1980s.

The decisions about the redirection of the juried exhibitions were made with
input from members of the Pittsburgh art community, Reiss says. While she thinks
most were "quite pleased," she says there were a few artists who liked being
outdoors and others who worried that with the "winnowing down" of the
exhibitions they wouldn't get in.

This year's combined exhibit will be held at the Associated Artists of
Pittsburgh building, Downtown, which has three floors but less space than was
available when each category had its own venue.

While that will limit the number of artists represented, there is also an effort
being made to upgrade the overall quality of the exhibition (for example,
requiring that work be recent and not previously shown) and to encourage
Pittsburgh artists who've stopped participating in the festival to return.

"We are making a commitment to the regional artists," affirms curator Katherine
Talcott, who joined the staff last year. Since then, she's been attending
exhibition openings and making studio visits to meet area artists. Also, calls
were made through arts organization bulletins and at an open forum the festival
hosted in the fall for resumes and images of artwork that form what Talcott
calls a "library of information" on file in the festival offices.

From these firsthand experiences of their work -- rather than from an entry
form, fee and a couple of slides -- artists have been invited to apply for
inclusion in what may be considered a curated show, a process the festival hopes
will invigorate the exhibition and increase interest. (While most of the
selections have been made for the 2003 exhibition, Talcott is still willing to
hear from interested artists; 412-281-8723.)

Gateway Plaza Four won't be unused because one of the festival's two major
public art works will be installed there by Brooklyn-based Korean artist Jean
Shin, whose work is influenced, she says, by "cast-offs, both from the human
body and from society at large."

The other major public work, at Point State Park, will be made by North Carolina
resident Patrick Dougherty, who creates massive, evocative sculptures from
harvested organic materials. Dougherty, with assistance from local artists and
other residents, will be at the Point constructing the piece on May weekends,
and, Talcott says, welcomes observers to his process.

The redesign of the festival, which marks its 44th anniversary from June 6 to
22, is ongoing.

While some of Reiss' ideas -- such as bringing back performance artists of the
high caliber of last year's Charles Garoian and William Pope L., or a second
craft show to complement the Artist Market -- have been put on hold because of
the depressed economic climate, she's enthusiastic about the changes that have
already been implemented, and sees them as first steps toward the realization of
her overall vision.

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Mary Thomas can be reached at mthomas@post-gazette.com or 412-263-1925.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Eric Mencher: Patrick Dougherty's "Abracadabra," 2000, at
Swarthmore College, is made of crabapple, sassafras and dogwood saplings. He'll
build a work in Point State Park for the arts festival.

                       Copyright 2003 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              132 of 283 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                      March 31, 2003 Monday SOONER EDITION

DUO OUT TO COMPETE CROSS COUNTRY FEAT

BYLINE: DAN GIGLER, POST-GAZETTE STAFF WRITER

SECTION: SPORTS, Pg.C-2 ON THE FRINGE

LENGTH: 1271 words


Some of the frequent criticisms of the Names & Games page is that it's nothing
more than bad comedy and doesn't fit in with a newspaper of high journalistic
integrity.

So, in an effort to appease critics and continue to amuse and interest readers,
we introduce "On the Fringe," a series of feature stories appearing from time to
time about things on the periphery of the sports scope. For example, two college
buddies jogging across America, a pair of brothers deeply involved in national
toughman competitions, a researcher studying the psychological effects of being
a fair-weather fan ... you get the idea.

We hope you like it. And if you have any ideas, send them to
names@post-gazette.com.


To run the 3,281 miles of American highways that connect Sea Bright, New Jersey,
and Florence, Oregon, Scott Sehon and Dave Bronfenbrenner estimate that they
will take 5,663,680 strides.

It's 5,663,680 steps away from the white-collar, button-down lives they were
leading just a few short months ago.

Sehon, 25, a Mt. Lebanon native, and Bronfenbrenner, 24, of Allentown, are in
the midst of a five-month journey that will take them by foot from the sands of
the Atlantic Ocean to the rocky shores of the Oregon Coast. They departed with
their feet literally in the Atlantic Ocean's icy waters on Feb. 24 and crossed
into eastern Indiana yesterday and past the 700-mile mark of their trip.

They are Kate Moss thin, have budding beards and hair that is getting long
enough that it tucks nicely behind their American flag do-rags. They do not
intend to shave or cut their hair until they reach Oregon, inviting inevitable
comparisons to Forrest Gump.

They've pledged to drink a bottle of Mad Dog 20/20 for every empty bottle of the
cheap wine they see on the roadway while running (they each owe one thus far).
They push a baby jogger that holds their gear because after five days with
14-pound backpacks, Sehon says, "Our knees were getting creamed."

If you saw them running in your direction, you might be inclined to think they
were a couple of patriotic methamphetamine addicts who had just kidnapped a
child.


Bucknell buddies

To make such a demanding journey, one must have certain attributes, the first of
which is a solid running resume. The second is to have an abundance of loose
screws. Sehon and Bronfenbrenner are blessed with both.

Sehon, a 1996 graduate and standout runner at Mt. Lebanon High School, and
Bronfenbrenner met in college as members of Bucknell University's track and
cross country teams.

Sehon's first competitive race sprang out of a bet with his older sister Kate,
who made a wager that he couldn't finish the 1992 Richard S. Caliguiri City of
Pittsburgh Great Race. He did the 10-kilometer distance in a time of 45 minutes,
45 seconds. Though his first loves were baseball and basketball, he admitted
that he spent most of his time, "picking splinters out of his butt from riding
the pine."

It wasn't until a basketball coach insisted that he run cross country that he
took up the sport as a sophomore at Mt. Lebanon. After that, he was hooked.

At Bucknell, his career was a series of ups and downs because of various
injuries, but he was consistently among the top-five finishers on the cross
country team and specialized in the 5k indoor and 10k in track.

Bronfenbrenner, an all-conference runner at Bucknell, won the 2003 Las Vegas
marathon in February. Not bad for a guy who, according to Bucknell assistant
track and cross country coach Joe Klim, "wasn't much of a distance runner," when
he started college.

"He was probably at the bottom of the list as a freshman, but made awesome
improvements over four years," Klim said.

Klim arrived at Bucknell the same year that Sehon and Bronfenbrenner enrolled as
freshmen and knows them well enough to know that they both possess the second
key trait: lack of sanity.

"They're both a couple of nut cases," Klim said. "This does not surprise me at
all."

When he first heard that they were seriously going to go through with their
plan, Klim's first words to them were, "You guys are nuts."


Early plan

Like many ideas that are big on talk but low on follow-through, this one came
about during the idle hours of a cross country automobile trip. After their
freshman year of college, Sehon, Bronfenbrenner and two other Bucknell buds
piled into a Pathfinder and with no agenda, just a list of places to see, spent
17 glorious days crisscrossing America.

Somewhere along the way, Sehon said, a plan was hatched to combine their common
love of running and travel -- why not run across the country

The idea simmered on the back burner throughout college, on the level of those
'when I hit the Powerball jackpot ...' daydreams that we all have.

After graduating from Bucknell in May 2000, Sehon took a job as an underwriter
for General Cologne Reinsurance in Philadelphia; Bronfenbrenner as a chemical
engineer for Dial Soap in Hazelton, Pa. Their immediate goal after graduation
wasn't "The Run," but rather outrunning the debt they had accrued.

After 26 months, that day did come, clearing their debt for "The Run."


Course of action

Beginning in March 2001, Sehon and Bronfenbrenner had plotted possible routes in
a Rand McNally road atlas. Their primary concerns were climate and terrain. The
notoriously muggy weather of the southern United States was to be avoided, as
were arid and desolate desert regions.

"You can easily go 100 miles in the desert and not get to a town," Sehon said.

Though it's illegal to run on Interstate highways, Bronfenbrenner said they
settled on a northerly route, which follows along Interstate 80 fairly closely,
and provides for an ample number of small-town stops.

"Our goal was to hit civilization at least every other day," Sehon said.

They figured they could average about 20 miles a day so they would need about
five months for the trip.

Sehon and Bronfenbrenner aren't the first two chaps in the world to try this, so
naturally they enlisted the help of those who had done it before, right? Wrong.

"There have been about five or six books written on the subject and I actually
made a point not to read them," Sehon said. "I'll read all of them when we're
done, just to see what was different or the same. But most of them did it with a
Winnebago or something driving behind them. We don't have any on-site help."

They are prepared to camp out if necessary, but haven't, yet. Their Web site is
www.runtheusa.com. Friends and family have spread sufficient word of mouth about
their journey, and have lined up places for them to stay with acquaintances and
perfect strangers.

The running community also has anted up, and the duo frequently has bedded down
on the dorm room floors of collegiate cross country and track teams.

Since they aren't spending any money on lodging and only packed one change of
clothes, they've whittled their per diem budget for the trip to about $30, with
their single biggest expense being shoes. Minus the shoes, it's really about $6
per day. They plan to change shoes every 500 miles.

Their quest has garnered media attention across the United States and globally,
including the Netherlands, Australia, Iceland, Brazil and India. Despite offers
from adidas and Boathouse Sports, they have declined any kind of formal
sponsorship

The one concession they did make, was to allow a documentary crew to follow them
around as they prepared, and they will allow the crew to meet up with them
periodically along the way. They were also given a digital camcorder to record
moments on the trip.

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Sehon and Bronfenbrenner still are trying to line up lodging for large parts of
Missouri, Wyoming, Idaho and Oregon. If you think you can help, log on to their
Web site at www.runtheusa.com to find out how.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Scoott Sehon, left, and Dave Bronfenbrenner are on the run.

                       Copyright 2003 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              135 of 283 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                       May 2, 2003 Friday SOONER EDITION

PACIFICA BLOWS PLEASANT WIND OF CHANGE THROUGH CHRYSLER

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg.D-2 WHEELS

LENGTH: 832 words


Change is in the wind at DaimlerChrysler. Today, the auto giant officially
begins marketing its 2004 Chrysler Pacifica, and if this is a harbinger of
things to come, the new breeze is going to blow just fine for consumers.

Pacifica is being billed as a "sports tourer" -- a product aimed squarely at
folks who are tired of minivans, can't abide SUVs but don't want a conventional
car.

Until now, Chryslers have been known for flashy, glamorous styling, but with
quality control and engineering issues. But DaimlerChrysler has made big gains
on those fronts, thanks to the involvement of Mercedes-Benz.

Just take a walk around the Pacifica. Look at how every single piece of this car
fits seamlessly with everything else. Precision is the byword, and that goes for
the inside. For instance, there isn't a gap in sight on the dashboard where the
wood, brushed aluminum and other pieces come together near the clock. The curve
lines in the dash blend perfectly and meet other parts of the instrument panel.

Now pull up to a stoplight. You can't even hear the engine running or idling,
it's so quiet. Ride quality? Dead-on. The company took some cues and notes from
the Mercedes side of the family. Pittsburgh bumps and potholes that would
unsettle most products are soaked right up on this one.

And on safety, be aware that the Pacifica has just been awarded a five-star
rating, the government's highest, for front and side impact. It also is one of
the few cars with side curtain air bags to protect all three rows of passengers,
and there's a knee bolster air bag to protect the driver's knees in the event of
an accident.

Even the location of the navigation system screen, squarely in front of you
beneath the speedometer, is a big safety plus because you don't divert your eyes
from the road to look to your right as you usually do with most cars.

Open the door. See how easy it is to enter the Pacifica? No bending, squatting
or contorting. Before you close the door, take a look at the door panel. High
quality wood and aluminum are used to usher in a whole new look for Chrysler.

Nice, chunky pieces for the controls are here, too. The door-lock button looks
substantial, and like Mercedes, Chrysler has switched to seat controls mounted
just beneath the window on the door. It's a snap to adjust whatever needs
fixing.

Now, before you sit down, examine the seat. The leather is among the highest
quality I've seen on any American automobile, including some luxury models.

Behind you, the second row has captain's seats with a floor-mounted console with
switches for seat heaters and a climate control system.

In the third row, there are two separate seats on a slightly raised,
theater-style platform, and yes, those seats are extraordinarily comfortable,
too.

The comfort factor really hooked my family. Even my car-conscious 7- and
9-year-olds consistently preferred the Pacifica over a Lexus RX330 that we also
had last week.

On the quibbles side, while the Pacifica handles beautifully and corners and
brakes well, it does feel heavy on the road. Its 3.5-liter, 250-horsepower V-6
doesn't seem powerful enough.

Visibility also is an issue. The rear window seems very small from the inside,
and the sloping design of the roof and the position and height of the last row
of seats create a blind spot. There is no parking assist option -- I strongly
advise the folks at DaimlerChrysler to consider changing that.

The tilt wheel control lever juts out entirely too far from the steering column.
It's easy to accidentally strike it when you use the turn signal -- or even to
mistake it for the turn signal.

But those minor irritations compared with the positives, which also include the
easy conversion of the seats to a flat floor and back again. One lever lowers
the backrest on the second-row seats, and a second lever lifts the seats
completely away for easy rear-seat access and to make room for lowering the
third row of seats.

If you need the cargo room, just use the handles on the back of the two
third-row seats, and they fold flat in a flash. Just open the floor panels that
are found on the backs, and you now have a flat floor from the back of the
driver and passenger front- row seats all the way to the rear of the car.

As for options, you can order "U Connect," which allows hands-free telephoning;
a navigation system, which costs $1,595; and a $1,070 rear-seat DVD
entertainment system, which requires a $395 CD/DVD changer.

The other positive for me was the styling. It's undeniably elegant, nicely
proportioned and a guaranteed attention-getter.

"Gee, that's different!" said one onlooker with a big grin on his face.

Sure is -- and for DaimlerChrysler, a big home run.


THE BOTTOM LINE

2004 Chrysler Pacifica

Price: 2-wheel drive base price: $31,230; all-wheel drive, $32,980.

Powertrain: 25-horsepower, 3.5-liter, V-6, automatic transmission.

Fuel economy: 17 city, 22 highway.


LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Don Hammonds takes the Chrysler Pacifica out for a test drive.
(Photo, Page D-1)
 PHOTO: (No Caption)

                       Copyright 2003 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              142 of 283 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                    February 28, 2003 Friday SOONER EDITION

U.S. UNVEILS 'GREEN' COAL-FIRED POWER PLANT PROJECT

BYLINE: ANDREW C. REVKIN, THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: NATIONAL, Pg.A-13

LENGTH: 395 words


The Energy Department announced plans yesterday to build an experimental power
plant within 10 years that runs on coal but emits no carbon dioxide, the
heat-trapping greenhouse gas that makes existing coal plants major contributors
to global warming.

The project, called FutureGen, is considered a first step toward creating a new
generation of coal-fueled power plants that emit no greenhouse gases and cost no
more than 10 percent extra to run, department officials said.

The technology is essential, said Energy Secretary Spencer Abraham, if the vast
coal reserves in the United States and in many developing countries are to be
developed without adding to the atmosphere's burden of greenhouse gases.

Coal-fueled plants now produce about 40 percent of the global total of some 23
billion tons of carbon dioxide released into the atmosphere by humans each year,
and coal is still considered a vital underpinning of economic development, both
in the United States and overseas.

The $1 billion cost of the pilot project over the next 10 years would be shared
by the United States, other countries and private companies, although no
partners have been enlisted, officials said.

The outlines of the plan were described yesterday in The Wall Street Journal.

Scientists, environmental groups and power industry officials generally lauded
the plan, but many said the resulting technology would probably not change the
status quo unless new emission standards forced plant owners to buy new
equipment. President Bush has rejected mandatory restrictions on greenhouse
gases, calling only for voluntary measures to curb growth in emissions unless
scientific research reveals clearer environmental risks.

The prototype plant would be somewhat akin to several existing coal
"gasification" power plants, which extract less-polluting gases from coal
instead of burning it and unleashing all manner of emissions.

But the new design would go far beyond existing technologies, extracting
nonpolluting hydrogen to generate electricity or to power fuel cells, and
pumping the carbon dioxide deep into the earth to avoid further buildup of the
gas in the atmosphere. The prototype plant would generate about 275 megawatts of
electricity, or about a fourth of the output of a conventional large coal-fueled
plant. The Energy Department did not name a location.

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2003 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              146 of 283 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                      April 28, 2003 Monday SOONER EDITION

N. POLE'S SHIFTING SCENERY ALLURING

BYLINE: ANDREW C. REVKIN, THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: WORLD, Pg.A-1

LENGTH: 1067 words

DATELINE: CAMP BORNEO, in the Arctic Ocean


Most things about the top of the world are as they have been for ages. It
remains a frigid realm where milling floes of ice form a white cap atop an ocean
that is two miles deep.

Unlike the South Pole, where 29 countries have set up bases for research and
hegemony on snow-cloaked terra firma, the North Pole is a shifting sea-ice
carousel that guarantees any visitor is granted only a short stay. If you camp
at the pole today, you will be four or five miles away tomorrow.

But the North Pole is rapidly becoming busy. Humans, ever the adaptive,
inquisitive, risk-taking species, are crisscrossing, probing and camping out in
increasing numbers on the ice veneer, particularly in the window from mid-March
to early May, when winter's cold has ebbed but summer's thaw has not yet turned
surfaces into knee-deep slush.

The northward rush has been simplified by satellite phones and
global-positioning devices that allow trekkers and scientists to know their
position even where compasses spin uselessly.

Since 1992, almost everyone who ventures to the pole first stops at this
seasonal, floating way station, run by entrepreneurs from Russia and France for
tourists and scientists as both an Everest-style base camp and a hub for
researchers studying shifting climate and ocean patterns.

It has rows of domed red and yellow tents with thermostat-controlled heat, two
Russian helicopters and a runway big enough to accommodate 20-ton planes coming
from northern Canada, Siberia and Norway. The mess hall has four stacked white
microwave ovens and a Nescafe espresso machine.

Any notion that this is a comfortable place, however, is jettisoned when one
spots the slug-loaded shotguns set here and there, lest a polar bear seeking
seals stumbles upon a skier or oceanographer. Of course there is the cold, which
even now rarely rises above 5 below zero.

Even as Borneo has grown busier -- a half-dozen Muscovite skydivers showed up
Saturday to jump at the pole -- another long-term presence has blossomed. On
Friday, senior Russian officials flew to an ice camp several dozen miles east of
the pole to inaugurate a new polar drifting ice station that would be home to
several scientists for the coming year.

Yesterday, the Russian Orthodox Easter, started with a daylight-midnight round
of vodka and Cognac drinking. Then several British trekkers retired to the camp
manager's quarters to watch the film "Studio 54" on the flat-screen television.

Others wandered the edges of the widening "lead" of open water that curled
halfway around the camp. A seal popped its head up several times, providing the
only glimpse of the north's rare wildlife for days and bringing talk of polar
bears, which follow the scent of seals from miles away.

Late in the day, however, everyone dropped everything to gawk as Natalya
Liberman, 39, the runner-up in the 2002 Mrs. Russia contest, swept out of her
red tent in a floor-length white fur coat and sparkling tiara to pose on the
ice.

A visit to the pole was the grand prize in the contest, but the victor did not
want to go, giving the honor to Liberman, who flew north with the contingent of
Muscovite skydivers.

The Soviet Union maintained an unbroken string of manned drifting ice stations
from 1937 until 1991, when the government collapsed. They provided valuable data
on ocean trends in the Arctic, and American polar scientists said yesterday that
the revival of the program would help improve climate forecasts.

Both Borneo and the research station face a continual threat from the
ever-shifting ice around the pole. Ridges erupt and rise and miles-long leads
appear where solid surfaces sat silent just hours before. Several times in the
last decade, camp operators, warned by only minutes of quake-like rumbles, had
to scramble to move tents before leads opened beneath them.

Shifting Arctic ice has become a prime focus of scientists trying to understand
the possible ramifications of global warming. There have been late-summer
retreats of the polar ice cap for 24 years, although a lack of long-term data
means no one can yet say if the change is a result of some natural cycle or
linked to rising concentrations of heat-trapping greenhouse gases in the
atmosphere.

To try to fill the information gap, a team led by oceanographers from the
University of Washington has gone to the pole for the last three years to place
instruments on and under the ice to measure temperature, salinity, solar
radiation and other conditions.

"Because of the ice, satellites can't see down below a few inches," said Dr.
Jamie Morison, the leader of the North Pole Environmental Observatory, as the
project is called. "Some data you have to get by going places."

In one spot 30 miles from the pole, divers from the university melted a hole
through 9 feet of ice and then plunged into the 28-degree water to retrieve a
2-mile-long string of instruments left a year ago to record ocean conditions.

Scientists remain a minority at Borneo, however. About 200 visitors have been
coming each season since the late 1990s, said Christian de Marliave, an
outdoorsman from Paris who was a co-creator of the camp 10 years ago and still
manages many of its often-hectic affairs. Borneo -- pronounced BAR-nee-oh in
Russian -- was the call sign of a Russian radio operator in the far north and
was transferred to the camp's radio.

Tourists and adventure seekers spend $9,000 to $15,000 to pop champagne corks
and pose briefly on the ice or ski for a week across the ragged frozen seascape.

Within a week, the new instruments set beneath the ice and other automated
arrays set out near Borneo will be the only evidence that anyone had come and
gone. The skiers and scientists will be on their way home.

The camp will be broken down like a traveling circus and stored until next
spring.

Left alone, the polar cap will continue to shift and grate.

Already it is restless.

On Thursday, just 50 yards from where the helicopters were parked, two butting
ice plates crumbled along their miles-long interface. As helicopter crewmen,
scientists and visitors gawked, a chorus of ticks and pops and huffs and cracks
and muffled booms rose in a percussive crescendo.

The ice heaved and slabs and blocks the size of mattresses and refrigerators and
delivery trucks rearranged themselves.

Then, just as quickly, all grew quiet again.

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2003 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              150 of 283 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                    October 2, 2003 Thursday SOONER EDITION

CELEBRATE U.N. DAY WITH FOOD

SECTION: FOOD, Pg.D-5 VINTAGE COOKBOOKS

LENGTH: 639 words


Could food be the elusive answer to world peace?  In 1956, that was the hope of
the United States Committee for the United Nations, a nonprofit organization
that promoted the observance of United Nations Day in the United States and
compiled and published "Favorite Recipes from the United Nations: 170 Authentic
Dishes."

The committee's belief was that "... basic similarities and needs can unite
human beings around the world far more than differences divide them."

All 76 of the U.N. member nations of that time are represented in the little
paperback spiral-bound edition of a previous collection, "The World's Favorite
Recipes," 1951.

The United Nations came into being when its charter was ratified Oct. 24, 1945,
by the United States, China, France, the Soviet Union, the United Kingdom and
others. Its stated purpose was "to improve our global community by strengthening
the ties among member nations through improved communication, expanded
understanding and enhanced security."

From those 50 nations that met in San Francisco in 1945 to draw up the charter,
the organization has grown to include 191 member states.

United Nations Day is celebrated, by presidential proclamation, each Oct. 24,
"... and shall be devoted to making known to the people of the world the aims
and achievements of the United Nations and to gaining their support for the work
of the United Nations."

The committee's little recipe book was part of that great undertaking.

To provide added educational content, the square-mile area, population and
geographic outline of each country was included.

Flags of the 76 member nations and the U.N. flag adopted by the General Assembly
on Oct. 20, 1947, are on the inside cover, and the back cover shows photos of
Eleanor Roosevelt, chairman, Board of Governors, American Association for the
United Nations; Agnes Ohlson, president, American Nurses' Association; Mrs.
George G. Apperson, chairman, The Country Women's Council, U.S.A.; Mrs. R.I.C.
Prout, president, General Federation of Women's Clubs; Mrs. Moise S. Cahn,
president, National Council of Jewish Women; Mrs. Theodore O. Wedel, national
president, United Church Women ... all endorsing the aims of the United Nations.

The committee's hope for the collection of recipes from around the world was
simple: "If used throughout the year in daily family life across the country and
possibly around the world, there will be a steady and accumulating deposit of an
awareness of one another's ways, at once basic and pleasant, which the world
surely needs."

In an attempt to be fair-handed choosing a recipe, I opened the book at random
and found the following recipe.


IRISH GINGERBREAD

Use fresh spices for best results.

2 1/2 cups sifted all-purpose flour

1 teaspoon baking soda

1/2 teaspoon salt

1 level teaspoon cinnamon

1 rounded teaspoon ginger

3/4 cup sugar

2 eggs, slightly beaten

1 cup buttermilk

1/2 cup melted shortening (we used butter)

1/2 cup molasses


Preheat oven to 350 degrees. Prepare a 9-by-9-inch pan by greasing heavily and
lightly flouring the bottom.

Sift flour, baking soda, salt, cinnamon and ginger into a mixing bowl. Stir in
the sugar.

Combine beaten eggs, buttermilk, melted shortening and molasses.

Add liquids to dry ingredients all at once and beat for 3 minutes at medium
speed on a mixer or 450 strokes by hand. (We used a wire whip.) Scrape into pan
and smooth evenly into corners.

Bake 30 to 35 minutes or until top springs back when lightly touched in the
center or a wooden toothpick inserted into the center comes out clean. Do not
over bake.

Serve warm or cold for breakfast or dessert with ice cream, whipped cream or
applesauce.


Adapted from "Favorite Recipes from the United Nations," The American Home
Economics Association, 1956


LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
PG Tested Alice Demetrius Stock can be reached at astock@post-gazette.com or
412-263-1601.

                       Copyright 2003 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              165 of 283 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                   February 27, 2003 Thursday SOONER EDITION

PUZZLING OVER SPRING CHOICES;
 CLASSES COOK UP GLOBAL MENU OF ETHNIC, SEASONAL DELIGHTS

BYLINE: NANCY ANDERSON, POST-GAZETTE STAFF WRITER

SECTION: FOOD, Pg.F-1

LENGTH: 2370 words


While most of us were shoveling snow, cooking school owners were racking their
brains to come up with tempting classes to tickle your culinary fancy.

With three new schools -- In the Kitchen, Wexford; Sewickley Cooking Studio,
Sewickley; and The Art Institute, Downtown -- in the area, class choices are
even more abundant.

Local chefs are ready to whisk you off to Tuscany, Cuba, Mexico, India, Asia,
old Europe, the Mediterranean and southern France, with side trips to California
and Sanibel Island.

You can learn new ways to make salmon, risotto, lamb, homemade mozzarella,
sausage, shrimp, chicken, flatbread, soups, pierogies and bread and bagels, or
concoct special foods for St. Patrick's Day, Easter, Cinco de Mayo and Mother's
Day.

For the sweet tooth, choose from cannoli, cheesecake, truffles, nutroll, pie
dough, chocolate, Greek pastry, Italian cookies, phyllo, bunny cakes and classic
Tarte Tatin.

Crate is featuring "Steel Chef" face-offs, a la the Food Network's "Iron Chef"
show, with noted local chefs vying against each other with a limited number of
ingredients and a stopwatch.

Some classes are hands-on, some aren't, and children's classes are growing in
popularity. Class sizes are limited, however, so don't delay making
reservations.


Crate

Scott; 412-341-5700. Regular and hands-on classes. Lunch & Learn classes, $18,
meet at noon Wednesdays beginning March 12. Celebrity chefs include: Lora Brody,
author of 20 cookbooks; Carol Tabone, director of Jungle Jim's Cooking School,
Cincinnati; and Giuliano Bugialli, author of a dozen books on Italian food.

The "Steel" Chefs, Toni Pais (Baum Vivant) and Bill Fuller (Big Burrito Group),
6 p.m. March 10, $50.

European vs. American Wines, Kevin Slane, 6:30 p.m. March 13, $40.

Plated Desserts, chef Tony Battaglia, 11 a.m. March 15, $40.

Sushi, Tony Yeh, 1 p.m. March 16; repeats 6:30 p.m. July 14, $45.

"Divine Secrets of the Ya-Ya Sisterhood," Cindy Scott, 6 p.m. March 17, $40.

Tuesday Techniques: Bagels, 1 p.m. March 18, $38.

Basic Techniques of Cooking 101, Joe Certo, 6:30 p.m., six Thursdays beginning
March 20, $375.

Advanced Chocolate Skills, Andrea Schrenk, 11 a.m.-4 p.m. March 22, $150,
includes lunch.

Knife Skills, Jeanne Lewis, noon March 23, $35.

Dinner Class, chef William Hunt, 6 p.m. March 24, $40.

Hearth-Baked Flatbreads, chef Christopher Sotkovsky, 6:30 p.m. March 24, April
7, $50.

Kaya, chef Bill Fuller, 6:30 p.m. March 27, $40.

Cooking with a Partner, Christopher Sotkovsky, 1 p.m. March 30, $110 per couple.

Basic Truffles & Other Candies, Paul McVay, 1 p.m. March 31, $60.

Tuesday Techniques: Nutrolls, 1 p.m. April 1, $38.

Cuban Cuisine, Jess Branas, 6:30 p.m. April 3, $30.

Easter Brunch, Ken and Charlene Nagy, 11 a.m. April 5, $30.

Next Generation Chefs, ages 9-12, 1 p.m. April 6, $38.

Baum Vivant, Toni Pais, 6:30 p.m. April 7, $50.

Indian Cuisine, Chaya Dewan Nee Gupta, 6:30 p.m. April 10, $30.

West Point Market, Akron, 8:30 a.m. April 12, $55.

Tour of the Strip, Joe Certo, 9 a.m. April 12, $35.

Knife Sharpening, three knives only, 50 cents each, 10 a.m. April 12.

Tuesday Techniques: Nutrolls, 1 p.m. April 15, $38.

Mexican Cuisine, Lupita Deloi Telep, 6:30 p.m. April 17, $30.

Next Generation Chefs, ages 9-12, 1 p.m. April 18, $38.

The "Steel Chefs," caterers Jeanne Lewis (A Fare to Remember) and Cindy Scott
(All Occasions Party Rental), 6 p.m. April 21, $50.

Breads, Lora Brody, author of 20 cookbooks, 11 a.m. April 16, $55.

Garnishing, Shawn Oddo, 6:30 p.m. April 28, $35.

Tuesday Techniques: Pasta, 1 p.m. April 29, $38.

Burgh's Shrimply Delicious, Tom and Frank Daily, 6 p.m. May 1, $35.

Pie Doughs, Tony Battaglia, 11 a.m. May 3, $50.

"Happy Family" Sushi, Tony Yeh and one of his children, 1 p.m. May 4, $80 adult
with child.

Antiques "Crate" Show Dinner Party, Joy Blackson, Twice Treasured; bring one
treasure to be assessed, 6:30 p.m. May 8, $45.

My Big Fat Greek Wedding Pastries, Andrea Schrenk, 11 a.m. May 10, $40.

Original Fish Market, chef Daniel Mosedale, 6:30 a.m. May 12, $40.

Tuesday Techniques: Pierogi, 1 p.m. May 13, $38.

Wines from the Pittsburgh Wine Festival, Kevin Slane, 6:30 p.m. May 15, $40.

Garden Party, Carol Tabone, 11 a.m. May 17, $50.

Veal, William Hunt, 6:30 p.m. May 19, $40.

Tuesday Techniques: Fish, 1 p.m. May 27, $38.

Mark Dayanandan, Hilton Hotel chef, 1 p.m. June 1, $50.

Cheesecakes, Paul McVay, 1 p.m. June 2, $35.

Frozen Desserts, Tony Battaglia, 11 a.m.-4 p.m. June 14, $70.

Copper River Salmon, Daniel Mosedale, 6:30 p.m. June 16, $40.

The "Steel Chefs," Keith Coughe-nour (Duquesne Club) and William Hunt
(Pennsylvania Culinary), 6 p.m. June 19, $50.

Red, White and Blue All Over, Cindy Scott, 6:30 p.m. June 23, $40.

Beginning to Bake Basics, Andrea Schrenk, 6 p.m. June 24, 25, $120.

Giuliano Bugialli, 6 p.m. June 27 or 1 p.m. June 28, $75 each.

Keith Coughenour, Duquesne Club, 6:30 p.m. July 7, $50.

Next Generation Chefs, ages 9-12, 11 a.m., three classes beginning July 15,
$120.

Food and Wine Dinner, Carol Tabone and Kevin Slane, 6:30 p.m. July 18, $55.

Carol's Easy and Delicious Pasta Dishes, Carol Tabone, 1 p.m. July 19, $45.

Rania's To Go

Mt. Lebanon; 412-531-2222. Classes cost $45 each (three for $130) and are taught
mostly by Rania Harris at 7 p.m., unless otherwise noted.


Easy Asian Cuisine, March 6.

Fishes and Loaves, chef Joe Nolan, Cafe Allegro, March 10.

Cooking at Home for Friends, March 12.

Desperation Dinners, March 18.

It's All About Beer, Joe Och, March 19.

Five Recipes with Five Ingredients, chef Heath Miles, March 25.

A Taste of Old Europe, chef Nick Jordanoff, March 31.

It's All About Wine, Jerry Bauer, April 1.

Perfect Cakes and Other Easy Desserts, chef Stuart Marks, April 7.

Foods and Wines of Italy, chef John Provident, April 9.

This Would Be My Last Meal ... April 15.

For Kids Only ... Great Bunny Cake, chef Stuart Marks, April 19.

Vivo! chef Sam DiBattista, April 21.

It's Simply a Feast, April 2.3

Let's Pack Some Heat, April 28.

Warm Weather Entertaining with Style, Penny Lawrence, May 1.

The Best of Cafe Allegro, chef Joe Nolan, May 5.

Cafe Giovanni, chef John Vennare, May 7.

Only Pizza! Only Pasta! May 8.

Lidia's chef Eben Copple, May 1.3

Unbelievably Easy Beginnings, May 14.

Fire Up That Grill, May 19.

More Secrets From Casbah, chef Heath Miles, May 20.

Who Said Veggies Are Boring?, May 28.

Unpretentious Entertaining, June 2.

Versatile Gourmet

Butler, 724-586-5023. Classes are at 6:30 p.m. and cost $25 unless otherwise
noted.

Kids in the Kitchen, ages 4 and up, Terri Helfer, March 10, $15.

Crock-Pot Cooking, chef Alyson Sprague, March 12, $25.

Great Company Dinner, Penny Lawrence, 11 a.m. March 15, $35.

Homemade Cakes, Alyson Sprague, March 19, $25.

A Quick Roman-Style Dinner, Rita Venturino, 11 a.m. March 22, $35.

Stuffed Breads, Alyson Sprague, March 24, $25.

Daffodil Wine Dinner, Penny Lawrence and John Eld, March 26, $55.

Springtime in Italy, chef Kathy Fag-ley, March 27, $35.

Lunch at the Fleur De Lys Restaurant, chef Sharon Baskin, 11 a.m. March 29, $40.

Natural Dyed Eggs, Alyson Sprague, April 2, $25.

Simple, Wonderful Italian Dinner, Penny Lawrence, April 3, $35.

Easter Brunch, Alyson Sprague, April 7, $25.

Dinner With Friends, Penny Lawrence, April 10, $35.

Asparagus, Alyson Sprague, April 14, $25.

Easter Celebration Wine Dinner, Penny Lawrence and John Eld, April 15, $55.

Kids in the Kitchen, Terri Helfer, April 21, $15.

Dim Sum, Alyson Sprague, April 23, $25.

Pasta Meals in Minutes, Rita Venturino, April 24, $35.

Celebrity Lunch, Sharon Baskin, 11 a.m. April 26, $35.

Busy People Lunch, Terri Helfer, Noon April 30, $15.

Mother's Day Tea, noon and 4 p.m. May 9, $19.95.

North Star Market

Richland, 724-443-7240. All classes are hands-on. Most start at 6:30 p.m. unless
otherwise noted.


Quick Soups, chef Steve McDonald, 10 a.m. March 1. $39.

St. Patrick's Day Feast, chef Aaron Yurek, March 5, $39.

California Casual, chef Jason Culp, March 12. $40.

Spring Soups, Main Courses, Salads, Sandwiches, Michael Novak, March 19, $39.

Cannoli, Eileen Gilson, March 26, $35.

Sausage 101, Steve McDonald, 10:30 a.m. March 29, $39.

Pierogi Workshop, Steve McDonald, April 2, $39.

Easter Brunch, Eileen Gilson, 10:30 a.m. April 5, $42.

Italian Easter Cookie Tray, chef Nello Dreon, 10 a.m. April 12, $36.

Mediterranean Magic, chef Jason Culp, April 30, $42.

Mother's Day Buffet, Eileen Gilson, 10:30 a.m. May 3, $39.

Classic Tarte Tatin, chef Aaron Yurek, 10 a.m. May 10, $35.

Herbal Dinner and Wine Party, Jason Culp, May 14, $40.

A Chocolate Showstopper, Nello Dreon, 10:30 a.m. May 17, $35.

A Father's Day Cookout, Steve McDonald, May 21, $39.

Sweetwater Center for the Arts

Sewickley, 412-741-4405. Classes are at 6:30 p.m. and have a materials fee.

Data not available at press time.

Sewickley Cooking Studio

Sewickley, 412-741-8671. Mostly series of classes for the serious-minded cook,
some with morning and evening hours. Call where not listed.

The Art of Fine Cooking, five classes starting March 6, March 26, April 19, May
6, $375.

Pastry & Baking, three classes starting March 6, March 10, March 31, April 10,
April 21, June 9, $250.

Bread Baking Weekend, March 28-29, $250.

The Art of Italian Cooking, 5 classes starting April 30, $375.

International Cooking, 6 p.m., 5 classes starting May 15, $375.

Saturday Dining Out, 5 p.m. April 12, May 9, June 7, $100 per couple.


Children's Classes:

K1, ages 6-8, 4 p.m., three classes starting May 9, $75.

K2, ages 9-11, 9 a.m., 5 classes starting May 1 and May 31, $175.

K3, ages 12-14, 4 p.m., 5 classes starting March 25, $200.

T1, ages 15-18, 6 p.m., 5 classes starting April 4, $300.

In the Kitchen

Wexford, 724-934-6160.

Data not available at press time.

Food Glorious Food

Highland Park, 412-363-5330. Regular and hands-on classes taught by chefs Brad
Walter and Tom Hambor.

Trio of Risotto, noon March 1, $25.

Chocolate Show Stopper, 6 p.m. March 12, $55.

Shellfish and Salmon, 6:30 p.m. March 14, $60.

Willy Wonka Workshop for Juniors, noon March 15, $35.

Chocolate Lovers Desserts, 6:30 p.m. March 18, $45.

101 Cooking Series, 6 p.m., three Thursdays March 20, 27, April 3, $150.

Sanibel Island Feast, 4:30 p.m. April 5, $40.

A Grilled Italian Dinner, 6:30 p.m. April 9, $35.

Springtime Cakes, 6 p.m. April 10, $45.

Cooking with a Partner, 4 p.m. April 12, $100 per couple.

South of France Lunch, noon, April 23, $25.

Sauces I, 6:30 p.m. April 24, $50.

Tazza D'Oro Tea Party, 3 p.m. April 26, $20.

201 Pastry Series, 6 p.m., three Tuesdays, April 29, May 6, 13, $150.

Sauces II, 6:30 p.m. May 1, $50.

Nonstick Baking, noon May 3, $20.

Mediterranean Dinner, 6 p.m. May 3, $35.

An Asian Lunch, noon May 7, $25.

Sauces III, 6:30 p.m. May 8, $50.

Sandwiches, 6:30 p.m. May 22, $35.

Bolognese Lasagna, 6 p.m. June 5, $50.

Picnic in Tuscany, 3:30 p.m. June 7, $45.

Pasta Pronto, 6:30 p.m. June 19, $45.

Pizza and Calzones, 6:30 p.m. June 26, $45.

Vinegar & Oil Tasting, noon June 28, $20.

Fresh Mozzarella, noon or 3 p.m. June 29, $45

Cooking with Barbara

Barbara Knezovich, McKeesport, 412 678-7886. Classes are at 7 p.m. in Barbara's
home.


International Pastries, March 6, $40.

Appetizers Again, March 19, $35.

Spring Time Tea, Karen Novak and Raye Coffey, April 10, $30.

McGinnis Sisters

Northern Pike, Monroeville, 412-858-7000, Ext. 7. Adult classes are at 6:30 p.m.
and cost $25 unless otherwise noted.

Succulent Seafood, Joe Modaffari, March 4.

Celtic Cuisine, Karen Novak, March 11.

Back in the Jewish Kitchen, Raye Coffey, March 18.

Easy, Elegant Easter Dinner, Theresa Falvo, 10 a.m. March 22, $35.

Spring Celiac, Molly Cloherty, March 25, $15.

Quick and Easy with Eva, Eva Edelstein, April 3.

Pate a Choux, Sue Portera, 10 a.m. April 5.

Eating Well Through Cancer, Gina Addison, April 8, $15.

Couples Cooking, Barbara Knezovich, April 24.

International Cookie Jar, Theresa Falvo, April 29.

Spanish Tapas, Penny Lawrence, 10 a.m. May 3, $30.

Cinco de Mayo Dinner, chef Don Winkie, May 5, $30.

Cake Decorating, Linda McNeice, May 13, $20.

My Big Fat Greek Phyllo Class, Penny Lawrence, 10 a.m. May 17, $30.

Everything Ricotta, Rita Venturino, May 29.

Kids Cooking (ages 6-10), 10 a.m., $20:

St. Patrick's Day Delights, March 8.

Bunny Class, April 12.

Mexican Fiesta, May 31.

Campfire Cooking, June 7.

Revolutionary Cooking, July 26.

Bring Your Parents To Brunch, Aug. 16.

Junior Chef (11-13), 10 a.m., $20

Last Meal on the Titanic, March 29.

Big Fat Greek Phyllo Class, April 26.

The Grilling Season, June 28.

Revolutionary Cooking, July 12.

Bring Your Parents To Brunch, Aug. 9.

Colleges

Center for Lifetime Learning, University of Pittsburgh, Oakland; 412-648-2560.
Classes are $20 plus a $5 materials fee.

Sumptuous Side Dishes, Stacey Kranick, April 8.

Age 55 and over: Pizza Possibilities, Cooking with Your Special Little One,
Stacey Kranick, Immaculate Conception School, Bloomfield, 10 a.m. March 29.


Art Institute of Pittsburgh, 420 Blvd. of the Allies, Downtown; 412-291-6366.


Data not available at press time.


Community College of Allegheny County. Classes are taught at various locations
in the county. For course availability in your area, call the following: East
724-325-6643; North 412-369-3737; South 412-469-6358; West 412-788-6464.

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Nancy Anderson can be reached at nanderson@post-gazette.com or 412-263-3549.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING: Ted Crow/Post-Gazette

                       Copyright 2003 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              171 of 283 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                       June 6, 2003 Friday SOONER EDITION

MUNCH GOES TO RAY'S MARLIN GRILL

SECTION: ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT, Pg.33 MUNCH

LENGTH: 627 words


Ray's Marlin Grill, for Munch, was some kind of love at first sight. You
identify the place by its vertical turquoise neon sign, as if you were appearing
in a scene in a film noir set in Miami. You get to the dining room through the
bar, where everyone tilts his cap up just long enough to check you out. The
waitress' snug baby T reads "Hottie" in glitter.

On the back wall of the dining room, a mural: female water skiers wearing swim
caps, the textured kind, complete with chin strap and plastic daisies. In a
line, they trail a frothy wake, arms identically raised to wave, smiles uniform
and crimson. Soaking in the sight, the dull, idiomatic theme began to thud in
Munch's head "Dunh-dat, dunh-dat. Dun na na na na ..." as Munch imagined a huge
shark rising from beneath, a la "Jaws III," the 3-D sequel.

Not many joints resonate like this one, on so many levels, not with Munch. An
aquarium filled one window. A curtain made of beads and plastic baby doll heads
covered the other.

Time for dinner.

Munch and FOM studied the tropical/Southwestern/beachy menu, noticing
flirtatious descriptions of "oh-so-secret batter" and curious "hot bananas"
(turns out they're banana peppers). The food is both global and homey.

Munch dipped a toe in Southern waters and tried a cup of the Bahamian Conch
Chowder ($2.95), having read once that conch chowder is to Key West as cioppino
is to San Francisco. You don't see either very often in Pittsburgh; we're fond
of less exotic tomato-rice or wedding soup. The conch stew tasted like Manhattan
clam chowder, but a little sweeter.

FOM's flaky chicken empanadas ($3.50) were slightly bland until zingy cilantro
sour cream was applied.

Checking out the other tables, a $3 Red Stripe quickly disappearing, nosy Munch
noticed some nice salads with thick homemade dressings at another table,
including a Brighton Beach Cobb and a giant mound of Popeye Spinach. On the
menu, Munch noticed some odd omelets, which will be cool to enjoy some rainy
day, when brunch in a dim bar is the best thing going.

This day, Munch ordered the Santa Cruz chicken sandwich ($5.95) and didn't
regret it. Topped with chewy apple wood bacon, guacamole, salsa and onion -- all
elements in perfect proportion on the soft sesame roll -- it was an ideal
creation. The side of Yukon gold potato salad was lusciously mayonnaise-y.

Fine as the sandwich was, FOM, farm boy at heart, chose better: The Chesapeake
Chicken Pot Pie ($10.95) is as perfectly crusted (and the filling is entirely
encased in crust, not just topped by it) as Grandma's strawberry-rhubarb pie. It
was served in a crock, full of tender, sizeable chunks of chicken, peas, carrots
and celery in a warm sherried gravy.

Desserts are $4.25, and Key lime pie is a natural choice. It was homemade and
creamy, convincingly yellow, not a fake green. It wasn't sour, just tangy, and
the crust crumbled into big chunks and little bits that could be mashed against
with a forkful of cream to capture them.

Next time Munch appears at Ray's, it will be for the chocolate blackout or
cappuccino cake, or for the 50 other appealing entrees there wasn't time to try:
pastas, meat loaf, steaks, salmon and an attractive vegetarian plate with sugar
snaps, black beans and roasted portobellos. Munch will return for good bottled
beers for $3, like the Rogue Dead Guy, and decent drafts for the same price,
like Yuengling.

Once it opens, Munch must check out the Lizard Lounge upstairs, where the
aquatic theme ends and the groove begins. It's dark, and on every table is a
martini glass lamp with a light-up olive. That's something you don't find just
anywhere.


Ray's Marlin Grill is at 5121 Butler St., Lawrenceville (412-781-6771).

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
WEEKEND MAG

                       Copyright 2003 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              182 of 283 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                    August 31, 2003 Sunday TWO STAR EDITION

THE UNWINNABLE IMPEACHMENT

SECTION: EDITORIAL, Pg.B-1

LENGTH: 1313 words


Pittsburgh citizens might want to think hard before spending their Labor Day
weekend jumping onto the bandwagon to impeach Mayor Tom Murphy. Not only is an
impeachment effort almost certain to fail, but it would create a California-like
spectacle, distracting elected officials across the commonwealth from their real
work: rescuing the city from its dire financial straits.

If Pittsburgh collapses, who sits in the mayor's office will be the least of our
collective worries.

I have no quarrel with Jim Genco of Lawrenceville, the man who has launched a
crusade to fire Murphy. Indeed, I give him credit. Fueled by outrage and honest
political fury, he has collected thousands of signatures calling for Mayor
Murphy's removal, pursuant to Section VIII of the city's home rule charter,
which sets forth a mechanism for impeaching city officials. The problem, as my
colleague Professor Bruce Ledewitz pointed out last week, is that the city
charter's removal provision -- which has energized Mr. Genco -- is almost
certainly unconstitutional.

This is not the first time a municipality has enacted a flawed law for removing
public officials. In 1976, a group of citizens in Philadelphia collected over
210,000 signatures to remove Mayor Frank Rizzo, pursuant to a recall provision
in the city charter. That provision was swiftly invalidated by the Pennsylvania
Supreme Court because it conflicted with the state constitution. In the 1950s,
the court nixed a grass-roots effort to remove the elected supervisors in
Sewickley Township in Westmoreland County, even though the number of signatures
gathered by those citizens met the requirement of their Township Code.

The Pennsylvania Constitution's removal provisions -- which create high hurdles
for any citizen seeking to oust a public official -- have consistently been
declared the exclusive avenue for redress. An elected official can be properly
removed, via Article 6 of the state constitution, in only three ways. All of
them involve serious misconduct approaching criminality. None has a ghost of a
chance of succeeding with Mayor Murphy:

* An official can be impeached by the House of Representatives in Harrisburg,
tried in the state Senate and removed if convicted by two-thirds of the members
present. (This was the fate of Supreme Court Justice Rolf Larsen in 1994.)

* An official can be convicted of "misbehavior in office" or "an infamous crime"
in criminal court, leading to automatic forfeiture of his or her office.

* An official can be "removed by the governor for reasonable cause, after due
notice and full hearing on the address of two-thirds of the Senate."

The Pennsylvania courts have set an extremely high bar in defining the proof
necessary to convict and remove officials. The state's high court, at various
times, has defined misbehavior in office as "a criminal act in the course of the
conduct of the office," or "failure to perform a positive statutory duty" or
"cupidity or pathological sloth" or "perverseness, criminality or culpable
indifference."

Alleged fiscal bungling and perceived policy goof-ups, of the sort critics have
attempted to pin on Mayor Murphy, do not cut the mustard under these provisions.

Some might see a benefit, political or otherwise, to "sending a message" to
Mayor Murphy through an impeachment vote. Yet we must remind ourselves that
Pittsburgh's reputation is on the line. In the midst of a serious budget crisis,
the last thing the city needs is a carnivalesque impeachment proceeding
pre-ordained to fail but sure to feed the media lust for sensationalism. This is
what has rendered California a laughingstock.

Even if Tom Murphy were removed, the facts of life would not change. Regardless
of whether Murphy or City Council President Gene Riccardi or Jim Schwarzenegger
(Arnold's cousin) serves as mayor of Pittsburgh, the problems will not be cured
unless every city, state and federal official in Pennsylvania devotes full-time
worry and energy to the task.

As a former borough mayor whose duties included supervision of a police
department, I vehemently disagreed with Mayor Murphy's decision to lay off
police officers, school crossing guards and EMT personnel to solve the budget
shortfall. As someone who opposed spending gobs of public money to build new
stadiums, I also took issue with Mayor Murphy's decisions on that front. But the
state Constitution, and the democratic frame of government we embraced by
becoming citizens of this nation, create a simple recourse for anyone displeased
with Murphy or any public official: Vote against him in the next election.

The present climate in California notwithstanding, we should not be seduced into
casting aside our traditions and institutions of government. We in Pittsburgh
have always been proud of our image as hard-working and persevering people. This
is a time to huddle together and slug out solutions. This is not a time to
attack each other and spend thousands of dollars (when the city can't even pay
for basic services) hiring lawyers to fight over an impeachment charge that will
never stick.

Moreover, it is unfair to lay all blame at the feet of Mayor Murphy. It is not
the person; it is the time. States are starving for money due to federal
cutbacks, which means municipalities across the entire country are also
starving. The city of Pittsburgh with its elderly population, weak tax base and
plethora of tax-exempt properties -- in the form of churches, hospitals,
universities and cultural entities -- has been on the financial ropes for
decades. In the recent past, the city has privatized the zoo, the aviary and
Phipps Conservatory; helped push for the county's 1 percent Regional Asset
District tax; transferred the Pittsburgh Water and Sewer Department to an
authority; and placed numerous bandages on the ailing budget to make ends meet.
The day of reckoning has now come.

There is nothing undemocratic about Jim Genco and his platoon of volunteers
expressing their fear, disagreement and outrage about the path Mayor Murphy is
taking to deal with this serious fiscal crisis. Indeed, it is the essence of
democracy. But if these citizens wish to play a positive role in the recovery of
the city, they should bundle up their impeachment petitions, deliver them to
Mayor Murphy's office as an expression of their strong dissatisfaction -- and
begin working on concrete proposals to remedy the problems.

For his part, Mayor Murphy should take the criticisms and recent poll numbers
seriously. As a leader faced with difficult times, he should commence public
hearings throughout the city to hear his constituents' complaints and treat them
with absolute respect. He should continue to rethink his past strategy of
building up the city's tax base to cure nagging budget problems, and inject
faster-working measures into the mix. Aggressively pressing for an increase in
the occupation tax paid by all who work in the city and paving the way for
private nonprofit institutions to make voluntary contributions through public
service foundations, as permitted by law, are two good places to start.

I don't live in the city, but I know that if the worsening crisis is not
stemmed, all of us who have made our homes in this special region will be at
risk.

In response to the current emergency, the Pennsylvania Senate Finance Committee
has scheduled a special meeting in Pittsburgh for Sept. 8, in City Council
chambers. It will discuss the budget crisis, hear from Mayor Murphy and invite
comment by interested citizens. Perhaps that is the perfect forum for Tom
Murphy, Jim Genco and others who share a common desire to rebuild the city of
Pittsburgh as a strong and proud community, to sit in the same room and begin
working towards a viable plan.

It is better than tearing ourselves apart in the name of preserving the place
that we all love.

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Ken Gormley (gormley@duq.edu) is a professor at Duquesne University School of
Law, specializing in constitutional subjects. He served as mayor of Forest Hills
from 1997 to 2001.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jim Genco, concerned citizen.
 PHOTO: The mayor in the middle.

                       Copyright 2003 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              184 of 283 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                    September 9, 2003 Tuesday SOONER EDITION

A GROWING TREND IN HELPING MOMS NURSE;
 MORE DOCTORS BECOMING LACTATION CONSULTANTS TO BOOST BREAST-FEEDING

BYLINE: JOSEPH D. WILCOX

SECTION: HEALTH, Pg.D-1

LENGTH: 1764 words


Pediatrician Todd Wolynn says if he told new mothers he knew of an elixir that
could make babies smarter, boost their immune system and reduce their likelihood
of allergies and a host of illnesses, mothers would beat down his doors
demanding it.

There is no miracle potion that will do all these things, but studies have shown
that breast milk may offer all these benefits and perhaps more. But that's the
rub. New mothers want all the health benefits for their babies but often become
frustrated with breast-feeding because of a lack of community and family support
and fears that they aren't doing it right.

So in his bid to offer that support, Wolynn and two other doctors at Pediatric
Alliance-Squirrel Hill have become certified lactation consultants and will soon
open a lactation center there. A physician's assistant and a medical assistant
in the practice also are lactation consultants.

Among doctors across the country, pediatricians have taken the lead in getting
this expertise, although those with the extra training are still rare, said Dr.
Nancy Brent, medical director of Mercy Children's Medical Center's Maternal
Infant Lactation Center since 1989.

She is among several pediatricians throughout the region who also are lactation
consultants. In fact, Brent received a grant in the 1990s that helped create a
curriculum at Mercy to prepare residents to become certified. Wolynn and his
partners Drs. Alicia Hartung and Albert Wolf received this training.

Judith Gutowski of Greensburg, an active volunteer in the La Leche League and a
lactation consultant, lauded the trend. "It's a great thing. It's wonderful to
have someone knowledgeable about breast feeding."

La Leche League chapters comprise volunteers who help mothers during their
normal course of breast-feeding. "If mothers have medical issues or are having
significant difficulties, they are beyond the scope of what La Leche League can
do," she said.

And although there are 16 chapters in Allegheny and surrounding counties, many
communities don't have a La Leche chapter near them. "Even if mothers have
access to a group, there may be reasons they can't make it to a meeting, and
some mothers don't feel comfortable getting advice from a volunteer."

Depending upon educational background, people seeking certification need between
900 and 2,500 hours of clinical time working with breast-feeding mothers. They
also need continuing education credits and to pass a rigorous exam.

Brent said she'd also like to see more obstetricians-gynecologists become
certified because they can be the most influential in encouraging women to
breast-feed.

"In reality, when you look at the statistics, most women have decided how
they're going to feed their baby before they get pregnant," Brent said. "By
promotion, you can change people's mind during pregnancy."


How and how long

The American Academy of Pediatrics recommends that mothers breast-feed
exclusively for the first six months and continue to nurse their babies for at
least a year.

Research shows that mother's milk may increase a baby's immunity and decrease
the frequency and severity of some ailments like ear infections and protect
against sudden infant death syndrome, allergies, diabetes and childhood
lymphoma. Nursing also reduces a mother's risks for ovarian and breast cancer
and osteoporosis and helps her return to a normal weight after pregnancy.

Fifty to 60 years ago, breast-feeding was the norm. It fell out of favor after
infant formula was introduced, although the pendulum has swung back since the
1970s as researchers have learned more about breast-feeding benefits.

One misperception that can affect a woman's decision to nurse is that formula is
better for babies because it is fortified with vitamins and nutrients. Two fatty
acids found in breast milk -- DHA and ARA -- that were added recently to formula
to enhance neurological and visual development may strengthen that perception.

But scientists still have not identified what role many of the ingredients of
mother's milk play in children's development.

Brent said she had received "zero" training in breast-feeding when she finished
her medical training in the early 1980s.

Even now, many medical schools spend less than an hour teaching doctors these
skills, and doctors often provide women little more than a brochure about
nursing as they leave the hospital.

Dr. Alfred Berg, chair of the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force, a national
panel of experts that reviews scientific studies and recommends preventive
medical services, said women are unlikely to breast-feed without encouragement.

Berg and his team of experts looked at dozens of breast-feeding studies dating
back 40 years and found that "casual, offhand advice to breast-feed is not
effective. Clinicians need to provide an intense, structured program or refer
mothers to someone who can provide that."

The studies also found that common discharge packets with the brochures and baby
formula that mothers receive when they leave the hospital actually discourage
breast-feeding.

Referring women to a lactation consultant is the route most doctors take, but
Wolynn says even that can deter some new mothers. The prospect of packing up the
newborn, getting the baby into the car and making that extra trip to see another
specialist within days of giving birth is just too daunting. In addition, many
insurance policies don't cover lactation services.

"That extra step could be the difference in sticking with it and stopping," said
Jackie Rosenthal Pandey of Squirrel Hill, who considered giving up
breast-feeding within days of starting her newborn son, Joshua, now 9 months.

Pandey is still nursing Joshua and said lessons she got in the hospital, support
from her husband and follow-up from the doctor's office helped her stay the
course.

"In the middle of the night the baby was crying and I was crying, saying, 'I
can't do this.' It was really painful at first and I wasn't sure if I was doing
it right. My husband was my cheerleading squad and it really helped that the
doctors at Pediatric Alliance were lactation consultants."

The first 48 hours after a women gives birth are critical. Women must begin
nursing right away or their bodies will not continue to produce milk. Once the
process begins, milk will flow as long as the baby feeds.

Wolynn insists on seeing new mothers within one to two days of their discharge
from the hospital to make sure the nursing is going well.

Gutowski of the La Leche League sometimes refers to Wolynn or other doctors
mothers who are having difficulty with breast-feeding. Doctors can help if there
is a medical issue affecting milk production and can address complicated issues,
she said.

The alliance's new lactation center will be available for women whose children
are patients there, and it will offer pumps, undergarments and accessories.

Gutowski said it's rare to find such centers in a doctor's office. Among local
hospitals, Mercy, Magee-Womens and St. Clair also have lactation centers.

"The services are so minimal," she said about overall support in the region.
"There are so many women out there that need additional help."


MORE INFO

These hospital lactation centers are open to all women; you do not need to be a
patient to use them. They offer education, counseling and supplies:

* Maternal-Infant Lactation Center at Mercy Hospital of Pittsburgh,
412-232-7135.

* Magee-Womens Hospital Lactation Center, 412-641-1121

* St. Clair Hospital Lactation Center, 412-572-6996.


Other resources

* Allegheny County Breast-feeding Help-line, 412-247-1000

* Family Health Council, Pittsburgh, 412-288-2140

* Pediatric Alliance-Squirrel Hill, 412-521-6511.

* La Leche League hotline for Greater Pittsburgh Area, 412-276-5630. The hotline
provides numbers of local La Leche League leaders who are available to answer
breast-feeding questions. You can also get a referral to the closest chapter to
you.


STATE'S RATES TRAIL U.S. INITIATIVE'S GOALS

Breast-feeding rates in southwestern Pennsylvania and nationally continue to lag
behind goals set by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services' Healthy
People 2010 initiative.

To increase the nursing rate in this region, Family Health Council has managed
since last year a special breast-feeding support initiative in nine counties:
Armstrong, Beaver, Butler, Fayette, Greene, Indiana, Lawrence, Washington and
Westmoreland.

The council, which addresses a wide range of health issues, was founded in 1971
and operates in 23 Western Pennsylvania counties.

The program targeted 90 doctors, 10 in each of the nine counties covered by the
grant, as well as 10 hospitals, and provided education and training to create a
climate of interest and support for breast-feeding.

Results of the council's initiative have yet to be tallied, but Barb Jinar, a
certified lactation consultant with the council said doctors and health-care
professionals have embraced the initiative.

"We had enormous response from the communities," she said. "I don't know how
many doctors go for continual breast-feeding training. They get some training in
medical school but breast-feeding is constantly changing. The physicians and
staff we worked with were saying, 'Where were you years ago?' The hospitals want
to do things; they just need a push sometimes."

During National Breast-feeding week Aug. 1-7, the federal government set a goal
of having 75 percent of mothers breast-feeding immediately after having a baby,
50 percent at six months and 25 percent at one year.

From 1992 to 2000, breast-feeding increased in the Pennsylvania WIC Program from
25 percent to 33 percent, or 1 percent per year. WIC is a nutrition program for
women, infants and children who are low-income and/or face nutritional risk. The
statistics WIC provides cover about half the new mothers in the state, Jinar
said.

Although health-care workers are encouraged by the increase, the rates are well
below national goals.

Southwestern Pennsylvania lags behind other parts of the state and the nation
because there is a lack of resources in the region, breast-feeding is not viewed
as the cultural norm and there is the perception that bottle feeding is
healthier, Jinar said.

National data shows that 70 percent of new mothers breast-feed and 32 percent
are still nursing at six months. Low-income mothers' rates are even lower -- 58
percent of low-income women initiate breast-feeding and 33 percent continue to
nurse for six months.


LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Joseph D. Wilcox is a free-lance writer. Health Editor Virginia Linn also
contributed to this report.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Darrell Sapp/Post-Gazette: Dr. Todd Wolynn, who became a
certified lactation consultant in Squirrel Hill, with 9-month-old Joshua
Rosenthal Pandey, the son of one of his patients.
 PHOTO: Breast-feeding confers a host of benefits to both mother and child.

                       Copyright 2003 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              185 of 283 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                   September 13, 2003 Saturday SOONER EDITION

SECTION: NATIONAL, Pg.A-8 NATIONAL BRIEFS

LENGTH: 613 words


MAN KILLS 4, SELF IN FAILED ROBBERY

WESTLAND, Mich.  A man opened fire at a convenience store during an apparently
botched robbery of the business, killing four people and wounding two others
before he and his girlfriend led authorities on a high-speed chase in their
Corvette.

The man shot and killed himself in a residential back yard after crashing the
car and fleeing on foot with his girlfriend, who was arrested minutes later.

Police said Leslie Gordon, 24, acted as a lookout Thursday night as Michael
Lamont Schofield, 30, fired one shot each into the two clerks and four customers
at Neil's Party Store in Westland, a Detroit suburb.


Texas lawsuit dismissed

AUSTIN, Texas -- A three-judge federal appeals panel yesterday dismissed a
lawsuit filed by Democrats in the Texas Senate who had hoped to derail a new
round of Republican-led congressional redistricting.

The Democrats had argued that Senate rule changes by Republicans to further
their redistricting effort violated federal law. They have been fighting for
several months to thwart GOP efforts to redraw the state's congressional map.
They say it would hurt minority representation in Congress.


Baylor U to keep president

WACO, Texas -- Baylor University's Board of Regents voted yesterday to keep
Robert Sloan as president of the world's largest Baptist university after
faculty members urged his ouster in a no-confidence vote.

The Faculty Senate's no-confidence motion, passed Tuesday, had cited a climate
of fear under which anyone considered disloyal to the administration risked
losing their job, hope for tenure or other benefits.

Sloan's leadership was questioned following the summer slaying of basketball
player Patrick Dennehy, the arrest of former player Carlton Dotson on murder
charges in Dennehy's death and the ensuing disclosure of major NCAA violations
in the basketball program.


Missouri gun vote probe

JEFFERSON CITY, Mo. -- The military will investigate whether regulations were
violated when a Missouri state senator was granted leave from duty in Cuba so he
could return home to cast the deciding vote to override a veto of concealed guns
bill.

State Sen. Jon Dolan, a Republican and a major in the Army National Guard, had
been serving at Guantanamo Bay for only two weeks, and military regulations say
a newly deployed soldier must be on duty at least two months before getting a
leave.

Lt. Cmdr. Barbara Burfeind, a Pentagon spokeswoman, said yesterday that the
matter will be investigated by the U.S. Southern Command in Florida, which
oversees Guantanamo Bay, where Dolan is stationed as a public affairs officer.


Hurricane Isabel

MIAMI -- Hurricane Isabel retained its 160 mph winds yesterday and forecasters
said it was still too early to tell if and where the storm will strike the
United States.

At 5 p.m. EDT, Isabel's maximum wind speeds held steady at 160 mph, making it a
Category 5 storm, the strongest. A hurricane hits the top of the scale when its
winds reach 156 mph. It was about 350 miles northeast of the northern Leeward
Islands in the northeastern Caribbean Sea and was moving west at 9 mph.


Also in the nation . . .

Sen. Joe Lieberman said yesterday that he would vote in favor of a hotly
contested plan to provide private school vouchers to low-income students in the
nation's capital. The Senate vote, which could come next week, may further erode
his support among union members . . . Twenty-two inmates sued the state of
Florida yesterday, saying it allowed prison guards to torture them in their
cells by spraying them with pepper spray and tear gas. Their federal lawsuit was
filed in Fort Myers.

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2003 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              186 of 283 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                   September 21, 2003 Sunday TWO STAR EDITION

FALL'S COLOR STORIES;
 BEFORE SCIENCE, ORIGINAL TALES EXPLAINED SUMMER'S LEAVING

BYLINE: LILLIAN THOMAS, POST-GAZETTE STAFF WRITER

SECTION: SCIENCE, MEDICINE, TECHNOLOGY, Pg.C-1

LENGTH: 819 words


Before humans used chlorophyll and carotenoids to explain fall leaves, they drew
on a mother's grief over the kidnapping of her daughter or the persistence of a
group of bear hunters to account for the spectacle of summer green giving way to
autumn's fiery blaze.

Fall colors are one of nature's irresistible works. After autumn officially
begins Tuesday, Western Pennsylvanians will start taking long weekend drives to
look at dying leaves. They will consult Web sites devoted to the subject, and
they'll attend events dedicated to it.

And they'll read articles that appear as regularly as the leaves themselves
explaining that in the fall, trees stop producing chlorophyll -- the substance
that gives leaves their green color -- unmasking the other colors.

Those golds and oranges are made by carotenoids and xanthophylls, while the reds
come from anthocyanins.

But once upon a time, people thought the reds were produced by the blood of a
monster bear hunted all the way up to the sky.

A Seneca myth recounts that each autumn, a band of brothers and their small dog
track a gigantic bear terrorizing their community. They chase him up and up,
into the dark night sky.

They kill the bear, and its blood falls from the heavens, coloring the leaves of
the maple tree scarlet. As they cook the bear for a meal, fat from the fire
drips down, turning other leaves gold and orange.

The story also was linked to the constellation Ursa Major, blending the
celestial indications of seasonal changes with the terrestrial. As Earth
repositions itself during the year in relation to the heavens, the bear is
killed in the fall, appears to arise again in the spring, and the hunters begin
their chase anew.

The Greeks explained the advent of fall with a wrenching family story.

The goddess Demeter lost her beloved daughter, Persephone, when the king of the
underworld abducted her. Demeter was so grief-stricken that she neglected the
plants of the Earth, which began to wither.

In one version, the leaves on the trees saw her despair and turned red, orange
and gold to try to lift her sadness. When it deepened, they, too, despaired and
the leaves dropped to the ground.

Other cultures weren't so mournful in their explanations. Many northern
countries, from England to Japan, attributed the coming of the cold to an
assortment of magical creatures -- frost fairies, the Frost King, the Snow
Queen, Old Man Winter and the English version, Jack Frost.

Jack is usually portrayed as a mischievous guy who pinches or paints the leaves,
then spreads cold and frost about.

In another Indian tale, Winter is a tyrant who orders all the trees to drop
their leaves so not a single sign of spring will be evident. But conifers defy
Winter, retaining their spring green. They are joined by Oak, who though he is
not of their kind, agrees to fight Winter, vowing to hold on to his leaves even
as they turn brown and frayed.

"I like that one," said Kathleen Allen, a University of Pittsburgh archaeologist
who studies Iroquois cultures. "I think of a red oak at the corner of Phipps
[Conservatory] that I pass by. Sometimes it has kept its leaves all winter, and
drops them just as spring arrives. It's nice to see it hanging on, with some
leaves, even in the middle of winter."

The modern-day storytellers tend to be academics like Marc Abrams, a Penn State
tree physiologist and fall color expert. Abrams has studied how precipitation
and temperature affect the timing and brilliance of fall colors for years. He
tells the seasonal story of chlorophyll and carotenoids to students and
reporters.

The start of fall at 6:47 a.m. Tuesday comes during the crucial period for the
leaves, he said.

The latter part of September into early October is the time when climate
conditions set the palette for the year, he said.

"Ideally what would be happening, is that things would start drying out now.
Temperatures would start to get significantly cooler, getting into the 30s at
night. We don't want a hard frost, but we do want things to get quite cool."

He said the unusually wet summer this year is not a major factor.

"I'm not anticipating that really to be a negative on the trees," he said. "Some
of the early indications are that colors are looking pretty good on the maples.
The wet summer actually is probably a positive, in terms of how healthy and
vigorous trees are. But we need that to stop now."

The rain that the remnants of Hurricane Isabel dumped on the region last week
shouldn't cause much of a problem.

"Luckily, leaf color is quite resilient," said Abrams.


For information on fall colors in Pennsylvania, visit www.fallinpa.com. The
colors typically peak in the northern part of the state during the first two
weeks of October; in the central part during the second and third weeks of
October; and in the southern part during the last two weeks of the month.


LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Lillian Thomas can be reached at lthomas@post-gazette.com or 412-263-3566.

GRAPHIC: Drawing: Daniel Marsula/Post-Gazette:

                       Copyright 2003 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              188 of 283 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                    September 21, 2003 Sunday REGION EDITION

FALL'S COLOR STORIES BEFORE SCIENCE, ORIGINAL TALES EXPLAINED SUMMER'S LEAVING

BYLINE: LILLIAN THOMAS, POST-GAZETTE STAFF WRITER

SECTION: MISCELLANEOUS, Pg.C-1

LENGTH: 819 words


Before humans used chlorophyll and carotenoids to explain fall leaves, they drew
on a mother's grief over the kidnapping of her daughter or the persistence of a
group of bear hunters to account for the spectacle of summer green giving way to
autumn's fiery blaze.

Fall colors are one of nature's irresistible works. After autumn officially
begins Tuesday, Western Pennsylvanians will start taking long weekend drives to
look at dying leaves. They will consult Web sites devoted to the subject, and
they'll attend events dedicated to it.

And they'll read articles that appear as regularly as the leaves themselves
explaining that in the fall, trees stop producing chlorophyll -- the substance
that gives leaves their green color -- unmasking the other colors.

Those golds and oranges are made by carotenoids and xanthophylls, while the reds
come from anthocyanins.

But once upon a time, people thought the reds were produced by the blood of a
monster bear hunted all the way up to the sky.

A Seneca myth recounts that each autumn, a band of brothers and their small dog
track a gigantic bear terrorizing their community. They chase him up and up,
into the dark night sky.

They kill the bear, and its blood falls from the heavens, coloring the leaves of
the maple tree scarlet. As they cook the bear for a meal, fat from the fire
drips down, turning other leaves gold and orange.

The story also was linked to the constellation Ursa Major, blending the
celestial indications of seasonal changes with the terrestrial. As Earth
repositions itself during the year in relation to the heavens, the bear is
killed in the fall, appears to arise again in the spring, and the hunters begin
their chase anew.

The Greeks explained the advent of fall with a wrenching family story.

The goddess Demeter lost her beloved daughter, Persephone, when the king of the
underworld abducted her. Demeter was so grief-stricken that she neglected the
plants of the Earth, which began to wither.

In one version, the leaves on the trees saw her despair and turned red, orange
and gold to try to lift her sadness. When it deepened, they, too, despaired and
the leaves dropped to the ground.

Other cultures weren't so mournful in their explanations. Many northern
countries, from England to Japan, attributed the coming of the cold to an
assortment of magical creatures -- frost fairies, the Frost King, the Snow
Queen, Old Man Winter and the English version, Jack Frost.

Jack is usually portrayed as a mischievous guy who pinches or paints the leaves,
then spreads cold and frost about.

In another Indian tale, Winter is a tyrant who orders all the trees to drop
their leaves so not a single sign of spring will be evident. But conifers defy
Winter, retaining their spring green. They are joined by Oak, who though he is
not of their kind, agrees to fight Winter, vowing to hold on to his leaves even
as they turn brown and frayed.

"I like that one," said Kathleen Allen, a University of Pittsburgh archaeologist
who studies Iroquois cultures. "I think of a red oak at the corner of Phipps
[Conservatory] that I pass by. Sometimes it has kept its leaves all winter, and
drops them just as spring arrives. It's nice to see it hanging on, with some
leaves, even in the middle of winter."

The modern-day storytellers tend to be academics like Marc Abrams, a Penn State
tree physiologist and fall color expert. Abrams has studied how precipitation
and temperature affect the timing and brilliance of fall colors for years. He
tells the seasonal story of chlorophyll and carotenoids to students and
reporters.

The start of fall at 6:47 a.m. Tuesday comes during the crucial period for the
leaves, he said.

The latter part of September into early October is the time when climate
conditions set the palette for the year, he said.

"Ideally what would be happening, is that things would start drying out now.
Temperatures would start to get significantly cooler, getting into the 30s at
night. We don't want a hard frost, but we do want things to get quite cool."

He said the unusually wet summer this year is not a major factor.

"I'm not anticipating that really to be a negative on the trees," he said. "Some
of the early indications are that colors are looking pretty good on the maples.
The wet summer actually is probably a positive, in terms of how healthy and
vigorous trees are. But we need that to stop now."

The rain that the remnants of Hurricane Isabel dumped on the region last week
shouldn't cause much of a problem.

"Luckily, leaf color is quite resilient," said Abrams.


For information on fall colors in Pennsylvania, visit www.fallinpa.com. The
colors typically peak in the northern part of the state during the first two
weeks of October; in the central part during the second and third weeks of
October; and in the southern part during the last two weeks of the month.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Lillian Thomas can be reached at lthomas@post-gazette.com or 412-263-3566.

                       Copyright 2003 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              191 of 283 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                     October 10, 2003 Friday REGION EDITION

BYLINE: STEVE LEVIN, POST-GAZETTE STAFF WRITER

SECTION: NATIONAL, Pg.A-1

LENGTH: 931 words

DATELINE: DALLAS


Claiming that the current leadership of the Episcopal Church had abused its
office and should repent and reverse this summer's confirmation of a
non-celibate gay priest as bishop, conservative church leaders yesterday
appealed to worldwide Anglican officials to "guide the realignment of
Anglicanism in North America."

A small group of key clergy and laity behind the written appeal -- hammered out
during a two-day conference here -- will deliver it next week to the Archbishop
of Canterbury and the 37 primate leaders of the Anglican Communion.

The emergency meeting of the primates in London has been called to discuss the
decision by a majority of Episcopalians at this summer's triennial convention to
confirm the gay priest, the Rev. V. Gene Robinson, and allow the tacit approval
of same-sex blessings.

The conservative American leaders, led by Bishop Robert W. Duncan Jr. of the
Pittsburgh Diocese, will present some 2,700 copies of the Dallas petition that
were signed by conference attendees.

"We are not leaving [the Episcopal Church]," said the Rev. David C. Anderson,
president and chief executive officer of the American Anglican Council, the
conference's sponsor. "They have left us.

"We are the rightful heirs of all the cultural legacy and faith of the Episcopal
Church. We are walking in the footsteps of the apostles. We'll have to see what
the primates decide as well."

While it's Archbishop of Canterbury Rowan Williams who ultimately will decide
what action, if any, to take, Duncan yesterday all but guaranteed that at the
very least the primates would issue a stinging rebuke of Episcopal Church
leadership, along with Robinson and his supporters for actions "utterly
destructive to this communion."

"The primates find this intolerable," Duncan said of the leaders of the world's
70 million Anglicans. "If the primates do nothing, the result would be a
devastated Episcopal Church. If Anglicanism fails at this moment to set its
house in order, then the Anglican Communion is in great jeopardy."

Details of the realignment and how long its implementation might take remain, in
large part, unknown.

Conservative leaders yesterday spoke of a new church that would extend north and
south of the present 2.3-million-member American Episcopal Church, which is part
of the Anglican Communion. Like-minded bishops would be encouraged to extend
their episcopal oversight, pastoral care and apostolic mission across current
diocesan borders, while providing support for "isolated and beleaguered"
individuals, congregations and parishes in more liberal dioceses.

Changes could occur within months, but conservatives cautioned that they were
"humbly petitioning" the primates for intervention, not demanding.

They stressed that realignment does not mean establishment of a second parallel
province in the United States. Anderson said such a move would place
conservatives "on equal footing with the current Episcopal Church leadership and
their theology, which is no longer Anglican and, perhaps, no longer Christian."

The presiding bishop of the Episcopal Church, USA, the Most Rev. Frank T.
Griswold, is one of the primates headed to London next week. In a statement
yesterday, he expressed concern about the Dallas meeting's "inflammatory
rhetoric."

"In such a climate," the statement read, "mutual pursuit of ways to build up
rather than tear down is made more difficult, and the vast deposit of faith upon
which we all agree is obscured."

The Dallas petition is called "A Place to Stand: A Call to Action." In addition
to seeking the primates' intervention, it also:

Repudiates Robinson's confirmation and the General Convention's acceptance this
summer of same-sex blessings.

Declares its commitment to "God's unconditional love for all people" while
affirming that marriage can only exist between a man and a woman.

Advocates a redirection of financial resources "to the fullest extent possible,
toward biblically orthodox missions and ministry and away from those structures
that support the unrighteous actions of the General Convention."

Calls for current Episcopal Church leadership to "repent and reverse the
unbiblical and schismatic actions of the General Convention."

The certitude of conference participants was evident in their responses to
surveys conducted by organizers.

Of the more than 1,440 respondents -- more than half of all participants -- 58
percent said they would "definitely or probably leave the Episcopal Church" if
no action were taken by the primates next week.

Ninety-seven percent said they thought the current crisis would split the church
and 98 percent said the primates should "firmly discipline" Episcopal Church
leadership.

Bishop Stephen H. Jecko of Florida echoed their feelings in a letter he wrote
during the conference to Griswold. He read it to attendees yesterday afternoon.

"Your public support, your vote and your intentions to consecrate V. Gene
Robinson is an abuse of the Office of the Presiding Bishop and clearly places
you at odds with a majority of the Anglican Communion and the Diocese of
Florida," the letter read.

"You must accept the consequences of your decision."

Anderson told the conference he envisioned a new church "cleansed of narcissism"
that would provide "a homecoming and a welcoming back to the global Anglican
family" of numerous splinter groups that have left the Episcopal Church during
the past 40 years over theological differences.

"You are standing right now on the fulcrum of history," he told the crowd.
"Press forward."

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Steve Levin can be reached at slevin@post-gazette.com or 412-263-1919.

                       Copyright 2003 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              195 of 283 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                   October 29, 2003 Wednesday SOONER EDITION

NO INTIMIDATING U.S., BUSH SAYS;
 AMERICA WON'T LOSE 'WILL' AS ATTACKS IN IRAQ MOUNT

BYLINE: ANN MCFEATTERS, POST-GAZETTE NATIONAL BUREAU

SECTION: NATIONAL, Pg.A-1

LENGTH: 1043 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


In a Rose Garden news conference that paralleled his above-the-fray Rose Garden
re-election strategy, President Bush yesterday insisted once again that the
mounting deaths of Americans in Iraq won't drive out the United States.

Bush said Iraq remains a "dangerous place" but defended his post-war policies
and said he was not ready to get into a debate with Democratic presidential
candidates on the issue.

But Bush said he would relish defending his record at the "appropriate time." He
said he would then say "the world is more peaceful and more free under my
leadership, and America is more secure. And that will be ... how I'll begin
describing our foreign policy."

A Gallup Poll published yesterday said 40 percent of Americans surveyed told
pollsters that the situation in Iraq had made them less confident of Bush's
ability to handle the nation's other problems, while 27 percent said the war had
made them more confident. Another third said it hadn't made much difference in
their opinions.

Despite the thousand Americans wounded and more than 350 killed in Iraq since
April, Bush said the efforts by suicide bombers and others to press the United
States to leave Iraq would not work. "They're not going to intimidate America,"
he vowed.

Asked how the United States was going to stop the escalating violence, he said
there would be more efforts to train Iraqi police officers, more U.S. diplomatic
pressure on Syria and Iran not to let terrorists cross their borders into Iraq
and a renewed effort to act quickly in reaction to intelligence of planned
attacks.

He said he assumed that the spate of attacks in and around Baghdad was the work
of Baathists who supported Saddam as well as of foreign terrorists and have been
intended to create fear, so that the U.S.-led occupation forces will "lose their
will" to persevere.

He repeated his insistence that the United States was now involved in a
long-term war and that the domestic assaults of Sept. 11, 2001, showed that a
state of war is now a permanent condition of American life and that another
attack should be expected.

"The terrorists will strike, and they will kill innocent life -- not only in
front of a Red Cross headquarters [in Baghdad, scene of a fatal bombing Monday],
they will strike and kill in America too. We are at war," he said.

The killings around Iraq stem from what Bush called "the same mentality ... that
attacked us on September the 11th, 2001: Just destroy innocent life, and watch
the great United States and [its] friends and allies ... crater in the face of
hardship."

Asked if he misspoke when he declared in May that the military battle for Iraq
was over, Bush refused to concede that the administration had underestimated the
job still to be done in Iraq.

But the president insisted that the giant "Mission Accomplished" banner that
flew aboard the USS Abraham Lincoln, where he made his May declaration, had been
raised to honor the troops on board, not his Iraq policy.

Bush seemed to be speaking ruefully, however, when he added: "I know it was
attributed somehow to some ingenious advance man from my staff. They weren't
that ingenious, by the way."

The president did not say whether he would order more troops to Iraq beyond the
current 130,000 already there, as some military experts have suggested.

He said that decision remained in the hands of Army Gen. John Abizaid, the U.S.
military commander in the Middle East. Whenever he asks whether Abizaid has
everything he needs, Bush said, the general and Defense Secretary Donald
Rumsfeld both assure him that troop levels are adequate.

Bush said that while his strategy will be to continue in Iraq until the country
is safe for democracy, "the tactics to respond to ... more suiciders driving
cars will alter on the ground: more checkpoints -- whatever they [occupation
force leaders] decide [about] how to harden targets will change. And so, we're
constantly looking at the enemy and adjusting."

But Bush insisted that conditions were improving in Iraq and noted that schools
and hospitals have been reopening and that some women are starting their own
small businesses. He said electric capacity had returned to prewar levels and
that nearly 2 million barrels of oil a day were being produced for Iraq's
citizens. He repeated his belief that Saddam's vaunted weapons of mass
destruction -- a central justification for the war, though they have yet to be
found -- may still be uncovered.

The president said U.S. taxpayers should pay the additional $87 billion he has
requested for military action and rebuilding of Iraq and Afghanistan because
"it's a one-time expenditure" and because "a secure, a peaceful and free Iraq is
essential to the security, future security of America." Despite strong debate,
Congress appears ready to send him the financial package nearly intact.

Although most of the 18 questions in the 48-minute session with reporters were
about Iraq, Bush said in an opening statement that Americans should be more
optimistic about the economy. With a new Gallup poll showing that 47 percent of
Americans say economic conditions are improving, Bush said he saw "broad and
gathering strength" in the economy. But he won't be satisfied, he said, until
all those seeking jobs find them.

Bush again said he would sign newly passed legislation banning certain
late-stage abortion procedures but said the philosophical climate in America
that opposes banning all abortions has not changed.

He also defended the controversial decision by his brother, Florida Gov. Jeb
Bush, to restore the feeding tubes for a woman declared in a permanent
vegetative state, whose husband has won court approval for her to be removed
from life support and allowed to die.

Bush said he still wanted to know whether someone in his administration leaked
the name of a CIA spy to reporters, a potentially criminal offense that is being
investigated by the Justice Department. And he said that if there were a way for
his staff to provide information to the high-level, bipartisan commission
exploring intelligence failures before the Sept. 11 terror attacks without
compromising the president's need for candid intelligence briefings, he'd try to
be helpful.

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Charles Dharapak/Associated Press: President Bush makes his way
to yesterday's news conference in the Rose Garden at the White House.

                       Copyright 2003 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              200 of 283 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                     December 5, 2003 Friday SOONER EDITION

THIS TITAN MAY WELL BE KING OF TRUCKS

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg.C-3 WALLET WATCHERS

LENGTH: 827 words


The "road less traveled" is getting awfully well-worn these days for Nissan.

The company that is resolutely going its own way - and successfully so - with
new products that have cutting-edge designs and unusual features is about to try
the same approach in the truck field.

This month, it will launch the 2004 Nissan Titan, a genuinely full-size pickup
that is larger than its competitors in many ways - and better-looking, too.

All of this is important because the domestic pickup truck market has been
awfully hard for foreign manufacturers to crack . Imported trucks, so the
stereotypical thinking goes, are too small, ugly, underpowered and lightweight
for all the things Americans want them to do. They also are made overseas,
hardly a selling point with some potential buyers.

That all may be about to change. First, the Titan is built in a new plant in
Mississippi, putting the kibosh on "not Made in America" objections. But more
important, it's a terrific product that will, I predict, guarantee some pretty
awful nightmares for its American - and Japanese - competitors.

I drove a pre-production model so new it didn't have an owner's manual yet, so
my final conclusions will have to await a full test of a regular production
model. But just take a look at the stats.

The Titan's towing capabilities, at 9,500 pounds, ties the largest maximum
towing capacity I could find for a 2004 Ford F-150 SuperCab. The comparable
figure for the Chevy Silverado Extended Cab is 6,800 pounds, and the Toyota
Tundra AccessCab at 7,100 pounds.  Advantage: Titan.

As far as horsepower goes, the Titan has a 5.6-liter, 305-horsepower V-8 that
puts out a lusty 379 pounds feet of torque or "pushing power." If you consider
just light duty pickups - not such high- performance models as Chevy SS, Ford
Lightning or heavy-duty models, the Titan on paper would edge out the biggest
engine currently available, the 2004 Ford F-150's 5.4-liter, 300-horsepower V-8
that puts out 365 pounds of torque.

But the Titan might have its hands full with the big bruiser on the block - a
Hemi-powered Dodge Ram 1500. That puts out 345 horsepower from its 5.7-liter V-8
with 375 pounds of torque. Meanwhile, Toyota's Tundra has a 240-horsepower
motor.

Size-wise, Nissan says, the Titan is almost as long as the F-150, just a bit
shorter than the Chevy, and has more headroom than all but the F-150, more
legroom than the others and more shoulder room than all but the Chevy.

It falls short only when it comes to payload. According to Nissan's figures, the
Titan KingCab has a maximum payload of 1,780 pounds, vs.  2,970 for the F 150,
1,645 for Silverado and 1,800 pounds for the Tundra.

But the larger point remains the same: Nissan is quite serious about challenging
and beating everyone else in the full-size pickup playing field.

The deal closer for many may well be the price. You'll be able to get a Titan
King Cab XE 4x2 at a base price of $22,400, a Titan Crew Cab XE 4x2 for $25,100
and the Titan King Cab XE 4x4 for $25,500. Of course, there are a lot of other
models, options and variations available, some of which can push the price to
$34,200. But the bargain-level base prices still qualify for our "Wallet
Watcher" designation.

As for neat new features, you can get such things as a factory applied spray-on
bedliner, a lockable climate resistant bedside storage compartment that is just
behind the driver's side rear wheel well, and something that Nissan calls a
"utili-track bed channel" system that has adjustable aluminum alloy tie-down
cleats. You'll also be able to get accessory racks, trays, dividers and modular
storage systems.

The standard equipment list is generous, too: a five-speed automatic, power
adjustable front seats, fold-flat front passenger seat center console on bucket
seat models, oversize assist grips and coat hanger system, power rack and pinion
steering, tire pressure monitoring system and other goodies.

Styling? It's different. With chiseled edges, sharply angled windshield and a
geometric-looking front end, it's all 21st century. I liked it, but some might
find it too hard-edged and cold inside.

I also noticed that the Titan rode better than its competitors. It absorbed
bumps beautifully, was well made and quite the speedster on the highway.

Only minor problems: Lots of bothersome reflections on the rear window glass and
driver's mirrors, some roughness from the engine during acceleration and perhaps
just a bit too much plastic on the dash.

So where does it fit in the market?

My initial conclusions are that the Titan, because of its "wowee" factor inside
and out, won't appeal to those looking for a plainer workaday hauler, though
it's plenty able to handle that task based on its specs.

But buyers awed by stunning performance, deep exhaust rumble, top-notch ride
characteristics and a sporty, high-tech interior will find it hard to consider
anything else.

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Don Hammonds can be reached at dhammonds@post-gazette.com or by calling
412-263-1538.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Nissan's Titan King Cab, a challenge to domestic trucks.

                       Copyright 2003 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              204 of 283 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                   December 21, 2003 Sunday TWO STAR EDITION

HOW THE STEEL CITY CAN BECOME THE 'INNER COAST' OF FILM MAKING;
 IF WE WANT PEOPLE TO MAKE MOVIES HERE, STATE AND LOCAL GOVERNMENTS NEED TO
PROVIDE TAX BENEFITS, TODD ECKERT SAYS.

SECTION: EDITORIAL, Pg.E-3

LENGTH: 567 words


The push by Pennsylvania lawmakers to create an economically enticing
environment for the film industry is crucial if the region is to have any
ongoing participation in the business whatsoever.  The best way to create that
enticement is through tax benefits made directly to productions.  Here's why:

Pennsylvania in general, and Pittsburgh specifically, is a location for
productions, not the source of funding, nor a place where films are, for the
most part, initiated.

The historical footholds of New York and Los Angeles remain the financial hubs
of the industry in this country.

That means a location is a commodity, much like wood for a set, lighting
equipment or transportation.  The commodities that are most frequently chosen in
any business are those that provide the best value for the money.

A recently passed tax initiative in the state of Louisiana, for example, has
elevated the state's position to that of a production location hub -- because
the commodity is less expensive there.

The concept of "runaway production," particularly to Canada, suggests a certain
malevolence or irresponsibility on the part of filmmakers.  But such an outlook
is unfair.

As the cost of creating any product escalates, and certainly film production
costs have been rising as steadily as those of any other major industry in
America, the companies that make that product -- in this case the producers --
must strive to cut costs wherever possible.

Canada embraced this ideology and their film industry went from near-nonexistent
to booming.  It remains booming and has stimulated the country's overall economy
in more ways than mere production values could ever indicate.

What began in that country as a series of location destinations, much like
Pittsburgh, has become a year-round industry populated with thriving studios,
post-production houses, ancillary media businesses such as video game
development and an average income of over $65,000 US per year.

If anything, Pennsylvania lawmakers are not doing enough to entice the film
industry to the state.  A slight tax benefit (and by all accounts the initiative
being contemplated is just that) would simply put the state on par with others
throughout the country -- several of which offer more attractive climates, more
depth in sophisticated crews and associated industries such as development labs
and CGI (computer generated imagery) facilities.

A full-scale incentive blitz to bring the film industry to Pennsylvania on a
large scale would create high-paying, clean jobs, elevate the region's
perception around the world and stimulate tremendous off-shoot business
opportunities.

Pittsburgh, entrenched in one of its worst fiscal crises ever, would be wise to
lead that charge on a municipal level, augmenting the state-initiated drive.
There is no better way to change the image of the "steel city" than by replacing
it with "today's media town."

Such a drive would not in any way reduce city income from existing taxes
collected, but rather would serve as a fresh boost to the tax base by bringing
new dollars in -- dollars that would otherwise be spent elsewhere (Montreal,
probably).

And if handled in an aggressive, prudent manner, there's no reason the film
industry could not call Pittsburgh the "inner coast" for years to come. It just
takes the vision, sophistication and tenacity to make it happen.


LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Todd Eckert is a Pittsburgh-based media financial consultant, working with
banks, studios, producers and governments in the creation of large scale media
funding vehicles. His e-mail address is teckert@polygongamefund.com

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: In the beginning: George A. Romero, writer/director, filmed the
cult film favorite "Night of the Living Dead" here in 1968.

                       Copyright 2003 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              206 of 283 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                     August 19, 2003 Tuesday SOONER EDITION

RATES VS. RISKS;
 THURSDAY'S MASSIVE BLACKOUT SPARKS CALLS FOR RE-REGULATION TO ENCOURAGE POWER
COMPANIES TO UPGRADE LINES. THE BOTTOM LINE? HIGHER RATES

BYLINE: BRAD FOSS, THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg.C-9

LENGTH: 882 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The companies that deliver electricity have had little incentive to make the
kinds of capital improvements that might have helped contain last week's
blackout. For that to change, experts say, utilities will need to be allowed to
charge more for power.

And that could mean greater government intervention in a market that in recent
years has been moving the opposite way through widespread deregulation that has
freed utilities to enter and exit new businesses and compete for customers on
price.

"We need to come up with clear and consistent rules," said John Howe, vice
president of electric industry affairs at American Superconductor Corp., a
Westborough, Mass.-based maker of power grid equipment.

Specifically, Howe said, the federal government needs to guarantee utilities a
higher rate of return on its investments in the power grid. Currently, utilities
get a federally guaranteed rate of return of about 10 percent; in order for them
to charge more for transmission costs, state regulators will need to approve
higher retail rates.

Utilities have been reluctant to spend money on adding to or upgrading their
systems in recent years because higher returns on their investment had been
available in unregulated businesses such as power generation and trading.

Price competition also has determined who wins -- and loses -- customers and
investors, acting as a further disincentive among utilities to invest in the
industry's infrastructure.

Another obstacle, according to utility executives, has been people's resistance
to having new power lines built in their neighborhoods. And, they note, making
improvements to the grid in one area often benefits consumers far away, and
utilities say they need the ability to pass along construction costs to
ratepayers outside their service area.

These issues have been debated within the industry for years, but last week's
massive power outage was a "turning point," said Jose Rotger, director of
regulatory policy at TransEnergie U.S., a subsidiary of Canada's Hydro-Quebec
utility.

Rotger said the climate could now differ radically from the 1990s, when the
emphasis was on energy deregulation with less government intervention. State and
federal agencies must, however, now "let rates increase in order to fund this
investment," he said.

Hoff Stauffer, senior consultant at Cambridge Energy Research Associates in
Cambridge, Mass., said the country desperately needed to boost its ability to
transfer electricity from areas where it is abundant to areas of persistent
need.

Stauffer said better interconnectivity between the Midwest, the Northeast and
Canada could have prevented Thursday's blackout -- which appears to have started
in Ohio -- from spreading.

Had sufficient capacity existed, he said, surges of power might have dissipated
across the region; instead, generators were forced to shut down lest they
further overload the system.

Over the past decade, utilities spent billions on building new power plants, an
area of the business that delivered hefty profits (at least until the sagging
economy and an eventual oversupply caused electricity prices to fall and their
profits to plummet.) That left the country with ample juice, but an inadequate
delivery system.

Further, with their balance sheets weakened, those same companies today cannot
easily raise the capital needed to strengthen the grid even if they wanted to.
This makes government help even more necessary, experts say.

To that end, a $210 million upgrade on California's "Path 15," an 84-mile
stretch from Coalinga to Los Banos that played a role in a series of 2001
blackouts there, got significant government help.

Federal regulators authorized a slightly higher rate of return for
Virginia-based Trans-Elect Transmission, which is expanding Path 15's capacity.
The upgrade, expected to be done by late next year, is expected to add about 20
cents per month to California electric bills.

If anything, the lessons learned from California's electricity problems should
make consumers across the country leery of solutions that involve less
government regulation, said Tyson Slocum, research director of energy programs
for Public Citizen, a consumer group.

"Re-regulation is the solution we should be working for," he said.

That said, last week's blackout also is likely to intensify a legislative battle
over the 68-year-old Public Utility Holding Company Act.

The Depression-era reforms established the rigid boundaries that confine
utilities to regional markets and restrict investments by foreigners and
companies from outside the power industry.

Utility executives and the Bush administration are pushing Congress to repeal
the law, depicting it as an antiquated measure that has retarded the industry's
growth and pushed away investors who might help finance improvements in the
power grid.

But consumer activists are fighting to preserve the restrictions, arguing that a
repeal would pave the way for local utilities to be devoured by giant companies
that would be more interested in boosting profits than upgrading power lines.

An energy bill that would repeal the act has already passed in the Senate. If
the proposal wins House approval, the utility restrictions could be lifted late
next year.


LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
AP Business Writer Michael Liedtke in San Francisco contributed to this report.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gene J. Puskar/Associated Press: Pennsylvania Power and Light's
electrical line towers stood proudly atop Bald Eagle Mountain in Williamsport on
Friday afternoon, oblivious to the blackout that hit elsewhere a day earlier and
stretched from New York City to Michigan. The massive power failure has anxious
authorities examining how to prevent more and how to pay for it.

                       Copyright 2003 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              212 of 283 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                   December 28, 2003 Sunday FIVE STAR EDITION

NORWAY'S PREMIER RUNS INTO EGALITARIAN ROAD RULES

BYLINE: WALTER GIBBS, THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: WORLD, Pg.A-4

LENGTH: 732 words

DATELINE: OSLO, Norway


In egalitarian Norway, where the late, beloved King Olav was known to take the
streetcar, it is everyone's business when the prime minister buys a luxurious,
bombproof limousine.

Weighing in at more than four tons, the exquisite black BMW 760 Li B7 arrived
from Germany in mid-October. Given that al-Qaida had recently threatened Norway,
of all countries, with "an inferno," no one begrudged Prime Minister Kjell Magne
Bondevik the protection of the car's steel armor and thick glass windows.

But in this small, transparent social democracy, the rules of the road are
applied to everyone. And according to the rules, Bondevik's new chariot was too
heavy -- by 88 pounds.

"The vehicle has been fitted with so much armor that its total weight exceeds
what we can approve," said Bjorn Olberg, head of the motor vehicle inspection
station where the prime minister's staff took the car to be registered. "The law
is the same for all. There can be no dispensation."

The car, ordered almost two years ago, is a standard high-security model used by
politicians and executives throughout Europe. But Norway, which has twice
rejected European Union membership, has its own strict safety rules limiting
automobile axle loads. One might think Bondevik could cite national security or
common sense and set off in his new wheels. Not here.

"The government's cars are registered in the normal way, and we must stick to
the code," said Oeivind Oestang, the prime minister's spokesman. "Otherwise
there would be a political debate."

Bondevik, a Christian Democrat, knows the peril of acting imperiously in a land
of 4.5 million equals. When a news team clocked his chauffeured car moving 74
mph in a 50-mph zone a few years ago, the newspapers ran blistering editorials.
An even shriller outcry occurred when one of his predecessors, Gro Harlem
Brundtland, used a blinking blue light to cut through traffic and reach an
airline flight on state business.

"Prime minister or shoemaker, it makes no difference," said Inge Lonning, vice
president of the country's Parliament. "That's Norwegian tradition."

As aides debated what to do with the burly new BMW, it remained parked for six
weeks at an undisclosed location without plates. The prime minister continued
moving about in his 1998-model car, which was described as "a little worn out,"
with 160,000 miles on the odometer. It, too, was armored, and officials insisted
that Bondevik was safe. But the older vehicle had less steel and fewer security
features than his protective-service agents thought prudent in today's climate.

Bondevik himself refrained from commenting on the bureaucratic standstill. So
did BMW. But instead of losing interest, journalists started dwelling on the new
car's luxurious appointments -- in particular the motorized, reclining rear seat
that would allow Bondevik to sleep in comfort during the two-hour ride between
the capital and his vacation cottage on Norway's southern coast.

Politically, this was an ominous change of emphasis, for if anything ruffles
Norwegian sensibilities more than special treatment under the law, it may be the
open enjoyment of luxury.

The country has gone from poor to wealthy in a generation or two, thanks to its
North Sea oil, but the national ethic is based on thrift, self-effacement and a
leveling tax code.

Bondevik, a 56-year-old Lu-theran minister, is abstemious by nature, but the
idea of him reclining in a leather throne in the back of a four-ton black
limousine, if allowed to crystallize, would please only his rivals in the
socialistic Labor Party.

To get the car on the road and the story out of the papers, aides first
considered removing 88 pounds of steel armor plate. But reducing security was
deemed unwise. They also thought about re-engineering the axle and suspension
systems, thus qualifying the car for registration in another technical class.
But that would be costly, and journalists were already peppering Bondevik's
office with questions (thus far unanswered) about the car's price.

The solution, when it finally came, was elegant given the political imperatives.

"We have decided," Oestang announced, "to send the car back to the factory and
have the back seat removed. It will be replaced by a more standard seat that
weighs quite a lot less. The car will be returned to use in a couple of weeks
and can then be approved."

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2003 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              222 of 283 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                     January 17, 2003 Friday SOONER EDITION

PT CRUISER GETS SOME POP TO GO WITH RETRO

BYLINE: DONALD I. HAMMONDS, POST-GAZETTE STAFF WRITER

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg.C-11

LENGTH: 485 words


Drumroll, please -- the long-awaited, much-desired extra oomph for the popular
PT Cruiser is finally here.

The 2003 model year brought the turbo engine and it can really scoot.

I don't need to introduce you to the PT Cruiser, of course. It's a terrific
retro-styled car that is still selling like hot cakes several years after its
introduction. And it still turns heads on the streets and draws comments, a
sure-fire sign that the design is a classic one.

But the one knock has always been that it's too s-l-o-w -- though I found the
old engine adequate for most of my needs.

You still won't be heading to any drag strips with the new one, but it certainly
does represent an improvement. The old one hit 60 in about 8.6 seconds, while
published reports put the PT Cruiser GT at 7.2 seconds to 60. The turbocharged,
2.4-liter engine puts out 215 horsepower, compared with 150 horsepower in the
regular engine, and produces 245 pounds/feet of torque that is very obvious as
the engine revs up.

The extra pop, along with leather, sunroof, heated seats, chrome exhausts and
wheels, power windows, automatic and air will set you back $25,900. You also can
get a heavy-duty five-speed manual, which is standard, if you prefer to shift
yourself.

Also standard on the turbo are a performance exhaust system that has a larger
diameter chrome exhaust tip, ABS with traction control, all-season performance
tires and aluminum wheels, and four-wheel disc brakes.

If you're wondering how to tell the standard PT from the turbo model, check out
the bumpers first. On the turbo, they're the same color as the body. There also
are performance seats, silver cluster gauges and a neat silver shift knob to
distinguish the turbo model.

There are a few changes I would like to see made. I know that the door handles
with push buttons go along with the retro look, but it got to be annoying when I
kept pulling on the door handle as you would with any other car.

Also, it would be nice if the back doors unlocked at the same time the front
doors do with the remote key.

Inside, I'd move the buttons for the defrosters and related equipment near the
climate control system, where you're more likely to look for them. Also, the
heated seat buttons are hard to reach once you're seated because they are
attached to the seat bolster on the driver's side.

Other than that, you get the same wonderful qualities that come with the regular
PT Cruiser. First and foremost, solid construction with no rattles or squeaks.

You get that "personalized" cozy feeling as you drive because of the small size
and the fact that the cabin wraps around you. You get sterling road manners,
including lean-free handling, too.

They kept the good things -- and gave us PT lovers just what we wanted: more
power.


2003 Chrysler PT Cruiser GT.

Price: $25,900.

Fuel economy: 19 mpg city, 25 mpg highway.

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Donald I. Hammonds can be reached at dhammonds@post-gazette.com or 412-263-1538.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: 2002 Crystler PT Cruiser GT

                       Copyright 2003 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              230 of 283 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                    February 21, 2003 Friday SOONER EDITION

PITT WON'T JOIN TEMPLE ON SAME-SEX BENEFITS

BYLINE: BILL SCHACKNER, POST-GAZETTE STAFF WRITER

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg.A-1

LENGTH: 839 words


University of Pittsburgh Chancellor Mark Nordenberg says Temple University's
decision to grant domestic partner benefits to employees is "probably a positive
thing" but doesn't change Pitt's belief that it's not yet prudent to offer the
benefit there.

Nordenberg, whose school is being sued for discrimination by seven employees
seeking domestic partner benefits, yesterday offered Pitt's first response to
Temple's decision to become Pennsylvania's only public university to offer the
coverage to employees.

The chancellor said he couldn't predict the fallout in Harrisburg where
conservative legislators oppose same-sex benefits but the state's new governor,
Democrat Ed Rendell, has a record of supporting them.

In interviews with the Post-Gazette last Friday, two conservative legislators
suggested their colleagues might be willing to punish Temple. Yesterday, Rendell
spokesman Ken Snyder said the governor would not support such legislation or
"impose a moral litmus test" on a university that believes the benefits are
needed to stay competitive.

He said that's true with Temple, Pitt, Penn State University or any other public
university, all among the state's largest employers.

"The stakes are so high. Pennsylvania is losing 1,000 jobs a day. The economy is
contracting," Snyder said. "Legislators should be rolling up their sleeves and
working as hard as they can to find ways to create jobs, not ways to possibly
hurt employers...

"Punishing a university that implements this policy would be cutting off your
nose to spite your face," Snyder said.

In remarks to school trustees, Nordenberg made it plain yesterday that Pitt's
stand in its lawsuit had not changed. He reminded the board that a judge already
had found that the school's policy against offering the benefit did not amount
to intentional discrimination against gays.

Yet in comments to the board and reporters afterward, Nordenberg said he stood
ready to help Temple President David Adamany deal with repercussions over that
school's decision to go a different route.

"I certainly hope their funding is not in jeopardy and would work with them to
try to protect their state funding stream," Nordenberg said.

He said he extended that offer directly to Adamany and expected Temple's
president to "probably get back to me [to] suggest ways in which we might be
allied with respect to that issue.

"I think that clearly they have done what they think is best for Temple. In
taking this step, they've acted freely, and it's probably a positive thing,"
Nordenberg said.

"Clearly, I think the responses of the legislators to this step taken by Temple
will put us in a better position to gauge what the political climate is like in
Harrisburg," he said.

For now, Pitt will continue to be guided by a special panel convened to study
the matter. It has already issued a number of recommendations.

"They include, as I said in the statement, that ultimately a majority of major
employers will provide these benefits and the University of Pittsburgh ought to
be among them," Nordenberg said.

But the panel also concluded that Pitt "ought to chart a course that is
appropriate for the university, both politically and fiscally," he said.

Even if Pitt were to follow Temple's lead, Nordenberg said, it would not make
the lawsuit moot because the seven current and former employees represented by
the American Civil Liberties Union want Pitt to pay for their coverage.

Under Temple's plan, gay couples would pay the premium themselves, though at a
rate offered through the university's health plan that would probably be less
than if they approached an insurer themselves, Temple officials said.

Temple's decision to offer the benefits as soon as this month grew from
collective bargaining agreements with unions representing about 2,100 faculty,
white-collar staff and graduate students, equal to nearly 40 percent of Temple's
full-time work force. Adamany said implementation will not require state or
university funds.

Eligibility requirements vary with union contract language.

For example, Temple pays 85 percent of the family health insurance costs for
faculty and staff unions, said Martin Dorph, a Temple vice president for
finance. Therefore, heterosexual couples meeting the state's common-law marriage
requirement are covered, while those who do not would have to pay the premium
themselves.

Same-sex couples in all cases would pay because they are not covered by
Pennsylvania's common law marriage provisions, he said. In the case of Temple's
graduate student union, same-sex and heterosexual couples would pay the premium
because Temple's contract with the group pays for only individual coverage,
Dorph said.

Yesterday, five Pitt students, including the head of the campus gay and lesbian
student group, left the board meeting during Nordenberg's remarks. Josh Ferris,
21, head of the Rainbow Alliance, called the chancellor's position, helping
Adamany while resisting the benefit at Pitt, "ludicrous."

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Bill Schackner can be reached at bschackner@post-gazette.com or 412-263-1977.

                       Copyright 2003 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              234 of 283 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                    March 26, 2003 Wednesday SOONER EDITION

MOM WHOSE SON ENLISTED FLIES FLAG, PROTESTS WAR

SECTION: LIFESTYLE, Pg.E-2

LENGTH: 697 words


We were standing at the flagpole, Jan and Griff and I, talking about America. It
was morning in Stanton Heights, and Old Glory flew from every other porch and
entryway.

It was again wartime. That or some Orwellian fantasy, as Jan had suggested.

The flagpole in front of her house is a 20-footer. It flies the Stars and
Stripes and the official flag of the U.S. Navy, in which Jan's son, Jack, serves
his country on a fast-attack nuclear submarine. Griff, her younger son, a senior
at Peabody, is headed for Allegheny College.

We were looking at the lamps on Jan's lawn, the ones that illuminate the flag at
night. At night, you've got to either take the flag down or light it. That's
right there in your flag rulebook.

Jan O'Reilly knows these things. Her father and uncles served in World War II,
her brother in Vietnam, and today she's got a son and a nephew in the service
for the Big Orwellian. Her nephew, Josh, enlisted the day after 9/11.

And here's what else Jan O'Reilly knows: It's OK to fly the flag and be against
the war, a distinction that continues to elude some people in George Bush's
America.

"We're a patriotic and proud family," she said. "But I'm not willing to sit by
while I'm lied to and my son is placed in harm's way for the whim and ego of a
man not qualified to be commander-in-chief. I've worked nearly 30 years at
promoting international cooperation and peace, and I feel like we've committed
untold harm on our standing in the world community. It will take decades to
repair this."

I asked her how she saw the changes in the 60-some years of emotional challenges
war has presented. The American cause in World War II seemed so righteous, in
Vietnam so dubious, in this one, so insane.

"It's a lot more difficult now," she said. "The issues are very complex. People
want to see it as black and white. It's not."

Griff saw an opening for a rhetorical question. "When the president says,
'You're either with us or against us,' what is that?"

I'd say that's a simple statement for simple minds, but I don't have to.

Inside the house on the corner, they show me a picture of Jack in uniform. Jan
says it's not a very good picture. Jack's smiling, but you get the sense that he
has smiled more easily, more fully. His mother, a lawyer, says she begged him
not to enlist.

"I really, really didn't want him to go into the service. I wanted him to go to
college, but he always wanted to do this. I support him. I told him, 'There's
going to come a time when you're going to be asked to do something you don't
agree with.' He said he understood that.

"I was at a client's home the other night and some protesters were on
television. The woman said, 'I wish they'd stop and support our troops,' and I
said, 'Hey, I'm anti-war and my son is in the service.' Protesting and not
supporting the troops is not the same thing. There are hundreds of young people
in the service who are not really sure what we're doing. There are a lot of them
who don't believe in it, who don't understand it, but who are doing it anyway.'
"

For this Navy mom, the whole thing is so reminiscent of Vietnam it's almost
painful.

"In the ' 60s, I was barely able to speak to my parents -- they were staunch
Nixon supporters -- about anything going on in the world. I wanted my brother to
go to Canada. I promised to move there with him. He was unhappy, but didn't want
to let anyone down or look like a coward. I can honestly say in the year 2003
that my brother still hasn't come back from Vietnam. He was forever changed."

She wired together an uneasy peace at that time, mostly with herself. I asked
her how the life she's made as a lawyer and the single mom of two fighting-age
boys would have been different had she acquiesced to the Vietnam-era
establishment climate that so wanted to squelch dissent.

"My whole life would have been different," she said. "I'm the first person in my
family to get a degree and earn a graduate degree."

God bless them, all the military parents, all the Jacks, all the Jills, all the
Joshes, all the Griffs. I left the quiet street, the only sound the muted
slapping the flag makes in the breeze.


LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Gene Collier can be reached at gcollier@post-gazette.com or 412-263-1283.

                       Copyright 2003 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              239 of 283 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                     April 6, 2003 Sunday ONE STAR EDITION

CONSIDERING HOW PRODUCE IS GROWN MAY CHANGE THE WAY YOU GROW IT

SECTION: METRO, Pg.W-2

LENGTH: 872 words


I read lately that most fruits and vegetables travel about 800 miles to reach
your local supermarket. Considering the amount of produce coming out of
California and the Southwest, the distance is even longer to our stores here in
Pennsylvania.

Most of us accept that those far-off states have better growing conditions in
their stable climates, and we're happy that the tomatoes or radishes or
strawberries grow uniformly and are blemish-free. Mostly, I figure we don't
think about any of it much at all. We just buy the broccoli and have it for
dinner.

But reading that mileage figure made me think about how activists for
sustainable gardening encourage farming closer to home. We might not be able to
grow fields of lettuce here in January, but farms around these parts definitely
can grow corn and beans and tomatoes in July. And, for that matter, we backyard
gardeners can, too.

Sustainable gardening is a very personal way of growing food. Gardeners, or
market farmers if the produce is to be sold, have a close relationship with the
land being worked. They know that good soil is key to growing in this season and
for all the seasons to come.

I read a description of an organic farm's soil compared to a modern, traditional
farm's that illuminated the difference for me. "The Botany of Desire" by Michael
Pollan opened my eyes to a megafarm's routine and to a number of other
horticultural surprises. I may never eat a store-bought potato's skin again.

Pollan tells of a large Idaho potato farm that produced one variety of potato,
Russet Burbanks -- acres upon thousands of acres of Russet Burbanks. The
potatoes grow in sterile, gray-looking dust. The fields are called "clean" in
that they've been "cleansed of all weeds and insects and disease -- of all life,
that is, with the sole exception of the potato plant."

Potatoes in these fields grow big and beautiful and perfect, but the farm was
more factory than barnyard operation. Using computer-operated equipment, the
owner could "water his fields or spray them with pesticide without so much as
stepping outside."

Besides the oddness of the industrial mechanization this kind of farming must
use, the entire system is created around a practice that is completely
illogical. Growing a single species of plant (also known as a monoculture)
creates its own formula for disaster.

Insects and soil pathogens home in on this feast and move in if defenses fall
for one minute. Crop production is dictated by a regimen of pesticide,
herbicide, fertilizer and fungicide applications. Any large-scale farmer will
swear that he has to follow this prescription to keep bugs at bay while growing
his crop.

Pollan also wrote of a visit with an organic potato farmer who had an entirely
different strategy, and his soil showed it. The dirt in his fields was dark,
loamy and alive. He made sure that his potatoes would be strong by giving them
this foundation for hearty growth.

Instead of a synthetic chemical bombardment, this farmer worked with nature's
cycles and his own intricate planning to create an environment perfectly suited
to his potatoes' needs.

Animal manure and cover crops, known as green manure, enrich his soil. Instead
of a single variety of potato, this farmer grew about a dozen kinds. The genetic
diversity ensured that if one variety failed for one reason or another, the
others would still yield a crop.

He "tricked" potato beetles by planting wheat in fields before he grew potatoes
(simple crop rotation).

And he grew flowering plants around potato patches, inviting beneficial insects
into his fields.

This farmer's potatoes could be dug, washed and eaten raw if a person felt like
it, although most of us prefer potatoes cooked.

The factory farm's potatoes couldn't be eaten within a number of days following
certain chemical applications.

How does any of this apply to us backyard gardeners?

Well, just go to a local garden center or discount store, and you'll get the
connection. Shelves overflow with synthetic products to help grow bigger, better
plants. Herbicides, pesticides and fertilizers would appear to be the only means
for getting anything to grow. Sound familiar?

Home gardeners can use some of the same sustainable agriculture principles of
soil building and creative pest control that organic farmers use. It's a known
fact that if a plant grows strong, it can withstand the onslaught of insects
that may come.

And when it's warranted, certain benign bug killers are available to keep heavy
infestations at bay. Something as simple as a soap spray can be helpful.

Good soil, plenty of sunshine, water and a mindset of preserving the Earth's
blessings for the next generation can make this your bumper-crop year. Start
planning now to reduce your synthetic chemical use and learn more about organic
gardening techniques.

And when you can't grow your own, buy locally grown produce to support our
area's small farmers. You might be surprised to learn how many are growing
organically.

Michelle Moore is a horticulturist and freelance writer from Holbrook, Greene
County. She can be reached by e-mail at michelle.moore@mail.wvu.edu. Moore's
columns appear in Washington Sunday and South.

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2003 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              249 of 283 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                       May 6, 2003 Tuesday SOONER EDITION

SERVICE ECONOMY GAUGE JUMPS UNEXPECTEDLY

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg.D-4

LENGTH: 230 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


Activity in the service sector unexpectedly expanded in April, benefiting from
the end of the war in Iraq, a report released yesterday said.

The Institute for Supply Management said its non-manufacturing purchasing
managers index moved to 50.7 in April from 47.9 in March and 53.9 in February.
Index readings above 50 indicate expansion of activity and prices in the service
sector, while readings below 50 point to contraction. Economists had been
expecting weakness and had forecast a reading of 49.2 for April.

"With the ending of the war in Iraq, purchasing and supply executives report a
return to growth in business activity," the ISM said in a press release. The
group recorded increases in new orders for services and noted that falling oil
prices were lowering price pressures.

Despite the overall expansion in activity, the components comprising the April
ISM nonmanufacturing index were generally soft.

The ISM services employment index showed a moderating pace of job losses, with
that index at 48.2 in April after standing at 47.9 in March and 49 in February.
The new orders index improved to 50.6 after March's reading of 47.7 and
February's 53 level.

Price pressures continued to grow in April, albeit at a slower pace, at a
reading of 56.7 vs. March's reading of 62. The slowing rate of price increases
is due largely to falling oil prices.


LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2003 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              250 of 283 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                       May 11, 2003 Sunday REGION EDITION

BYLINE: JOE SMYDO, POST-GAZETTE STAFF WRITER

SECTION: METRO, Pg.W-9

LENGTH: 361 words


Storage center's air found not toxic but dirty

Washington County's records storage center passed an air quality test, but an
ex-employee and a union official said the air isn't as clean as officials make
it out to be.

Representatives of Service Employees International Union Local 585/668 had
demanded the test after Alexandra Minnis said she developed asthma and other
ailments while working there.

Following a sick leave, Minnis had been assigned a temporary position in the
elections office. She resigned last week, in part because she was dissatisfied
with the county's handling of her situation and in part because she wanted to
change careers.

"I can do better in life," said Minnis, who had been the center's only employee.

Michelle Miller-Kotula, county human resources director, said the air test
revealed "no threat to employee health and safety."

But Minnis and Becky Bailey, the union's assistant chief steward, said the air
isn't perfect. While the test found nothing toxic, they said, the evaluation
revealed dust and mold that had to be addressed.

"It was just dirty," Bailey said. Minnis said county officials "downplay a lot
of dust and mold, but that's what makes people sick."

Following the test, Miller-Kotula said, nonviolent offenders from the county's
community services program were assigned to do a general cleanup of the storage
center.

The county leases 10,000 square feet in the basement of a building on East Beau
Street, a couple of blocks from the courthouse.

Besides health concerns, Minnis and union officials had complained about
inadequate space, roaches, inadequate security and the danger of records
deteriorating in a room without a controlled climate.

Though county officials said the center passed the test, purchasing agent Nancy
Bielawski said other issues may force the county to find other storage space.

For convenience, she said, perhaps records should be stored in a building on
Main Street, nearer the courthouse and county office building. She said
seldom-used records could be shipped to a location farther away.

Joe Smydo can be reached at jsmydo@post-gazette.com or 724-746-8812.

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2003 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              253 of 283 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                      May 22, 2003 Thursday SOONER EDITION

WHITMAN LEAVES TOP POST AT EPA

BYLINE: ANN MCFEATTERS, POST-GAZETTE NATIONAL BUREAU

SECTION: NATIONAL, Pg.A-1

LENGTH: 977 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Christine Todd Whitman announced yesterday that she would resign as
Environmental Protection Agency administrator next month after a turbulent 2
1/2-year tenure during which she found herself frequently at odds with Bush
administration officials opposed to virtually any expansion of environmental
regulation.

In her resignation letter, she said she was proud to be leaving "America's air
cleaner, its water purer and its land better protected than it was when this
administration took office." She plans to step down June 27.

Whitman alerted the White House a few weeks ago that she would be leaving and
formally advised Bush in person Tuesday. "I said, 'It's time to go.' He said, 'I
know,' " Whitman told The Associated Press.

Whitman, 56, who was elected New Jersey's first female governor in 1994 and was
appointed EPA administrator in 2001, said she wanted to return to her family's
New Jersey estate, ride horses and be with her husband, John. She said she had
no plans to run for the U.S. Senate, as she did in 1990, when she lost narrowly
to the incumbent, Democrat Bill Bradley, who has since retired from the seat.

As Whitman began a farewell round of interviews, she vehemently protested that
she was not persona non grata at White House policy sessions. Yet rumors that
she was unhappy in the administration and would soon leave arose soon after the
White House publicly embarrassed her in March 2001 while she was on an
international trip to a Group of Eight environmental ministers meeting.

Before departing for Trieste, Italy, to deliver a speech to the G-8, she said,
she had confirmed with top Bush policy makers that the president intended to
approve new rules to reduce carbon-dioxide emissions in U.S. power plants and
factories, as he had pledged during his campaign. In fact, the White House
ultimately withdrew U.S. participation in the Kyoto Protocol on Global Warming.

From then on, it was one controversy after another as the perception grew that
she and Bush's top aides were often at loggerheads over imposing new
environmental regulations and rescinding those the Clinton administration had
implemented.

Within minutes of her resignation announcement yesterday, the National
Association of Manufacturers issued a statement saluting "her commitment to
constructive cooperation" and efforts to move the regulatory agency "away from
counterproductive confrontation."

House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Billy Tauzin, R-La., praised her
for a job well done and for "her strong commitment to a cleaner environment."

But environmentalists, who were prepared to support her when she came into
office, found themselves disappointed. Friends said Whitman, an avid
outdoorswoman but also a loyal Bush supporter, was stymied by administration
aides who were determined to undo what they felt were the regulatory excesses of
the Clinton years' anti-pollution efforts.

Whitman, who had worked hard to keep 1 million acres of New Jersey undeveloped
while she was governor, maintains that she is no firebrand environmentalist, but
instead a thoughtful steward who weighed the pros and cons of burdening industry
with costly new regulations.

The Sierra Club said yesterday that Whitman "did the best she could at the EPA,
but the Bush administration simply wouldn't allow her to do the job." It was
unfortunate that, despite her environmental credentials, she "wasn't given the
power to do the job of cracking down on polluters and protecting our families
and communities," Executive Director Carl Pope said.

Gregory Wetstone, the Natural Resources Defense Council's advocacy director,
declared that she had "presided over a White House-driven effort to undermine
crucial environmental laws. Although there have been a few exceptions, Whitman's
tenure at EPA has been a disaster for public health and our environment."

In recent weeks, Whitman has had a particularly bumpy ride. She was publicly
criticized for considering implementation of a cost-benefit analysis that would
have put a lower dollar figure on the lives of senior citizens than on others
and was forced to disavow that approach. She also has been chastised in the
media for having EPA professionals perform personal errands for her.

Some environmentalists lauded Whitman for recently implementing a rule to cut
diesel emissions in off-road vehicles and for her speeches about the
environment.

But critics said such positives were overshadowed by key EPA actions: The
decision to modify the Clean Water Act, ending federal protection for 20 million
acres of wetlands, and a plan to allow older power plants an easier path to meet
clean air rules. They complained that she did little to protect the ozone,
permitted more sewage in rivers and lakes, did nothing new to keep animal waste
out of farm streams and weakened laws guarding against mercury pollution.

Four months ago, Whitman declared that she had a full agenda at the EPA and
didn't intend to leave. "I'm not a quitter," she said, "I'm going to stay."

But Republicans on Capitol Hill since then had begun to indicate that they were
in no hurry to pass her prized Clean Skies initiative, which would force strong
reductions in health-threatening pollutants. There also were indications that
the White House was too preoccupied with other issues to spend time or political
capital on her effort.

At a chance encounter with a reporter, Whitman joked that most of her
conversations with Bush were not about substantive issues, but instead about the
Scottish terrier, Barney, that she had given him as a gift.

When Bush campaigned for the presidency, Whitman at one point was considered as
a potential running mate, but that prospect was abandoned when the Bush team
deemed her stance favoring abortion rights as too controversial with his core
conservative constituency.

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Christine Todd Whitman
 INFORMATIONAL GRAPHIC: Associated Press: (Whitman resigns)

                       Copyright 2003 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              255 of 283 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                     May 25, 2003 Sunday FIVE STAR EDITION

MAGIC PORTIONS;
 KEY TO LOSING WEIGHT: READJUSTING MIND AND BODY TO SMALLER AMOUNTS

SECTION: FOOD, Pg.G-9 HOMECOOKING WITH

LENGTH: 1683 words


Any diet will work. Any no-fat, no-carb, all-protein, all-grapefruit diet, even
the all-chocolate-all-the-time regimen that my daughter, Jessica, and I once
enjoyed at the Hershey Chocolate Festival, will do. We'll lose weight, and then,
if we stick to eating the same thing week after week, eventually we'll just die
of boredom.

We crave variety, and the American Dietetic Association is right. Eating well is
a product of variety, balance and moderation.

And the hardest of these is moderation.

That's why I was interested in Peggy Katalinich's "Eat What You Love & Lose:
Quick and Easy Diet Recipes from Our Test Kitchen." I met Peggy through the
Association of Food Journalists, and we have similar hazardous duties on the job
-- too much good food.

A native of Milwaukee who did stints at the Minneapolis Star and Newsday, she is
the food director of Family Circle magazine. The magazine has a circulation of
4.6 million, so I guess you might say Peggy is eating for millions.

Peggy and her five cohorts at the New York City magazine began to feel as
though, little by little, they were adding unwanted poundage, what with tasting
more than 25 recipes a month multiple times. Peggy had gained 2 pounds a year
since joining Family Circle in 1994, and "it wasn't just the recipes. There were
all these new food products we had to keep up with."

For the past few months, my husband, Ace, and I wondered if we're on the edge
ourselves. We've been "eating like the Kaufmanns" while I test recipes from
Fallingwater cook Elsie Henderson for the cookbook we're writing with Robert
Sendall and Jane Citron. Edgar and Liliane Kaufmann and son Edgar Jr. had the
Laurel Highlands to hike and the Bear Run waterfall to splash in before and
after their meals. I have the Swan Acres circle to walk our dog, Socks, and I
feel fortunate to have good neighbors, my church family and co-workers to taste
our PG-tested recipes.

No wonder Peggy's cookbook hit the spot with me. Make that hips.

Fad diets to the contrary, the cookbook's thesis is tried and true. "The formula
is this: Calories consumed = calories burned," writes registered dietitian Susan
McQuillan, who developed the plan.

She continues: "Weight control is not about cutting carbohydrates unless you're
eating too many, and it's not about increasing protein, unless you're not
getting enough. It not about eating low-fat foods or high-fiber foods. When it
comes to losing weight and keeping it off, there's no substitute for a balanced
diet with lots of choices coupled with regular exercise."

Not sexy, not a magic bullet, but so true. My question is this: We can take it
off, but can we keep it off?

It's not easy to change a lifestyle, but what I like about this cookbook is that
on nearly every page there's a recipe that looks good to me. Cookbooks often
have a long column of ingredients, many of which require a search engine, and
are so complicated that the dishes may never get made. While this book is not
simplistic, it does use readily available ingredients, and the directions seem
clear enough for even the beginning cook. And they were designed to sustain, not
fatten.

Says Peggy: "By the end of our 16 weeks on the program, we could look at a dish
and say, 'That's 342 calories.' "

What I don't like about the book is that the saliva-inspiring photos are
clustered together in the center of the book, rather than appearing near the
recipe. As I understand it, this is often done to reduce costs, and the cookbook
does come in just under $20, a rarity with cookbooks today (ReganBooks: $19.95).

Peggy says the half-dozen dieters -- they're on the cover with the number of
pounds they lost (from 18 for Michael up to 30 for Althea and Donna) -- used the
two-week diet outlined in the book "religiously" to give them a good start.

As for Peggy, she didn't use the old excuse of "I've got two hungry teenagers
and a husband to feed," and she lost 28 pounds over the four-month period.

For each of them, the key was portion control. That means reconfiguring one's
mind to adjust to, say 1 cup of pasta. Go ahead, measure a cup and put it on a
plate -- it's sure not what we're used to, especially in Pittsburgh's
restaurants. Peggy understands our challenges here, coming as she does from the
hearty eating climate of her native Milwaukee.

"Once you readjust your body, you're readjusting your mind to a comfortable
portion," she says.

When she first saw how little food was a portion, she wondered if they'd starve.

I'm beginning to understand why my mother set out a tiny bread plate for herself
at meals -- and sneaked her "tastes" off my dad's plate.

Mom had her methods, but there were no easy outs for these cookbook losers, just
the day-in, day-out regimen, which sometimes meant spurning favorite foods. For
Peggy, it was french fries. What did she do? "I just didn't eat them," she says.

While Althea Needham found comfort in reduced-calorie fudge pops, I'm not sure,
having been raised on a dairy farm, if I could give up my ice cream. My own
philosophy is to eat the best, and not so much of it. Somewhere I read that it
takes at least three months to purge that "need" for high fat out of your
psyche. What I want to know is, if I have one spoonful of that decadent Moose
Tracks ice cream, does that mean I've fallen from grace again?

In "Eat What You Love & Lose," the test kitchen experts have taken the good
stuff -- Ravioli with Sausage Sauce, Tuna Steaks with Mashed Potatoes, Garden
Meat Loaf -- that can be served in our everyday lives forever.

Their goal was to make higher-calorie ingredients provide the punch to a dish.
Take Penne with Cherry Tomatoes and Smoked Mozzarella. "We used a lot of garlic
and some oil," Peggy says. "With smoked mozzarella, that flavor really carries."

Although we've tried only two recipes so far, we can imagine the pitfalls. The
pitfall is portions and adding a "little extra."

For instance, the Blue-Cheese Dip was absolutely delicious, so why did I, after
gathering the prescribed vegetables, break open a bag of super-scooper corn
chips?

Peggy had a solution for that. She found sustenance in her support group. Surely
somebody should have grabbed my chips and thrown them to the birds.

My husband, Ace, and I loved the Moo Shu Pork, a meal in a tortilla, but found
ourselves creeping back to the kitchen for another roll. The recipe makes 10
10-inch wraps.

"Do you suppose we were only supposed to eat one?" I wondered, as the second
roll disappeared, and we looked longingly at the kitchen door.

"Those first weeks were hard. We did a lot of whining the first week," Peggy
admits. "I was cranky, though at the time I didn't think so."

Peggy says the greatest recipe challenge was desserts, because they were limited
to 200 calories. "And we weren't going to slice the cake so small, you can't see
it, which is what some books do," she says. "I actually prefer fruit desserts,
so I never feel that's a deprivation." So the book sports a trio of cheesecakes
that look delicious (especially the chocolate marble), a tasty-looking tart and
pudding in phyllo dough. The worst thing is to feel deprived, Peggy says,
because you're bound to go off the diet.

"We really tried to develop recipes that made every calorie count," she says.
"When you're having just a few things, they have to have a lot of oomph."

A diet requires inner strength as well. And now it's maintenance. Peggy and
daughter Marisa, 14, continue to eat huge salads. Marisa, an athlete, is an
adventuresome eater; son Matthew, 17, also an athlete, less so. "I can get him
to broccoli, but not to cauliflower."

"After a point, I have to figure out how to take 'normal' food and make it work
for me," Peggy explains. "Let's say we're having a grilled flank steak with
teriyaki marinade. I'm having just a few slices and broccoli and salad, and
here's my son eating most of it."

She feels fortunate that her husband, Jerry Jetter, has retired, so he can get
dinner started before she arrives home on Long Island.

"What it is, is relearning what a proper portion is," she says. "We've become so
supersized in this country."

In more ways than one, Peggy.


Blue-Cheese Dip

16 ounces nonfat sour cream

1/2 cup crumbled blue cheese (2 ounces)

1/2 cup chopped scallions (about 4)

1/4 teaspoon salt

1/4 teaspoon coarse black pepper


Pulse together sour cream and blue cheese in food processor until creamy (may be
slightly lumpy). Remove to bowl. Stir in scallions, salt and pepper. Refrigerate
at least 1 hour.

Serve with a selection of vegetables.

Makes 2 cups

Nutrient value per 1 tablespoon: 19 calories, 1 gram saturated fat, 1 gram
protein, 2 grams carbohydrate, no fiber, 57 mg sodium, 2 mg cholesterol.


Moo Shu Pork

1 tablespoon dark Asian sesame oil

3/4 pound boneless pork chops, cut into thin strips (1 1/2 by 1/8 by 1/8 inch)

3 large cloves garlic, minced

8 scallions, sliced

8-ounce bag shredded carrots

10 ounce bag shredded coleslaw

1/2 cup hoisin sauce, plus more for brushing tortillas

3 tablespoons reduced-sodium soy sauce

10 6-inch flour tortillas


Heat oil in large nonstick skillet over medium-high heat. Add pork and half the
garlic; saute until pork is cooked through, about 3 minutes. Transfer pork and
garlic to medium-size bowl.

Wipe out skillet with paper toweling. Coat skillet with cooking spray. Place
over medium-high heat. Add scallions, carrots, slaw, and remaining garlic; cook,
stirring occasionally, 8 minutes or until vegetables are softened. (We used a
16-ounce package of shredded cabbage-carrot mix.) Add hoisin sauce and soy
sauce; heat through about 2 minutes. Add pork; gently heat through, about 2
minutes.

Heat tortillas following package directions. Brush each with extra hoisin sauce.
Spoon pork mixture down center of each. Roll up and serve.

Makes 10 rolls.

Nutrient value per roll: 231 calories, 9 grams fat (2 grams saturated), 11 grams
protein, 27 grams carbohydrate, 2 grams fiber, 728 mg sodium, 18 mg cholesterol.


LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Suzanne Martinson can be reached at smartinson@post-gazette.com or 412-263-1760.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ross Whitaker: Peggy Katalinich, food director of Family Circle
magazine, controlled her weight by adhering to the formula: Calories consumed +
calories burned.

                       Copyright 2003 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              265 of 283 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                      July 15, 2003 Tuesday SOONER EDITION

TUITION AT PITT TO GROW BY 9.5%

BYLINE: BILL SCHACKNER, POST-GAZETTE STAFF WRITER

SECTION: LOCAL, Pg.A-1

LENGTH: 1025 words


Told her college bill will grow by 9.5 percent this fall, University of
Pittsburgh senior Anne Joffred stopped her lunch in mid-french fry yesterday and
exhibited the familiar stunned look of the tuition increase season.

Her eyes widened. Her mouth remained ajar.

"Didn't they just raise tuition here 14 percent last year?" asked Joffred, 21,
of Reading, standing with a friend on campus outside the William Pitt Union. "My
parents are not going to be happy about this."

An hour or so earlier, Pitt became the latest campus in Pennsylvania to bring
its students bad financial news, boosting the base in-state rate by nearly $750
a year. Echoing words spoken by campus leaders elsewhere in the state this
summer, Pitt officials said that to compete successfully the school must
continue to improve, even in a bad economy and even if state aid has declined.

Joffred's recollection of the last tuition change on her campus was correct.
Yesterday's increase is smaller than last year's 14 percent hike at Pitt but
larger than the 7.5 percent increase approved by trustees there the year before
that.

"The ongoing success of the University of Pittsburgh has and must continue to be
fueled by a quest for high quality," Pitt Chancellor Mark Nordenberg told a
campus news conference yesterday after a pair of trustee committees approved the
new tuition rate.

Nordenberg said the university's actions were "reasonable and prudent [and] most
importantly position us to continue delivering the kind of value that our
students and others expect."

Yesterday's vote raises the base rate by $747 a year to $8,615 in the College of
Arts and Sciences, the largest of Pitt's 16 schools and colleges, said Pitt
spokesman Robert Hill. Rates will vary elsewhere depending on discipline, he
said.

Most out-of-state students will see their tuition increase by $1,250, or 7.5
percent to $17,926. However, out-of-state students in the dental and medical
schools will see a 5 percent increase.

The rate schedule approved yesterday by the budget and executive committees of
Pitt's trustees board applies to some 34,000 students on the main Oakland campus
and branches at Bradford, Greensburg, Johnstown and Titusville.

Pitt did not approve a campus budget for the 2003-04 academic year because the
Legislature and the governor are continuing to wrangle over education funding
for the upcoming fiscal year. But with classes starting in weeks, the university
decided to proceed with setting its fall prices.

He expressed hope that budget talks may yet lead to reinstatement of part of the
5 percent cut in the campus appropriation that Pitt, like other public
universities, now faces. But he doubted the school would revisit its tuition
decision should that happen, nor was it likely to increase the rate should the
final outcome mean an even larger funding cut.

Public university students in Pennsylvania pay some of the highest tuition and
fees in the nation, and there are differing opinions as to who deserves blame,
schools that raise prices or state officials who allow aid levels to drop.
Tuition increases on many state campuses ran two and three times the inflation
rate during the 1990s, and the rate has accelerated the last few years as
Pennsylvania's worsening fiscal climate led to cuts in campus appropriations.

On campus yesterday, some students found fault in both camps.

"Do they have a point in raising the tuition due to the [state] budget cuts?"
asked Pitt senior Rob Santoro, 21, of Stroudsburg, who is finishing up a
computer engineering degree this summer. "They have to make ends meet, I
suppose, but it's not fair for people who have multiple children going to school
trying to pay their way."

Students at Pitt have absorbed a 66 percent increase in base tuition since 1995,
and other campuses have seen even more rapid jumps.

Students at Penn State, which on Friday announced a 9.8 percent increase for
fall, have experienced a near 70 percent rise during those years. That doesn't
include an additional tuition charge of $100 to $500 a year that will be phased
in at Penn State starting this fall.

Nordenberg yesterday cited sharply rising campus costs, including labor and
technology, and pointed to a precipitous drop in the share of Pitt's operation
covered by taxpayer dollars. Once at 33.3 percent, taxpayer dollars are now
projected to cover about 12.3 percent of the university's costs, he said.

Yearly aid once was as high as $178 million but has since declined to $163
million, and the projected cut for this year alone is 5 percent.

Pitt said it will raise its financial aid budget by $8 million to $101 million
so it can help offset the burden on students. University officials cited smaller
class sizes, better advising, technology investments and other campus
improvements that have helped keep application numbers up in recent years
despite rising tuition.

Pitt pointed to other campuses with which it competes, both public and private,
that either charge more, or have raised tuition more steeply, from the
University of Pennsylvania and Penn State to the State University of New York.

Prospective students and their families "continue to believe the University of
Pittsburgh provides very good value for the tuition that is charged," Nordenberg
said.

He said Pitt has "a culture of cost effectiveness" and has used its resources
prudently. He declined comment when asked about his decision to accept a nearly
14 percent salary increase last December and a $75,000 retention bonus, a move
criticized by some on the campus given the belt-tightening and tuition increases
that have occurred.

Provost James Maher, also at yesterday's news conference, defended Nordenberg's
pay raise that was approved by a panel of trustees, calling it part of a broader
effort to make compensation across campus more competitive with peer
institutions.

"What [the trustees] discovered was that the chancellor of the university was
way, way, way behind the benchmark, farther behind the benchmark than almost any
other category," Maher said.

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:
Bill Schackner can be reached at bschackner@post-gazette.com or 412-263-1977.

GRAPHIC: CHART: Steve Thomas/Post-Gazette; University of Pittsburgh: (Tuition
hikes around the nation)

                       Copyright 2003 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              269 of 283 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                    February 9, 2003 Sunday TWO STAR EDITION

KERRY FAULTS BUSH POLICIES AS HARMING ENVIRONMENT

BYLINE: NICK ANDERSON, LOS ANGELES TIMES

SECTION: NATIONAL, Pg.A-15

LENGTH: 524 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Sen. John F. Kerry of Massachusetts slammed President Bush's environmental
record yesterday, seeking to exploit what he and other Democratic presidential
contenders believe is a weak spot in the incumbent's political armor.

"Corporate polluters have found that in the Bush administration, the doors of
government are wide open," Kerry charged in a speech he is to give today at the
John F. Kennedy Library in Boston. His campaign released advance copies of his
remarks.

"Almost as soon as this administration took office, they invited in the chief
lobbyists to rewrite the very laws that were intended to protect our land, our
water and our air. And not surprisingly, the result was the biggest retreat on
environmental protections in a generation."

Although Kerry has attacked Bush on the environment many times before, an aide
described this address as the senator's first campaign speech on the subject
since he announced in December that he is formally exploring a run for the White
House in 2004.

Other Democrats who, like Kerry, are raising money in hopes of winning the
party's nomination to oppose Bush have voiced similar criticisms. They include
Sens. Joseph I. Lieberman of Connecticut and John Edwards of North Carolina,
Rep. Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri, former Vermont Gov. Howard Dean and black
activist Al Sharpton of New York.

A White House spokesman referred questions about Kerry's speech to the
Republican National Committee. Kevin Sheridan, an RNC spokesman, said that if
Kerry were serious about making environmental progress, he would work with Bush.

"He's looking for ways to score political points and outdo his Democrat
competitors," he said.

Since taking office two years ago, Bush has taken stands that his supporters say
balance economic and environmental interests. In his latest State of the Union
address, the president announced a $1.2-billion proposal to promote research on
hydrogen-powered automobiles, to help reduce smog and U.S. dependence on foreign
oil.

Administration officials insist that Bush's initiatives will yield cleaner air
and water and better stewardship of public lands than Democratic alternatives.

But in his speech, Kerry says Bush's environmental policies are all rhetoric and
no substance. He ridicules the president's "clear skies" plan for air quality,
saying that Bush had broken a 2000 campaign promise to cut carbon emissions from
power plants. And he adds that the government should strengthen air quality
regulations by cutting allowable mercury, sulfur, nitrogen and carbon pollution.

The Democrat also criticizes Bush for abandoning the international air quality
agreement known as the Kyoto Protocol.

Kerry also says the nation should strengthen Superfund laws to ensure cleanup of
contaminated industrial sites, revamp the tax code to reward the development of
clean-energy technologies and promote "biofuels" produced from crops, wood and
waste.

Some of the expenses underlying Kerry's proposals would be borne by private
industry. But, the speech contains no estimates of what any of his
government-funded initiatives would cost.

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2003 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              275 of 283 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                     April 6, 2003 Sunday FIVE STAR EDITION

INTERNATIONAL VISION DRIVES TONY BLAIR'S POLICIES

BYLINE: GLENN FRANKEL, THE WASHINGTON POST

SECTION: WORLD, Pg.A-16

LENGTH: 760 words

DATELINE: LONDON


Four years ago this month, long before the terror attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, or
the invasion of Iraq, Tony Blair unveiled in a speech in Chicago what he called
his "Doctrine of the International Community."

Many of the themes the British prime minister laid out that evening are the same
ones he invokes today in justifying Britain's involvement in the military
campaign against Iraq: The world must deal forcefully, he declares, with tyrants
like Iraqi President Saddam Hussein who oppress their own people and threaten
other countries with weapons of mass destruction. But he couched his argument in
terms of repairing the international community, and called for strengthening the
United Nations as "its central pillar."

"We are all internationalists now," Blair declared, "whether we like it or not."

As the Iraq war heads into its third week, the United States and Britain remain
the best of allies. But they differ significantly in how they justify the war
and in their visions for what happens after the fighting: inside Iraq, and in
the wider Middle East and the world at large.

While many in the Bush administration see the war as a unilateral exercise of
military power in defense of American security and values, Blair defines it in
the framework of international institutions and the global community.

"There's a fundamental difference of vision," said Donald Anderson, chairman of
the House of Commons foreign affairs committee and a member of Blair's Labor
Party. "The United States has tried to form a specific coalition for a specific
problem, rather like the sheriff in a Western film rounding up a posse when
there's a baddie in the desert. But the prime minister is seeking to build an
international community where people act reasonably and seek to work together."

The differences are more than rhetorical. Blair holds different views from his
allies in Washington on a wide range of issues: The U.N.'s role in postwar Iraq,
the importance of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, dealing with Middle Eastern
countries such as Syria and Iran and recalcitrant allies such as France and
Germany. He disagrees as well on long-standing issues such as the Kyoto accord
on global warming and the establishment of a permanent international tribunal to
try war crimes suspects.

He also deals differently with whom he disagrees. While President Bush hasn't
spoken to French President Jacques Chirac for several weeks or to German
Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder since November, aides say Blair was on the phone to
both leaders over the weekend to brief them on his visit last week to Camp
David.

Some of the differences stem from domestic political considerations. Public
support for the United Nations, the Kyoto agreement and other forms of
international cooperation run high in Britain, and Blair stays in line with
public sentiment whenever he can -- though unlike Bush, he has gone squarely
against public opinion in committing troops to Iraq.

But interviews with two members of Blair's Cabinet, senior lawmakers and
analysts indicate that the roots of Blair's views run much deeper than politics
and have much to do with his background, his religious beliefs and his identity
as a social democrat.

"There's a consistent thread running through all of his statements, and that's
his firm belief in the need to restore and strengthen international
institutions," said Peter Hain, a Cabinet secretary. "It's passionately held,
and it's exactly the same message that he delivers whether in Washington or
Brussels or London."

Blair has emerged as an unusual blend of warrior and internationalist. His
hawkish credentials are unassailable: Since becoming prime minister in 1997, he
has dispatched British troops to Sierra Leone, Kosovo, Afghanistan and now Iraq.
Yet he's always done so in the name of repairing and strengthening international
order and institutions.

This has made him a lonely figure, both at home and abroad. He is too hawkish
for doves, yet too soft for hard-liners.

"For the Europeans, the emphasis is on the soft side -- on nation-building and
development aid and the enforcement of international law -- but they shy away
from the military side," said James Rubin, an assistant secretary of state in
the Clinton administration who teaches and works as a consultant in London.
"Those on the Bush side tend to stress the military realities, but get weak in
the knees when it comes to concepts like nation-building. Blair's the only one
who's willing to do both. He's out there somewhat by himself."

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2003 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              279 of 283 DOCUMENTS

                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                     May 18, 2003 Sunday FIVE STAR EDITION

THE ULTIMATE TEST;
 SORENSTAM FACES GREATEST CHALLENGE WHEN SHE PLAYS IN THE COLONIAL

BYLINE: DOUG FERGUSON, THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: SPORTS, Pg.D-1

LENGTH: 1314 words

DATELINE: FORT WORTH, Texas


It started with a harmless question about taking her game to the highest level,
against the men on the PGA Tour.

What about you, Annika?

Truth is, the idea had been festering all along.

Annika Sorenstam won 13 times in 25 tournaments around the world last year, a
success rate that dwarfed even the best of Tiger Woods.

She shot 59 two years ago in Phoenix -- no other woman had done that. She set 30
records one year, then matched or broke 20 of them for an encore. Through it
all, she worked harder, got stronger, and soon ran out of mountains to climb.

"My husband has always talked about, 'I wonder how you would play against the
men on their golf course?' " Sorenstam said. "I watched PGA tournaments on TV
and I've thought about it for a quick second. Then the conversation would die,
and I wouldn't even talk about it. But I had it in the back of my mind."

The idea called out to her when Connecticut club pro Suzy Whaley qualified for
the Greater Hartford Open. Then, Michelle Wie tried to qualify for the Sony Open
and shot a respectable 73, just six strokes off the mark.

What about you, Annika?

"I haven't thought about qualifying," she replied on that landmark afternoon in
January. "But if I got an invite, I would say yes in a heartbeat."

She didn't have to beg.

Within two weeks, Sorenstam settled on the Colonial as her Mount Everest.

The 32-year-old Swede will become the first player in 58 years to compete on the
PGA Tour when she tees it up Thursday against 123 men at Colonial, a
tradition-rich tournament soon to be known as more than the place Ben Hogan won
five times.

The Colonial comes one month after the Masters, where Martha Burk and the
National Council of Women's Organizations mounted a fierce campaign to penetrate
the all-male Augusta National Golf Club.

That was about social change.

This is about golf.

"I'm not putting the guys on test here, or men against women. I'm far from
that," Sorenstam said. "This is a test for me personally. I don't want to put
the guys on any defensive. I just want to play against the best and see what
happens."

Why bother?

Why put her considerable skills to such a test when success will be measured by
the number on her scorecard, especially if she plays only two rounds?

"If Tiger had a place that had better players, he would challenge himself," Juli
Inkster said. "What I respect about Annika is that she's never satisfied. You've
got to give her credit for even going out there and trying."

The challenge will be unlike anything Sorenstam has ever faced.

Colonial is longer than anything she has faced, a par 70 at 7,080 yards.

The rough will be thicker. The greens quicker. The pins tucked in perilous
positions.

And that might be the easiest part of the equation.

Media credentials outnumber players by a 4-1 margin. Television plans to show
every hole she plays. Sorenstam wants only to test her game, but she is naive to
think the reputation of the LPGA Tour won't be standing with her over every
putt.

"I think it's great she's playing, but ... it will only be great for women's
golf if she plays well," Woods said. "I think if she goes out there and posts
two high scores, I think it's going to be more detrimental than it's going to be
good."

Woods played a practice round with her at Isleworth, his home course in Florida,
and was said to have finished 10 strokes ahead. John Smoltz of the Atlanta
Braves reportedly beat her, too.

The reception from PGA Tour players -- none was even born when Babe Zaharias
qualified for the Los Angeles Open in 1945 -- has been lukewarm at best.

While fearful of the worst, Woods thinks she should play four or five events to
get a feel for the PGA Tour. He will not be at the Colonial.

Phil Mickelson thinks she can finish in the top 20, adding quickly that he hopes
he finishes "19th or better." David Duval says Sorenstam is good enough to make
the cut at Colonial, although he concedes the odds are high. "Then again, we're
talking about a lady that has been the most dominant player in her game for
several years," Duval said. "She was far more dominant on the LPGA than Tiger
was on our tour."

The climate turned hostile when Vijay Singh, in an interview with The Associated
Press, said, "I hope she misses the cut. Why? Because she doesn't belong out
here."

Singh later said he was sorry if his comment came across as a personal attack.

Scott Hoch, who once played a mixed-team event with Sorenstam, wants her to play
well so that "what comes out of this is that she realizes she can't compete
against the men."

"What's the purpose?" Hoch said. "If she wants to challenge herself, she can
play against the boys at Isleworth. She already did that, and found out she's
going to get drummed."

Sorenstam is averaging about 275 yards off the tee this year, a vast improvement
but still toward the bottom percentile of driving distance on the PGA Tour.

She chose Colonial because length isn't everything off the tee -- most men hit
irons and fairway metals to keep from running through the doglegs.

Power still figures to be a problem, not so much off the tee, but hitting the
ball with enough spin to get it close to the hole, and chipping out of the
rough. PGA Tour players generate far more clubhead speed.

"I think it's like a featherweight going against a heavyweight," David Toms
said.

Add to that more pressure than perhaps any other golfer has felt. Even when
Woods was going for his history-making fourth consecutive major at the 2001
Masters, he was playing for himself.

Sorenstam represents the best of the LPGA Tour.

"I hope to hell she plays well," said Louise Suggs, an LPGA founder and member
of the Hall of Fame. "I hope they won't hold it against her if she plays
poorly."

Dow Finsterwald, a former PGA champion whose son is the head pro at Colonial,
said two things will come out of Sorenstam playing at Colonial.

"Either she's going to embarrass herself or she'll embarrass a lot of guys," he
said.

Regardless of the outcome, Sorenstam already has brought enormous publicity to
the LPGA Tour. The needle barely moved when she won 13 times last year, the best
season by anyone in golf in nearly 40 years.

Her decision to play Colonial has resulted in more than 1,500 stories about her.
Sorenstam has appeared on everything from "Today" to the "Tonight Show."

LPGA commissioner Ty Votaw brought a folder the size of a phone book to a
players' meeting in Phoenix to show them how much media attention Sorenstam has
generated -- and this was before the first LPGA tournament has been played.

He isn't concerned about any backlash if Sorenstam struggles.

"Anybody waiting for her to do poorly just to say, 'I told you so,' isn't a fan
of the LPGA Tour, anyway," Votaw said. "We're not going to lose them.

"If this is what captures the public's imagination, if this is what brings
eyeballs to the LPGA, anyone who questions the good of this is being
shortsighted."

This isn't the first time Sorenstam has been under the spotlight.

She played with Woods against Duval and Karrie Webb in the "Battle at Bighorn"
two years ago. It was televised in prime time, with some 5,000 people scrambling
along the fairways for a good view.

It was a fiasco at the end, in part because of high winds and a brutally tough
golf course. The lasting image was Sorenstam knocking a putt off the green and
into the fairway, and neither woman able to hit the final fairway in regulation
and the playoff.

Sorenstam didn't view that as failure. She knocked in the pivotal putt. And as
she left the California desert that day, her final words were, "Hopefully, I'll
get another chance."

She never imagined it would lead her to the PGA Tour, at Colonial, without a
partner, with the world watching.

"I'm not afraid of anything," she said. "I know I can play."

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Shizuo Kambayashi/Associated Press: LPGA star Annika Sorenstam,
who has 43 career victories, will play in the Colonial -- a PGA tour -- this
week in Texas.
 PHOTO: Lenny Ignelzi/Associated Press: Annika Sorenstam -- "I'm not afraid of
anything. I know I can play."

                       Copyright 2003 P.G. Publishing Co.
