
                               5 of 385 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                             August 29, 2011 Monday
                                 SOONER EDITION

CLEARED OF WRONGDOING, PENN STATE CLIMATOLOGIST STILL SEES 'SMEARS'

BYLINE: PITTSBURGH POST-GAZETTE

SECTION: STATE; Pg. B-4

LENGTH: 696 words


The controversy over hacked emails that began nearly three years ago has proved
to be trying and time-consuming for Michael E. Mann.

But the Penn State University climatologist said the issue is behind him now
that a National Science Foundation investigation has cleared him of wrongdoing
in connection with the hacked emails that skeptics considered to be proof that
climate-change research was fraudulent.

Mr. Mann, a doctor of geology and geophysics who serves as director of Penn
State's Earth System Science Center, already was a central figure in the
controversy over climate-change science before emails were hacked in late 2009
from the University of East Anglia Climatic Research Unit in the United Kingdom.

Now he's an even stronger lightning rod for critics of climate-change science,
including Texas Gov. Rick Perry, the Republican presidential candidate who
continues to claim data was manipulated to prove climate change.

But on Aug. 15, the NSF and the U.S. inspector general concluded that emails did
not reflect flawed or fraudulent science and closed the case. It represents the
last of seven investigations of the heisted personal emails that included
flippant statements and others that were described as reckless and injudicious.

But three investigations in the United Kingdom and four in the United States
including ones by Penn State, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, the
National Oceanic Atmospheric Administration and now the NSF all have dispelled
claims that climate-change research by Mr. Mann and others was manipulated to
justify false conclusions.

"It's the seventh investigation that's arisen out of the leak of emails and
false allegations by climate-change deniers who were mining for words and
phrases out of context," Mr. Mann said. "This should be the final nail in their
coffin."

But he said critics of his research continue saying "up is down and black is
white in their climate-change denial."

"I'd be lying if I didn't say this was a major distraction for me and my
colleagues," he said. "I've been wasting a lot of time responding to
allegations. That being said, the scientific community has understood from the
start that this was a manufactured scandal and smear campaign against
scientists.

"In the world of logic, this puts the matter to rest. There was no impropriety
here. But in the world of climate-change denial, the conspiracy runs farther and
deeper. But what can I do about it?"

In November 2009, hundreds of emails including a number sent from Mr. Mann were
hacked from East Anglia's Climatic Research Unit and held up as proof that data
was fabricated to support claims that human-caused climate change has resulted
from greenhouse gas pollution from fossil fuels.

Those emails included calls for information to be deleted or hidden, references
to research tricks and derogatory statements about researchers and journals
offering contrary evidence to human-induced climate change.

Opponents to climate legislation used the emails to foster debate that
climate-change isn't occurring, with further claims that politics and desire for
government grants has tainted the research.

Mr. Mann has admitted that some of the private emails between fellow researchers
included poor word choices. But he said the most controversial terms were taken
out of context. All along, he has said none of the emails reflected violations
of research ethics.

While the NSF ruling ends the investigation, Mr. Mann said continued criticism
of his and other research is based on an organized and well-funded front groups
for the fossil-fuel industry.

Publications defending Mr. Mann and climate-change scientists say the
controversy shows the degree to which climate researchers are being subjected to
harassment.

Mr. Mann said the research proves that climate change is happening. The only
debate is over how fast it's occurring and what the consequences will be.

During the investigations, he said a lot of people were playing "pretty dirty
pool to generate uncertainty in the mind of the public" over the issue.

"I wish it were one isolated episode, but it is the heart of something much
larger -- colleagues being subjected to smear campaigns," he said.

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              13 of 385 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            December 9, 2011 Friday
                                 SOONER EDITION

U.S. CLIMATE ENVOY SHIFTS POSITION ON TALKS

BYLINE: John M. Broder, The New York Times

SECTION: HEALTH, SCIENCE, MEDICINE AND TECHNOLOGY; Pg. A-3

LENGTH: 529 words


DURBAN, South Africa -- Facing criticism from fellow envoys, environmental
activists and one impassioned heckler, the chief U.S. negotiator at a climate
conference here Thursday shifted his position -- or at least his language -- on
a timetable for a new set of international talks.

Todd D. Stern, the Obama administration's special envoy for climate change, was
put on the defensive by a narrative developing in Durban that the United States
opposed any further action to address global climate disruption until after
2020, when the 1997 Kyoto Protocol, a primary U.N. climate agreement, and
voluntary programs negotiated more recently have run their course.

He denied that the U.S. was dragging its feet and, somewhat ambiguously,
endorsed a proposal from the European Union to quickly start negotiating a new
international climate change treaty.

Mr. Stern's statement to delegates from more than 190 nations at the annual
climate conference was disrupted by a 21-year-old Middlebury College junior,
Abigail Borah, who told the assembly that she would speak for the U.S. because
Mr. Stern had forfeited the right to do so.

"I am speaking on behalf of the United States of America because my negotiators
cannot," said Ms. Borah, who is attending the conference as a representative of
the International Youth Climate Movement. "The obstructionist Congress has
shackled justice and delayed ambition for far too long. I am scared for my
future. 2020 is too late to wait. We need an urgent path to a fair, ambitious
and legally binding treaty."

Ms. Borah, who is from Princeton, N.J., added: "We need leaders who will commit
to real change, not empty rhetoric. Keep your promises. Keep our hope alive."

Scores of delegates and observers gave her a sustained ovation. Then the South
African authorities threw her out. "That's OK," she said later by phone. "I
think I got my point across."

Mr. Stern smiled as if the applause were for him, and then continued with his
prepared remarks. Afterward, at a briefing for reporters, he dismissed charges
that the United States was blocking any action on climate change until after
2020. "It is completely off base to suggest that the U.S. is proposing that we
delay action until 2020," he said.

He detailed a number of domestic and international actions that the U.S. has
taken, and said he and other administration officials were working on others,
such as finding ways to raise tens of billions of dollars to help poor nations
adapt to a warming planet.

Mr. Stern seemed to endorse an EU proposal to adopt a "road map" for future
discussions leading to a formal climate change treaty to be completed by 2015
and to take effect in 2020. He had previously given lukewarm support to the
plan, saying only that the United States was open to a "process" for a future
agreement.

The Europeans and a large majority of smaller nations are adamant that any
accord be legally binding, while China, India, the U.S. and several other major
emitters of greenhouse gases have attached some difficult conditions to
participation in any mandatory agreement.

The 17th annual meeting of the U.N. Framework Convention on Climate Change is
scheduled to conclude tonight.

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              16 of 385 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                             August 14, 2011 Sunday
                                TWO STAR EDITION

CORBETT QUIETLY TURNING OFF THE LIGHTS ON RENEWABLE ENERGY

BYLINE: Don Hopey, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: STATE; Pg. A-1

LENGTH: 1271 words


The Corbett administration is de-emphasizing renewable energy and energy
conservation, eliminating programs created by previous Democratic and Republican
administrations as it focuses on natural gas energy from booming Marcellus
Shale.

Quietly but systematically, the administration has all but shut down the state
Department of Environmental Protection's Office of Energy and Technology
Deployment -- the state's primary energy office -- and removed directors and
reassigned staff in the Office of Energy Management in the Department of General
Services and the Governor's Green Government Council.

It has also forbidden state executive agencies from signing contracts that
support clean energy supply.

The administration says merely that any changes are part of a new approach of
Gov. Tom Corbett's energy executive, Patrick Henderson, who has been overseeing
development of the administration's Marcellus Shale gas policy. But
environmental organizations and former DEP officials and staffers say the
dismantling of successful programs promoting renewable and sustainable energy
will hurt the state's "green energy" economy.

The changes will put more than 100,000 "green jobs" in the renewable energy and
energy efficiency industries at risk, according to Citizens for Pennsylvania's
Future -- PennFuture -- a statewide environmental organization that last week
launched a campaign to protect and restore programs and jobs it says are under
attack.

"In the past 12 years, Pennsylvania has gone from having virtually no clean
energy jobs to employing more than 106,000 Pennsylvanians in the clean energy
industry, despite the national recession," said Jan Jarrett, president and chief
executive officer of Penn Future. "These program cuts and legislative attacks
threaten to kill those good, family-sustaining jobs."

According to PennFuture and DEP sources, the DEP's Office of Energy and
Technology Deployment -- which had oversight of the state Energy Savings Law and
the Alternative Energy Portfolio Standard, administered several clean energy
grant programs, provided technical assistance to renewable energy companies and
housed the state's climate change office -- has been downsized and is without a
director at the Deputy Secretary level. The climate program has had its staff
reduced from four to one.

One former DEP employee, who asked that he not be named because he continues to
work on energy issues in Harrisburg, said of the Energy Office, "it's being
taken apart piece-by-piece and the pieces are being thrown away."

The Green Government Council, created under Gov. Tom Ridge, a Republican, was
established to help state agencies adopt environmentally sustainable operations.
Its staff and program responsibilities have been "gutted," the employee said,
and it continues to exist primarily to provide federally mandated tracking and
performance reports for a number of federal energy programs.

The administration's prohibition against sustainable and alternative energy
purchases reverses a policy that by the beginning of this year, had the state
buying 50 percent of its electricity from renewable sources, according to
PennFuture, and made it "a national leader in the development of the clean
energy economy."

The Office of Energy Management has seen its director fired, its staff
reassigned and, according to PennFuture, has been moved from the Department of
General Services to the Bureau of Public Works. It administered the Guaranteed
Energy Savings Act, which helps school districts and local governments invest in
energy conservation and efficiency programs and conservation.

State Rep. William Adolph, a Delaware County Republican who authored the Energy
Savings Act, is in discussions with the governor's office about how the program
will be administered, said Mike Stoll, a spokesman for Mr. Adolph.

"We're still working with the administration to understand its position on the
program," Mr. Stoll said. "It's saying this is part of a consolidation of
programs but that doesn't change the requirements of the act."

The governor's office referred all questions about energy program and policy
changes to Katy Gresh, a DEP spokeswoman, but she didn't directly respond to
questions requesting specific information about program, policy and staffing
changes. She did issue a general statement saying the department "continues to
be the primary commonwealth agency for energy programs, energy emergency
response and assurance, as well as alternative transportation fuel programs, and
climate change," and that it is working closely with Mr. Henderson.

Ms. Gresh said eliminating the sustainable energy purchase program will save the
state nearly $1 million. She cited two programs -- a $1 million grant program
for small business energy efficiency and a still-in-development energy
efficiency program that would use $1.5 million from the U.S. Department of
Energy -- as examples of the state's continued commitment to energy
conservation.

Christina Simeone, director of PennFuture's Energy Center and formerly the
special assistant for energy and climate at DEP, said the policy changes and
staffing reductions are crippling the department.

"I have concerns about whether the remaining staff of every office can handle
the required workloads," Ms. Simeone said. "The programs and staff have been
marginalized so much."

John Hanger, DEP secretary under former Gov. Ed Rendell, said it would be a
mistake for the state to focus exclusively on natural gas.

"The changes we've seen are viewed as downgrading alternative energy programs,
and I can understand how people can come to that conclusion," Mr. Hanger said.
"I hope that's not the case, but the [administration's] actions could be
interpreted as backing away for placing less emphasis on alternative energy."

It's very important that the state welcome all types of energy development,
including wind, solar and biofuels and not become exclusively focused on
Marcellus Shale gas, Mr. Hanger said Friday, while attending the dedication of
32 wind turbines in Cambria County. The 75-megawatt facility, built by
Everpower, a New York City-based company with an office in Pittsburgh, will
produce enough power to supply 32,000 homes and increases the amount of wind
electricity produced in the state by 10 percent.

"It's important to have government programs that can help move forward
alternative energy and it's important that state government be a model for the
private sector, especially when doing so can save taxpayers money," Mr. Hanger
said, referring to a DEP program promoting energy efficiency in government
buildings.

Pennsylvania is not the only state reassessing or reducing sustainable energy,
energy conservation and renewables portfolio standards policy. Governors and
legislators have voiced similar concerns in Connecticut, Colorado, Florida,
Iowa, Kansas, Maine, Maryland, Michigan, Minnesota, Missouri, New Hampshire, New
Jersey, New Mexico, North Carolina, Ohio, Oregon, Oklahoma and Wisconsin,
according to the Pew Research Center.

Ms. Simeone said changes in policy priorities could be expected because the 2010
election resulted in widespread state government leadership changes, but it
doesn't make sense to pull support from renewable and sustainable energy sources
when the rest of the world is turning toward them.

"Around the world countries are realizing there needs to be a mix of fossil and
sustainable energy and unless we continue to diversify we will be left in the
dust," Ms. Simeone said. "We should be doing everything we can to create jobs in
those areas and embrace those opportunities. But what we're doing just doesn't
make sense."

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Don Hopey: dhopey@post-gazette.com or 412-263-1983./

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              20 of 385 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            December 11, 2011 Sunday
                                TWO STAR EDITION

LONG FACES IN DURBAN;
CLIMATE CHANGE CONFERENCE CHILLED BY CONTRARY EVIDENCE

BYLINE: Jack Kelly

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. B-3

LENGTH: 766 words


Unseasonable cold greeted delegates to the U.N. conference on climate change in
Durban, South Africa, Nov. 28. They were chilled more by the impending collapse
of one of the most brazen scams in the history of the world.

The warnings of the U.N.'s Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change that the
world faced doom from anthropogenic (man-made) global warming were based on
peer-reviewed scientific literature, the IPCC chairman claimed. But when
Canadian writer Donna LaFramboise checked the 18,531 references in the 2007
report, she found 5,587 were newspaper and magazine articles written by
non-experts, unpublished theses and pamphlets produced by environmental groups.

IPCC reports supposedly were written by leading scientists. Ms. LaFromboise
found many authors were graduate students selected more for political
connections and "diversity" than for expertise. This explains, in part, why
these reports contain so many factual errors.

Fraud is a better explanation. The blog New Nostradamus of the North reports
that Dr. Nils-Axel Morner asked a British member of the IPCC in 2003 why the
IPCC altered data to indicate sea levels were rising when they were not. "We had
to, otherwise there would be no trend," he told Dr. Morner.

In a review of Ms. Lafromboise's book, which was published electronically in
October, Judith Curry, chair of the Department of Earth and Atmospheric Sciences
at Georgia Tech, said she "feels duped" by the IPCC, which she supported until
December 2009. That month someone posted on the Internet 1,000 emails in which
prominent scientists discussed how to hide a decline in global temperatures,
evade Freedom of Information Act requests and smear scientists who disagreed
with them. The U.N. climate change conference a couple of weeks later then
flopped, in part because of the flap those emails caused.

Just in time for the Durban conference, 5,000 more emails have been leaked. In
this batch, scientists admit the science supporting anthropogenic global warming
is weak and depends on data manipulation. They conspire with politicians and
journalists to conceal this from the public. "What if climate change appears to
be just a multi-decadal natural fluctuation?" wrote one. "They'll kill us,
probably."

That's what "climate change" is. Temperatures in the lower atmosphere this
October were just one- tenth of one degree Celsius warmer than in 1979,
according to data from weather satellites. Temperatures haven't risen in 13
years, according to measurements from ground stations. Data from tree rings and
ice cores show no warming since 1940.

Few journalists have reported these facts. That's why so many accepted for so
long the preposterous assertions of the scammers. The most preposterous is that
carbon dioxide -- which is to plants what oxygen is to us -- is a pollutant.

For some, the scam is about power. Politicians saw in the regulation of CO2 an
opportunity to control people's lives.

For others, it's about money. Scammers sought to cash in on carbon credits and
government subsidies. More than 80 percent of the $20.5 billion in loan
guarantees made by the Department of Energy has gone to firms either run or
owned by financial supporters of President Barack Obama, according to a new book
by Hoover Institution fellow Peter Schweizer.

Some, like Solyndra, already are bankrupt. Most never will create many jobs or
produce much energy.

Alarmism has helped make former Vice President Al Gore a centimillionaire,
though most of what he's said has proved to be false.

The leading alarmist among American scientists, James Hansen of NASA's Goddard
Institute for Space Studies, has been as spectacularly wrong as Mr. Gore. Mr.
Hansen said in a 1988 interview the sea level off Manhattan would rise 10 feet
within 40 years (if atmospheric CO2 doubled). In the 23 years since, the sea
level has risen just 2.5 inches. Sea levels fell over the past year.

But alarmism has been good for his pocketbook. Mr. Hansen failed to report $1.6
million in outside income, much of it in violation of NASA's rules, according to
Power Line's John Hinderaker.

There never was a consensus among scientists in support of anthropogenic global
warming. Some signed on because that was the only way to get governments to
support their research. As the gulf widens between climate change models and
real world data, more are skeptical.

The scam is threatened most by the global financial crisis. Cash-strapped
European governments are cutting costly subsidies for solar and wind. So
attendance is down in Durban, and faces are long. A chill wind is blowing. It
will power no windmills.

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Jack Kelly is a columnist for the Post-Gazette and The Blade of Toledo,
Ohio (jkelly@post-gazette.com, 412 263-1476)./

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              46 of 385 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                             August 12, 2011 Friday
                                 SOONER EDITION

NO UNCERTAINTY

BYLINE: ERNIE RETETAGOS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR; Pg. B-6

LENGTH: 115 words


Regarding the Aug. 4 commentary by an economics professor ("It's Time to Rein in
the EPA"), there were several statements that were blatantly untrue:

1) That scientific debate continues to rage as to whether greenhouse gases cause
enough climate change to be harmful to human beings;

2) That there is an uncertain link between CO2 and climate change.

There is no scientific debate regarding climate change, only economic and
political debate. Most environmental studies show that climate change is
occurring more rapidly than previously thought. The irrefutable facts are that
the planet is getting warmer, the consequences are negative and mankind has some
responsibility.

ERNIE RETETAGOS

Shaler

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              51 of 385 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                             August 22, 2011 Monday
                                 SOONER EDITION

CLIMATE AND THE SUN

BYLINE: TIM KELLY

SECTION: EDITORIAL; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR; Pg. B-6

LENGTH: 169 words


I'm writing in regard to a letter by Larry Rogers of Valencia ("Other Fuel
Factors," Aug. 15). On the subject of climate and sunspot activity, Mr. Rogers'
remarks could not have been more incorrect. The sun has been ruled out as a
factor in climate change. In fact, total solar irradiance is at a minimum. The
following comes from the climate change blog, "Skeptical Science":

"... a number of independent measurements of solar activity indicate the sun has
shown a slight cooling trend since 1960, over the same period that global
temperatures have been warming. Over the last 35 years of global warming, sun
and climate have been moving in opposite directions. An analysis of solar trends
concluded that the sun has actually contributed a slight cooling influence in
recent decades" (Lockwood 2008).

Also, given the recent findings of the International Programme on the State of
the Oceans (that we are pushing the oceans toward an extinction event), we can
no longer bandy the point back and forth.

TIM KELLY

Aleppo

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              55 of 385 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                            February 27, 2011 Sunday
                                TWO STAR EDITION

CLIMATE CHANGE EXTENDS RAGWEED SEASON, STUDY FINDS

BYLINE: Eryn Brown, Los Angeles Times

SECTION: HEALTH, SCIENCE, MEDICINE AND TECHNOLOGY; Pg. A-2

LENGTH: 274 words


You're not imagining that sneezy nose and those itchy eyes: Allergies have
become increasingly prevalent in the last three decades, costing Americans about
$21 billion a year. Researchers point to one possible factor (when it comes to
hay fever, at least): climate change.

Recent increases in the length of the ragweed pollen season are associated with
warming, according to a study released Monday by the Proceedings of the National
Academy of Sciences.

The researchers looked at pollen counts and weather data from 10 locations
spanning more than 1,300 miles of the central part of North America--from
Georgetown, Texas, to Saskatoon, Canada.

They determined that from 1995 to 2009, as latitude increased, so did the
frost-free period--and the number of days of the pollen season.

Five sites, extending north from LaCrosse, Wis., to Saskatoon had increases in
the length of the ragweed pollen season of at least 13 days. Saskatoon's
increase was 27 days.

The trend tracks Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change projections, as well
as shifts in plant hardiness zones in the upper Midwest., the authors reported.

Weed season for most of the United States is in the summer and fall. At least 10
percent of the U.S. population is ragweed-sensitive. The study cited one report
that ragweed may cause more seasonal allergic rhinitis -- hay fever -- than all
other plants combined.

A longer pollen season and the higher levels of pollen it brings could increase
hay fever by increasing the number of people who become sensitized to pollen or
by increasing the duration and severity of symptoms in people who already have
the allergy, the authors wrote.

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Associated Press: The pollen on a ragweed plant.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              63 of 385 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                              May 15, 2011 Sunday
                               FIVE STAR EDITION

GREENLAND EMBRACES GLOBAL WARMING

BYLINE: Joby Warrick, The Washington Post

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. A-5

LENGTH: 296 words


NUUK, Greenland -- Few places on earth have seen starker changes in weather than
this icebound island straddling the Arctic Circle. With that in mind, America's
top diplomat arrived here last week, intent on calling attention to the perils
of climate change.

The problem was that Greenlanders weren't exactly complaining.

In fact, as Secretary of State of Hillary Rodham Clinton toured snow-covered
fjords Thursday, there were awkward reminders of Greenland's embrace of the rise
in temperatures that began two decades ago. Rather than questioning global
warming, many of this island's 60,000 inhabitants seemed to be racing to cash
in.

The tiny capital of Nuuk is bracing for record numbers of visitors this year;
the retreating sea ice means a longer tourist season and more cruise ships from
the United States. Hunters are boasting of more and bigger caribou, and the
annual cod migration is starting earlier and lasting longer.

In the far south, farmers are trying their hand at an exotic form of
agriculture: growing vegetables. "Before, the growing season was too short for
vegetables," said local journalist Noah Melgaard. "Now, it is getting longer
each year."

For Ms. Clinton, who was visiting Greenland for a meeting of the eight-nation
Arctic Council, it was one of several jarring contradictions that threatened at
times to distract from the messages she traveled 2,000 miles to deliver. The
secretary argued for a global response to climate change, but had to acknowledge
that the United States -- the biggest single source of greenhouse-gas pollution
-- has failed to ratify international treaties on reducing carbon dioxide
emissions.

Ms. Clinton appealed to Arctic nations at council meetings to coordinate their
policies on oil and gas exploration near the North Pole.

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              64 of 385 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                              July 10, 2011 Sunday
                               FIVE STAR EDITION

NEW RISKS TO NATIONAL PARKS

BYLINE: Shannon M. Nass, Special to the Post-Gazette

SECTION: OUTDOORS; Pg. DD-1

LENGTH: 348 words


America's national parks are in peril, according to the National Parks
Conservation Association.

In "The State of America's National Parks," a study released by the group's
Center for Park Research, the national parks are shown to be faring badly in the
face of pollution, invasive species, climate change, energy development,
adjacent land development and funding shortfalls.

"Our national parks are America's best idea, but this 10-year study shows that
they are not in the best of health," said Tom Kiernan, president of the
association. "This study is a call to action. The parks are in jeopardy."

The report was based on a 10-year study of resource conditions at 80 national
parks, a 20 percent sample of the 394 parks in the National Park System.
Included among the national parks at risk are those in the Great Lakes region.

Congress is considering budget cuts that could impact national parks. Despite
the issues cited in the report, Kiernan said there is hope.

The study identified many places in the national parks where the National Park
Service, when given the appropriate funding, leadership and collaborative
partners, was "able to dramatically enhance the health of the natural cultural
resources in the park," he said.

As the National Park Service prepares to celebrate its 95th anniversary in
August, Kiernan said the time is ripe for change and he is calling on the Obama
administration to lead the effort. President Barack Obama has said he plans to
craft a five-year plan for the service leading to its 100th anniversary.

Kiernan said he would like to see included in that plan recommendations from the
conservation association's report, including recommitting federal resources and
policies to reintroduce native wildlife, implementing climate change adaptation
and mitigation, better managing large landscapes to conserve and restore
ecosystems, and improving the condition of cultural resources.

"This would make it a strong, ambitious, comprehensive five-year plan," Kiernan
said. "This report is the road map for that action." To view the full report:
www.npca.org/cpr/sanp/.

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: GETout/ RECREATION, FITNESS AND THE GREAT OUTDOORS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              66 of 385 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                              July 31, 2011 Sunday
                               FIVE STAR EDITION

HUMAN RUN-INS WITH BEARS MAY PORTEND DEEPER CHANGES

BYLINE: Kirk Johnson, The New York Times

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. A-6

LENGTH: 799 words


COLORADO SPRINGS, Colo. -- Griffin W. Smith has some practical advice to offer
about bears. As a cross-country trail runner, he has seen them in the woods many
times in southern Colorado.

"But when a bear is in your kitchen, it seems bigger," said Mr. Smith, 21, a
biology major who was at home last week from college when he came downstairs for
breakfast and found a black bear by the refrigerator, slurping from the dog's
dish.

Bears -- dangerous and unpredictable always -- are prowling broader areas of the
West in closer contact with people than ever. In some places, drought is driving
the animals out of their wilder haunts and into human settlements. Longer-term
climate change, scientists say, is also disrupting bear foraging patterns,
especially in and around Yellowstone National Park, where grizzlies have been
compelled to search more widely for food in recent years as a tree that produces
pine nuts crucial to their diets has been decimated.

Smith's encounter here last week in Colorado's second-largest city ended without
further trouble. He ran back to the bedroom, closed the door and grabbed his
phone. The bear wandered back out through a door -- which had been left open for
the family pets -- and was gone by the time authorities arrived.

Other recent run-ins have ended violently, and even fatally. On Monday, the
first person to be killed by a wild black bear in Arizona in at least 110 years
died after a month in the hospital. Last week, seven teenagers were attacked
while crossing a stream on a backpacking trip in Alaska. A hiker in Yellowstone
was killed this month by a grizzly -- the first such death in the park in 25
years -- and a teenager in Colorado ended up in a hospital in mid-July after a
black bear stuck its nose into his camp tent and bit the boy's leg. More bears
were killed by government wildlife officers last year in Colorado than in any
year since current record keeping began in 1995.

"It's raising the question of how tolerant we are willing to be as humans --
where we will allow bears to live and where we won't," said Steve Gehman, a
wildlife biologist in Bozeman, Mont., and co-founder of a nonprofit research
group, Wild Things Unlimited.

The intensified level of conflict is also spurring new research that is
challenging some long-held assumptions about bears, notably the idea that bear
population is the key variable. As solitary and often nocturnal creatures --
unlike, say, elk, which herd together and can be easily counted -- bear numbers
are guesses at best, scientists say, especially for poorly studied species like
the black bear. And shifting patterns of bear behavior, they say, like bears'
learning new feeding habits, could be even more important than population
trends.

Whether the wave of recent episodes is the pattern of a single season or a
portent of deeper change is another question. Long-term climate modeling
suggests a dryer, hotter Southwest, even aside from this year's severe drought.

"Drought years are correlated with bear-human conflicts," said Heather Johnson,
a mammals researcher at Colorado Parks and Wildlife, which is conducting a major
study of black bears around Durango, in the state's southwest corner. "Bears
increase their movements searching for food, and when they do that, they come
across human development."

Will bears become habituated to human spaces and food in places like Durango and
stay around even as seasons and precipitation patterns improve?

"The jury is out," she said.

Human nature is often just as important as bear nature when the two species
meet, wildlife managers say, and sometimes people make things worse by failing
to see past the bumptious, innocent image that bears can sometimes project. Last
month, for example, two people were seen buying cheeseburgers and hand-feeding
them to bears near a Burger King in western Colorado. State wildlife officials
said that act endangered both local residents and the bears, by cementing a
message to the animals that people are a food source.

But with more people living or playing in proximity to public lands and national
forests that are the bears' domain, the line between dangerous rogue bear
behavior and natural wild behavior that just happens to be in a human backyard
can get blurred.

The death of the hiker in Yellowstone, for example, was deemed by park officials
to be tragic but natural; the victim and his wife apparently surprised a mother
bear and her cubs, setting off a maternal defense. The bear that bit the teenage
camper in Colorado, by contrast, was killed as a risk to public safety.

Mr. Smith said the kitchen encounter gave him new respect for bears but no
greater fear; he plans to continue his 14-mile daily training runs in the woods
that stretch out behind the house. But the kitchen door is going to be closed.

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Associated Pres:s This undated photo, courtesy of Bearizona
Wildlife Park, shows a bear crossing the road in Bearizona Wildlife Park in
Williams, Ariz. Bearizona, which opened last year, is home to lots of animals,
from buffalo, free-ranging bighorn sheep, burros and wolves in the drive-thru
area to babies in the walk-through section. But the main attraction is the
drive-thru black bear paddock.
PHOTO: Loren Holmes/Associated Press: Samuel Gottsegen, 17, recounts his
experiences as one of the victims of a bear attack that occurred last weekend
near Talkeetna, Alaska, as he recovers in an Anchorage hospital last week. Mr.
Gottsegen was taking part in an outdoor education course from the National
Outdoor Leadership School.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              73 of 385 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                           December 10, 2011 Saturday
                                 SOONER EDITION

UN CONFERENCE STRUGGLES TO REACH CLIMATE DEAL;
U.S., CHINA, INDIA OPPOSE PROPOSAL BY EUROPEAN UNION

BYLINE: Arthur Max, Associated Press

SECTION: HEALTH, SCIENCE, MEDICINE AND TECHNOLOGY; Pg. A-2

LENGTH: 570 words


DURBAN, South Africa -- Negotiators from Europe, tiny islands threatened by
rising oceans and the world's poorest countries sought to keep alive the only
treaty governing global warming and move to the next stage, struggling against
an unlikely alliance of the United States, China and India.

Bleary-eyed delegates worked through the night and all day Friday, and the
two-week U.N. conference stretched past the hour when it was supposed to end,
with negotiators looking to a second night of meetings expected to last until
dawn today.

Delegates from the 194-party conference are trying to map out the pathway toward
limiting global emissions of greenhouse gases for the rest of this decade, and
then how to continue beyond 2020.

Scientists say that unless those emissions, chiefly, carbon dioxide from power
generation and industry, reverse within a few years, the planet will be set on a
possibly irreversible path of rising temperatures that lead to greater climate
catastrophes.

More than 120 climate-vulnerable countries signed on to the European Union's
vision calling for all nations, not just industrial countries, to be held
accountable for their carbon emissions in the future. The United States, China
and India, all for slightly different reasons, refused.

European climate commissioner Connie Hedegaard warned that if the three largest
polluters stand fast, "I don't think that there will be a deal in Durban."

A noisy demonstration of dozens protesters -- all activists accredited to attend
the conference -- tried to disrupt a plenary meeting but were blocked by U.N.
guards.

Ten protesters, including Greenpeace International executive director Kumi
Naidoo, were barred from the building for the rest of the conference.

Under discussion in the back rooms was an extension of binding pledges by the EU
and a few other industrial countries to cut carbon emissions under the Kyoto
Protocol. Those commitments expire next year.

Under Kyoto, rich countries are legally bound to reduce carbon emissions, while
developing countries take voluntary actions.

The EU, the primary bloc bound by commitments under the 1997 protocol, insists
that the new agreement equally oblige all countries to abide by their emission
targets.

Developing countries were adamant that the Kyoto commitment continues, because
it is the only agreement that compels any nation to reduce emissions. Industrial
countries say Kyoto is deeply flawed because it makes no demands on heavily
polluting developing countries. It was for that reason the U.S. never ratified
it.

Both China and the United States have said publicly that they would be amenable
to the EU proposal to negotiate a post-2020 agreement, but each attached tough
conditions.

The U.S. is concerned about conceding any business advantage to China. Beijing
is resisting any suggestion to change its status as a developing country, saying
it still has hundreds of millions of impoverished people. India, which lags
behind China in development even though its economy also is expanding rapidly,
was taking "a relatively tough stand here," Ms. Hedegaard said.

Negotiators said India and the U.S. softened their positions during the day, but
China has refused to affirm that its future commitments will be regulated under
the foreseen international regime.

The United States says it does not want to agree that it will accept binding
commitments as part of a deal that has not yet been negotiated.

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              88 of 385 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                             August 12, 2011 Friday
                                 SOONER EDITION

CORPORATE ASTROTURF

BYLINE: MIKE USMAN, M.D.

SECTION: EDITORIAL; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR; Pg. B-6

LENGTH: 332 words


I'm disappointed that the PG would publish blatant disinformation like the piece
by Tracy C. Miller ("It's Time to Rein in the EPA," Aug. 4). Like most
polluter-funded articles that refer to climate change, a non-climatologist with
academic credentials (an economist, in this case) tries to discredit the
scientific consensus with phrases like "scientific debate continues to rage" and
"uncertain link between CO2 and climate." He praises the proposed Comprehensive
Assessment of Regulations in the Economy Act, which would weigh environmental
protection against potential harm to corporate profits.

The "CARE Act" could then roll back regulations, giving polluters free rein.

The article notes that Dr. Miller is a contributing writer for the Cornwall
Alliance for the Stewardship of Creation. The alliance is actually part of a
consortium of interconnected companies in Burke, Va., that work to discredit
climate science and are primarily funded by ExxonMobil, Chevron and the Scaife
family foundations (as first reported by the Center for American Progress). It
was launched five years ago to give religious overtones to pro-pollution
propaganda and to oppose calls by evangelical leaders like Rick Warren to
protect the environment. The Cornwallians have gone as far as to declare that
the climate change movement is a "false religion" and a conspiracy to empower
eugenicists and create a "global government." Not surprisingly, the group's
conspiracy theories were promoted on Glenn Beck's show last October.

The article doesn't mention that Dr. Miller is also part of the Center for
Vision and Values at Grove City College, a conservative Christian think tank
that's funded by advocates for the far-right like the Charles G. Koch
Foundation. The CVV pumps out opinion-editorial pieces on a weekly basis,
getting more than 100 published every year.

I would have thought that the PG would recognize this kind of corporate-funded
astroturf for what it really is.

MIKE USMAN, M.D.

Indiana Township

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              91 of 385 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                            February 27, 2011 Sunday
                               FIVE STAR EDITION

DECLINE OF PREDATOR FISH ALARMS PANEL

BYLINE: Marc Kaufman, The Washington Post

SECTION: HEALTH, SCIENCE, MEDICINE AND TECHNOLOGY; Pg. C-4

LENGTH: 774 words


WASHINGTON -- Over the past 100 years, some two-thirds of the large predator
fish in the ocean have been caught and consumed by humans, and in the decades
ahead, the rest are likely to perish, too.

In their place, small fish such as sardines and anchovies are flourishing in the
absence of the tuna, grouper and cod that traditionally feed on them, creating
an ecological imbalance that experts say will forever change the oceans.

"Think of it like the Serengeti, with lions and the antelopes they feed on,"
said Villy Christensen, of University of British Columbia's Fisheries Centre.
"When all the lions are gone, there will be antelopes everywhere. Our oceans are
losing their lions, and pretty soon will have nothing but antelopes."

This grim reckoning was presented at the American Association for the
Advancement of Science's annual meeting Feb. 18 during a panel that asked the
question: "2050: Will there be fish in the ocean?"

The panel predicted that while there would be fish decades from now, they will
be primarily the smaller varieties currently used as fish oil, fish meal for
farmed fish and only infrequently as fish for humans. People, the experts said,
will have to develop a taste for anchovies, capelins and other smaller species.

That the oceans are being overfished has been documented before, and the
collapse of species such as cod and Atlantic salmon is also well-known. The new
research attempts to quantify the overall decline in larger fish, based on data
from more than 200 ecological systems studied since 1880. Those results were
then modeled across the globe.

One startling conclusion: More than 54 percent of the decrease in large predator
fish has taken place over the past 40 years.

"It's a question of how many people are fishing, how they are fishing, and where
they are fishing," Mr. Christensen said. A majority of the catch, and now of the
decline, involves East Asia, which has witnessed dramatic overall economic
growth.

In describing the likely explosion of small fish, Mr. Christensen's team
differed with a 2006 report in the journal Science that warned of an ocean
without fish for humans by mid-century.

But they say that absent predators, the fisheries will be out of balance and
more subject to mass die-offs from disease and from boom-and-bust cycles that,
over time, can lead to algae or bacteria blooms that take the oxygen out of the
waters and make them uninhabitable.

Jacqueline Alder, of the U.N. Environment Program, suggested that the number of
fishing boats and days they fish have to be restricted.

"If we can do this immediately, we will see a decline in fish catches. However,
that will give an opportunity for the fish stocks to rebuild and expand their
populations," she said.

In an effort to stabilize some fish populations, national and international
organizations and governments have placed quotas on the yearly catches of some
species and have banned the taking of endangered fish entirely in some areas.
Some regulations have also been placed on the kind of netting and trawling that
can be used in sensitive areas.

But the fishing fleets are growing in size and sophistication, said University
of Tasmania scientist Reg Watson. "Humans have always fished," he said. "We are
just much, much better at it now."

Examining 2006 catch results, his team found that 76 million tons of commercial
seafood were hauled in -- which he said equates to 7 trillion individual fish.

Mr. Watson said fishing activity has been growing quickly over the past several
decades, with increasingly more energy and effort exerted to bring in equal or
smaller catches. Nations also are paying substantial subsidies to their
fishermen, he said, especially in East Asia.

Demand is growing fast, again most dramatically in East Asia. According to
International Food Policy Research Institute research fellow Siwa Msangi, the
rise in demand is largely being driven by China. Almost 50 percent of the
increase in the world's fish consumption for food comes from Eastern Asia, and
"42 percent of that increase is coming from China itself," he said.

"China is a driver of both the demand and the supply side. That is really why
the management issue becomes so important," Mr. Msangi said. "Projections about
future fish populations decline further, however, when coupled with forecasts
about the impact of climate change," which is expected to warm the oceans
considerably.

"Our study indicates indeed we may get a double whammy from climate change,"
said Mr. Christensen. "Higher water temperatures are going to mean fewer fish in
the ocean and less plant life for them. This will be especially true in the
tropical areas."

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Yoshikazu Tsuno/AFP/Getty Images Fishmongers carry out checks on
frozen bluefin tuna before an auction at Tokyo's Tsukiji fish market.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              99 of 385 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                          September 24, 2011 Saturday
                                 SOONER EDITION

FALLING SATELLITE COULD END WHERE IT BEGAN, NASA SAYS;
RATE OF DESCENT ALTERS PREDICTIONS

BYLINE: Joel Achenbach, The Washington Post

SECTION: HEALTH, SCIENCE, MEDICINE & TECHNOLOGY; Pg. A-3

LENGTH: 387 words


WASHINGTON -- Lazily falling from space, the 12,500-pound satellite UARS
appeared Friday to be headed toward a late-night, debris-spewing return to
Earth, with the United States one of many potential crash sites.

With a handful of hours to go in its 20-year life, the Upper Atmosphere Research
Satellite remained exceedingly unpredictable. Tumbling and completely beyond the
control of ground engineers, UARS was expected to shower 26 pieces of space junk
across a 500-mile linear crash zone.

Small variations in the re-entry timing meant vast differences in where it would
come down. The satellite, designed to help scientists understand climate change,
circled the planet at a 57-degree inclination to the Equator, a path that took
it every hour and a half from the frozen north to the frigid seas beyond the tip
of South America -- and back again.

For two days, NASA had predicted that its satellite would arrive Friday
afternoon or evening, and that it wouldn't be over North America at that time.
But the satellite slowed down between Thursday and Friday, showing no eagerness
to leave space.

"There are random forces of nature acting on the satellite that we can neither
control nor predict," NASA spokeswoman Beth Dickey said Friday night. "Very
small changes have very large consequences over time, and in this case, the
change has been in the orientation of the spacecraft."

At 10:45 a.m. Friday, NASA put out a new forecast in which the United States was
again a potential target, if still a low-probability one.

"There is a low probability any debris that survives re-entry will land in the
United States, but the possibility cannot be discounted because of this changing
rate of descent," NASA said on its UARS Web page.

On Friday morning, the satellite was 100 miles up, NASA said. UARS was expected
to heat up, partially melt and break into pieces, about 26 of which probably
would reach the surface, NASA said this week.

The biggest piece would weigh more than 300 pounds, which would certainly pose a
hazard if it fell on a populated area. But most of the planet is open ocean.

The Aerospace Corp.'s forecast Friday afternoon, based on Air Force tracking
data, showed that UARS would land in the middle of the Pacific Ocean at about
midnight Eastern time. If it came in just 15 minutes later it would hit North
America.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: NASA: NASA said its Upper Atmosphere Research Satellite was not
behaving as expected: "There are random forces of nature acting on the satellite
that we can neither control nor predict."

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              111 of 385 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                           January 26, 2011 Wednesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

AMERICANS SPLIT ON HEALTH CARE

BYLINE: Compiled from news services

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. A-7

LENGTH: 537 words


WASHINGTON -- American attitudes toward changes in health care laws are "all
over the map," a Kaiser Family Foundation/Harvard School of Public Health survey
reported Tuesday.

While 28 percent want the 2010 health insurance law expanded, 19 percent said
leave it alone, 23 percent backed repealing it and replacing with Republican
ideas and 20 percent said repeal it, but don't replace it.

Views fell largely along partisan lines, with 77 percent of Republicans
supporting some sort of repeal, while 51 percent of Democrats said they wanted
the law expanded.

Climate czar quitting

WASHINGTON -- Carol Browner, President Barack Obama's controversial climate and
energy czar, will step down soon, White House officials said Tuesday, in a move
that some energy lobbyists saw as another signal that the administration wants
to make amends with an alienated business community by reconsidering
environmental regulation.

Many environmentalists, for their part, said Ms. Browner's resignation in itself
did not signal a retreat from environmental protections. But both sides said
they are watching closely for the White House's next steps, including whether a
successor to Ms. Browner will be named, who that person is and what the mandate
would be.

Emanuel's ballot appeal

CHICAGO -- Illinois' highest court agreed Tuesday to decide whether Rahm Emanuel
can run for Chicago mayor, and justices ordered election officials not to print
any ballots without his name until they rule on the case.

The state Supreme Court action bought valuable time for the former Obama White
House chief of staff, who a day earlier was kicked off the ballot by an appeals
court.

But with less than a week to go before the first early ballots are cast, a
number of potential scenarios loomed, including the possibility that Mr. Emanuel
would have to resort to a write-in campaign or wage a desperate bid to take the
matter to federal court.

Housing hammers more cities

A second wave of falling home prices is battering some cities that had escaped
the worst of the housing market bust.

Prices in Seattle, Charlotte, N.C., and Portland, Ore., have hit their lowest
points since peaking in 2006 and 2007. Denver and Minneapolis are nearing new
lows. High unemployment and rising foreclosures are taking a toll even on
markets that never overheated during the boom years.

Home values are dwindling in nearly every American market. Prices fell in
November in all but one of the 20 cities in the Standard & Poor's/Case-Shiller
index released Tuesday. Eight of those markets hit their lowest point since the
housing bubble burst.

Blackwater suit tossed

RALEIGH, N.C. -- A federal judge has tossed a lawsuit that blamed the security
company formerly known as Blackwater for the deaths of four contractors killed
in a grisly 2004 ambush on the restive streets of Iraq.

U.S. District Judge James C. Fox said court-ordered arbitration fell apart
because neither side was paying the costs of that process, so he decided to shut
the case nearly seven years after the killings. Katy Helvenston, the mother of
contractor Scott Helvenston, said Tuesday the families couldn't afford the
costs, and she fears the case is over. The lawsuit was filed about a year after
the men's deaths.

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              118 of 385 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                          September 17, 2011 Saturday
                                 SOONER EDITION

THE SCIENCE MATTERS

BYLINE: GENEVIEVE MANN, Highland Park

SECTION: EDITORIAL; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR; Pg. B-6

LENGTH: 90 words


Thanks for a really thoughtful opinion section on Aug. 31. Columnists David
Brooks and Dan Simpson were excellent, as was the commentary by Brenda Ekwurzel
("Climate Realities: Global Warming Is a Fact, and Evident Right Here in the
Streets of Pittsburgh").

I do not understand why you run columnist Jack Kelly, who doesn't appear to be
keeping up with the best scientific findings regarding climate change. I am
quite willing to read a variety of opinions as long as I think the authors are
not writing from ignorance of the issues of the day.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              125 of 385 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                           December 13, 2011 Tuesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

CANADA SAYS IT WILL ABANDON KYOTO CLIMATE TREATY;
ENVIRONMENT MINISTER PETER KENT SAID CANADA COULD MEET ITS COMMITMENT ONLY
THROUGH EXTREME MEASURES, SUCH AS PULLING ALL MOTOR VEHICLES FROM ITS ROADS AND
SHUTTING HEAT OFF TO EVERY BUILDING IN THE COUNTRY.

BYLINE: Ian Austen, The New York Times

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. A-4

LENGTH: 471 words


OTTAWA, Canada -- Canada said Monday that it would withdraw from the Kyoto
Protocol, the 1997 treaty to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.

Under that accord, major industrialized nations agreed to meet targets for
reducing emissions, but mandates were not imposed on developing countries such
as China, India, Brazil and South Africa. The United States never ratified the
treaty.

Canada did commit to the treaty, but the agreement has been fraying.
Participants at a U.N. conference in Durban, South Africa, renewed it Sunday but
could not agree on an accord to replace it. Instead, the 200 nations represented
at the conference agreed to begin a long-term process of negotiating a new
treaty, but without resolving a core issue: whether its requirements will apply
equally to all countries.

The decision by Canada's Conservative Party government had long been expected. A
Liberal Party government negotiated Canada's entry into the agreement, but the
Conservative government has never disguised its disdain for the treaty.

In announcing the decision, government officials indicated that the possibility
of huge fines for Canada's failure to meet emissions targets also had played a
role.

"Kyoto, for Canada, is in the past," Environment Minister Peter Kent told
reporters shortly after returning from South Africa. He added that Canada would
work toward developing an agreement that includes targets for developing
nations, particularly China and India. "What we have to look at is all major
emitters," he said.

Under the Kyoto Protocol's rules, Canada must formally give notice of its
intention to withdraw by the end of this year or else face penalties after 2012.
The extent of those penalties, as well as Canada's ability to redress its
inability to meet the treaty's emission reduction targets, is a matter of some
debate.

Mr. Kent said Canada could meet its commitment only through extreme measures,
such as pulling all motor vehicles from its roads and shutting heat off to every
building in the country. He said the Liberal Party had agreed to the treaty
"without any regard as to how it would be fulfilled." He also said the failure
to meet the targets would have cost Canada $14 billion in penalties.

Other estimates, however, put the figure at $6 billion to $9 billion. Matt
Horne, director of climate change at the Pembina Institute, a Canadian
environmental group, said the financial penalties might have been further
reduced by agreeing to additional reductions.

He also dismissed Mr. Kent's assertions about the steps that Canada would have
had to have taken to meet its commitments as extreme misrepresentations.

"It's not a surprise that it happened," Mr. Horne said of the government's
decision to withdraw from the treaty. "But it is a bit of surprise that it
happened pretty much as they got off the plane from Durban."

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              127 of 385 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                           December 15, 2011 Thursday
                                 SOONER EDITION

TRUTH TO POWER

BYLINE: JACK OCHS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR; Pg. B-6

LENGTH: 111 words


Regarding "U.S Climate Envoy Shifts Position on Talks" (Dec. 9): Kudos to
Abigail Borah, a Middlebury College junior. Interrupting a speech by the U.S.
envoy to a U.N. conference on global climate change, she spoke truth to power
saying, "The obstructionist Congress has shackled justice and delayed ambition
[on the control of greenhouse gases] for far too long. ... 2020 is too late to
wait. We need an urgent path to a fair, ambitious and legally binding treaty."

No nation puts out more greenhouse gases per capita than does the United States.
It is long past time that we stop shirking our responsibilities to our children
and grandchildren.

JACK OCHS

Point Breeze

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              128 of 385 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                          December 28, 2011 Wednesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

TO STOP BULLYING

BYLINE: JAMES BOZIGAR

SECTION: EDITORIAL; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR; Pg. A-16

LENGTH: 364 words


Although bullying has been much in the news, the Dec. 15 article "Programs Said
to Prevent Bullying" gives valuable insight into how we in Pennsylvania are
reducing violence among children and adolescents.

Bullying is peer abuse that has a devastating impact on witnesses as well as
targets. It creates a climate of fear in which everyone feels jeopardized. When
given the tools to stop bullying, students, teachers and administrators work
together to change the climate of their schools. By taking the power away from
students who engage in bullying behaviors, we create schools where everyone
feels safe.

Through the generous support of the Highmark Foundation, the Olweus Bullying
Prevention Program has been implemented in more than 400 Pennsylvania schools
over the past five years. This is the largest research program on the
effectiveness of bullying prevention in the world. The results, compiled from
student pre- and post-surveys, shows significant reductions in bullying
behaviors, increases in students supporting those who are targeted, and overall
decreases in acts of school violence.

While the statistics indicate positive changes in these schools, a better way to
evaluate this work is by discussing its impact with students. I hear from
students how this program has made them feel safer, more secure and able to
concentrate on learning.

One ninth-grade student shared this story with me. He was the target of pretty
vicious gay-baiting in the gym locker room. It had gone on for several minutes
when a student nearby said loudly enough for everyone in the locker room to
hear, "You know, guys, that's not really funny!" The verbal bullying stopped,
and this student reported that one of the students who had been bullying, said,
"Sorry." He ended the story by telling me that the verbal bullying had gone on
after every gym class for a year, but since the bystander had "stood up" to the
bullying behaviors, he has been bully-free for the last month.

Highmark Foundation deserves our praise and support for its work on making our
state and region a safer place for all of us.

JAMES BOZIGAR

Safe Schools Coordinator/Certified Olweus Trainer

Allegheny Intermediate Unit

Homestead

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              134 of 385 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                           November 15, 2011 Tuesday
                            PITTSBURGH PRESS EDITION

NOTHING NEW IN GLOBAL WARMING DEBATE

BYLINE: JACK KELLY

SECTION: EDITORIAL; VIEWPOINTS; Pg. A-7

LENGTH: 561 words


"For the clueless and cynical diehards who deny global warming, it's getting
awfully cold out there," Washington Post columnist Eugene Robinson wrote Oct.
24.

It is indeed. Here in Pennsylvania we had last month the earliest snowfall
anyone can remember. This winter will be cold and stormy, the Farmers Almanac
predicts.

But that's not what Mr. Robinson meant. "Despite denials for political agendas,
global warming at the hands of man is beyond doubt after a former skeptic's
study," said the subhed over his column in the Memphis Commercial Appeal.

Mr. Robinson was referring to the Berkeley Earth Surface Temperature Project,
which examined temperature measurements from 1800 to 2010 from 39,000 ground
stations around the world.

About two thirds of those stations showed temperatures were rising. A third
indicated they were falling.

In the paper they submitted for peer review, the BEST scientists say they don't
know what caused the temperature increase they reported, so it's quite a stretch
to say their study proves "global warming at the hands of man is beyond doubt."
Especially so since the BEST scientists also say: "The human component of global
warming may be somewhat overestimated."

And that's the point. No skeptic denies it's gotten warmer since 1800, when we
were emerging from the Little Ice Age (1550 -1850 AD). We argue (1) that nearly
all the warming has been due to natural forces; (2) that the warming is well
within the range of natural climate fluctuations for eons past, and that warming
stopped around 1998.

The BEST study "is consistent with models developed by other climate researchers
that posit greenhouse gas emissions -- the burning of fossil fuels by humans --
as the cause" of warming, Mr. Robinson said.

If Mr. Robinson actually had read the study, he'd have seen the BEST data show
no correlation between carbon dioxide emissions and temperature increases, which
casts doubt on the theory CO2 emissions are the cause of warming.

More pertinently, the BEST data show no warming for the last 13 years. So if Mr.
Robinson did read the study, he's lying. But I suspect Mr. Robinson is relying
entirely on comments made by Richard Muller, the Berkeley physicist who chaired
the BEST project.

"Global warming is real," Dr. Muller declared in an op-ed in the Wall Street
Journal Oct. 21. But all he meant was that temperatures have risen during the
period BEST studied. Since no skeptic doubts that, he was knocking down a
strawman.

Mr. Robinson (and many other journalists) described Mr. Muller as a former
skeptic. That's a curious way to describe someone who told Grist magazine in a
2008 interview he resigned from the Sierra Club in the early 1980s "over the
issue of global warming."

In a 2003 paper, he wrote "carbon dioxide from the burning of fossil fuels will
prove to be the greatest pollutant of human history."

Mr. Muller proved he was a true believer willing to bend the truth for his cause
when he told the BBC "we see no evidence of (global warming) slowing down."

That isn't true, said BEST co-author Judith Curry.

The BEST data show global temperatures stopped rising 13 years ago, Dr. Curry
said. Temperatures in the United States have fallen in the last decade,
according to the National Climatic Data Center.

So bundle up, Mr. Robinson. It is getting awfully cold out there -- but more for
you fraudsters than for us skeptics.

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Jack Kelly is a columnist for The Press and The Blade of Toledo, Ohio
(jkelly@post-gazette.com, 412 263-1476)./

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              145 of 385 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                            April 27, 2011 Wednesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

SAVING THE EARTH

BYLINE: JAMIE DEMARCO

SECTION: LOCAL; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR; Pg. B-6

LENGTH: 193 words


Just because Earth Day is behind us, the 2011 theme "A Billion Acts of Green"
isn't a concept we should put aside. My recent walk on one of the many trails
surrounding the Pittsburgh area left me feeling dismayed. While we're out
reaping the benefits associated with exercising, our careless actions are
degrading the health of the environment. I was astonished at the number of
disposable bottles and bags littering our communities.

It's discouraging to imagine the quantities that are piled in our landfills. If
you're not convinced the greenhouse gases emitted during the production and
distribution process of all these bottles and bags contribute to climate change
(which I sincerely recommend looking into), you can't deny our consumption is
excessive. Recycling is not always convenient when we're on the go. Just by
making a commitment to take advantage of all the reusable containers for drinks
and bags available to us, we can contribute to the reduction in waste.

We need to act responsibly for the sake of future generations. It requires just
a little more effort. Remember, reduce, reuse and recycle for a healthy
environment.

JAMIE DEMARCO

Bethel Park

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              147 of 385 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                             June 9, 2011 Thursday
                                 SOONER EDITION

HEAT GRIPS MUCH OF U.S.

BYLINE: Compiled from news services

SECTION: NATIONAL; NATIONAL BRIEFS; Pg. A-7

LENGTH: 563 words


WASHINGTON -- The mercury climbed into the 90s across half the country Wednesday
in a record-breaking blast of mid-summer-like heat, forcing schools with no air
conditioning to let kids go home early and cities to open cooling centers. And
scientists say we had better get used to it.

A new study from Stanford University predicts that global climate change will
lead permanently to unusually hot summers by the middle of the century.

Temperatures in the 90s were recorded across much of the South, the East and the
Midwest. Baltimore and Washington hit 99 degrees, breaking high-temperature
records for the date that were set in 1999, according to the National Weather
Service. The normal high for the date is about 82.

Forecasters said it felt even hotter because of the high humidity. The ridge of
high pressure that brought the broiling weather is expected to remain parked
over the region through today.

Fire threatens power lines

SPRINGERVILLE, Ariz. -- A raging forest fire in eastern Arizona that has forced
thousands from their homes headed Wednesday for a pair of transmission lines
that supply electricity to hundreds of thousands of people as far east as Texas.

The 607-square-mile blaze is expected to reach the power lines as early as
Friday. If the lines are damaged, parts of New Mexico and Texas could face
rolling blackouts.

The fire prompted Texas-based El Paso Electric to issue warnings of possible
power interruptions for its customers in southern New Mexico and West Texas.

BP rig workers' families

WASHINGTON -- The Senate Commerce Committee on Wednesday approved a bill to help
the families of the 11 victims of last year's Deepwater Horizon blowout by
changing outdated federal maritime laws, one going back to the 1850s, to make it
possible to recover damages from BP, rig operator Transocean and rig
subcontractors.

The Deepwater Horizon Survivors' Fairness Act would amend the Jones Act and the
Death on the High Seas Act to allow the victims' families to claim
non-compensatory damages, such as pain and suffering and loss of companionship.
Both laws prohibit such claims. .

Drug for chickens pulled

WASHINGTON -- A drug that farmers have given to chickens for decades is being
pulled off the market after federal investigators found a potentially
carcinogenic form of arsenic in the livers of animals treated with the
substance, officials announced Wednesday.

Alpharma, a subsidiary of Pfizer Inc., is voluntarily suspending sales of the
drug 3-Nitro, which has been given to chickens since the 1940s to protect them
from a parasitic disease and help them gain weight, the Food and Drug
Administration announced.

During a briefing for reporters, David Goldman of Agriculture Department and
Bernadette Dunham of the FDA stressed that the levels of arsenic detected in the
chickens were very low and do not pose a health risk to consumers.

Blagojevich trial nears end

CHICAGO -- Former Illinois Gov. Rod Blagojevich sat stoically with his hands
folded on the defense table on Wednesday as Assistant U.S. Attorney Carrie
Hamilton described him as a corrupt politician who tried to sell a U.S. Senate
seat.

One offer Mr. Blagojevich allegedly pursued was $1.5 million in campaign money
in exchange for appointing U.S. Rep. Jesse Jackson Jr. to the vacancy.

Mr. Blagojevich's attempt to do that trade was "as direct as it gets," Ms.
Hamilton said during closing arguments.

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              152 of 385 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                              July 18, 2011 Monday
                                 SOONER EDITION

PIRACY ROBS THE WORLD OF NEEDED SCIENTIFIC DATA

BYLINE: Scripps Howard News Service

SECTION: EDITORIAL; AS OTHERS SEE IT; Pg. B-7

LENGTH: 397 words


An editorial from Scripps Howard News Service

Since the days of sail, sea captains have served as scientific field observers
for shore-bound researchers, turning in reports of wind and waves, water
temperatures and currents.

Since World War II, an armada of specially-equipped scientific vessels sponsored
by governments, universities and foundations has increasingly augmented the
amateur observers. These ships do everything from drilling beneath the seafloor
to study the Earth's crust to counting fish to studying climate change.

But in the past few years, vast swaths of the Red Sea and Indian Ocean -- some 1
million square miles -- have been all but emptied of fishing boats, cargo craft
and scientific vessels, driven out by the threat of Somali pirates.

Since 2008, when a surge of pirate attacks drew an international naval response
and maritime insurers demanded special policies for any vessel sailing much
closer than 1,000 miles from Somalia's shore, at least a half dozen expeditions
have been canceled, others have been moved to other oceans.

Although some attacks have been thwarted by warships and armed guards assigned
to ships, the pirates are prowling over a greater expanse of ocean, making more
than 200 attacks last year and nearly 100 in just the first three months this
year, according to an international clearinghouse that tracks piracy.

One contract research vessel from the Seychelles was hijacked in 2009, and while
its crew was eventually ransomed, pirates destroyed the ship. Sea bandits have
also shot up a number of research buoys.

Among the scientific casualties are surface wind observations used to predict
summer monsoons in India and delayed deployment of a network of buoys that are
needed to understand weather patterns that begin in the Indian Ocean and can
eventually cause flooding along the North American West Coast.

Perhaps the worst effect is a gap in oceanic measurements that have been
faithfully done for well over 100 years. "Piracy is affecting our long-term
records," Shawn Smith, a Florida State University research meteorologist told
interviewers earlier this month.

Although most experts agree that a long-term solution to Somali piracy lies with
a stable government and economy ashore, the scientific disruptions are a
reminder that more than commerce and fishing grounds are at stake when freedom
of the seas is stolen by banditry.

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              155 of 385 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                              July 31, 2011 Sunday
                                TWO STAR EDITION

GOOD CARTOON

BYLINE: TIM KELLY, Aleppo

SECTION: EDITORIAL; LETTERS TO THE EDITIOR; Pg. B-2

LENGTH: 290 words


I want to offer kudos to Rob Rogers for his excellent cartoon on climate change
that appeared in the July 24 issue. It's about time that we faced up to this
problem. Simply put, you can't take a trillion tons of naturally sequestered
carbon, gasify it and inject it into an atmosphere and expect not to suffer
consequenses. CO2 absorbs heat, period. Take two containers, load one with air
and the other with an air/CO2 mixture and shine a light on them. The one
containing CO2 will assume a higher temperature every time. This very experiment
is available for viewing on YouTube.

Another thing our emissions are doing is acidifying the oceans, making it
increasingly difficult for organisms that form calcium carbonate shells to do
so. The Pacific Northwest is already experiencing shellfish mortality, due to
upwelling of acidic, CO2-rich water. This is undisputed.

What I've touched on here is not about belief, but peer-reviewed observation.
The thing that is most disturbing is that the American people never got the
chance to truly understand this complex problem for what it is: a threat to our
entire civilization. The debate was hijacked by those whose ox would be gored if
we turned away from fossil fuels. It started years ago with Republican
strategist Frank Luntz's memo to the Republican National Committee, recommending
they cast doubt on the science. Mr. Luntz has since abandoned that position, but
the damage is already done. People just don't know what to believe.

I would submit that this and every reputable paper in the country should summon
their collective courage and make the battle over global warming front-page
news. We have a finite window of time to act to ramp down our emissions, and
that window is rapidly closing.

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              185 of 385 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                            August 18, 2011 Thursday
                                 SOONER EDITION

A WELCOME NEWCOMER;
MEAT & POTATOES TURNS IN A SMASHING PERFORMANCE IN THE CULTURAL DISTRICT

BYLINE: China Millman, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT; ON THE TABLE; Pg. W-14

LENGTH: 1625 words


Early this year, Richard DeShantz described the idea for his newest venture as a
casual watering hole with good food, a neighborhood kind of place where he would
serve the dishes he might make for chef friends on a night off.

Now open for several months, Meat & Potatoes certainly is more casual than Nine
on Nine, Mr. DeShantz's fine dining restaurant a few blocks up Penn Avenue.
There are no tablecloths, the dining room is close and loud, and wine is served
in juice glasses. It's open seven days a week and is neighborly about serving
dinner late.

But "neighborhood establishment" doesn't do justice to this bold, buzzy
restaurant. At one of the richest culinary moments in recent history, there are
very few spots in Pittsburgh where one can eat and drink so well, in such a
splendid setting and at such reasonable prices.

A large, rectangular bar dominates the space and offers seating on all sides.
Tables encircle it, some topped with butcher-block-style wood slabs, others with
sheets of metal, slightly shiny and cool to the touch. Deeply cushioned chairs,
curvaceous chandeliers and antiqued mirrors fit smoothly with a slightly
animalistic vibe coming from the primal cuts chart chalked onto one wall and a
sun-bleached bull's skull hanging from another.

The menu also mixes genres, encompassing comfort food and global cuisine,
nose-to-tail cooking alongside impeccable revisions of bar food. Neatly divided
into categories such as "snacks" and "pastas," this menu is larger than it first
appears, even before factoring in the chalkboard specials.

Snacks (no utensils required) and appetizers were good for nibbling with a drink
or starting off a lavish meal, and generally sized for sharing. Meat & Potatoes
is a convivial kind of place, the bar area often resembling one, big cocktail
party.

Devils on horseback, the world's best cocktail party food, were served piping
hot, chewy dates softened into candy, with the crunch of bacon and the warm ooze
of manchego cheese creating the perfect salty-sweet balance ($6).

There will surely be some who gripe about paying for bread, but when it's neatly
grilled and served with generous dishes of savory goat's milk butter and tangy,
smooth rhubarb compote, a bread course merits a $3 price.

A sprinkling of Old Bay added a twist to poutine ($7), but also added too much
salt; skip it in favor of the Yukon skins -- two creamy potatoes, halved,
hollowed out and filled with thick slices of house-made pastrami and a mild,
mozzarella-like cheese ($8). Who knew a baked potato could taste this good?
Chicken wings were brined overnight, smoked for two hours then deep fried,
creating the golden ratio of crispy skin to firm, juicy meat. Glazed red and
sprinkled with thinly sliced hot chiles and sliced green onions, they were
almost painfully hot, but with just enough sweetness to soften each bite ($14).

Less ubiquitous bar snacks, such as bone marrow and fried chicken livers, get
the same careful attention. Flintstone-esque marrow bones, buried beneath
handfuls of parsley, were served on rimmed baking sheets with more grilled bread
and small bowls of capers, pickled shallots and extra parsley salad for
doctoring up each bite ( $14). Carefully roasted, the marrow slid out in
quivering, melting spoonfuls. No wonder they've been going through 100 pounds a
night.

Fried brussels sprouts, served with a creamy romesco-style sauce, were a little
too dark ($5). They tasted like potato chips, not a bad thing, except for those
who actually like brussels sprouts.

Indulgence was a forceful presence on this menu, so a pristine arugula salad was
a surprising hit ($8). A wooden bowl filled with crisp, peppery leaves,
complemented by wedges of sweet watermelon, thin slices of spicy watermelon
radish, more Nicoise olives, tufts of fresh feta and a refreshing mint-lemon
vinaigrette, was the perfect antidote to the rich dishes that preceded it.

Other lighter dishes can be gleaned from the list. Tuna crudo walks a wonderful
line between Japan and the Mediterranean. Thick slices of pale red fish arranged
on a thick stripe of soy, were adorned with green and black olives, and thinly
sliced red chiles and garlic, punching up tuna's mild flavor ($12).

Mussels were available in three styles ($14). The Thai-ish version had a lovely,
light broth of coconut milk flavored with red curry and kaffir lime, with thinly
sliced Thai chiles adding hits of fire, but one has to eat through a veritable
mountain of (very tasty) mussels to reach the broth.

Entrees skip from country to country, demonstrating Mr. DeShantz's impressive
fluency in a broad array of flavor profiles.

Korean-style salmon came with brussels sprout and cabbage kimchi and hits of
pineapple for sweetness ($18). Kobe flatiron, an underutilized cut, was
beautifully marbled and intensely flavorful, but was truly distinguished by its
accompaniments: Soft, chewy plantains somewhere between green and sweet; a black
bean, corn and red pepper relish; and generous dabs of herb-rich chimichurri
sauce ($26).

Italian-American dishes impressed both for their careful, traditional flavors
and their original flourishes. Sweetbreads piccata was a marvel, the rich, gamey
flavor of the organ meat enhanced rather than overwhelmed by the tart, lemony
sauce, the briny capers and artichoke hearts ($18). Chanterelle and shiitake
mushrooms added just the right woodsy sweetness, their soft, dense texture
contrasting with the crisp, light coating of the sweetbreads.

A generous plate of soft, light gnocchi were bathed in an alchemical sauce of
olive oil, pasta water and Pecorino Romano, a rich coating lightened by a
profusion of greenery: fresh peas, asparagus and wilted spinach ($16).

Mexican-inspired dishes included airy, crisp chicherones (fried pig skin)
sprinkled with shredded manchego; as well as braised short rib tacos, heady with
the dark, earthy aroma of mole, simply garnished with fried onions and cilantro
and folded into warm corn tortillas.

So many more dishes are worth mentioning, like the mac 'n' cheese, with its
smooth, soft sauce and chunks of sweet lobster ($14); the spicy apple-fennel
slaw that should forever accompany all pork chops ($18); the crisp flatbreads
whose chewy, well-browned crusts made up for so many mediocre flatbreads before
them ($10-$12).

Ours wasn't the only table ordering too much food. At a place like this, it's
hard to know when to stop.

Desserts were simple and well-conceived -- strong, sweet finishes to bring a
meal to a proper close ($7). Chocolate pot de creme, on the milkier side of the
spectrum, was softer, and weirdly richer than the dry, dark versions that have
become popular. A fantastic key lime pie sandwiched wonderfully tart curd
between a graham cracker crust and a cloud of meringue. Panna cotta tended to be
a little too stiff, or maybe just too cold, but a blueberry-basil topping
captured the best of summer flavors, quite literally, in a jar (most of the
desserts are prepared in jars, a cute concept, though one which makes sharing
trickier than usual).

There's a credible wine list, offered entirely by the glass or the bottle, but
cocktails and beer are mostly, rightly, the drinks of choice. Beer comes on
draft or in cans -- you'll be surprised by the number of options. Cocktails
ranged from bright and refreshing, such as the rosemary scented Gin Richard ($8)
and the foamy, citrusy Tequila Fizz ($9) to more assertive concoctions, such as
the aged Manhattan ($13), garnished with a delectable, liquor-soaked cherry.

Bar staff and servers alike were knowledgeable, attentive and quick on their
feet. But it should be noted that I was recognized early on by one server, who
happened to be a friend of a friend and the kitchen seemed to take notice. An
extra dish was sent out on a later visit, purportedly an apology for the
unavailability of the beef carpaccio: An eye-popping plate of beef tartare,
rough chopped and bound up with capers, parsley, radishes and scallions and
served piled on a single marrow bone. Whatever its motivation, it made for
magnificent eating, and it turned up on the menu a week or so later.

The name Meat & Potatoes may be a play on the traditional, and much maligned,
American dinner, but the restaurant is a celebration of America's contemporary
restaurant scene, arguably among the most exciting and diverse in the modern
world. With restaurants like this one, Pittsburgh is doing its part.

b>Meat & Potatoes

/b>

649 Penn Ave.

Cultural District

meatandpotatoespgh.com

412-325-7007

b>Hours:

/b>Monday to Thursday 5 to 11 p.m.; Friday to Saturday, 5 p.m. to midnight;
Sunday, 4 to 9 p.m.; lunch and weekend brunch coming in September.

b>Basics:

/b>A casual yet stylish setting for spectacular food and drink, Richard DeShantz
draws inspiration from a wide array of cuisines, but puts his own, refined spin
on everything from tacos to chicken pot pie.

b>Recommended dishes:

/b> Tequila Fizz, devils on horseback, bone marrow, chicherones, arugula salad,
sweetbread piccata, salmon with brussels sprout and cabbage kimchi, kobe flat
iron steak, key lime pie.

b>Prices:

/b>Snacks, $3-$7; starters, $7-$14; sandwiches and burgers, $7-$14; entrees,
$16-$24.

b>Drink:

/b>Classic and creative cocktails, $8-$12; more than two dozen interesting beers
by the can, $4-$7 and a rotating selection of draft beers; three sparkling, 13
white and 16 red wines, all offered by the glass or bottle, glasses starting at
$8; one sparkling, four whites and six reds for $40 or less.

b>Summary:

/b> Wheelchair accessible; credit cards accepted; reservations highly
recommended; corkage, call for information.

b>Noise level:

/b> Loud to very loud.

b>Food:

/b> ***1/2

b> Service:

/b> ***

b>Atmosphere

/b>: ***

b>Overall:

/b> ***

b> KEY

/b>

* = Good

** = Very good

*** = Excellent

**** = Outstanding

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: WEEKEND MAG / China Millman: 412-263-1198 or cmillman@post-gazette.com
Follow her at twitter.com/chinamillman. /

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Lake Fong/Post-Gazette Richard DeShantz of Meat & Potatoes with
his bone marrow with grilled breads.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              194 of 385 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                            February 28, 2011 Monday
                                 SOONER EDITION

SOUTH SIDE MARKET CLOSING;
FOR 83 YEARS, SCHWARTZ MARKET SERVED COMMUNITY; NOW IT'S READY FOR A NEW CALLING

BYLINE: Diana Nelson Jones, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. B-1

LENGTH: 558 words


After 83 years on the South Side, Schwartz Market will close at the end of the
week. Its four owners, having failed to find a suitable buyer, will leave the
building to a transition team that includes Elisa Beck, one of the property
owners.

She said Wednesday the doors will reopen with the shortest delay possible for
community discussions about the building's next life as a sustainable enterprise
that will eventually include a market.

Ms. Beck, a developmental optometrist whose family opened the store, said the
transition will not be fast, "but it's happening now. We are frontloading it
with a planning process." She established a nonprofit, Unity Through Creativity,
to begin raising money to change the building in phases.

The current business owners -- Marty and Audrey Dorfner and Richard and Donna
Stanton -- bought the store, at 1317 E. Carson St., 25 years ago.

"We would rather have sold the business intact," said Mr. Dorfner, "but no
prospective buyer has been able to work out a lease, and the ones who could
didn't have the money for the business."

The asking price of $75,000 dropped to $39,000 two months ago, he said.

A dairy case that eight years ago cost $1,000, with another $5,000 spent moving
it, installing it and adding a compressor, will sell at auction at a loss if it
sells, he said, "because there aren't many small stores like this left."

The owners will continue to stock fresh meat, produce and dairy products but are
letting their non-perishable items deplete with 25 percent reductions in price.
The closing date isn't definite, he said. "March 5 or shortly thereafter,
depending on depletion of inventory."

What does not sell will be donated to food banks, Mr. Dorfner said.

Plans for the three-story, 18,000-square-foot building include the use of all
three floors, a full-scale market with a focus on locally and organically raised
and grown foods that are affordable to the store's stalwarts; a production roof
garden; a worm farm; solar generation of electricity; and community programs
incorporating the creative arts into nutrition and health education.

Margaret Baco, a registered nurse, is part of Ms. Beck's team, which has reached
out to foundations, green enterprise organizations, universities, students,
holistic health professionals and others interested in social justice, climate
change and sustainable businesses and buildings, she said.

"We have an extensive community [that also includes] permaculturists, gardeners,
worm farmers and strategic planners," she said. "We really feel that this space
has such potential as a community place for health programming around food."

The first priorities will be to remediate lead in the upper floors and make them
stable and accessible.

Ms. Beck said she is using Phipps Conservatory's Center for Sustainable
Landscapes as an inspiration for the transition of Schwartz Market.

Phipps' project is designed to be an education, research and administration
complex that is part of a $20 million expansion project. The center is planned
to be a net zero energy building "that captures and treats all of its water on
site," according to http://phipps.conservatory.org.

"Our project will be very different because we don't have $20 million," said Ms.
Beck.

By early April, Unity Through Creativity should have "the clearest assessment of
the investment needed," said Ms. Baco.

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Diana Nelson Jones: djones@post-gazette.com or 412-263-1626. Read her
blog City Walkabout at www.post-gazette.com/citywalk./

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Bill Wade/Post-Gazette: Schwartz Market on East Carson Street,
owned for a long time by Marty and Audrey Dorfner and Richard and Donna Stanton,
is closing by the end of the week. \
PHOTO: Below, Marcia Vitai has worked the deli counter since 1998. \
PHOTO: Bill Wade/Post-Gazette: Marty and Audrey Dorfner, left, along with and
Richard and Donna Stanton, bought the market 25 years ago.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              200 of 385 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                              May 3, 2011 Tuesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

HARPER'S CONSERVATIVES WIN MAJORITY IN CANADA

BYLINE: Rob Gillies, Associated Press

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. A-7

LENGTH: 480 words


TORONTO -- Conservative Prime Minister Stephen Harper won his coveted majority
government in elections Monday that also marked a shattering defeat for the
opposition Liberals, preliminary results showed.

Mr. Harper, who took office in 2006, has won two elections but until now had
never held a majority of seats, forcing him to rely on the opposition to pass
legislation.

While his hold on the 308-member Parliament has been tenuous during his
five-year tenure, he has managed to nudge an instinctively center-left country
to the right. He has gradually lowered sales and corporate taxes, avoided
climate change legislation, promoted Arctic sovereignty, upped military spending
and extended Canada's military mission in Afghanistan.

Elections Canada reported preliminary results on its website, giving the
Conservatives 164 seats, which will mean four years of uninterrupted government
for Mr. Harper.

"It's stunning. We're elated," Conservative lawmaker Jason Kenney said in an
interview with CBC. "We'll be a government for all Canadians."

The leftist New Democrats are projected to become the main opposition party for
the first time in Canadian history with 106 seats, in a stunning upset over the
Liberals who have always been either in power or leading the opposition.

Former colleagues of Mr. Harper say his long-term goals are to kill the image of
the Liberals -- the party of Jean Chretien, Lester Pearson and Pierre Trudeau --
as the natural party of government in Canada, and to redefine what it means to
be Canadian.

Mr. Harper took a major step toward that on Monday night as the Liberals dropped
to 35 seats from 77, according to the preliminary results.

Liberal leader Michael Ignatieff congratulated Mr. Harper and New Democrat
leader Jack Layton and accepted responsibility for the "historic defeat."

"I will play any part that the party wishes me to play as we go forward to
rebuild," Mr. Ignatieff said.

Stephen Clarkson, professor at the University of Toronto said Mr. Harper will
now be considered a transformative figure in Canadian history.

"It's a sea change," Mr. Clarkson said.

The New Democrats' gains are being attributed to Mr. Layton's strong performance
in the debates, a folksy, upbeat message and a desire by the French-speakers in
Quebec, the second most populous province, for a new face after growing weary of
the separatist Bloc Quebecois.

The NDP's gains marked a remarkable shift in a campaign started out weeks ago
looking like a straight battle between Mr. Harper and Mr. Ignatieff, with the
60-year-old Mr. Layton recovering from prostate cancer and a broken hip.

Mr. Harper campaigned on a message that the New Democrats stood for "higher
taxes, higher spending, higher prices, protectionism. He called the election a
choice between "a Conservative majority" and "a ramshackle coalition led by the
NDP that will not last but will do a lot of destruction."

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Adrian Wyld/The Canadian Press: Canadian Prime Minister Stephen
Harper is headed for a third consecutive election victory.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              201 of 385 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                               May 8, 2011 Sunday
                                TWO STAR EDITION

FLUFFY DUST. HAMMERED SHIELD. MEALY ROSETTE ...;
THE SECRET WORLD OF LICHEN OR, AS YOU MIGHT KNOW IT, THAT STUFF ON TREES.;
MATTHEW OPDYKE KNOWS ALL ABOUT IT

BYLINE: HEIDI OPDYKE

SECTION: EDITORIAL; THE NEXT PAGE; Pg. B-7

LENGTH: 1444 words


It's that time of year when you head back out to the yard and assess what needs
to be done.

Grass needs to be mowed, flower beds replanted -- and what's that green stuff on
the tree trunks?

Don't worry about it. It's lichen.

Lichens don't harm trees. But, it's also not a plant. They are a symbiotic
relationship between organisms in two different kingdoms. It's this relationship
that has created a secret world beneath backyard canopies.

Lichens grow best on older, larger trees with ridges that they can cling to. But
they're just hanging out there. They get their nutrients from the air and from
photosynthesis.

How do I know so much about lichens? My husband, Matt, is an environmental
science professor at Point Park and recently finished a study on the region's
lichens. (If you want to read more about it, check out opdyke-environlab.com or
listen to a podcast at carnegiesciencecenter. podomatic.com.)

If you broke off an edge of a lichen and took a close look under a microscope,
you'd see bits of algae that had been trapped by fungus. The fungi have
discovered agriculture. The algae provide food through photosynthesis for the
fungi. When you separate the lichen out, algae does just fine, but the fungus
will struggle to survive.

The coolest thing about lichens are their common names. In Pittsburgh's urban
forests you'll find species like fluffy dust, candleflame and British soldiers.

Other names for lichen evoke delightful descriptions such as hammered shield,
mealy rosette or pompon shadow. You never know when you might discover a
smooth-footed powderhorn or stubby-stalked cladonia near a Monk's-hood. All of
those are visible around Pittsburgh.

Some of the most flamboyant species in the U.S. can be seen in the temperate
rain forests of Oregon and Washington. One might eye wooden signs serving as
anchors for lichens. They grow much more robustly there than what you see in
Schenley and Frick parks.

Lichens can be found in the extreme environments on Earth and as a whole make up
one of the most abundant types of biological material. From the Antarctica to
the arid desert, they often are nature's pioneers and help in creating soil.
Rock tripe, for example, can survive without water for more than a year. In the
boreal forest, lichens can help preserve soil moisture, add organic matter and
trap seeds.

While some of the variety can been seen with the naked eye, a few true beauties
can only be appreciated under a microscope when a smudge of green speckled bark
sharpens into an intricate system of ridges and valleys.

Very few lichens are poisonous. Matt didn't find any poisonous species around
Pittsburgh during his study. But many are beneficial in different ways. One big
way is food.

In West Virginia, flying squirrels get 80 percent of their spring and summer
diets from lichens. Reindeer sometimes get 90 percent. It's mostly carbohydrates
and no protein so they have to eat enormous quantities to sustain themselves.
Moose, deer and mountain goats also will graze on it.

Even humans have used lichens as food. Horsehair lichens are found in the
western part of the United States and are eaten by native populations. A taffy
candy made from it has the texture and flavor of licorice. In Japan, rock tripe,
also known as rock mushroom, is prepared in soup and salads. In Siberia, Sweden
and Mexico lichens have been used in making alcoholic beverages.

There's also a ground lichen that grows in the Sinai wilderness called manna
lichen, which may have been eaten by the Israelites during their 40 years of
wandering. It develops as hard pebble-like growths that can be blown together by
winds into lumps that soften and swell in morning dew like leavened bread.
Desert tribes eat the lichen and feed it to their sheep and goats.

People have found other commercial uses for different species. Beard lichen have
absorptive and antibiotic properties and can be found in European products.
They've also served to make royal purple and yellow dyes, fine perfumes,
deodorants and laxatives. They're also in model train displays, subbing for
trees and bushes.

Back in nature, lichens add to the texture of a tree's ecosystem. About 50 types
of birds will use a certain type of lichen as their preferred nesting material.
Flying squirrels use it, too.

The larva of lacewing have a different use. They attach a piece of living lichen
to their back for two reasons. First it hides them from predators, and then it
helps them sneak closer to aphid colonies for their own feasting.

In Maryland, the green salamander has evolved so that its skin has similar
markings as lichen to help disguise itself.

* * *

Back in Pittsburgh, it has been decades since any published scientific study has
been done on epiphytic lichens. The first report identifying lichens in Western
Pennsylvania was a list by Giovanni I. Giardini published in 1922. He identified
67 species in the Carnegie Museum's herbarium. The collection has since been
moved to Colorado. Another survey was done by Hugh N. Mozingo in 1948. Of course
when biologists started collecting and name them, it was the Wild West and not
all of the identifications were accurate.

In Matt's study, he and his Point Park students surveyed at Schenley, Frick and
Mingo Creek parks as well as Forbes State Forest. (The research was funded by
the Pennsylvania Department of Conservation and Natural Resources, Wild Resource
Conservation. Partners on the project included Pittsburgh Parks Conservancy and
the New York Botanical Gardens.)

What they found was more than 40 types of lichens growing on trees in an around
Pittsburgh.

However, the rural sites of Mingo and Roaring Runs averaged 32 species compared
to an average of 20 species found at Schenley and Frick parks.

At the rural sites, lichens had both larger and thicker thalli, suggesting
healthier specimens. Thalli are the leaf-like structures that spread along tree
trunks.

Additionally, a greater number of Cladonia species had erect reproductive
structures at the rural sites, which were generally lacking on the lichen at the
urban sites studied.

The dominant lichens across all sites were fluffy dust and smooth-footed
powderhorn. The dominance of nitrogen oxide- and sulfur dioxide-sensitive
lichens at all of the sites suggests that the lichen community within the larger
geographical region is influenced by nitrogen and sulfur dioxide air pollutants.

* * *

There were differences between the urban and rural parks that were likely driven
by the "urban heat-island effect."

Cities are not kind to lichens. There is less habitat for them, atmospheric
moisture is lower and temperatures are often warmer. The habitat that they have
also may be fragmented, which means they can't disperse as widely to help with
genetic diversity in an area.

Many species of lichens require pristine air to thrive; it is one of the reasons
lichens are vanishing worldwide. Some of the delicate lichens missing from the
Pittsburgh area today are species such as Old Man's Beard lichen. It has a very
low tolerance of contaminants in the air. They do exist in other parts of
Pennsylvania.

The sensitivity of lichens to air pollutants has been known for centuries. For
example, Charles Darwin's father, Erasmus Darwin, noticed more than 200 years
ago that lichen failed to grow near copper smelters in England. It took until
the 1960s before sulfur dioxide was identified as a major factor influencing
lichen growth and that they could be used in biomonitoring.

Today, air pollutants that can be detected using lichens include ammonia,
fluorine, metals, radionuclides from nuclear accidents, chlorinated hydrocarbons
and acid precipitation.

Lichens have a role in evaluating air quality and climate change and are
important to study. Lichens accumulate atmospheric chemicals such as sulfur
dioxide and lead, which can cause biochemical and structural changes. They also
lack an outer cuticle that protects most vascular organisms.

But there are efforts to make these organisms more visible.

An unprecedented study released in February, which Field Museum scientists in
Chicago coordinated, revealed 100 newly discovered species of fungi and lichen
in one scholarly paper. The usual inattention bestowed upon new lichens is one
reason for aggregating so many new ones in a single paper in the Feb. 18 issue
of the journal Phytotaxa. It was a massive undertaking involving 102
lichenologists from 37 countries, with the hopes of drawing attention to huge
shortfalls in what's known of the Earth's diversity.

The researchers reported that approximately 100,000 fungal species, including
17,500 lichens, have been discovered and named.

There may be a million more species waiting to be noticed.

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Heidi Opdyke is a writer and editor living in McCandless
(hidiliz@gmail.com). /

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: WHOLE LOTTA LICHENS/At top left, that's your Smooth-Footed
Powderhorn (Cladonia Ochrochlora). \
PHOTO: In middle, all puffed up, is Wolf Lichen (Letharia Columbiana).\
PHOTO: At home on a host tree, Common Greenshield (Flavoparmelia Caperata) \
PHOTO: Here's some Common Script (Graphis Scripta)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              211 of 385 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                              July 3, 2011 Sunday
                                TWO STAR EDITION

THE SOUL OF THE PARTY;
REPUBLICANS BATTLE OVER WHAT THE GOP STANDS FOR, BUT THERE'S NOTHING NEW ABOUT
THAT

BYLINE: David M. Shribman

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. B-3

LENGTH: 1114 words


LEBANON, N.H.

Up here in tranquil New Hampshire, where the hills glow peacefully in the summer
sunshine, everyone's talking about the war for the soul of the Republican Party.

Hold it, I am thinking. Haven't I witnessed several wars for the soul of the
Republican Party?

Six in my lifetime alone, now that I'm counting.

There's no denying that there's a struggle within the Republican Party as it
moves toward the first presidential primary here, tentatively (and, given the
nature of this campaign, perhaps mischievously) scheduled for next Feb. 14. But
the Republicans are holding no love- fest in New Hampshire. Already the party is
divided every which way -- between regulars and irregulars, economic
conservatives and social conservatives, established politicians and newcomers,
westerners and easterners, males and females.

The Republicans haven't been at each other's throats this much since ... the
last election.

In our historical imagination, the Republicans are the sober, organized,
unflappable ones -- the quiet members of Rotary and Kiwanis who do their duty,
tend to commerce, stiffen their upper lips at adversity, take everything in
stride. They don't raise their voices or raise hackles. They're the party of
social order and stability. That's the image. The reality is quite different.

Look back at the last century -- go all the way back to the critical election of
1912, when giants strode the earth and four of them, William Howard Taft,
Woodrow Wilson, Theodore Roosevelt and Eugene V. Debs, ran for president -- and
you can count nine distinct battles for the soul of the Republican Party. The
Democrats, the ones ridiculed as being the disorganized and emotional pugilists
in American politics, have had only four such battles, fewer than half their
rivals'.

This time the battle for the soul of the Republican Party pits three former
governors, Mitt Romney of Massachusetts, Tim Pawlenty of Minnesota and Jon
Huntsman of Utah, against each other -- and against a group of rebels that
includes Reps. Michele Bachmann of Minnesota, Ron Paul of Texas, former Sen.
Rick Santorum of Pennsylvania and businessman Herman Cain. A measure of the
chasm between them: Can you imagine Mr. Romney putting Mrs. Bachmann on his
ticket, or the other way around?

But the Republicans had a similar struggle in 2008, when Sen. John McCain of
Arizona, only four years after being considered a vice presidential possibility
on the Democratic ticket, had almost nothing in common with his Republican
rivals, primarily Mr. Romney and former Gov. Mike Huckabee of Arkansas.

Four elections earlier, commentator Patrick J. Buchanan took on President George
H. W. Bush here in New Hampshire, painting Mr. Bush as effete and feckless and
indicting him for being an apostate from the true Reagan faith. At the 1992
Republican National Convention, Mr. Buchanan spoke openly of a "culture war."

It turns out that Ronald Reagan and Mr. Bush played central roles in two other
GOP struggles, the one that spanned the 1976 and 1980 elections (main themes:
the aggressiveness of modern conservatism and the validity of supply-side
economics) and the one in 1988 (main themes: whether and how the Reagan
revolution would be extended, and whether and how the demands of religious
conservatives should be accommodated).

Major struggles over the nature of conservatism also occurred in 1940 (over
Wendell Willkie's views on internationalism) and in 1952 (when the Taft and
Eisenhower wings clashed).

Perhaps the most significant GOP struggle occurred in 1964, when the Eastern
Republican establishment personified by Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller of New York
was challenged, and defeated, by the new Western conservatism represented by
Sen. Barry Goldwater of Arizona. Goldwater's landslide defeat at the hands of
President Lyndon B. Johnson left the Republican Party in tatters -- only to be
revived four years later when former Vice President Richard M. Nixon beat Vice
President Hubert H. Humphrey as the Democrats were undergoing one of their own
internal struggles.

The Democrats' internecine battles have been far less frequent but just as
explosive.

The 1968 split, which continued through the 1972 election, was over Vietnam and
cultural matters. It led to violent disruptions outside the Chicago convention
hall; made the party vulnerable to the Republican taunt that the Democrats had
become the party of amnesty, acid and abortion; and opened the door for many
blue-collar voters, ardently Democratic since the New Deal, to abandon their
party.

That split followed the upheavals over race in 1948 (when Strom Thurmond and his
allies bolted the party) and 1964 (when the national convention divided over
which Mississippi delegation to seat) -- episodes which for the purposes of this
argument we'll consider two parts of the same split. These fights essentially
involved how to deal with the differences between the Democrats of the North and
the Democrats of the South.

The party also split in 1928 over legalized drink and the degree to which the
Democrats, who nominated Gov. Al Smith of New York for president that year,
should identify themselves with Catholics and the immigrant families from
Ireland and Eastern Europe that increasingly were becoming part of the political
mainstream.

There's no obvious reason why the party of stability, as Republicans sometimes
regard themselves, has had more upheaval than the party of change, which is how
Democrats sometimes think of themselves. Perhaps it is because these internal
struggles often precede and follow the appearance of political titans, and the
Republicans have had two in modern times (Dwight Eisenhower and Reagan) while
the Democratic century was dominated by one (Franklin Roosevelt).

Eisenhower and Reagan were skillful above all in their ability to mask the
differences in their party. The Goldwater-Rockefeller fissure was in large
measure the result of the struggle to replace Eisenhower, just as more the
recent fights in the Republican Party have been conducted in Reagan's long
shadow.

But the truth is that both major parties have had inner contradictions. The
Democrats' were almost fatal: The fight between Southern conservatives and
Northern liberals so divided the party that it took a generation for it to
recover.

The Republicans' main contradiction, between the traditional conservative
yearning for stability and the modern, muscular conservatism forged in reaction
to the Great Society, has not yet been resolved. That, more than Afghanistan
policy and Mr. Romney's views on climate change, is what the 2012 primary and
caucus season -- and the latest of the many fights for the soul of the
Republican Party -- is really about.

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: David M. Shribman is executive editor of the Post-Gazette
(dshribman@post-gazette.com, 412-263-1890). Follow him on Twitter at
ShribmanPG./

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              221 of 385 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                            October 11, 2011 Tuesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

GOP'S DEREGULATION CAST AGAINST JOBS BILL

BYLINE: Lisa Mascaro, Los Angeles Times

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. A-7

LENGTH: 661 words


WASHINGTON -- As the Senate prepares for a vote on President Barack Obama's jobs
proposal today, the president is calling upon his Republican opponents not just
to explain their no votes, but to offer a better alternative.

Mr. Obama's $447 billion jobs plan -- with its mix of tax breaks for workers and
new spending to hire teachers as well as build roads and bridges -- would add
1.9 million jobs and boost the gross domestic product by 2 percentage points,
according to independent economists.

Republicans largely oppose the measure as they pursue their own jobs agenda:
lowering business taxes and rolling back what the GOP calls "job-killing"
regulations. But they have been unable or unwilling to say how many jobs they
think they could add this way.

"Do they have a plan that would have a similar impact?" Mr. Obama said at a news
conference last week. "The answer we're getting right now is, 'Well, we're going
to roll back all these Obama regulations.' ... Does anybody really think that
that is going to create jobs right now?"

Today's vote is procedural, requiring 60 votes to pass. Democrats control just
53, and even some Democrats may vote no, because the jobs bill would be funded
by a 5.6 percent surtax on millionaires under the Senate bill.

The Republican-led House is not expected to consider the president's
legislation, at least not in its entirety. Instead, the chamber is working on
the GOP's jobs plan -- a 10-pack of bills to halt new regulations that the party
contends are harming business.

Mostly, they target clean-air rules from the Environmental Protection Agency,
but they also would roll back workplace regulations and elements of the new
health care law.

Supporters say the Republican approach would save hundreds of thousands of jobs
and grow the economy by easing the uncertain business climate. But GOP leaders
have been hesitant to put hard numbers on their claims.

"You are asking us to pin down an exact number of jobs," House Majority Leader
Eric Cantor, R-Va., said recently. "Let's stop overpromising and
underperforming, and why don't we begin to set the sights in a reasonable way?"

Republicans also support business tax breaks and trade agreements that the White
House has proposed with South Korea and other countries.

But economists say little that Washington does this fall will swiftly or
substantially improve the nation's persistently high 9.1 percent unemployment
rate.

"The Republican proposals are generally good policy -- you can't find fault with
the idea that we should eliminate or try to scale back regulations that are
onerous," said Mark Zandi, chief economist at Moody's Analytics, who has advised
Democrats and Republicans. "But I don't think they make a meaningful difference
on the economy immediately. The economy is struggling to avoid recession."

Mr. Zandi estimated that Mr. Obama's proposal could add jobs and shave 1
percentage point off the unemployment rate.

Industry groups, economists and Republican lawmakers offer wide-ranging views on
the economic impact of regulatory changes.

Manufacturing industries estimate that hundreds of thousands of jobs could be
saved by postponing rules that limit pollution from cement kilns and other
sources, as Republicans advocate.

One report from IHS Global Insight for the boiler industry estimated that every
$1 billion the industry spent complying with new air rules could result in
16,000 lost jobs and a $1.2 billion reduction in the GDP. But the EPA says
industry estimates are routinely exaggerated, and that the clean-air rules can
create jobs.

To be sure, Republicans do not want to fall into the trap that the White House
set for itself in 2009, when it said its economic recovery program would keep
the unemployment rate from exceeding 8 percent. That has haunted the Obama
administration ever since.

The White House tried to steer clear of another oversell last month, when it
rolled out the jobs plan, relying instead on independent economists to assess
it.

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              222 of 385 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                            October 16, 2011 Sunday
                               FIVE STAR EDITION

MISSING DIPSTICK MAY FOUL UP MANUAL TRANSMISSION

BYLINE: TOM AND RAY MAGLIOZZI

SECTION: BUSINESS; CLICK & CLACK; Pg. H-3

LENGTH: 813 words


Dear Tom and Ray:

I have a 1993 Subaru Loyale 4-wheel-drive wagon. The transmission-fluid dipstick
has broken off the cap. The stem is down the fill tube beyond where I can reach
it with a telescoping magnet. I tried to grasp it with a long pair of hemostats,
but was unable to get far enough down to grasp it. Tape back-wrapped on a piece
of wire was not sticky enough to get it out that way, either. Is the car safe to
drive? I purchased a replacement cap/dipstick and can check the level, which is
fine. I'm worried that driving it will end up pushing the broken piece into the
transmission. Any idea how to remove it, or how much money it will take to have
a shop do it? -- Ken

RAY: You're worried about a broken dipstick on a '93 Loyale, Ken? Isn't that
like worrying about the barnacles on the Andrea Doria?

TOM: Actually, if you have an automatic transmission, you have nothing to worry
about, Ken. Since the dipstick's lateral movement is confined by the tube, the
end of the stick is just going to sit there on the bottom of the transmission
pan, where it won't bother anything. There are no gears or anything in that part
of the automatic transmission, and the stick can't go anywhere.

RAY: So if it's an automatic, just use your new stick to keep an eye on the
fluid level, and otherwise forget about it.

TOM: On the other hand, if you have a manual transmission, then you need to
remove that thing. There's nothing but gears in a manual transmission, so the
stick could get chewed up by the gears and ruin your transmission and your
differential.

RAY: The first thing to try is a more powerful magnet. If you can still see the
top of the dipstick, and it's not wedged in there somehow, a more powerful
magnet ought to be able to grab it for you.

TOM: If not, the next step is to have a mechanic remove the tube itself. The
dipstick tube usually is just force-fit into the transmission housing, or maybe
held in place by a single bolt and a bracket. So if you're still on speaking
terms with any local mechanics, have one of them pull out the tube for you, and
then remove the broken piece of dipstick.

RAY: And if worse comes to worst, and the tube gets damaged during removal, you
can buy a new tube for very little money. Altogether, including labor, this is
probably a $50 repair if you get to it soon. Or a $2,000 repair if you dawdle.

*

Dear Tom and Ray:

My fiancee is European, and they all drive stick shifts over there! When I
visited, I had to pay more to rent a car with an automatic. It seems to be true
everywhere in Europe. Everybody owns a stick-shift car. But why? I thought
automatics have become just as energy-efficient as stick shifts. Why does
everyone here have an automatic and everyone there have a stick shift? -- August

RAY: Your observations are correct, August. In Europe, about 85 percent of cars
are sold with stick shifts. Here in America, about 95 percent are sold with
automatics. Why?

TOM: Traditionally, gasoline has been much more expensive in Europe. So
Europeans have always done everything they possibly can to maximize their gas
mileage.

RAY: That included buying the smallest car they could tolerate, forcing their
mothers-in-law to run alongside them on the highway to save weight and,
traditionally, using a stick shift to improve mileage.

TOM: In America, we've never cared much about fuel economy, since gas has always
been cheap. We've always bought the biggest cars we could afford, and we've
wanted them to be extensions of our living rooms, with everything automatic,
from the transmission to the radio volume, the seat position and the climate
control.

RAY: But something strange has happened, and it'll be interesting to see whether
Europeans take note: Automatics are becoming more efficient than stick shifts.

TOM: Early automatics did get worse mileage than their stick-shift counterparts,
due to the inherent "slippage" necessary to make an automatic work, and because
automatics traditionally had fewer gears than stick shifts (the more gears you
have, the easier it is to find the most efficient gear for any given situation).

RAY: But now, while stick shifts come in five- and six-speed varieties,
automatics are now coming in six-, seven- and eight-speed varieties. And where
built-in "slippage" used to be accepted as the trade-off for living without a
clutch, lock-up torque converters and, especially, new "dual clutch automatics"
are reducing or even eliminating the slippage altogether.

TOM: So the question is, How long will it take the European culture to catch up
with the changes in technology? Given that they just recently stopped referring
to us as "the colonies," I'm guessing the answer will be decades rather than
weeks.

RAY: But let us know. Sounds like you'll be heading over there on a regular
basis for the next 40 or 50 years. So drop us a note every once in a while and
let us know if you're seeing any changes.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Got a question about cars? Write to Click and Clack by visiting the Car
Talk Web site at www.cartalk.com./

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              224 of 385 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                           October 26, 2011 Wednesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

LEGISLATION WOULD EXTEND TAX BREAKS ON CONSTRUCTION

BYLINE: JOE SMYDO, PITTSBURGH POST-GAZETTE

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. B-1

LENGTH: 637 words


Saying he wants to give a nudge to projects that may be on the bubble in a
troubled economy, Pittsburgh Councilman Bill Peduto introduced legislation
Tuesday to enhance tax incentives for commercial and residential development.

Currently, commercial and industrial projects citywide can qualify for 100
percent abatement for five years. The annual savings is capped at $50,000.

Under Mr. Peduto's bill, commercial and industrial developers would receive 10
years of tax breaks, with no cap on annual savings. Developers would get a 100
percent tax break for the first two years. After that, the tax break would
decline by 10 percent every two years, concluding with a 60 percent tax break in
years nine and 10.

Developers could apply for the incentives during a three-year period beginning
Jan. 1.

"The goal is to get projects moving and to get people working on building
buildings," Mr. Peduto said.

The legislation also would inject new life into residential development
incentives.

Currently, big residential developments receive a 100 percent tax break for 10
years, with a $150,000 annual cap on savings. Smaller residential projects
receive a 100 percent abatement for 10 years, with a $2,700 annual cap on
savings. Those incentives are available in certain neighborhoods.

Also available is a three-year abatement program for new housing construction
anywhere in the city. The maximum savings under that program is $937 a year.

Mr. Peduto's legislation would extend the 10-year graduated abatement schedule
to residential projects citywide, with no annual cap on savings.

A preliminary vote on the legislation could be held next week.

Mayor Luke Ravenstahl hasn't reviewed the legislation but is open to proposals
for generating jobs and improving the city's business climate, his spokeswoman,
Joanna Doven, said. In fact, she said, Mr. Peduto's program appears to build off
the success of the current 10-year abatement programs instituted by Mr.
Ravenstahl.

Ms. Doven said the city would have to be sure that enhanced incentives don't
drain a budget that's heavily reliant on property tax revenue. Without annual
caps, she said, the city could forego as much as $15 million over 10 years on
one major commercial project.

Though Pittsburgh has fared better than other cities in the economic downturn,
Mr. Peduto said he believes enhanced development incentives could serve as "gap
financing" that makes or breaks projects on the bubble. Ernie Hogan, executive
director of Pittsburgh Community Reinvestment Group, agreed.

"The hope is that it starts to spur development through neighborhoods that
really would benefit from it," he said.

The legislation comes amid cuts in state development incentives, Mr. Hogan said.
It also comes as the Pittsburgh Public Schools offers the former Reizenstein
school in Shadyside and Schenley High School in Oakland for development.

For a property owner to derive the greatest benefit from an abatement program,
the county, city and school district all must agree to the incentives. The
school district takes the biggest chunk of an owner's property taxes, so its
participation is especially important.

School district solicitor Ira Weiss said the district would have to study Mr.
Peduto's proposal. County spokeswoman Judi McNeil said the county wouldn't
necessarily amend its programs to match changes in the city.

Jim Richter, executive director of the Hazelwood Initiative, said he supports
any type of development "leverage" the city can provide in neighborhoods
struggling to promote residential growth.

"On the commercial side, I think it makes sense as well," Mr. Richter said.

Todd Reidbord, principal and president of Walnut Capital -- which is pursuing
the Reizenstein building -- said abatements are helpful but must be part of a
broader public-private partnership that encourages development.

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Joe Smydo: jsmydo@post-gazette.com or 412-263-1548./

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              226 of 385 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                          November 16, 2011 Wednesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

OFFICIALS TRY TO SPUR INTRASTATE AIR SERVICE

BYLINE: Mark Belko, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. A-10

LENGTH: 613 words


Some officials are hoping the Marcellus Shale boom can help to make Pittsburgh
International Airport a hub again -- at least for travel within Pennsylvania.

Allegheny County and state aviation officials have launched a bid to entice an
airline to offer flights between Pittsburgh International and 13 other airports
within the state.

As a first step, the county's airport authority, on behalf of the Pennsylvania
Air Service Committee, is seeking a consultant to help develop route and
schedule plans, pricing, operating cost estimates, and traffic and revenue
forecasts to present to airlines.

But Michael Boyd, a Colorado-based aviation consultant, had harsh words for the
initiative, saying there are "few things I've seen that are further from the
reality of the airline industry."

"That's looney bin," he said of the plan. "There's no airline out there with the
equipment to do it and there's no airline out there that will do it."

US Airways dropped Pittsburgh International as a hub in November 2004. With the
decision, the airline also eliminated service to many of the smaller airports in
the state that served as feeders for flights from Pittsburgh.

While some of those airports have service to Cleveland or Philadelphia, there's
currently no intrastate service among airports in Pennsylvania, said Gabe Monzo,
chairman of the Pennsylvania Air Service Committee.

He and others believe the explosion in Marcellus Shale drilling could help to
change that. Mr. Monzo said that flights between Pittsburgh International and
smaller airports could help officials in the Marcellus Shale business get to and
from drilling sites by air "rather than trying to drive the back roads of the
state."

"We thought this would be a good catalyst to get this thing started again," he
said.

While no firm numbers are available, officials at Pittsburgh International
believe there has been an increase in energy-related air travel, spokeswoman
JoAnn Jenny said.

She noted that American Airlines has added a larger jet for flights to Dallas
and that planes to that city and to Houston, both hotbeds for drilling, appear
to be fuller.

Beyond Marcellus Shale, Mr. Monzo said the opportunity to serve the 13 airports
that have committed to the initiative might be a selling point to an airline. He
added the service would be primarily geared toward business travelers.

"This is the briefcase crowd. This isn't the suitcase crowd," he said. "We need
to get the business climate back in Pennsylvania. We think Marcellus Shale might
be the driving force."

Among the 13 airports involved are Harrisburg, Erie, Arnold Palmer Regional in
Latrobe, DuBois, Johnstown-Cambria County, Wilkes-Barre/Scranton, and
Williamsport.

Mr. Monzo, executive director of the Westmoreland County Airport Authority,
which runs Arnold Palmer airport, wouldn't rule out subsidies to airlines to
launch service, but added "we've got to watch our funds, too."

Toward that end, Mr. Boyd estimated that it would cost "millions a year" in
subsidies to make the initiative work. He said it's easier and cheaper to drive
to other destinations in the state than it is to fly.

"It sounds great on paper but when you get down to it, you don't save any time
and it's very expensive," he said.

But Ms. Jenny said it doesn't hurt to ask the question.

"There may be businesses out there that want to pursue this. You have to ask the
question. I don't think calling it names is productive," she said.

Two years ago, Fort Lauderdale-based Gulfstream International Airlines talked to
Pittsburgh airport officials about flying to Harrisburg and six to eight other
cities in the state. The airline later filed for bankruptcy and the flights
haven't materialized.

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Mark Belko: mbelko@post-gazette.com or 412-263-1262./

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              234 of 385 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                             May 21, 2011 Saturday
                                 SOONER EDITION

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. A-6

LENGTH: 1 words

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: David J. Phillip/Associated Press: WARM WELCOME/Soldiers are
welcomed by supporters after arriving Friday at George Bush Intercontinental
Airport in Houston. The nonprofit group Warrior's Weekend is bringing nearly 400
soldiers to Port O'Connor, Texas, to go fishing over the weekend as part of
Warrior's Weekend V. The event is dedicated to the support of veterans of the
United States with an emphasis on those wounded in the global war on terror.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              244 of 385 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                          December 28, 2011 Wednesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

ARTFUL BOUNTY;
REVEALING AND RELEVANT EXHIBITIONS DELIVER STRONG MESSAGES IN 2011

BYLINE: Mary Thomas, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT; Pg. B-1

LENGTH: 875 words


Through these turbulent economic times, arts spaces, tenaciously and
commendably, continued their missions to provide the region with thoughtful,
revealing, engaging, relevant and sometimes beautiful exhibitions that sparked
discovery, community and dialogue.

I didn't get to all the shows I would have liked to, but among those I saw here
are 10 (plus) exhibitions that made the year notable:

1. "Teenie Harris, Photographer: An American Story," at Carnegie Museum of Art,
is remarkable for its content, its contribution to Pittsburgh history, its
window on the Pittsburgh African-American community and for the commitment the
Carnegie made to the Harris archives. Charles "Teenie" Harris (1908-1998)
photographed for the Pittsburgh Courier, a nationally distributed black
newspaper, but also he documented everyday life in the Hill District. Of the
approximately 80,000 images he made, almost 1,000 are included in this warm and
inventive exhibition. (Continuing through April 7.)

2. The Word of God series at The Andy Warhol Museum, a five-part, yearlong
exploration of the texts of major religions by contemporary artists, was a bold
and timely plunge into a subject area that has generally been ignored by high
art in recent decades. Exhibiting artists were Sandow Birk, Helene Aylon, Chitra
Ganesh, Max Gimblett and Jeffrey Vallance. ("The Word of God: Jeffrey Vallance"
continues through Feb. 5.)

3. The 2011 Pittsburgh Biennial stretched itself to five venues for the first
time, including originating institution Pittsburgh Center for the Arts,
Pittsburgh Filmmakers, Carnegie Museum of Art, Miller Gallery at Carnegie Mellon
University and The Andy Warhol Museum. The Biennial showed that strong, current
and diverse work is being done by local artists and by those with ties to the
region, as well as the commitment of those venues and their curators to view and
recognize Pittsburgh artists. ("Pittsburgh Biennial -- Gertrude's/LOT" continues
at The Warhol through Jan. 8.)

4. "Paul Thek: Diver, A Retrospective," at Carnegie Museum of Art, brought the
evocative, and often ephemeral, work of the late artist to new generations via
an exhibition that was, reflective of his expression, simultaneously provocative
and playful. It was co-curated by Lynn Zelevansky, the Henry J. Heinz II
director of the Carnegie Museum of Art, who began the project years earlier
while curator at the Los Angeles County Museum of Art.

5. "Factory Installed," dynamic, site-specific works created by six
international artists-in-residence at the Mattress Factory, was on display in
September and October. Museum co-directors Barbara Luderowski and Michael
Olijnyk and independent curator Katherine Talcott selected the artists from 600
submissions for the first "Factory Installed" since 2006. (Continuing through
May 1.)

6. "The Tides of Provincetown: Pivotal Years in America's Oldest Continuous Art
Colony (1899-2011)," a scintillating exhibition of more than 100 works at the
Westmoreland Museum of American Art, encompasses realism to abstraction, Edward
Hopper to Hans Hofmann, and the thrill of a vibrant art community that continues
to influence. (Continuing through Jan. 22.)

7. "Faberge: The Hodges Family Collection," at the Frick Art Museum, places the
visitor into a 19th-century realm of craftsmanship and elegance (gilt cigarette
cases!) and extends an appreciation of the master jeweler beyond his famed eggs.
Complementary objects are exhibited throughout the Frick Art & Historical Center
campus, including Clayton and the Car and Carriage Museum. (Continuing through
Jan. 15.)

8. "Picturing the City: Downtown Pittsburgh, 2007 - 2010," nine contemporary
photographers carry on the century-old tradition of documenting the city with
vision and intimacy, at Carnegie Museum of Art. Melissa Farlow, Jim Judkis,
Richard Kelly, Kenneth Neely, Annie O'Neill, Mark Perrott, Martha Rial, Renee
Rosensteel and Dylan Vitone were the photographers. (Continuing through March
25.)

9. "Andrey Avinoff: In Pursuit of Beauty," at Carnegie Museum of Art, offers
fantastical paintings, watercolors and botanical illustrations by the Russian
aristocrat turned director of the Carnegie Museum of Natural History from
1926-45. Mr. Avinoff's extraordinary talents were brought to light by Carnegie
curator Louise Lippincott, who researched his life and discovered that he was
scientist and administrator by day and artist by night.

10. A three-way tie among exhibitions inspired by current U.S. and global
politics and affiliated issues, not always a pretty picture, but all the more
urgent because of it:

"HomeFrontLine: Reflections on Ten Years of War Since 9/11," at Silver Eye
Center for Photography, drew attention to the subtle ways that conflict seeps
into everyday lives.

"Sites of Passage," at Mattress Factory, includes work from the Firefly Tunnel
Project, an artist exchange between Egypt and the U.S. that resulted from
Pittsburgh-based performance artist Tavia La Follette's 2010 residency in Egypt.
(Continuing through Feb. 12.)

"OUT OF RUBBLE," at SPACE gallery, comprises work by 16 international artists
who consider the consequences of war, from decimation and disintegration to the
possibilities of regeneration and recovery. (Continuing through Jan. 22.)

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Post-Gazette art critic Mary Thomas: mthomas@post-gazette.com or
412-263-1925. /

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Westmoreland Museum of American Art/Milton Avery's "March on
the Beach" in "The Tides of Provincetown." \
PHOTO: The Andy Warhol Museum/Panel from "The Word of God(ess): Chitra Ganesh's
Tales of Amnesia" part of the Word of God exhibit. \
PHOTO: Carnegie Museum of Art /Skateboarders at the David Lawrence Convention
Center by Dylan Vitone, part of "Picturing the City, Downtown Pittsburgh, 2007 -
2010."\
PHOTO: The Mattress Factory/Still of a camel feeding in Fayoum, Egypt from Sites
of Passage, an HD video exhibit. \
PHOTO: The Frick/Brooch from Faberge: The Hodges Family Collection \
PHOTO: Carnegie Museum of Art/Boys playing brass instruments is included in
"Teenie Harris, Photographer: An American Story." \
PHOTO: Carnegie Museum of Art/The late Paul Thek's affinity for Catholic
activists like Dorothy Day, of the Catholic Worker movement, and the pacifist
Trappist monk Thomas Merton is reflected in works such as "Afflict the
Comfortable, Comfort the Afflicted," which was part of "Paul Thek: Diver, A
Retrospective." \
PHOTO: Carnegie Museum of Art/"Morpho: Remembrance of Things Past" in "Andrey
Avinoff: In Pursuit of Beauty." \
PHOTO: The Andy Warhol Museum/Sandow Birk's "American Qur'an" was one part of
the five-segment "The Word of God" exhibit, a yearlong exploration of the texts
of major religions by contemporary artists.
\ PHOTO: Silvereye Center for Photography/"Untitled" by Kevin Bubriski in
"HomeFrontLine: Reflection on Ten Years of War Since 9/11."\ \ \

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              247 of 385 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                            January 10, 2011 Monday
                                 SOONER EDITION

RECKLESS MEDIA RACE TO BE FIRST

SECTION: ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT; Pg. C-1

LENGTH: 1527 words


PASADENA, Calif. -- Inaccurate initial reports and rampant speculation drifted
across social media feeds and television screens Saturday following a shooting
at a grocery store in Tucson, Ariz.

At least two news outlets pronounced U.S. Rep. Gabrielle Giffords dead before
retracting the report. Ms. Giffords survived the shooting rampage that claimed
six lives, including a 9-year-old girl and Pittsburgh native John Roll, chief
judge for the United States District Court for Arizona.

Conversation quickly shifted to the level of vitriolic political discourse that
gains a megaphone through Fox News Channel and MSNBC, cable networks dedicated
to partisan political views. In recent years, viewers seeking to escape the
shouting have learned to turn elsewhere for more traditional, opinion-free news
coverage, including "PBS NewsHour" (6 p.m. weekdays, WQED-TV).

"There is a large and growing audience for serious content," said Simon Marks,
president of "NewsHour's" production company, during a news conference Sunday
morning at the Television Critics Association winter press tour. "If you look at
some of the most successful news brands in this country since Sept. 11th, 2001,
they include publications like The Economist, which now reaches a truly
astonishing number of Americans. The same is true for the 'NewsHour' and it's
clearly true for National Public Radio."

Of course, even news outlets that generally offer more nuanced, in-depth work
can make mistakes. NPR was one of the outlets that pronounced Ms. Giffords dead.

"When you see someone prematurely reporting the death of somebody, you have to
ask, why the rush?" said Miles O'Brien, a former CNN reporter who is now a
special correspondent for "NewsHour," which did not get the story wrong. "There
is this tremendous pressure in the cable world to do that, and it's all in the
echo chamber of Twitter and all of the social networking. It gets accelerated.
And I think that's a very good argument for having operations like the
'NewsHour' in that environment. ... It's more important to get it right than get
it first. To be first and wrong is really bad, especially in a case like this."

(Are you listening, local TV news?)

On Sunday, NPR News executive editor Dick Meyer posted an apology to Ms.
Giffords, her family and NPR listeners. He explained that the erroneous
information came from two different government sources, including the Pima
County Sheriff's Department.

"Nonetheless, in a situation so chaotic and changing so swiftly, we should have
been more cautious," Mr. Meyer wrote. "Already all of us at NPR News have been
reminded of the challenges and professional responsibilities of reporting on
fast-breaking news at a time and in an environment where information and
misinformation move at light speed. We learn, we redouble our efforts and
dedication and move forward with our best efforts for the millions who rely on
us every day."

"NewsHour" senior correspondent Ray Suarez brought some historical perspective,
noting that in ABC News coverage of the assassination attempt on President
Ronald Reagan in 1981, anchor Frank Reynolds got angry on the air about being
fed inaccurate information.

"Let's be careful about blaming it all on the competitive pressures of a
technologically driven business," Mr. Suarez said. "You never want to get it
wrong obviously, but that's been part of the beast for as long as there's been
news."

"NewsHour" senior correspondent Judy Woodruff said the shooting in Arizona
offers an awakening for the political establishment.

"It's shaken people up, and not just about security. That's going to be a part
of this. There's going to be a discussion about gun control," she said. "But I
think we are overdue to have a discussion about the political climate in this
country, the discourse. ... I think there is a significant portion of the
American public that is very concerned about the hyperbolic, exaggerated kinds
of discussions that we are having now, where people are not only accused of
being wrong, they're accused of being traitors from one side of the political
spectrum, and then from the other side of the political spectrum it's equally
extreme in the statements that are made.

"It may be great for the ratings for television or online outlets that thrive on
this sort of thing," she continued, "but for the health of our political system?
I don't think so."

Mr. O'Brien said he hopes the event in Tucson will "remove the reckless use of
killing and gun metaphors that have entered the political discourse.

"Words have meaning and even though they're used metaphorically, there are
people out there this resonates with in ways we cannot fully predict," he said.

"PBS NewsHour" retooled its operations in December 2009, integrating its online
and on-air news-gathering efforts. Mr. Marks said an average 1.1 million viewers
watch the television program nightly, twice the number who watch Wolf Blitzer's
"Situation Room" on CNN and five times the audience of MSNBC's "Hardball" and
CNN's "Parker Spitzer" combined. Since integrating the TV and online "NewsHour"
in late 2009, the online audience at PBS.org/newshour has grown from 68,000
visitors daily to almost 200,000 daily.

"The 'NewsHour' used to close down at 7 p.m. east coast on Friday and not wake
up again until Monday morning," Mr. Suarez said. "In the current competitive
environment and current technological environment, you can't be a news
organization that slumbers over the weekend."

Over the weekend the program's website posted multiple updated reports and links
to video on the shooting aftermath.

b> 'UPSTAIRS DOWNSTAIRS' AGAIN

/b>

For its 40th anniversary, PBS's "Masterpiece" revisits one of its biggest hits,
"Upstairs Downstairs" (April 10, 17, 24, WQED-TV).

Not a remake, the new three-part series is more of a sequel, set six years after
the previous series ended. (In the real world it's been more than 30 years since
that finale aired.)

Actresses Jean Marsh and Eileen Atkins dreamed up the original series and also
originated this reboot. Both appear in the new "Upstairs" with Ms. Marsh
reprising her role as Rose Buck, a parlor maid, who is now promoted to
housekeeper. Ms. Atkins plays the mother of the new patriarch who takes up
residence in 165 Eaton Place.

The new series aired over three nights in England during Christmas and drew 8.5
million viewers but may pale in comparison to the fantastic "Downton Abbey,"
which premiered last night on PBS.

Ms. Atkins said she got the idea for the new "Upstairs" while flying to the
United States to promote "Cranford" with that miniseries' writer, Heidi Thomas,
who ended up scripting the new "Upstairs," too.

"Heidi started talking and said, 'I've always wanted to do "Upstairs Downstairs"
again,' and so we cooked it up on that flight," Ms. Atkins said.

The new series is intended as a trial run and springboard for additional
installments to come.

b> PBS CONCERNS

/b>

With Republicans in control of Congress and misplaced anger still brewing over
NPR firing Juan Williams -- PBS had nothing to do with that -- PBS President
Paula Kerger said she's "quite concerned" about funding for PBS member stations.

This comes despite public polling that shows a high level of support for PBS.

"We know that the work that we're doing for children has deep resonance,
particularly now, because we reach every household. We're free," she said. "And
with the difficult economic decisions that families are making with so many
families having to make decisions to turn off their cable television, to really
cut back in their media expenditures, we're there."

Ms. Kerger noted that public broadcasting's highest level of support -- about
half of PBS's funding -- comes from "viewers like you;" federal funding accounts
for just 15 percent of PBS's budget.

In addition to monetary concerns, PBS faced the defection of KCET, its flagship
Los Angeles station, which dropped PBS Jan. 1 and is going it alone to terrible
ratings. (In the first four days since the Jan. 1 change, the Los Angeles Times
reported KCET's prime-time ratings dropped by half compared to a year earlier.)

"I spend a lot of time talking and dealing with our stations," Ms. Kerger said,
"and I don't see any other station that is poised to go down the same path as
KCET."

b> CHANNEL SURFING

/b>

The Hollywood Reporter broke the news late Friday that A&E has dropped its
multi-million dollar miniseries "The Kennedys," starring Katie Holmes and Greg
Kinnear, mirroring what happened to "The Reagans," a 2003 miniseries that got
dropped by CBS but aired on Showtime. Producers of "The Kennedys," including
conservative "24" producer Joel Surnow, may shop this production to premium
cable channels. ... Starz will move ahead with a new season of "Spartacus" but
the network is still in search of an actor to play the lead role after actor
Andy Whitfield dropped out to focus on treatment for cancer. ... Penn
State-based Paranormal Research Society leader Ryan Buell announced late last
week that "Paranormal State" will end its run later this year on A&E.

b> ON THE WEB

/b>

Read more coverage from the Television Critics Association winter press tour in
Tuned In Journal at post-gazette.com/tv.

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Post-Gazette TV writer Rob Owen is attending the Television Critics
Association winter press tour. Follow RobOwenTV at Twitter or Facebook. You can
reach him at 412-263-2582 or rowen@post-gazette.com/

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              264 of 385 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                              March 4, 2011 Friday
                                 SOONER EDITION

WIS. PROTESTERS VACATE CAPITOL

BYLINE: Compiled from news services

SECTION: NATIONAL; WORLD BRIEFS; Pg. A-6

LENGTH: 550 words


MADISON, Wis. -- Pro-union demonstrators who had been camping out at the
Wisconsin Capitol for 17 days vacated the building peacefully late Thursday
after a judge ordered the building closed at night but ruled the state was wrong
to restrict access to the building during the day.

Police confirmed that all of the approximately 50 protesters had left and that
no one had been arrested.

Protesters have been demonstrating in and around the Capitol building since Feb.
15 against a bill pushed by the state's new Republican governor, Scott Walker,
that would strip most public employees of nearly all of their collective
bargaining rights.

Terror-case guilty pleas

NEWARK, N.J. -- Two New Jersey men pleaded guilty Thursday in federal court to
conspiring to murder people outside the U.S. by joining a Somali terrorist
group.

Mohamed Alessa, 21, and Carlos Almonte, 24, were arrested June 5 at New York
City's John F. Kennedy International Airport. Both men admitted they were flying
to Egypt on their way to join the Islamic Al-Shabaab movement in Somalia, and
they wanted to kill people whose beliefs they viewed as contrary to Muslim law.

Energy fraud conviction

SALT LAKE CITY -- A Utah man who infiltrated a sale of federal energy leases in
December 2008 to protest U.S. policies about climate change was found guilty by
a jury Thursday of disrupting a government auction.

The defendant, Tim DeChristopher, 29, became a folk hero and a martyr in some
corners of the environmentalist movement for taking action against the leases,
which provoked protests and demonstrations in the closing days of the
administration of President George W. Bush because of the perceived risk to
sensitive lands in southern Utah.

Campus sex-act demo

CHICAGO -- Northwestern University President Morton Schapiro said Thursday he is
"troubled and disappointed" by a live sex-toy demonstration on campus last week
and has launched an investigation.

He released a statement saying the university is looking into the
appropriateness of the after-class demonstration, where about 100 students in
professor J. Michael Bailey's psychology class witnessed a naked woman using a
sex toy.

Northwestern has acknowledged paying guest lecturer Ken Melvoin-Berg, co-owner
of Weird Chicago Tours, several hundred dollars for a Feb. 21 discussion of
bondage, swinging and other sexual fetishes where the demonstration took place.

Speeding up mine permits

WASHINGTON -- Kentucky Republican Sens. Mitch McConnell and Rand Paul on
Thursday introduced legislation designed to force the Environmental Protection
Agency to move more quickly in deciding whether to approve or veto permits that
mines need to operate under the Clean Water Act.

Dubbed the Mining Jobs Protection Act, the bill gives the EPA 60 days to approve
or veto permit applications. If the agency doesn't act within that time, the
permit automatically moves forward.

Also in the nation

Former House Speaker Newt Gingrich told reporters Thursday in Atlanta that he
had set up a website to promote a possible Republican presidential candidacy,
making his most public move yet toward a 2012 White House bid. ... More than a
third of Americans regularly sleep less than seven hours a night, affecting
their ability to concentrate, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
reported Thursday.

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              265 of 385 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                              March 6, 2011 Sunday
                                TWO STAR EDITION

MAKING WORKERS WALK THE PLANK;
UNIONS DIDN'T BANKRUPT THE STATES; THE CULPRITS ARE HIGHER UP ON THE FOOD CHAIN

BYLINE: SALLY KALSON

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. B-3

LENGTH: 970 words


When unionized public employees have better salaries and benefits than the
taxpayers who foot the bill, there's going to be a backlash. We've seen it with
teachers -- who must have college degrees and therefore earn higher wages than
the average taxpayer -- and also with bus drivers, police and firefighters.

These people were long considered important members of the community, doing jobs
that served the public good. But the picture began to change as private sector
jobs -- many of them union, as well -- were lost due to dying industries,
outsourcing, automation and the morally bankrupt manipulations of Wall Street.

Unionized public sector jobs began looking cushy to others facing pay cuts and
layoffs and who were losing their health insurance, maybe even their houses.
Strikes that shut down public services did not endear unions to their fellow
citizens, nor did arbitrations that reversed firings for grievous misconduct.
Public sympathy began to wane, even more so as the economy worsened.

The result is a kind of intra-class warfare. One part of the shrinking middle
class that has lost a lot of ground resents its taxes being used for another
part of the middle class that has lost less ground.

A more fitting culprit would be the unholy alliance of business, banking and
politics that has delivered tax cuts to the richest 1 percent (who hold 83
percent of U.S. stock) while 61 percent of Americans live paycheck to paycheck
and more than 40 million are on food stamps. But try getting anyone from that
triumvirate on the phone to complain.

Now we've got these ballooning deficits of state public employee pension funds,
caused by the Wall Street meltdown and the deliberate decisions of public bodies
to underfund pensions in favor of other priorities, like lower taxes.

On top of all that, add a cohort of newly elected Republican zealots who disdain
all public jobs except their own, and you've got a climate ripe for union
busting.

Three Republican governors are moving to "reform" state spending by stripping
public employees of collective bargaining rights. Their strategy is to pin the
blame for state deficits on the workers, arguably the bottom rung of the ladder.
They conveniently fail to note that it takes two sides to bargain a contract.

If the sins of past administrations, Democratic and Republican, were so
egregious, why blame the unions at the very point where they are agreeing to
concessions to help balance the books?

The answer, of course, is that these governors don't just want to set their
listing ships back on course. They want to give 40 lashes to the entire crew,
force some to walk the plank, keelhaul a few for good measure and then order the
rest back to work under whatever conditions they see fit to impose.

Apparently, they all think they're Captain Bligh on the HMS Bounty. No wonder
there's a mutiny in Wisconsin.

Senate Democrats fled the state to prevent a quorum from rubber-stamping Gov.
Scott Walker's union-stripping measure, already passed by the House.

To the governor's apparent shock, his power grab has sparked the largest
protests in Wisconsin since the Vietnam War. Reuters reported that at least
70,000 people marched in Madison last weekend to demand that Mr. Walker drop his
anti-union plan, but so far he's not budging and neither are they.

The governor's real motive is so obvious it's almost laughable. That was true
even before he was recorded slobbering all over a prank caller pretending to be
billionaire David Koch. The Koch brothers' money was a major factor in Mr.
Walker's election; it also bought $320,000 worth of TV ads pushing the
union-busting bill.

The obvious truth is that labor unions tend to support Democrats. They have
nowhere near the amount of money that big corporations do because of their
ever-shrinking numbers in the private sector. Still, these GOP officials see
unions as the only political counterweight to the big money that corporations
lavish on conservative causes and candidates. So they're pitting members of the
middle class against one another, hoping to destroy once and for all the only
institution that still guards the welfare of working people.

Maybe you remember the welfare of working people. It became a matter of national
concern because of events like the Triangle Shirtwaist Factory fire in New York
City, which took place 100 years ago this month.

Some 500 workers, many of them young immigrant women, were trapped on the 10th
floor of the factory building because the owners had locked the fire exits. All
told, 146 of them perished, some while jumping to their deaths.

Nobody would dare exploit workers like that in the United States today. Not when
they can do it in other countries with an endless supply of cheap labor and no
worker protections. But that doesn't mean unfair practices are gone from our
shores. Employers are still paying substandard wages to undocumented workers
with no legal recourse.

I'll spare you the long list of reforms brought about by labor unions, from
workplace safety to the five-day week. But get this -- most people thought those
were good things in their own right, but also because a healthy middle class
puts its money back into the economy and greases the wheels of commerce. Imagine
that.

As a union officer, I can attest that members will agree to shared sacrifice
when the situation warrants it. Cutting teacher pay (the average in Wisconsin is
$46,300) while exempting billionaires from a fair share of taxes that filter to
state and local bodies and help finance things like pension funds ... that is
hardly sharing.

Unions did not cause the Wall Street meltdown or divert money that should have
gone to pension funds. Those crimes were committed much higher up on the food
chain. Maybe, for once, we could look there for solutions instead of making
workers walk the plank.

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Sally Kalson is a staff writer and columnist for the Post-Gazette
(skalson@post-gazette.com, 412-263-1610). She also is first vice president of
the Newspaper Guild of Pittsburgh./

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              274 of 385 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                            March 30, 2011 Wednesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

WHEN SCIENCE IS KID'S STUFF;
THE POWER OF INFORMAL EDUCATION CAN ENHANCE WHAT HAPPENS IN THE CLASSROOM

BYLINE: John Radzilowicz

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. B-7

LENGTH: 854 words


I still vividly recall my first planetarium visit. I was 9 years old. It was a
special evening field trip arranged by my science teacher. Only a small group
attended because not every child could get parental permission to go on an
after-hours trip.

We were mesmerized by the moon, stars and planets as they danced across the dome
of the theater and the disembodied voice of the presenter explained the size and
age of the cosmos.

By the time we emerged, it was dark outside, and the staff ushered us to the
museum courtyard where telescopes were set up to show us the planet Saturn. It
was my first look through a real telescope. The planet's rings jumped out at me.
It nearly took my breath away -- and I never got over that experience. In large
part, it is the reason that I have made a career in science education.

It turns out that I'm far from alone. A 1998 NSF/Bayer Foundation study found
that scientists listed childhood experiences as a major factor influencing their
choice of a career. They credited great teachers, supportive parents and
excellent science classes. Revealingly, 76 percent also cited a trip to a
science museum.

My experience demonstrates the power of informal education to supplement and
enhance what happens in the classroom. That night, nearly 40 years ago, I was
not only educated and entertained, I was inspired. I was allowed to share an
experience that made me think about the world in new ways, an experience that
took what I learned in school and made it real in a way that could not be
duplicated in the classroom.

That shouldn't be a surprise. Most of what we know, we learn outside a
classroom. Learning is -- and must be -- broader than schooling. And that is why
science centers have a critical role to play in solving the current crisis in
science education.

Science centers are truly unique places. We communicate the importance and
excitement of science through an educational model that stresses hands-on,
inquiry-based exploration of the world around us. We create fun, one-of-a-kind
experiences that speak to the natural curiosity in all of us. We provide a
relaxed atmosphere where visitors can interact with exhibits, equipment and
materials that they don't encounter every day.

And we provide places where students, friends and families can share these
experiences and learn together. Numerous studies have shown that when people are
engaged in learning, they retain more information.

These unique environments are not meant to replace the school experience.
Instead, they enrich it with opportunities for teachers, students and parents to
take the lessons of the classroom to a new level.

For example, science center programs focused on career exploration allow
students to spend time with professional scientists and engineers who are
currently working in a variety of fields. The wide range of program offerings
provides numerous entry points for students and other visitors to engage with
science content. This type of programming is especially powerful for audiences
underrepresented in the sciences like girls and minorities.

And they make a difference.

A 2009 study by the National Research Council shows that science centers can
positively impact student performance in school by reinforcing what has been
learned through new and powerful experiences like these. Even more than that,
they raise awareness of STEM -- science, technology, engineering and mathematics
-- content, careers and relevance to everyday life. These experiences leave
visitors with an important perception of science centers as well.

In the Pittsburgh region, market research has shown that our science center --
Carnegie Science Center -- is seen as a trusted voice for science and a place to
turn for information and discussion concerning the scientific and technological
issues of the day.

Science center visitors emerge with a new perspective on science, one in which
science and technology are seen as accessible, important and exciting. They
learn problem solving, creativity and innovation. It's those attitudes and
skills that will help lead students to better achievement.

Ultimately, a key aspiration of the modern science center is to help build the
next generation of scientists, engineers and technology workers. In addition, we
seek to help create a generation of informed, reflective critical thinkers and
engaged citizens for the benefit of our community and society as a whole.

These goals cannot be seen as a luxury. They are critical to the economic,
environmental, and political strength and sustainability of our community and
our nation. A quick review of the headlines on any day will show the challenges
we face: decisions about Marcellus Shale drilling, nuclear power, genetically
modified food, stem cell research, climate change and so much more.

The future belongs not only to those who can understand and solve the scientific
and technological problems ahead, but also to those who are capable of critical
thinking and reasoning, creativity and innovation. Being scientifically literate
is important for all of us. Science centers play a critical role in creating
that literacy.

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: John Radzilowicz is the director of Science and Education at Carnegie
Science Center (RadzilowiczJ@CarnegieScienceCenter.org)./

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              307 of 385 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                             July 23, 2011 Saturday
                                 SOONER EDITION

HOT SPELL FORCES UTILITIES TO CRAMP;
TODAY: 93

BYLINE: Amy McConnell Schaarsmith, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. A-1

LENGTH: 978 words


Another round of extreme heat wrapped Western Pennsylvania in its suffocating
embrace yesterday, matching temperature records and pushing electrical usage to
near-historic highs before a late-afternoon thunderstorm brought some relief.

Heat-related power outages were brief and scattered, although public officials,
utilities and other businesses still scrambled to reduce electricity demand and
deal with fallout from soaring temperatures.

The storm, however, knocked out power for about 7,000 Duquesne Light customers
in Allegheny County's northern and eastern suburbs at about 7 p.m., utility
officials said. Power was restored to nearly 4,000 late Friday night.

Even before the storm, concurrent days of extreme heat had Duquesne Light
employees working 16-hour shifts with extra equipment on hand in case of
widespread power failure, spokesman Joe Vallarian said.

"We treat this just like any other storm, and basically that's what it is -- a
heat storm," Mr. Vallarian said.

Yesterday, the high temperature at Pittsburgh International Airport reached 96
degrees, tying a record set in 1901 and equalled again in 1933, according to the
National Weather Service.

Thursday night's low was 79 degrees -- nearly as low as the warmest low
temperature on record -- but by 7 p.m. temperatures had fallen to 77 degrees in
the wake of a cold front and thunderstorms.

The high today is expected to reach the low 90s after overnight lows in the 70s.
Highs throughout much of the Northeast are expected to reach through the 90s and
into the 100s, and cities along the eastern seaboard are poised to crack records
set during the Dust Bowl era.

The Department of Environmental Protection has forecast an air quality action
day for Clairton, Glassport, Liberty, Lincoln and Port Vue.

Unhealthy pollution levels will be present for sensitive people, potentially
making it difficult to breathe for young children, the elderly and people with
respiratory problems. Those people are advised to limit outdoor activities.

Yesterday, people of all kinds sought relief from the heat, with kids splashing
in public fountains and pools and many senior citizens finding refuge in the
city's air-conditioned cooling centers. The centers will be open today and
tomorrow from 11 a.m. to 7 p.m.

The city's 911 call center received about 50 more calls than usual yesterday and
have additional ambulances available to transport patients to area hospitals,
according to Joanna Doven, spokeswoman for Pittsburgh Mayor Luke Ravenstahl.

Meanwhile, area hospitals have seen a handful of additional heat-related visits
to emergency rooms, according to a UPMC spokeswoman.

Doctors are warning that children younger than 12 -- especially infants 6 months
to a year old, who can't yet sweat to cool themselves -- and many adults older
than 50 are prone to dangerous overheating and should rest, stay cool and drink
extra water during extreme temperatures.

Children don't sweat as much as adults to cool themselves, and their bodies
haven't developed other cooling mechanisms -- an increased heart rate to speed
blood through the body, allowing heat to dissipate through the blood vessels and
the skin into the environment, for instance -- that an adult can use to avoid
overheating, according to Raymond Pitetti, an emergency room pediatrician at
Children's Hospital of UPMC.

Many also aren't responsible enough to guard against heat injury, he said.

"A kid who is out in the heat playing or hanging out isn't going to think about
coming and keeping themselves hydrated," Dr. Pitetti said. "They need to be well
supervised, and if parents are not on top of that, it can be a problem."

Extreme heat and humidity forced the closure of the lower level walkway between
Three Gateway Center and the center's garage.

High temperatures also caused some electronic controls on the Mon Incline to
overheat, temporarily closing the incline and forcing would-be riders to use
buses between stations, according to the Port Authority.

And Lamont Robinson got stuck to the hot tar roof he was working on in
Hazelwood, trapping him there for nearly two hours until a neighbor called
rescue workers, according to The Associated Press. Under the sun for those two
hours, Mr. Robinson said he "was baking like a turkey."

As people sought relief inside air-conditioned homes and offices, power usage at
Duquesne Light pushed ever higher, reaching about 3,000 megawatts Thursday,
compared with typical usage of about 2,200 megawatts on a summer day, Mr.
Vallarian said, adding that the record set in 2006 was 3,053 megawatts.

The extra energy is equivalent to the electricity used by 800,000 households in
a 24-hour period, he said.

To reduce demand and help prevent blackouts, he said, homeowners can set their
thermostats at 78, according to a recommendation from the federal Department of
Energy.

They also can make sure the air filter on their air conditioner is clean and
unobstructed to make the system more efficient, avoid using large heat-producing
appliances that force air conditioning systems to work harder, use fans to
increase airflow and close off unused rooms if using window units to cool busier
parts of the house, he said.

Some businesses, too, worked to reduce electricity consumption yesterday, asking
employees to turn off unused computers, lights and appliances and also raising
the thermostat a few degrees.

The Pittsburgh Water & Sewer Authority went even further, shutting down its
large pumps for six hours to save energy during yesterday's peak consumption
period.

The water pumping station has enough water on hand to supply customers for two
to three days, even without additional pumping, according to spokeswoman Melissa
Rubin.

So customers didn't even notice the temporary shutdown, she said.

"We pump 70 million gallons of water a day, so it's not overly burdensome to not
use our large pumps for a few hours," she said.

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Amy McConnell Schaarsmith: 412-263-1719 or aschaarsmith@post-gazette.com/

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Matt Freed/Post-Gazette: People cool off as they drift down the
Lazy River at Sandcastle Friday afternoon. \

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              314 of 385 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                            August 11, 2011 Thursday
                                  WEST EDITION

MOVE OVER, BEER DRINKERS: MORE WINERIES SPROUTING IN OUR REGION

BYLINE: VIRGINIA KOPAS JOE, PITTSBURGH POST-GAZETTE

SECTION: METRO; Pg. W-1

LENGTH: 1670 words


Lauren Macconne said she always thought of Western Pennsylvania as a "shot and a
beer" kind of place.

Then she actually visited here.

Ms. Macconne, a nurse from Oakland, Calif., was in Westmoreland County for a
family wedding last month when she spotted what she thought was a "bit of Napa."

No, she had not made a wrong turn while trying to find the Pennsylvania
Turnpike: She had stumbled upon the rustic Greendance winery in Mt. Pleasant
Township, Westmoreland County, one of the state's more than 170 wineries -- most
family owned -- that offer what Robert Louis Stevenson called "bottled poetry."

Indeed "Bacchus thrives" in Western Pennsylvania, said Ms. Macconne as she
swirled, then sipped the signature raspberry wine at the Greendance tasting
room.

Such tourism, such surprise -- such sipping -- is what the Pennsylvania wine
industry is all about, agreed Amy Schilling, who did the pouring that day.

Mrs. Schilling is one of the half dozen owners of the sprawling Sand Hill
Berries farm on which Greendance is located.

She agreed that Western Pennsylvanians are "as a rule, beer drinkers."

But in recent years she has seen the number of wine aficionados grow as "locals,
perhaps spurred on by tourists and the media," learn about the grape as well as
its importance to the state's top two industries -- agriculture and tourism.

Her sister and berry farm business partner, Susan Lynn, who is sole owner of
Greendance, has managed to plant her feet in both.

Ms. Lynn uses her first profession -- she is a trained chemist -- to keep farm
berries and grape vineyards growing.

She said that Pennsylvania's climate -- bordered by Lake Erie in the northwest
and the Atlantic Gulf Stream in the east -- is perfect for growing small fruits
and grapes.

"We get hot summers with long growing seasons, lots of rain and often extreme
season changes," she said.

Greendance uses the berries it grows on 11 acres of vineyards to produce a
variety of 30 different wines made from small fruits, including raspberries,
blueberries, gooseberries and black currants.

As a rule, Ms. Lynn said, the vitis vinifera -- common grape vine -- grapes grow
well in this region, as do European cultivars, plants selected for their
characteristics and maintained through cultivation, such as cabernet sauvignon,
chardonnay, pinot gris, pinot noir, reisling, chambourcin and gewurztraminer.

Still, "grapes are very complicated," she admitted.

But then so is the agency that looks over them.

Wineries in Pennsylvania are governed by the agency that manages its beverage
alcohol industry, the state Liquor Control Board.

Stacy Kriedeman, an LCB spokeswoman, said Pennsylvania has 172 active wineries,
making our state the seventh in the nation in the number of wineries and fifth
in production of wine grapes.

It all adds up to a tasty bottom line: More than 10,000 full-time employees work
in the wine and grape industry in the state with an economic impact of $2.35
billion each year, according to Jennifer Eckinger, director of the Pennsylvania
Winery Association, a nonprofit trade group in Harrisburg.

The wine and spirit industry is, of course, big news these days as
Pennsylvanians wait to see what happens with the controversial liquor
privatization bill proposed by House Majority Leader Mike Turzai, R-Bradford
Woods.

The proposal would end the 78-year-old state-run liquor system and replace it
with privately owned wine and liquor stores.

At a hearing for the bill on July 28, Mr. Turzai indicated that the bill
wouldn't affect wineries. Later, his spokesman Steve Miskin verified that
wineries are not even mentioned in the bill.

Still, the early consensus from vintners here is that privatization of the
state's 621 liquor stores has the potential to hurt those large operations that
sell to the LCB, while many small family operations see it as a way to pump up
sales.

Wine growing in the state got its start with William Penn, who planted the first
vineyard in 1683 in Philadelphia. Vineyards arrived in our neck of the woods in
the early 1800s when a German religious sect, the Harmonists, planted in what is
now known as old Economy Village, near Ambridge. Vineyards thrived until
Prohibition in 1920 stopped the wine and spirits industry cold. After
Prohibition was lifted in 1933, the state created the LCB and ruled that wine
could be sold only at its stores.

Today's burgeoning wine industry took root after the Farm Winery Act of 1968,
which permits the producing and selling of wine to individuals, clubs, hotels
and restaurants.

The retooled industry started slow -- 30 years ago, Pennsylvania had only about
20 wineries, and most of those were in Presque Isle.

Growth is slow because opening a winery, aside from the love of the vine and the
cost and time involved -- Bovine winery owner Mike Young spent seven years
fixing the barn that houses his Washington County winery -- is a labor of
paperwork, too.

"The hardest part about starting a winery is the red tape," said Samantha
Crissman, who owns Walnut Hill Winery in Blairsville. She said it took her more
than six months to get the papers and inspections in order and lots more time
than that to ready the woodsy site in Indiana County that she also now calls
home.

Ms. Kriedeman said the state does indeed closely monitor and inspect the wine
industry as well as those who run it. She also said vintners must work closely
with the agriculture department, health department and state tourism offices.

Nearly 1 million visitors a year attend wine tasting events in this state and a
third of those tasters are from other states, Ms. Eckinger said.

"It has a domino effect for all local business," agreed Susan McCarthy, a
spokeswoman for Christian W. Klay Winery in Fayette County.

"Wineries are always active partners in the community," she said. Klay, for
example, hosts benefits for a number of charities and pulls in tourists from
several states.

The state winery association promotes seven geographic wine regions. And 11 wine
trails are offered that allow visitors to tour the wineries of one area. One of
the trails is the Southwest Passage Wine Trail, which is an easy day trip that
gets visitors to seven family-run wineries in this region.

The wines, just like the various grapes grown in the state, offer drastic
differences in taste, depending on temperatures, soil, drainage, sun angles,
rain and topography.

But that's a good thing, said Eirlys Matson, who with her husband owns and
operates Rustic Acres in Butler.

"You cannot visit too many wineries because each produces a different grape,"
she said.

So Pennsylvania proud is Ms. Matson that her website offers the snappy: "We make
wine ... Napa makes auto parts!"

We took a midsummer's day tour recently -- a tough job, but somebody has to do
it -- and found some commonalities among the wineries:

* Most are family owned and often are the second career for a person who had a
successful first one. Ms. Matson's husband, Gary, left his job as an electrical
inspector to indulge his passion for winemaking. Mr. Young, a fifth-grade
teacher in Mt. Lebanon, said his winery will be his "retirement career." Ms.
Crissman, a former marketing rep, said she used to drive 5,000 miles a month on
business. Last year, she drove a total of 7,000 miles selling wine, and she
"couldn't be happier -- or busier." Randy Paul, who along with wife Debbie owns
Stone Villa Wine Cellars in Westmoreland County, calls his business "a hobby
that grew out of control."

* All have rural settings that rival anything the celebrated Napa has to offer.
Stone Villa is elegantly appointed with stone work that is a homage to Mr.
Paul's mason father, while Ms. Crissman calls her spot "an eclectic yard sale,
with blush wines that match the sunset over the Laurel Mountains -- and lawn
chairs from Walmart."

* Tastings are free -- but the LCB sets a limit on the amount of sample.

* The cost of Pennsylvania-grown liquid poetry is modest; most wines are $8 to
$25 a bottle. Ice wine -- a type of dessert wine produced from grapes that have
been frozen while still on the vine, which makes for a sweet concentration but
smaller yield -- is always at the higher end of that scale.

* Most wineries are open year-round, although smaller ones tend to limit winter
hours, so call ahead. See the accompanying list for details.

* Most have mom-and-pop gift galleries with kitschy offerings. Greendance has
novelty women's T-shirts with rhinestone bottles that tout the woman who is
"Well Red." At Bovine, cow images are everywhere on bottle labels and jelly
jars.

* Grapes are either grown on site -- Susan and Jon Klay spent more then five
years studying viticulture, the science of growing grapes -- or are bought from
vineyards near Lake Erie shores.

* Proper viticulture methods and technologies play an important role, and most
growers farm in a sustainable manner, minimizing pesticide use and protecting
the environment. Look to the name Greendance, for example. Ms. Lynn explained
that the name represents the graceful partnership a winery must have with the
sun and earth in growing.

"We dance light-footed, follow nature and never lead," she said of her winery --
and the industry.

* Many wineries offer free entertainment, everything from jazz to country music,
mostly on weekends. Most have detailed websites with schedules.

* Most offer discounts for buying by the case, and some will even customize
labels so you can pour out your sentiments over time.

* More and more wineries are expanding by opening retail stores. The LCB allows
a winery to have up to four off-site stores. Deer Creek Winery, headquartered in
Clarion County, has outlets in Cranberry Mall on Route 322 in Venango County and
Clearview Mall on Route 8 in Butler County.

"My husband jokes that 'shopping does drive you to drink,' " said Maya
Huntingdon, of Butler, who shopped in the Cranberry Mall site this month.

*

Before she left Greendance to fly west, Ms. Macconne bought a half dozen bottles
of reds to ship home.

"This stop has cleansed my palate -- and my vision of Western Pennsylvania," she
said.

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Virginia Kopas Joe: 412-263-1414 or vkjoe@post-gazette.com/

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Pam Panchak/Post-Gazette Hostess: Cindy Molinaro opens a bottle
of wine at the Winery at Sand Hill. \
PHOTO: Tony Tye/Post-Gazette: Lynne and Mike Young at their winery, Bovine
Wines, in Buffalo, Washington County. \
PHOTO: A sampling of signature wines at Bovine Wines.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              322 of 385 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                             August 21, 2011 Sunday
                                TWO STAR EDITION

PASSION AND POLITICS;
HOW BARACK OBAMA AND MITT ROMNEY GOT CROWDED INTO THE SAME DANGEROUS CORNER

BYLINE: David M. Shribman

SECTION: EDITORIAL; MY POINT; Pg. F-3

LENGTH: 1020 words


COLEBROOK, N.H.

It is in the nature of politics and of New Hampshire that things should heat up
just as they cool down.

Now the days are shorter, the evenings cooler, especially here in what is known
as the Great North Woods. But the stakes are growing, the debates becoming
hotter. There's a new wrangler in the race, Gov. Rick Perry of Texas, and he's
the talk of many of the towns -- the great hope for some, the great worry for
others, and if you're just an observer of things you can conclude that in the
great scheme of things he is a great American character one way or the other.

Already he has fulfilled every fear and hope, widening the definition of
treason, thinking out loud about the fault lines in the global-climate debate,
crowding others off the stage and, with the help of Rep. Michele Bachmann of
Minnesota, out of the Republican race. It remains to be seen whether this
political cycle will be the GOP's to claim, but right now the Republicans are
dominating the conversation. They have the passion and the sense of purpose.
This summer their creed is ripped straight from Bismarck: "If there is to be a
revolution, we would rather make it than suffer it."

The miracle of the season isn't that the Republicans are making a revolution but
that President Barack Obama is in the role of defender of the old order. He
thought of himself as the man who, to crib yet another line from Bismarck, might
not be able to see "God's cards" but could at least "see where the Lord wishes
to go" and "stumble after him."

Instead, the president has merely stumbled, and how he went from the leader of
the crowd outside the Bastille to the personification of the ancien regime is
one of the great mysteries of the age. Indeed, his determination, offered last
week, to try to recapture the offensive with a September speech only underlines
the urgency that is gripping the Obama camp.

So even though all the talk right now is of Mr. Perry and Ms. Bachmann (and
let's not forget former Gov. Mitt Romney of Massachusetts, still the putative
front-runner), the election is and always will be about Mr. Obama.

He's not doing well by any reasonable and conventional measure -- and that's
without considering the peculiar challenge he faces due to the erosion of
electoral votes in states he took in 2008 but which, because of population
changes, would provide a smaller payout in 2012.

Presidents have limped toward re-election fights before and prevailed. Harry
Truman did that in 1948 against greater odds than Mr. Obama faces; who thought
the Democrats could win a fifth consecutive race with the party split so badly?

The better example might be the Obama hero, Abraham Lincoln, who was no sure bet
for re-election in 1864, with the Civil War still grinding on, vital questions
about slavery still unresolved and a former general running as a peace candidate
for the Democrats. Truman and Lincoln became emblems for their respective
parties by staying the course, an old political phrase revived by Ronald Reagan,
who didn't look like a cinch for re-election either at this stage of the 1984
campaign but who nonetheless won 49 states.

But many embattled presidents don't make it to that second term. Two recent
examples are telling. The one that makes Democrats cringe is Jimmy Carter, who
lost to Reagan in 1980 in an economic environment (deficits every year,
frightening energy prices, high unemployment) that is arguably less severe than
the one Mr. Obama presides over. The one that gives Democrats pause is George
H.W. Bush, who was defeated by Gov. Bill Clinton of Arkansas as the deficit
soared. Today the elder Mr. Bush, his health faltering but his uncommon chivalry
still robust, is a bit of a bipartisan hero, and yet he left the White House
after only four years.

Mr. Obama faces another challenge, perhaps the most ironic one of all. Since the
Reagan years, passion has become an important element of American politics.
Reagan was passionate about America, Mr. Clinton was passionate about changing
the direction of both the Democratic Party and the nation, George W. Bush was
passionate about revenge and security after the terrorist attacks of 2001 gave
his administration and life new purpose and meaning.

Mr. Obama was passionate in the 2008 campaign, and anyone who was in a room or
hall with him was rendered passionate by his performance. As president he has
shown grace and intelligence, but he's leaned toward the precise and away from
the passionate, and it's a strain to recall even a sentence he has uttered in
the White House that can match Oscar Wilde's goal of having "struck one chord to
reach the ear of God."

That's why the ear of politicos twitched with fascination when, just the other
day, Mr. Perry said, "I get a little bit passionate," adding, "I think you want
a president who is passionate about America -- that's in love with America."

That one phrase may have been the most meaningful yet uttered in Campaign 2012,
for it was a swipe at Mr. Obama's cool demeanor even as it raised questions, so
congenial to the hearts of conservatives and so galling to liberals, about
whether the president isn't more a critic of America than a defender of America.

Oddly enough the Perry offensive has pushed Mr. Romney into the space that,
ironically, is also occupied by Mr. Obama: the cool operator acceptable to the
old-guard and to the very big-money mandarins who are the personification of
tea-party resentments. Mr. Romney is no paladin of passion either -- his best
line from 2008 was when he playfully quoted his wife as saying that he wasn't in
her wildest dreams -- and that could be a problem, both in his political profile
and in his performance here and in Iowa.

A Gallup International poll taken this month shows the former governor with less
"positive intensity," which is a statistical concept but also part of the
definition of a successful modern candidate. Ms. Bachmann and Mr. Perry lead the
polls in passion. Mr. Romney leads the pack in money. The question this year,
not only for Mr. Romney but for Mr. Obama as well, is whether money can buy you
love. And whether passion counts.

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: David M. Shribman is the executive editor of the Post-Gazette
(dshribman@post-gazette.com, 412-263-1890). /

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              323 of 385 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                             August 21, 2011 Sunday
                                TWO STAR EDITION

PROPEL MOVES INTO PITTSBURGH SCHOOL DISTRICT;
NORTH SIDE PICKED FOR CHARTER SCHOOL

BYLINE: MARY NIEDERBERGER, PITTSBURGH POST-GAZETTE

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. B-1

LENGTH: 1160 words


The first time principal Ariane Watson toured the closed school building that
was to become home to her new school, Propel Northside, she and others had to
use a flashlight because there was no power.

Still, she had no trouble envisioning the school filled with elementary
schoolchildren busy with their work and activities.

"Even in the dark, I could just picture this building coming to life," Ms.
Watson said. "But it really isn't about the physical building. It's what we are
creating. Our mission, our vision," Ms. Watson said.

Ms. Watson's vision will become reality Monday when Propel Northside opens its
doors for the first day of class in the former Columbus Middle School on Buena
Vista Street in the Central North Side. The school will open with 200 students
in grades K-four, with 20 students in each class and two classes at each grade
level. A grade will be added each year until the school holds 400 students in
grades K-eight.

As with all Propel schools, there already is a waiting list.

The opening marks the eighth school for Propel since 2003, but the first one in
the city. Propel operates seven charter schools in suburban Allegheny County. It
also marks the first time a Propel charter was granted without the need for the
organization to appeal to the state charter appeals board.

After initially rejecting Propel's charter application in February, the
Pittsburgh school board approved it in April and then approved a $10,000-a-month
lease with Propel to use the shuttered Columbus Middle School for the first year
of operation. Propel plans to move the school to another site on the North Side
next year.

"We are looking forward to working with a school district that we know is
committed to making changes across the city. We want to be part of what they are
doing," said Jeremy Resnick, Propel's founder and executive director.

The system's total enrollment for fall 2011 is about 2,500 students, making it
larger than 17 of the public school districts in Allegheny County.

In October 2010, Propel won a $3.4 million grant from the U.S. Department of
Education to "replicate and expand high-quality charter schools that have
demonstrated success." The grant is to be used to expand one charter school,
Montour, and start four more.

Propel Northside is one of the four, with plans for a Propel school in the
Sto-Rox School District the next step.

Some of the staff for Propel Northside is coming from other Propel locations.
Ms. Watson was principal at Propel Homestead.

"Hopefully we are bringing the same culture and climate with us," said Carol
Wooten, superintendent of Propel schools.

But the majority of staff are hires new to the Propel system. Among them is
Gabrielle Pollock, who recently completed her reading specialist certificate at
the University of Pittsburgh and who will teach fourth grade at Propel
Northside.

"Starting a school really gives us an opportunity to create an identity. There
will be no preconceived opinions about a child or the school and everyone will
have a fresh start," she said.

Ms. Pollock said she was drawn to Propel because she is interested in urban
education, the collaborative teaching model used there and the significant
amounts of professional development that take place.

The staff will consist of the principal, 10 classroom teachers, two special
education teachers, a Title I teacher, a Spanish teacher and an art teacher
along with a creative arts classroom adviser who will work with visiting artists
for the creative arts program.

There will also be a literacy coach, a guidance counselor and three
paraprofessionals, two of whom are certified teachers. By law, charter schools
need to have only 75 percent of the teaching staff certified. But all of the
Propel Northside teachers are certified, Ms. Watson said.

Technology will be abundant at the school, with each classroom equipped with a
Smart board and several laptop computers.

Currently, the majority of Propel Northside's students are from the Pittsburgh
Public Schools, with others from Carlynton, Shaler Area, Sto-Rox and one student
from Mt. Lebanon. Students will wear the same uniforms as those at other Propel
schools -- khaki, blue or black pants and white, light blue or yellow shirts.

Michelle Murphy of Sheraden is sending her two daughters to Propel Northside.
NaTerra Murrell, 7, will enter second grade, and Nazyaah White, 6, is going into
first grade. They were students at Pittsburgh Allegheny K-five last year. Next
year, she plans to enroll her third daughter, Jordynae White, 4, in kindergarten
at Propel Northside.

Ms. Murphy said the primary reason she chose Propel is that the charter school
system has been able to close the achievement gap between white and minority
students -- a feat that larger local school systems appear to have difficulty
achieving.

"I chose Propel schools for the results of their educational growth year after
year. I really especially like the way the African-American achievement gap
continues to close," she said, adding that she is also impressed with Propel's
creative arts and technology programs.

According to Propel's published results from the 2009-2010 school year, 75
percent of students qualified for free or reduced-price lunches, 66 percent were
students of color and 15 percent were special education -- all factors that tend
to put student achievement at risk.

Yet, overall, Propel students were 35 percent more likely to be performing at
grade level than their peers in public schools, and African-American students
were 52 percent more likely to perform above grade level.

In addition, 72 percent of Propel's African-American students achieved
proficiency as compared with 55 percent statewide.

The motto for Propel Northside, according to Ms. Watson, is "the three Bs: "Be
safe. Be respectful. Be responsible."

The motto grew from a schoolwide behavior program that Ms. Watson said was
initiated at Propel Homestead and will be brought to Propel Northside. Ms.
Watson said the students must respect the school staff, and the staff likewise
will treat students with respect, with reprimands being made in a positive
fashion.

The Propel schools seek to have a strong parental component, with parents
involved in the students' academic and social activities, and the schools trying
to help parents find resources they need to help their children.

Teacher Nancy Koslosky is transferring from Propel East to Propel Northside and
is looking forward to the challenge of starting a new school. Prior to teaching
at Propel, Mrs. Koslosky was a teacher at the former St. Germaine School in
Bethel Park for seven years. She said she sees similarities between how the
Propel schools and Catholic schools operate.

"It's the sense of community and sharing that the Catholics have without the
faith intervention," she said.

"Day in and day out we are here to share with the children in their life
experiences. We care about the whole kid -- not just test scores -- and how we
can make them a better person."

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Mary Niederberger: mniederberger@post-gazette.com; 412-851-1512./

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Larry Roberts/Post-Gazette: Kim Hoerr, left, a first-grade
teacher, and Betsy Miller, center, who teaches kindergarten, work with other
teachers to create a mission statement for the new Propel school on the North
Side.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              324 of 385 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                           August 24, 2011 Wednesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

AFTER THE STORM;
DEADLY LESSON: INFRASTRUCTURE MUST BE ABLE TO COPE

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. B-6

LENGTH: 695 words


Devastating events caused by natural forces are sometimes called acts of God to
absolve human beings of responsibility. The fatal flash flood that followed the
storm that dumped torrential rain on Pittsburgh's East End in the rush hour last
Friday afternoon was not an act of God.

Instead, this tragedy was a sadder event even beyond the deaths of four
innocents, simply for being something within human power to ameliorate. It was
an act of overwhelmed infrastructure, in this case the responsibility of
government-related agencies and of society in general.

In a great American city, especially one built on the banks of three rivers with
a long familiarity with the perils of flooding, four people -- a mother and two
young children in one vehicle and a woman swept away from another -- should not
have drowned.

To say that is not to ignore the obvious: A great amount of rain falling in a
short time on the watershed -- 2.29 inches in an hour and more than 3 inches for
the day -- would challenge any system, but did it have to be 9 feet of water
suddenly filling Washington Boulevard? That is a failure of planning and
preparation.

As it was, city police, medics, firefighters and emergency management officials
faced the daunting challenge with ingenuity and perseverance and saved some 15
lives. And it wasn't just professionals who were life savers but ordinary
Pittsburghers, too -- for example, Christine Marty, 21, who swam to the aid of a
69-year-old woman, and with strength, courage and prayer, got her to safety.

Pittsburghers in this calamity did not let their city down, but the agencies
charged with making sure sewers and drains can cope with heavy rainfall clearly
need to do better. We say this not as a premature indictment, but simply as an
acknowledgment of reality. The city has to do better than this.

On Monday, officials from the Pittsburgh Water and Sewer Authority met with
those from the Allegheny County Sanitary Authority. PWSA Chairman Dan Deasy, a
state representative, said in a statement later that the two agencies had an
open discussion to share ideas. They had talked about short-term and long-term
solutions.

Mr. Deasy was also defensive. He said the two "very large sewers" in Washington
Boulevard -- 108 inch and 102 inch -- were designed to handle 4 inches of rain
in a 24-hour period and that on Friday the Negley Run watershed had experienced
"a 100-year storm."

Maybe. But a storm on July 18 caused flash flooding in the same place and
provided what might be taken as a warning: Although no one drowned, one lane of
the boulevard had to be closed. Moreover, as the Post-Gazette reported Tuesday,
a flood on the boulevard in 1951 did drown a woman in a car. That wasn't a
century ago, but in the living memory of some older Pittsburghers.

Also on Tuesday, Mayor Luke Ravenstahl reacted to statements from the PWSA and
Alcosan that water volume, and not the quality of their systems, was the
problem. "I'm not necessarily 100 percent satisfied with that answer yet," the
mayor said -- and we're not either.

We're also not satisfied with the mayor's response. These deaths occurred on his
streets and on his watch, and we don't see him demanding action with any sense
of urgency. He needs to show leadership and use the authority of his office to
get results before another disaster strikes.

The trouble with talking of "100-year storms" is the same as talking about an
act of God -- it is an invitation to shrug and assume nothing can be done.

Something can be done and must be done in an era when climate change is making
severe weather the norm. In known trouble spots, which Washington Boulevard
surely is, it may mean adding another sewer, fixing an intersection or having a
protocol to close the road when bad storms hit (as is done with some roads in
winter, or on the Monongahela Wharf when flooding is predicted).

Those talks between PWSA and Alcosan must continue and yield a solution. The
problem is Pittsburgh's but it isn't Pittsburgh's alone: America continually
ignores or puts off infrastructure improvements due to their cost. The tragedy
on Washington Boulevard was a warning, and after four deaths we shouldn't need a
second.

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              348 of 385 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                           October 13, 2011 Thursday
                                 NORTH EDITION

COVERED CROSSINGS;
IN SOME CIRCLES, PENNSYLVANIA IS TOPS IN NUMBER OF SHELTERED BRIDGES

BYLINE: Virginia Kopas Joe, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: METRO; Pg. N-1

LENGTH: 1735 words


When it comes to bridges, we've got you covered.

Our Keystone State is not called the "Covered Bridge Capital of the Nation" for
nothing.

Melissa Williams of Scottdale checked out that charming, if challenged,
designation last weekend when she and some friends took a leisurely drive
through Somerset County.

She followed a glorious full-color map prepared and distributed by that county's
chamber of commerce. Using the map -- and a little help from her vehicle's GPS
-- Ms. Williams was able to easily locate, photograph and bask in the history
and romance of some of that county's vaunted 10 covered wooden bridges.

"It's a great background to photograph the leaves as they turn colors at this
time of year," Ms. Williams noted.

But she also admitted -- with a blush -- that her interest in finding these
historical gems was more inspired by "The Bridges of Madison County," the 1992
novel by Robert James Waller, than the foliage.

Central to that love story is the work of a fictional National Geographic
photographer who is visiting Madison County, Iowa, to create a photographic
essay on covered bridges there.

The novel is one of the best-selling books of the 20th century, with 50 million
copies sold worldwide. In 1995, it was made into a two-hanky blockbuster movie
of the same name. The real-life, circa 1880s Roseman Covered Bridge in the book
and film evolved into a top tourist attraction in Iowa.

"The book and movie have always been favorites of mine, but I think they could
have been just as easily set and filmed in our own Western Pennsylvania," Ms.
Williams, 52, said.

Covered to protect the structures from Pennsylvania's varied and often harsh
weather, the bridges often are named for the pioneer families in the area.

Ms. Williams and friends mugged for the camera at the red-planked Glessner
Bridge on state Route 1007, four miles off Route 30 in Stoystown. This covered
span, built in 1881 and named for a local family, is one of the more popular
bridge stops these days because it is just a few miles from the 9/11 memorial in
Shanksville, pointed out Ronald Aldom, director of the Somerset County Chamber
of Commerce.

The marketing-savvy chamber has just released a glossy covered "Bridge -- And
More" brochure that is this season's hot ticket, Mr. Aldom said.

The brochure is a driving tour of all 10 of Somerset County's covered bridges.
The nearly 175-mile circle begins and ends in the county seat, also named
Somerset. It takes nearly two days to comfortably complete the tour if visits to
all of the other suggested touristy stops are included.

b> Road trip!

/b>

Indeed, now is the time for a road trip. Peak viewing time for autumn foliage
and bridges is this weekend, said Christine Dorko of the Laurel Highlands
Visitors Bureau in Ligonier.

"People from all over the states -- and farther -- call us at this time of year
to find 'bridges and leaves, bridges and leaves,' " she said. "It's great for
tourism."

And, tourism, of course, is big industry for rural counties such as
Westmoreland, Somerset, Washington and Greene.

The latter two also have organized a combined driving tour to locate the covered
bridges that dot their hills. Their tourist promotion agencies suggest a
four-part driving tour, and the map can be downloaded at the easily navigable
www.visitwashingtoncountypa.com.

The tour comes with credentials: Three years ago, Greene County was featured in
the Martha Stewart Living magazine as one of the best places for fall foliage
viewing in the mid-Atlantic.

From Pittsburgh's suburbs, the drive to any of Somerset's 10, Washington's 23 or
Westmoreland's lone covered span takes little more than an hour. Finding covered
bridges in Greene, which has seven, or Bedford County, which has 14, takes a
little longer. In a nod to technology, a GPS often can be used to locate the
bridges because many bridge sites listed on the Internet have coordinates.

Most of these historic wooden covered bridges cross land; a few cross water.

"And some go nowhere at all, except back in time," Mr. Aldom said.

Most can carry at least one lane of traffic, and while many have a height limit,
all have to meet PennDOT standards for roadways. A few are blocked to vehicles
-- but pedestrians and photographers are always welcome.

b> A path to history

/b>

These picturesque covered bridges still link Pennsylvania to a nearly forgotten
past, Mr. Aldom noted.

The "charming relics," he said, were built between the early 1800s and the end
of the 19th century. They are wood structures with a variety of trusses, designs
and roof materials.

"You aren't going to see this kind of craftsmanship again," Mr. Aldom said. "So
see and appreciate them now."

The Pennsylvania Covered Bridges Association, based in Lancaster, is dedicated
to preserving the remaining covered spans throughout the state. According to its
website, pacoveredbridges.com, our nation once had as many as 14,000 authentic
wooden covered bridges. Today, fewer than 900 remain. Time and weather had taken
their toll until recent years when federal grants became available for states,
towns or, in some cases, civic groups to restore and maintain these bridges to
our past.

Mr. Aldom said spans such as the Kings Bridge near Seven Springs resort were
saved from certain destruction by interested residents who, in 2008, banded
together to raise money to rebuild it. The red clapboard bridge, off Route 281
north near the village of Kingwood, was built in the late 1800s to cross Laurel
Hill Creek. Its distinctive arches were added in 1907.

At one point, the Keystone State had at least 1,500 covered bridges, and today
more than 200 have stood the test of time. Found in 40 of Pennsylvania's 67
counties, more covered bridges exist in Pennsylvania than in any other state,
according to the Theodore Burr Covered Bridges Society of Pennsylvania, based in
Lancaster, as well as several websites, including Wikipedia.

Whether the numbers are accurate -- Vermont and New Hampshire claim more covered
bridges per square mile than any other state and "Mother Nature can change the
numbers with a storm," noted Mr. Aldom -- no one can argue that the bridges are
reminders that our young nation was carved out of the wilderness with Yankee
ingenuity.

b> First in the nation

/b>

Timothy Palmer built the young nation's first covered bridge over the Schuylkill
River at 30th Street in Philadelphia in the early 1800s. The investors asked to
have it covered in the hopes of extending its life.

The value of the covered bridge design was quickly recognized, as it greatly
extended the life of the wooden bridges by protecting the side supporting
timbers -- if not necessarily the floorboards -- from the weather.

Over the course of the next century, roughly 12,000 of these iconic spans were
constructed across the country, especially in rural areas.

Mr. Aldom said that in the early 1800s, agriculture and industrialization were
growing rapidly throughout the Northeast and rivers and estuaries were lifelines
of both trade and communication. Farmers and industrialists needed bridges to
efficiently move commerce, animals and people over the often rugged landscape.

Traditional European building methods (think: the stone bridge of sighs in
Venice) wouldn't work in the comparatively harsh North American climate. The hot
summers and frigid winters created freeze/thaw cycles that would overturn stone
paving. So wood -- especially in a state full of timber -- became the building
material of choice.

Pioneer builders chose to cover the bridges because less exposure to the
elements meant the wooden superstructures would last longer.

And, as one can see, they have.

b>* * *

/b>

While there was still daylight, Ms. Williams and company drove to neighboring
Westmoreland County, where its lone covered bridge is a photographer's dream.
The red cedar and clapboard Bells Mill bridge near the village of Wyano is
accessible from Interstate 70. (Get off at the West Newton Exit/Route 31, travel
right toward Wyano and the bridge is only minutes away. But make sure your
vehicle is under 6-foot, 6-inches high.)

The group arrived at Bells Mills at a picture-perfect sunset just as another car
was leaving. A young woman in that car said she was scouting the bridge as a
possible wedding site.

"See? Covered bridges are romantic," Ms. Williams said.

b> * * *

/b>

For more on covered bridges, visit pacoveredbridges.com and www.tbcbspa.com; to
get the Somerset County bridge map, call the chamber of commerce at
1-814-445-6431. For autumn tourism opportunities, visit www.laurelhighlands.org;
www.somersetpa.net; www.visitbedfordcounty.com; and visitwashingtoncountypa.com.

b> BRIDGING THE PAST

/b>

* As many as 14,000 authentic wooden covered bridges once dotted our nation.
Fewer than 900 remain.

* Pennsylvania at one point had at least 1,500 of those spans and today has some
200 remaining that are spread through 40 of the state's 67 counties. Some groups
claim that is more than any other state.

* The greatest period of covered wooden bridge building in the nation took place
between 1820 and 1900.

* All of the remaining covered bridges in the state were listed on the National
Register of Historic Places on June 22, 1979.

* The red color of many covered bridges in southwestern Pennsylvania is from an
early paint formula: Oxides found in the soil possessed natural insecticidal
properties. The traditional red color is still popular, even though the paint
formula is modern.

* The covered spans were commonly nicknamed "kissing bridges," derived from the
exploits of young suitors trying to steal kisses from their sweethearts while
passing through the darkened interiors. The name is apparently appropriate. Some
couples choose the bridges as a backdrop when they exchange their wedding vows.

* Covered bridges are differentiated by the types of trusses used to support the
roadway. One early design, the multiple king-post truss, consisted of a series
of triangular sections supported by a central vertical "king post" and could
span up to 100 feet. The Burr arch truss -- named for its inventor, Theodore
Burr -- was one of the more popular, featuring two large wooden arches connected
to a king-post truss framework. There are 123 bridges remaining in Pennsylvania
that use the Burr truss design.

* The Theodore Burr Covered Bridge Society of Pennsylvania Inc. -- a group in
Lancaster that promotes restoration -- is named after the truss inventor.
Details: www.tbcbspa.com.

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Virginia Kopas Joe: vkjoe@post-gazette.com or 412-263-1414. /

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Robert J. Pavuchak/Post-Gazette Ebenezer Covered Bridge in MIngo
Creek, Washington County.\
PHOTO: Robert J. Pavuchak/Post-Gazette: The Neddie Woods Covered Bridge in Oak
Forest, Center, Greene County.\
PHOTO: Pete Zapadka/Post-Gazette: Walter's Mill Covered Bridge in Somerset.\
PHOTO: Pete Zapadka/Post-Gazette: Bailey Covered Bridge, Amwell, Washington
County.\
PHOTO: Somerset Historical CenterP Woods Covered Bridge in Center, Greene
County.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              356 of 385 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                            October 30, 2011 Sunday
                                TWO STAR EDITION

BOULDER FACING AN ELECTION THAT IS ELECTRICALLY CHARGED

BYLINE: Kirk Johnson, The New York Times

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. A-6

LENGTH: 643 words


BOULDER, Colo. -- Many Americans these days, from the huddled masses of Occupy
Wall Street to the coifed confines of the presidential campaign, are talking
about the future of capitalism.

In this Colorado city, that debate is focused on electricity, specifically
whether Boulder should, in Tuesday's election, sever its relationship with a
corporate utility and move toward a home-ruled, municipally owned one that would
be environmentally greener and locally accountable.

Kristin Johnson, a lawyer, summed up her planned vote to oust the company, Xcel
Energy, in seven succinct words.

"They don't have our interest at heart," said Ms. Johnson, 57.

Xcel, a Minneapolis-based company that supplies electricity across eight states,
including most of Colorado, is fighting back hard, arguing that a divorce would
be devastatingly expensive for Boulder residents through higher electricity
rates and start-up costs. And if talk of home-rule is really about having more
renewable, carbon-reduced energy generation, well then, the company has said in
advertisements and letters to residents, a big corporation with deep pockets can
help get there cheaper and faster than any city, however well-intentioned.

"I can't find the numbers for how Boulder is going to do it better," said Bob
Bellemare, an Xcel consultant.

Proponents of ballot issues 2C and 2B, which includes a $1.9 million tax
increase in the first year to pay for planning and analysis, say that the
utility industry desperately fears a public awakening, and that a John
Brown-like raid on a monopoly in one place could galvanize electricity consumers
all across the nation to push for change.

Leaders of the effort concede that huge challenges await if the city goes
forward, and that Xcel is not the worst provider to have. Partly prodded by a
Colorado law requiring 30 percent renewable energy by 2020 -- one of the most
aggressive standards in the nation -- the company has become a big producer of
wind electricity. It has also spent more than $40 million here in Boulder
building a pilot project called Smart Grid, with sophisticated metering that can
help customers reduce electricity use.

Not enough, some say.

"Boulder can do better," said Shaun McGrath, a former mayor and a leader of the
ballot drive.

"We were making some headway with our carbon reductions," Mr. McGrath said,
referring to the relationship with Xcel, which is still, like most utilities,
dependent on coal for much of its output. "But really what we kept bumping into
was this ceiling of where our electricity was coming from."

The backdrop, both sides say, is the city itself, a mountain-fringed college
town about 45 minutes from Denver that is consistently one of the most liberal
and idealistic corners of Colorado politics. President Barack Obama carried
Boulder County with 72 percent of the vote in 2008.

In the electricity fight, left-leaning politics have been aligned with hard
science, supporters say, creating a unique platform for thinking creatively
about electricity and democracy.

Climate and weather research, in particular, has a huge presence in the city, at
federal institutions like the National Center for Atmospheric Research and the
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration along with the tech-heavy
University of Colorado that sprawls through the center of town. More than
two-thirds of the population over age 25 has a bachelor's degree or higher,
according to census figures -- compared with slightly more than 36 percent for
Colorado as a whole.

The two ballot measures would not immediately initiate a break with Xcel or the
creation of a new provider. The soonest that could happen, both sides say, given
the many technical and legal issues -- and the question of compensation to Xcel
for the assets and customers it would lose -- is probably 2017.

And Xcel officials have said there would be other bumps.

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              358 of 385 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                           November 3, 2011 Thursday
                                 SOONER EDITION

LIFTING THE POOR PAYS OFF FOR EVERYONE;
U.S. ASSISTANCE HAS HELPED SAVED MILLIONS WHILE ADVANCING OUR OWN PROSPERITY

BYLINE: Bill Gates

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. B-5

LENGTH: 786 words


Fifty years ago, almost 20 million children under the age of 5 died every year.
In 2010, the figure was down to 7.6 million. This 60 percent decline in
childhood deaths -- reflecting advances in agriculture, education, health and
sanitation -- is compelling evidence of the increasing justice in our world. But
the global economic crisis is putting the long-term trend of progress at risk,
as congressional debates about foreign aid underscore.

I am giving a report today to the heads of the Group of 20 governments,
including President Barack Obama, suggesting creative ways for the world to
continue investing in development despite fiscal constraints. I hope three key
ideas become part of congressional deliberations over the coming weeks.

First, programs funded by U.S. generosity have been a core component of this
50-year project of raising living standards around the world.

Aid is targeted to fill specific gaps in development. The most important of
these gaps is innovation. When the private sector doesn't have incentive, and
poor governments don't have the money, smart aid pays for breakthrough
solutions.

The green revolution that fed a billion people in the 1950s and '60s never would
have happened without advanced agricultural science funded by U.S. aid. In just
the past 10 years, millions of children have been saved from diseases such as
measles and whooping cough by vaccines that Americans paid for through their
contribution to an organization called the GAVI Alliance. Immunization is a
great example of how aid can be effective. Thirty-six cents worth of measles
vaccine protects a child for a lifetime.

Second, development isn't just good for people in poor countries; it's good for
all of us.

It used to be that the world was, roughly speaking, one-third rich and
two-thirds poor. Now, the number of dynamic, healthy, highly educated countries
is much higher, which is a recipe for prosperity. Imagine the world economy
without Brazil, China, India, Indonesia, South Korea, Mexico or Turkey.

If countries that are currently poor can feed, educate and employ their people,
then over time they will contribute to the world economy. They'll increase their
production of key commodities such as food, keeping prices lower, and they'll
become important markets for trade.

But if people don't get access to basic necessities, continued suffering will
lead to economic stagnation and instability. It is, for example, not only
unconscionable but also a strategic mistake to allow famine to devastate the
livelihoods of millions of people in the Horn of Africa.

Third, the United States is not doing development alone. We spend about 1
percent of our total budget on aid, as do dozens of donor countries. And the
amount most poor countries spend on their own development is much greater than
the amount donors invest. Ethiopia, for example, has in the past five years
built 15,000 rural health posts to provide improved services for its citizens.

There also are some rapidly growing countries -- including Brazil, China and
India -- that combine recent experience with development and significant
technical capacity, giving them the insight and the skill to have special
impact. For instance, China is sequencing 10,000 varieties of rice to help small
farmers cope with climate change.

These efforts can make a big difference. A new submergence-tolerant rice being
used in flood-prone areas of Bangladesh and India can more than double yields.
We predict 20 million farmers will be planting this variety in the next six
years.

The private sector hasn't always invested as much in development as it should
because market incentives haven't always been clear, but there are ways to
encourage involvement. In my report to the G-20, I'll make half a dozen
recommendations for mobilizing tens of billions of dollars annually from private
sources.

Members of the African diaspora are sitting on $50 billion in savings that could
fund development in their home countries if it were captured through diaspora
bonds. If the transaction costs on remittances worldwide were cut from an
average of 10 percent to an average of 5 percent, it would unlock $15 billion a
year in poor countries. A portion of the trillions of dollars in sovereign
wealth funds could be reserved for key infrastructure projects in poor
countries.

Sometimes Americans get the impression that we're shouldering the whole burden
of development and that our aid doesn't make a big difference. I see it very
differently. We're providing strategic investments that link with many other
investments to systematically make a better, more prosperous and safer world. If
we do it right, we can keep shrinking the number of countries where aid is
needed to zero.

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Bill Gates is chairman of Microsoft and co-chair of the Bill & Melinda
Gates Foundation. He wrote this for The Washington Post./

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              374 of 385 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            December 11, 2011 Sunday
                                TWO STAR EDITION

A DEFINING FIGHT FOR THE GOP;
NOT SINCE 1964 HAS THE PARTY FACED SUCH A DISTINCT CHOICE BETWEEN CONTENDERS FOR
ITS NOMINATION

BYLINE: David M. Shribman

SECTION: EDITORIAL; MY POINT; Pg. B-3

LENGTH: 1088 words


One graduated from Baker High, a public school in Columbus, Ga., the other from
Cranbrook, a private school in Bloomfield Hills, Mich. One has a Ph.D. in
history from Tulane, the other has an MBA from Harvard. One steeped himself in
the details of the colonial educational institutions of the Belgian Congo, the
other in the minutae of failing companies in the United States.

One almost always wears a tie in public, the other increasingly is abandoning
his Brooks Brothers gray suit and crisply knotted rep tie for the sort of
dress-casual look you might see dockside at the cocktail hour or on campus for
the tailgate just before the Princeton game. One is extemporaneous, the other
scripted.

One has been in politics for more than a third of a century, the other only for
half that long. One went to France as a young man to explore the battlefields at
Verdun, the other as a missionary to win converts. One worked for Nelson
Rockefeller in the 1968 Republican presidential nomination fight, the other
supported George Romney. One can tell you how many Catholic-school teachers were
in Leopoldville, the other how many employees each Staples outlet needs.

One delighted in obliterating the Republican power elite, the other is a direct
blood descendant of the GOP establishment. One thinks out loud, tossing ideas
around like political-convention confetti, the other is careful and deliberate,
with nary an impulsive remark. One lacks discipline, the other lacks
spontaneity.

This is what the Republican presidential nomination fight has come down to -- a
struggle between two men who have almost nothing in common, who have different
temperaments and outlooks, who have divergent views of the origins and nature of
conservatism, who personify two streams of the modern Republican Party -- the
incendiary, rootless radicalism represented by Newt Gingrich., the historian
with contempt for the Republican past, and the respectable, Midwest-rooted,
business-oriented strain represented by Mitt Romney, the businessman whose style
grows out of the GOP past.

There hasn't been a nomination fight like this since 1964.

To be sure, recent nomination struggles have featured battles between regulars
and insurgents. Ronald Reagan, the supply-side, small-government apostle from
Hollywood took on Gerald Ford, the very model of the post-New Deal get-along
Republican lawmaker, and George H. W. Bush, the striped-pants son of a senator
with a Wall Street partnership, in 1976 and 1980. Gary Hart, the new-ideas
senator from the ascendant mountain west challenged Walter F. Mondale, the
established personification of the New Deal coalition and Minnesota liberalism,
in 1984.

Both of these fights involved urgent questions of identity and ideology. Both
represented divergent paths for the two parties. But neither of them involved
the emotional anti-matter and stylistic competition, contention and collision at
the center of the struggle between Mr. Romney and Mr. Gingrich, deny it as both
sides might.

The fight for the Republican nomination finally means something. A fortnight ago
it seemed merely a prologue to the Republicans' effort to defeat and repudiate
President Barack Obama. It remains that, of course -- but first the Republicans
need to decide what sort of party they will have as they move into the 2012
general election.

The old tug-of-war between social and economic conservatives, which began to
emerge as Reagan departed the scene, supplied part of the story line of 2012.
The Iowa caucuses were supposed to be the social-conservatism sweepstakes, the
New Hampshire primary the economic-conservatism showdown, South Carolina would
present a Saturday social-conservatism encore and then the party would get down
to business 10 days later in Florida.

But the rise and fall of a number of Romney challengers and the eventual
emergence of Mr. Gingrich has changed all that. The NBC News/Marist Poll shows
Mr. Gingrich ahead in Iowa and 16 points behind in Mr. Romney's New Hampshire
redoubt. The race is on for the former supporters of Herman Cain -- Mr. Gingrich
is the clear favorite there -- and the character of the contest is altered
immutably.

For a long time, Mr. Romney managed to make the GOP contest a referendum on
other people while maintaining a steady but not overwhelming lead. Now that's
changed, too. Both Time ("Why Don't They Like Me?") and The New Republic ("You
Won't Like Him When He's Angry") last week released covers on presidential
timber and temperament, treatment until now reserved for Mr. Gingrich, who has
inspired stunningly little support for his personal style and character. It's
now Mr. Romney's turn.

But portraying one as a prig with his nose in the air and the other as a
pugilist happiest busting his opponent's nose isn't getting anyone anywhere and
returns the contest to issues and mechanics.

Mr. Romney is, or has become, a conventional 21st-century conservative, opposed
to taxes, Obamacare and the notion that humankind has contributed to, or can
alleviate, global climate change. Mr. Gingrich holds most of these views most of
the time, but can be counted on grafting an unusual aside, or an acidic
critique, onto his remarks. Mr. Romney would methodically undo much of Mr.
Obama's work, Mr. Gingrich would take on the task with relish and revenge.

Mr. Romney's campaign was built the traditional way -- slowly, deliberately. Mr.
Gingrich's was built the Gingrich way, with volcanic eruptions of energy and
ideas, completely out of synch with the usual rhythms. His is a campaign so
underfunded that former Sen. Rick Santorum has attracted more maximum $2,500
donors than Mr. Gingrich. His campaign is so underorganized that the candidate's
New Hampshire headquarters was open only 16 days when the state's largest
newspaper endorsed him last month for president. Ordinarily it's too late to try
to build an organization a month before Iowa and too dangerous to float dramatic
new ideas a month before New Hampshire. Mr. Gingrich is challenging not only
conventional ideas about policy but also conventional cadences of politics.

But in the last few days this has also become a deeply personal struggle for
each man's legacy. If Mr. Romney, a former Massachusetts governor, loses, he's a
footnote in history, not even a William G. McAdoo or a George Romney, both of
whom aimed at the presidency twice and are largely forgotten today. If Mr.
Gingrich, who ended four decades of Democratic House control, loses, he's still
a historic figure. It's a fight for the ages, and for the future.

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: David M. Shribman is executive editor of the Post-Gazette
(dshribman@post-gazette.com, 412 263-1890). Follow him on Twitter at
ShribmanPG./

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              375 of 385 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            December 12, 2011 Monday
                            PITTSBURGH PRESS EDITION

BYLINE: Laura Olson

SECTION: NATIONAL; EARLY RETURNS; Pg. A-3

LENGTH: 613 words


The lightning round of the Republican U.S. Senate debate in New York, one of the
inaugural forums for next year's contest, appeared to show more similarities
than differences among those hoping to unseat U.S. Sen. Bob Casey.

Seven of the contenders who appeared at the Pennsylvania Business Council
Education Foundation debate staked out nearly identical positions on resisting
tax hikes, opposing abortion, supporting gun-owners, and approving of the firing
of former Penn State University football coach Joe Paterno.

But a few glimmers of contrast did appear on the issues of climate change and
citizenship for illegal immigrants who are employed and paying taxes, as
candidates jockeyed for their first chances to stand out among the crowded
field.

The event, one of the first of this weekend's Pennsylvania Society dinner
festivities, included all but three of the declared senatorial candidates.
Retired U.S. Army Col. John Vernon, pharmacist John Kensinger, and Armstrong
County's Tom Smith did not take the stage.

Unsurprisingly, the most heated comments were directed at the sitting senator,
who was linked to President Barack Obama and the still-struggling economy.

"We have to stop President Obama and Senator Casey from assaulting our
liberties," fired away Marc Scaringi, a Harrisburg attorney and former aide to
Rick Santorum, in his opening remarks. "The Obama-Casey agenda has failed
America and bankrupted this country."

Getting the country back on track will require slashing tax rates and
reconfiguring government spending, rather than increasing levies, stated many of
the candidates. Washington County businessman Tim Burns said balancing the
proposed payroll tax cut shouldn't balanced against an increase in other tax
rates, saying that would "punish the people creating jobs."

Chester County entrepreneur Steve Welch expressed a similar sentiment, citing
his business background in arguing that stability is needed for companies to
make investments.

"When you're a small business, adding a person is a risky proposition," Mr.
Welch said. "A tax cut for short period isn't helpful."

Those tax cuts don't need to be "paid for" through other increase because that
money belongs to taxpayers, not the government, said Laureen Cummings, who
founded the Scranton Tea Party group. "It's not the government's job to invest
in anything," she said.

Those smaller-government views also carried over to the issue of health care.
Former state representative and gubernatorial candidate Sam

Rohrer questioned whether the federal government should play any role in
providing health insurance and access to care.

"They are the leading insurer," Mr. Rohrer said. "As long as we believe fed
government has an obligation, they'll continue to interfere in free market. They
are distorting the market."

The field did delve into foreign issues as well, with retired Army Sgt. Robert
Allen Mansfield calling forcefully for the United States to protect Israel if
Iran were to become a nuclear power, declaring that the Middle East could
quickly become a "powdercake."

There was some tussling too amongst the chorus of agreement: when Mr. Welch
acknowledged that the Earth has a history of heating and cooling periods, and
said there should be some assessment of environmental impacts caused by humans,
Mr. Scaringi accused him of calling for a national energy policy.

Mr. Welch and Mr. Rohrer also both voiced a nuanced approach on immigration,
saying there should be clearer pathways to citizenship.

Vietnam War veteran David Christian, of Bucks County, spoke personally of the
Penn State issue, saying that he was abused as a child, "in the days when the
victims were considered the bad guys."

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Laura Olson contributes to a politics blog at
http://earlyreturns.sites.post-gazette.com/index.php/early-returns-20/53-post-ga
zette-staff/3726-gop-senate-debate-shows-agreement/

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mary Altaffer/Associated Press: Seven of the 10 Pennsylvania
Republican candidates for the U.S. Senate gathered Friday at the Plaza Hotel in
New York for a debate sponsored by the Pennsylvania Business Council's Education
Foundation.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              385 of 385 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            December 26, 2011 Monday
                                 SOONER EDITION

YEAR IN HEALTH AND SCIENCE;
THE TOP LOCAL RESEARCH STORIES OF THE YEAR

BYLINE: Mark Roth, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: HEALTH, SCIENCE, MEDICINE & TECHNOLOGY; Pg. C-1

LENGTH: 1213 words


Here are some of the top research projects carried out at local and state
institutions this year.

Alzheimer's disease

Eating baked or broiled fish at least once a week seems to reduce the chances of
getting Alzheimer's disease, doctors at UPMC found. By tracking people randomly
selected from a heart study who documented their diets, Cyrus Raji and
colleagues found that 10 years later, the ones who ate fish regularly had more
gray matter and performed better on working memory tests. Eating fried fish did
not seem to have the same impact, they found.

Astronomy

A Penn State University astronomer has discovered three new planets orbiting
dying stars, tens of light-years away from our solar system. Alex Wolszczan and
his team found the planets near three red giant stars, which are expanding and
may have swallowed other planets in their paths. Our own sun will become a red
giant in about 5 billion years, and one futuristic idea is that humans may
decamp from Earth then and colonize Jupiter's moon Europa, which is icebound
today, but in the far future "may melt and spend a couple billion years in the
Goldilocks zone -- not too hot, not too cold -- covered by vast, beautiful
oceans," he said.

Autism

One of the biggest challenges in autism is diagnosing the condition early. Now,
scientists at Carnegie Mellon University and two other institutions have found
one possible way of doing that. They discovered that when they did brain imaging
of sleeping toddlers, the ones who had autism had much weaker synchronization of
the language areas on either side of the brain. The weaker the links, the more
language difficulties the children had, said Carnegie Mellon researcher Marlene
Behrmann. The finding might one day allow diagnosis of children as young as 1.

Biology

In one of the more bizarre examples of evolution, a scientist at Penn State
University and his colleagues have found that a certain fungus can turn one
species of ants into zombies that commit suicide under the instructions of the
fungus. Penn State entomologist David P. Hughes found that when the fungus
infiltrated the bodies and nervous systems of carpenter ants in Thailand, it
caused them to wander off their trails high in the trees, fall to the ground,
and then clamp their jaws onto the underside of leaves that are at exactly the
right height for the fungus to reproduce. The ants cannot reopen their jaws, and
they die in that spot, after which the fungi sprout up through the ants' heads
and wait for their next victims.

Brain science

In a dramatic demonstration of a device that may one day help severely paralyzed
people regain their ability to function, doctors at the University of Pittsburgh
School of Medicine laid a grid of electrodes directly onto the brain of a
completely paralyzed man, which allowed him to guide a prosthetic arm with his
thoughts, touching the hand of his girlfriend. Tim Hemmes of Butler County, a
motorcycle accident victim, trained for months with the brain-computer interface
to control the prosthetic arm. The project was overseen by Michael Boninger,
director of the UPMC Rehabilitation Institute, and Andrew Schwartz, a
neurobiology professor at the school of medicine.

Breast cancer

Doctors at Allegheny General Hospital announced two important breast cancer
findings this year. In one study, they found that women who had a minor spread
of cancer to their lymph nodes after their initial treatments did not need to
get further therapy. In another, they found that women who had recurrences of
breast cancer did just as well with a less damaging lumpectomy and implants of
radioactive seeds as those getting a full mastectomy. Thomas Julian, associate
director of Allegheny General's Breast Care Center, was the lead researcher in
the lymph node study, while Mark Trombetta of the radiation oncology department
led the lumpectomy study.

Cancer therapy

At Duquesne University, medicinal pharmacist Aleem Gangjee is developing
anti-cancer compounds that target cancer cells but leave healthy cells alone. He
has received a series of National Institutes of Health grants to create the
compounds, including one that would hook up to receptors on the cells of
ovarian, lung and pancreatic cancers that are not found on typical cells. The
compounds will first be tested on animals at the University of Texas Health
Science Center in San Antonio.

Climate change

By pulling a 6-foot-long plug of sediment out of a lake bed high in the Andes,
University of Pittsburgh geologist Mark Abbott and colleagues at two other
schools have found that global warming since 1900 has steadily reduced the
amount of rainfall in the tropics, which threatens the ability of the rainforest
to pull carbon dioxide out of the atmosphere. The scientists measured the amount
of an oxygen isotope in each annual layer of the lake bed -- the higher its
concentration, the drier the year had been. As global temperatures rise, the
storm zone between the northern and southern hemispheres shifts north, reducing
the monsoon season in the tropics.

Computer science

What if you could use your forearm or the palm of your hand as a touchpad?
That's the idea behind OmniTouch, a new Microsoft experimental project developed
with the help of Carnegie Mellon University Ph.D. student Chris Harrison. A
shoulder-mounted depth-detecting camera and laser projector allows the user to
show a touch screen or keypad on any surface and then tap the keys or move
objects just as he would with an iPad or similar device. Eventually, the system
could be made as small as a deck of cards, so it could be carried easily or
integrated into future devices.

Medicine

The secret to protecting patients during new procedures that cool down their
bodies might lie with the ancient woolly mammoth, a team led by Carnegie Mellon
University's Chien Ho has found. The mammoths, which lived in Europe and Asia
more than 1 million years ago, had special mutations that kept their blood
functioning during icy temperatures. Mr. Ho and his colleagues were able to use
fragments of mammoth DNA recovered from specimens found in Siberia to
reconstruct a hemoglobin protein that was much less sensitive to cold
temperatures, which could one day help patients whose bodies are cooled for
brain and heart procedures.

Paleoanthropology

A jawbone found in an English cave in 1927 may be the oldest evidence of modern
humans in Europe, new work by Penn State University scientists has concluded. By
doing radiocarbon dating on objects found near the piece of upper jaw, Beth
Shapiro and colleagues estimated it is 41,000 to 44,000 years old, which would
firm up the idea that humans co-existed with Neanderthals, a now extinct species
that also lived in Europe at the time.

Technology

Imagine a substance that would prevent ice from forming on power lines, wind
turbines or airplane wings. That's the promise of a new nanoparticle coating
developed by Di Gao, a chemical engineering professor at the University of
Pittsburgh. By creating a coating with silica particles of 50 nanometers or less
(20,000 of them could fit on the period in this sentence), the research team
showed that super-chilled water would not form ice crystals on a metal surface,
even at minus 4 degrees Fahrenheit. See www.pitt.edu/news2009/ice.html for a
video demonstration.

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Mark Roth: mroth@post-gazette.com or 412-263-1130./

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: OmniTouch research from CMU allows you to use your hand as a
touchpad.
PHOTO: CMU finds the secret to protecting patients during new procedures that
cool down their bodies might lie with the ancient woolly mammoth's DNA.
PHOTO: Keith Srakocic/Associated Press: Assistant professor Jennifer Collinger,
left, watches as quadriplegic research subject Tim Hemmes operates the
mechanical prosthetic arm in a testing sessions at the University of Pittsburgh
Medical Center in October. Mr. Hemmes had a chip implanted on the surface of his
brain that reads his intention to move his paralyzed arm and sends that
instruction instead to an advanced bionic arm.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 P.G. Publishing Co.
